Woori Investment & Securities 2012 Integrated report WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Woori I&S Bldg. 23-4 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-725, Korea WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES TEL +82-2-1544-0000 FAX +82-2-782-6333 www.wooriwm.com About This Integrated Report This report is the second Sustainable Management Report and the first Integrated Report published by Woori Investment and Securities. Guideline | This report was written in accordance with the Consultation Draft of the International Framework <IR> by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) as its guideline. This report also adheres to the GRI G3.1, the sustainability report guideline established by the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) and also the Financial Services Sector Supplement. See p.151 for report index. Stakeholder Participation | This document reports the major management activities and performance for the sustainable development of Woori I&S. In order to reflect the interests of our stakeholders, an international stakeholder engagement standard, AA1000SES, has been commissioned. Verification | This report has undergone a third-party verification process by an independent expert institution for reliability. See p.65, p.157 for the third-party verification statement. Scope | The financial performance reported in this document is based on activities from April 1 of 2012 to March 31 of 2013 following the fiscal year. However, for non-financial performance, this report follows the internal management standards and activities from January 1 to December 31, 2012. This report includes activities from the 108 domestic branches including the headquarters, as well as ten overseas subsidiaries and representative offices. However, due to difficulties in measurement, the reporting scope of environment-related data has been limited to domestic branches. Woori Publishing dates for previous reports are November, 2011 (Sustainable Management Report) and June, 2012 (Annual Report). In the future, Integrated Reports will be published on an annual bases. Contact Investment & Securities Woori I&S Bldg. 23-4 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul 150-725, Korea 2012 Integrated report TEL +82-2-1544-0000 FAX +82-2-782-6333 Homepage http://www.wooriwm.com contents 03 CEO Message Value Creation Strategy Value Creation Outcome Sharing our Values Financial Section Appendix 06 Corporate Governance 16 Business Model 24 Business Performance 40 Customer Value Management 57 Management’s Discussion & Analysis 146 Sustainable Management in general 08 Corporate Profile 17 Business Environment Analysis 28 Development of New Services 45 Attraction of Talent 65 Independent Auditors' Report 150 UN Global Compact 10 Stakeholder Engagement 19 Business Strategy 32 Innovation From Inside 49 Social Activities 151 GRI / ISO Table 11 Materiality Analysis 35 Risk Management 52 Environmental Activities 155 Glossary 54 Compliance 157 3rd Party Assurance CEO Message Warm greetings to all our stakeholders. I would like to express my deepest gratitude as Woori I&S releases the first integrated report, which is also the first in its industry. I am honored to inform you of our overall performance toward sustainable growth in 2012. I firmly believe that, by releasing integrated reports continuously, we Woori I&S will be able to share both corporate performance and effort to create future value with our valued stakeholders. grows with our client 2012 was a difficult year for the domestic financial industry due to the global financial turmoil. The European by delivering crisis overhauls, and despite the quantitative ease by many countries, the sluggish economic recovery is imminent. Furthermore, as other domestic industries globalized, it was inevitable to avoid the surge of global environment. The uncertainty in the financial market, combined with tumbling housing market and shrinkage of institutional the best financial value investment, led the economic downturn, household-debt climb and limited export growth. In order to proactively respond to the macroeconomic shift in the financial industry, Woori I&S consistently pursued on extensive internal innovation and business model transformation. As a result, we have achieve operating profit of KRW 109.3 billion and net profit of KRW 88.1 billion in 2012 despite the challenging economic condition. Such outstanding performance was accomplished together by our employees who strived to have courage to stand upon challenges and to aim for shared goals. In the Wealth Management (WM) business, we devoted ourselves to the development of diverse products to attract investors seeking high-yield in a low-interest rate regime. Notably, we established the ‘Future Product Development (FPD) Department’, the department specialized in product development with higher return, and visible results were attained in our retirement products. In Investment Banking (IB), we secured our top-ranking position as the market leader in the traditional IB market including debt underwriting, rights offering and M&A. And thus, we contributed to the development of domestic capital market by providing solutions encompassing strategic needs of institutional clients. In Trading, we stood as the market leader generating absolute return based on our competitive expertise and diverse track record. Woori I&S has been building an exclusive territory in FICC derivatives and equity derivatives, and, in particular, we were able to equip ourselves with a competitive edge in the global market by establishing the Global Trading Center (GTC) in Hong Kong. Woori I&S strives to overcome stagnating financial market condition through new opportunities from diverse global businesses including GTC in Hong Kong. In order to seek diversification of revenue structure, we initiated business with various sovereign wealth funds, including Middle East (ADIA) and Singapore (GIC). Also, we have set up a global equity trading desk in New York. In addition, we have participated as a seeder to global hedge funds to build our new business model. Woori I&S perceives fruits of financial accomplishment as an opportunity to share and grow along with society. Through the development of financial products and services, we actively take the initiative to disentangle societal issues, such as the aging population, and the needs of tailor-made financial products and services. In addition, we actively participate in Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) through numerous CSR activities to support the underprivileged and children. 101 volunteer teams seeking for a better tomorrow, and the Woori Angel Fund, which is a charity fund financed by the company employees, are renowned examples. We project sluggish economic condition of 2012 to prevail in 2013 despite numerous measures from various countries; however, we expect to see continuous inflow of global investments to Asian market as it is relatively stable, and its gradual recovery of the economy is forecasted with the continual expansion of global liquidity. As such, we plan to pursue a two-track strategy: focus on star businesses to generate future profit, fortify cash cow business to maximize profitability. Primarily, we will strengthen our core competencies in brokerage business, boost the market share in the Woori I&S seeks to become underwriting market, and improve IB profitability through structured deals. Also, we will increase profitability by actualizing economies of scale through the expansion of our clientèle. Secondly, we will explore and develop potential growth engine in response to the low-return and lackluster market condition. We plan to develop products and solutions that will preempt the market for aging the company where dreams preparedness and retirement, and provide various types of wealth managing trust products. Moreover, we will expand the scope of our operation through the strengthening of our global competency. Thirdly, we will build the foundation for a stable growth by implementing systematic contingency plans with are achieved. In 2013, strengthened risk management. Moreover, we will improve our core-competency fundamentally, pursue an operational efficiency, and establish vibrant corporate culture toward our employees through internal innovations. We will motivate employees through enhanced performance-rewarding system and actively we will continue to put our best participate in the OneDo innovation with Woori Financial Group to establish the framework for the sustainable development of Woori I&S. Lastly, we will faithfully fulfill our fiduciary duty as a corporate citizen. We acknowledge that the success of effort into the accomplishment our clients is our own success, and society’s sustainable growth makes ground of the corporate sustainable development. As a financial investment company, we will create social values and implement various valuesharing activities with clients which will foster greater value in return. of our own dreams, Woori I&S seeks to become the company where dreams are achieved. In 2013, we will continue to put our best effort into the accomplishment of our own dreams, all our stakeholders’ dreams, and the dreams of the society at large. all our stakeholders’ dreams, We sincerely thank you for your unwavering support and trust. and the dreams of the society at large. Sung-Ho Hwang President & CEO Woori Investment and Securities Corporate Governance Structure of the Board of Directors Overview of Committees under Board of Directors The Board of Directors(BOD) is the top decision-making body that deliberates and decides on matters determined by law or the articles of corporation, designated in the general shareholders’ meeting, basic management policies, and critical operational issues. The BOD is comprised of five Outside Directors, two Board of Inside Directors, and one Non-Managing Director. Woori I&S separates the Chairperson and the CEO for greater Directors transparency. The Chairperson position is filled by an executive from Woori Financial Holdings to create a synergy between the affiliates of Woori Financial Group. (Due to the transfer of executives within Woori Financial Group, the Vice President of Woori Bank, Hyun-Jin Jung, who served as the Chairman in FY2012, left the board as of April 1, 2013. In accordance with the articles of corporation, CEO Sung-Ho Hwang is acting Chairperson of the Non-executive Management Audit Director Management Risk Control board. A new Chairperson will be appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting in June 2013.) Committee Committee Compensation Committee Nomination Committee To ensure the independence and fairness of the board, Woori I&S has the Outside Director Candidate Committee Recommendation Committee that recommends qualified candidates with expertise or ample experience in relevant fields such as finances, economics, management, law, or accounting. The candidates are then approved at the general shareholders’ meeting. Currently, all five Outside Directors are maintaining independence from the Audit Committee controlling shareholders and the management of Woori I&S. The purpose of this committee is to generate transparency of management and develop a firm governance structure through strengthening audit procedures. Committee members are appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting and are comprised of three or more Directors, of which at least 2/3 are Outside Directors. Sr. Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Members: Dong-Hyuck Shin, In-Hak Jung, Sung-Kyun Lim, Sun-Jai Lee Dong-Hyuck Shin Byung-Rak Han Taek-Soo Han In-Hak Chung Non-executive Director Nomination Committee President of Hanmi Bank, Executive Vice President of Chohung Bank, Treasurer of Ministry of Finance and Economy, Editorialist of Seoul Shinmun, This committee recommends Outside Director candidates at the general shareholders’ meeting and consists President of Korea Federation of banks, President of Solomon Savings Bank, Outside Director of Hyundai Shipping, Sr. Auditor of Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, Current outside Director of Kumho Tire Current Advisor to Hanbaek Shipping Current Chairman of Korea Center for Current Policy Promotion Advisor to KEMCO of two or more members, with the majority of this committee being Outside Directors. International Finance Members: Sung-Ho Hwang, Dong-Hyuck Shin, Byung-Rak Han, Taek-Soo Han Outside Director Inside Director Inside Director Non-Managing Director/ Chairman Management Committee Sung-Kyun Lim Sung-Ho Hwang Sun-Jai Lee Hyun-Jin Jung This committee handles management-related matters delegated by the Board of Directors. The Management Committee is comprised of two or more Directors. Chief of Individual Taxation CEO of CJ Investment Trust & Securities Co. CEO of I Venture Investment, Vice President of Woori Bank, at National Tax Service, Director of President of PCA Investments, Vice President of Korea Securities CFO of SPP Group, Members: Sung-Ho Hwang, Hyun-Jin Jung Gwangju Regional Tax Service, Current CEO of Woori I&S Finance Corp., Current CFO of Woori Financial Group Current President of Dasol Tax Current Auditor at Woori I&S Management Compensation Committee This committee works to systematize the link between the company’s performance reward system and the financial performance and risk. Thus, it determines and assesses management objectives, and decides upon Operation of the Board of Directors matters regarding the company’s reward system. The committee is made up of three or more Directors, one of which is, by regulation, a member of the Risk Management Committee Board meetings are divided into regular meetings and extraordinary meetings. Regular meetings are held four Members: In-Hak Jung, Dong-Hyuck Shin, Hyun-Jin Jung times a year by principle, and extraordinary meetings are held as needed. The basis for the establishment and resolutions of the board requires a majority attendance rate and majority vote of attending board members. Risk Control Committee Voting rights cannot be transferred, and those with conflicts of interest on an agenda item can not cast a vote. This committee comprehensively manages the entire company’s management risk. The Risk Management In order to prevent conflicts of interest, our internal Compliance Department reviews agenda items before the Council answers to the Risk Management Committee, which is made up of three or more Directors, at least meeting. During the reporting period of this document (April 2012 – March 2013), there have been four regular one of which is an Outside Director. Due to the demand of responsibility and decision making, the Directors meetings and twelve extraordinary meetings, as well as thirty-seven sub committee meetings. with expertise in risk management are preferred. Members: Sung-Ho Hwang, Byung-Rak Han, Taek-Soo Han, In-Hak Jung, Sung-Kyun Lim Evaluation and Rewarding of Outside Directors Woori I&S performs annual evaluations of Outside Directors in accordance with KOFIA’s Outside Director Standards and board regulations, while publishing the results to the public. This evaluation reviews each Director’s participation, expertise, and general performance through self-evaluation, peer evaluation, and employee evaluation. In terms of remuneration, limits are set and approved at the annual general shareholders’ meeting, and the Board of Directors rewards Outside Directors based on performance and limits set by the articles of incorporation. 06•07 Corporate Profile Company Overview Global Network Overview (As of March 31, 2013) U.K. SUBSIDIARY Woori Investment & Name Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. OVERSEAS OFFICE Securities International Ltd. 1st Floor, Aldermary House, 10-15 Location 23-4 Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul Queen Street, London EC4N 1TX Phon : +44-20-7959-7300 Website http://www.wooriwm.com China Woori Investment Advisory HEAD OFFICE President & CEO Sung-Ho Hwang Vietnam Co.,Ltd.(Beijing) Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. Date Est. January 16, 1969 Woori CBV Securities Rm 301 Excel Center No.6, 23-4, Yeouido-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu Wudinghou Street, Xicheng Seoul 150-725, Korea Corporation Employees 3,053 Distirict, Beijing 100033 Phone +82-2-768-7000 14B Tron Binh Trong, Hoan Kiem, Phone: +86-10-5935-3500 Hanoi, Vietnam Network 108 domestic branches, 8 overseas subsidiaries, Phone: 84-12-6623-8119 2 overseas offices Woori Investment & Securities Shanghai Assets KRW 27.2 trillion Singapore Representative Office Woori Investment & Securities 1205 N-tower, Shanghai Stock Liabilities KRW 23.7 trillion U.S.A Asia Pte. Ltd. Exchange Bldg., Woori Investment & Securities 1 Raffles Place, #54-00, One 528 South Pudong Rd., Shareholders’ Equity KRW 3.5 trillion America, Inc. Raffles Place Bldg., Singapore Shanghai, China 200120 048616 Phone: +86-21-6882-6100 120 West 45th Street, Suite Net Profit KRW 88.1 billion 3010, New York, NY 10036 Phone: +65-6499-0000 Phone: +1-212-391-4000 Woori Absolute Partners Pte. Ltd. 1 Raffles Place, #54-00, One Hong Kong Raffles Place Bldg., Singapore Woori Investment & 048616 Securities(H.K.) Ltd. Vision and Strategy Phone: +65-6499-0018 Suite 1201, Two Pacific, 88 Indonesia Queensway, Hong Kong Phone: +852-2532-6300 Vision PT. Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia To Become The Best Overall Investment Financial Company 1st Floor, JL. M.T. Haryono Kav. 62, Pancoran, Jakarta 12780, Kuala Lumpur Representative Office Indonesia Goal Phone: +62-21-797-5988 3A-2, Level 3A, Menara IMC No.8, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur A Company That Fulfills Dreams Phone: + 60-3-2070-0533 (The company and its empoloyees helping each other realize the vision and their dream) Employees' dream •To become the industry's best expert; the company vision •To become the best overall investment financial company Core Values •Take initiative in facing challenges and make commitment to action A Proactive Spirit •Seek new and creative methods from a positive standpoint That Embraces Challenges •Always aim for higher results Woori I&S Asia’s Future Top Investment Bank As a member of Woori Financial Group, Woori I&S has been playing a pivotal role in the growth and development •Continuously study about and research the task at hand of Korea’s capital market for the past 40 years, as a leading financial investment company. Born through the Pursue Professionalism by •Take full reponsibility for one's own work merger between LG I&S and Woori Securities in 2005, Woori I&S is strengthening its qualitative foundation as a Increasing One's Own distinguished financial investment company standing on the top-tier of competitiveness in each business sector. Competitiveness Even though many financial services companies are suffering from the stagnation of the global financial market, we are achieving a stable growth through advanced risk management techniques and the investment banking •Clearly recognize team goals and gear one's performance model centered on Investment Banking (IB), Trading and Wealth Management (WM). As a result, as of March 2013, towards the attainment of the goals we have secured 641,190 clients, KRW 83.8 trillion in retail client assets, KRW 109.3 billion in operating profit, and Goal-Oriented KRW 88.1 billion in net profit thus far during this term. Teamwork •Cooperate with team members to improve team efforts With accumulated profit and competency, everyone at Woori I&S will come together to push forward toward the goal of being the ‘No. 1 financial Investment Company that provides best total financial solutions and the highest value to its clients. 08•09 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality analysis Stakeholder Participation Materiality Analysis Framework We at Woori I&S strive to communicate with our stakeholders and reflect their views on our management. For the key areas to be reported, Woori I&S complies with the convention on the scope and composition of With key stakeholders identified as investors, shareholders, employees, local community and government, the report as recommended by GRI and the IIRC. To this end, we deduced main material topics by analyzing we communicate with each stakeholder through various channels. We will continue to increase the number the in-house vision & strategy, benchmarking, global standards, media, and the Voice of Customers (VoC). and broaden the scope of opportunities for stakeholders to participate toward sustainable development. We then made our final selection through the Materiality Test and considers the relevance to our operations and the sustainability, as well as the impact it will have on Woori I&S and our stakeholders. Global Vision & Media Voice of Step 1 Strategy Benchmarking Research Standard & Customers Initiatives Issue Gathering Woori I&S Step 2 Relevance Impact Materiality Test Shareholders Government Reporting Step 3 Topics Set Communication Channels Communication Channels Prioritizing Employees Local Community •IR activities •Press releases •General shareholders’ •Conferences meetings Main Issues Main Issues Investors •Stable growth of •Business strategy financial markets •Profit structure •Protection of investors Relevance of Vision & Strategy •Performance review •Ethical management Our vision and strategy are built in consideration of our relationship with various stakeholders in the value chain, not just our employees. We Communication Channels Communication Channels have analyzed internal issues based on vision & core values, strategy, and the CEO Message. •Surveys •Charitable activities Analyzed: 2013 Business Plans, 2013 Strategic Direction, website, company newsletter •Workshops •Financial education •Joint labor-management •One Company, One Village Relevance to Global Initiatives commitee meeting Communication Channels Main Issues Woori I&S is declaring, in Korea and abroad, its support for the 10 principles laid out in UNGC. In addition, in selecting the topics, we have •Intranet •Mass media •Social responsibility as adhered to widely-recognized global initiatives and standards such as ISO26000, a social responsibility standard, and DJSI, sustainable •Face-to-face/one on one corporate citizen Main Issues communication management benchmark. •Work-life balance •Positive contribution to local •Web site community Analyzed: UNGC, ISO 26000, DJSI, GRI G3.1 •Welfare system •Call centers •Expertise development •Online bulletin boards Industry Issues Main Issues Changes in the global market are directly impacting Woori I&S due to globalization of financial services. As such, we have analyzed the issues •Distinguished financial products faced by financial companies in Korea and abroad, and assessed their relevance. •Provision of financial data Analyzed: 3 major overseas companies and 2 major Korean companies •Convenient services Keywords in Media We investigated topics detrimental in the media in 2012. We have analyzed major issues through 379 articles related to the sustainable management of Woori I&S. Analyzed: 12 daily newspapers in Korea Voice of Customers A total of 4,863 cases of the Voice of Customer (VoC) were registered through various channels during the reporting period. In selecting the topics to report, we have analyzed the demands of our customers through the VoC and reviewed the relevance to sustainable management. Analyzed: phone, website, HTS, on-site one-on-one communication, postcards from customers, etc. 10•11 Materiality analysis Result of Materiality Analysis Material topics were prioritized in consideration of their relevance and impact to the Company. Consequentially, twelve material topics were then selected for inclusion in this report led by executives and the relevant staff jointly selected the material topics based on the results of the Materiality Test. 09 Relevance 01 04 02 10 05 07 06 08 11 12 03 To Become The Best Overall Investment Financial Company Impact Topics Location 01 Contributions to society through financial services 19, 28, 29, 53 02 Compliance with laws and regulations 54, 55 03 Participation in social contribution activities 49, 50, 51 04 Development of new products and services 28, 29, 30, 31 05 Ethical sales activities 40, 41 06 Attracting competent personnel 45 07 Work-life balance 48 08 Information security 29 09 Enhancing personnel competence 46, 47 10 Systematic risk management 35, 36, 37 11 Innovative efforts 32, 33, 34 12 Environmental management activities 52, 53 12•13 Value Creation Strategy Woori Investment and Securities Co., Ltd. has been pursuing to become the best Investment Bank in Korea based on investment banking, wealth management and trading. We are committed to do our utmost in order to realize the ideal and dream of Woori I&S, clients and society as a whole, based on our strategy designed to achieve financial as well as non-financial goals. Business Model 16 Business Environment Analysis 17 Business Strategy 19 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Business Basis for Business Administration Business Business Environment Analysis Model As a financial investment company, Woori I&S conducts its business in accordance with the Capital Market and Financial Investment Business Act and the Foreign Exchange Transactions Act. Environment Nature of the Financial Investment Industry Analysis Opportunities Financial investment services include underwriting and dealing of securities, the development and sales of financial products and consultation on corporate restructuring. The financial 01 Though traditional underwriting is considered to have reached its growth limit, we have yet to see potential for continuous growth in highly profitable cross-border deals and in the Private Equity Fund(PEF) market. investment industry offers opportunities for institutional clients with various financial solutions, individual investors to accumulate assets through securities investment, and allows efficient distribution of capital to society. 02 Amid the persisting low-interest rate environment, investors are more likely to prefer risky assets, such as stocks, over safe assets, and companies are expected to issue more bonds. Business Model 03 As the amended FSCMA bill passes legislation, financial investment companies will be allowed to increase the amount of credit lending to corporate clients. New platforms such as the Alternative As its business model, Woori I&S has adopted the investment banking business model based Trading System(ATS) will be introduced which will lead to an increase in profitability through cost on IB, WM and trading sectors. reduction. 04 The adoption of electronic signature will enable us to develop a mobile business model. 05 The scope of the foreign exchange business by securities companies is expected to expand, thereby providing us with new business opportunities. 06 More diversified sales channels will give rise to more revenue sources, as seen in the introduction of specialized financial product sales companies. Business Model 07 The hedge fund market is expected to expand further with the easing of requirements for minimum capital and AUM of hedge fund management companies, which will increase profit from our Prime Brokerage Service. IB (Investment Banking) •Total solutions that meets financial needs of Develop various corporate customers structured Threats products by •Underwriting and advisory services reflecting needs of 01 company Although we have achieved a stable profit structure in the brokerage sector thanks to the continuous increase in trading volume, we are less likely to see positive market indicators to boost trading as the economy is projected to enter a low growth phase in the future. 02 Since the mid-2000s, the asset management market has grown tremendously with its main focus on funds, ELS and Wrap. However, it seems to have reached growth potential due to the underlying Corporate Customer IB Trading WM Investors asset structure heavily focusing on the domestic market, the tightening of various regulations, and profitability deterioration caused by intensifying competition. 03 The underwriting sector has grown continuously backed by the increase in the need of corporate clients for additional funds. Nonetheless, the overall market has been suffering from persistently deteriorating profitability due to competition among securities companies and polarized demand Trading WM (Wealth Management) for bonds in accordance with various credit ratings. •Proprietary trading of stocks, bonds and derivative products. Provide products •Consultation services on stocks and financial and solutions with products to individual customers and small to •Client book trading associated with products such as 04 competitive edge medium-sized enterprises (SME) The Derivative-linked Securities (DLS), the most iconic product of Client Book, has significantly ELS, DLS and RP that suit customer •Financial asset management solution based on grown as an alternative investment product in the low interest environment. However, it is reaching •Maintaining portfolio stability and profitability through needs the consultation its limits due to low-margin policies, limited capacity for extending the profit structure due to risk management and in-depth market analysis market volatility reduction, and difficulties in hedging investments. 05 It seems difficult to expect high growth prospect in the domestic capital market in 2013, due to the indolent global economy. Furthermore, the persistent low interest rate environment and investors’ preference for safe assets lead to more difficulties in yielding high profits in the securities sector. 16•17 Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Non-Business Environment Analysis Business Responsibility as a Corporate Citizen Strategy Through the company’s original purpose of financial investment operations, Woori I&S strives to Change in Demographics fulfill its social responsibilities. We are pursuing operations that meet the needs and demands With the aging population of society, we expect changes in asset investment trends. According of customers and produce value in the environment and society, by complying with the law and to Statistics Korea, the number of citizens aged 65 and over in Korea will be increased from 4.37 keeping our operations transparent and stable. It is the duty of Woori I&S as a corporate citizen million in 2005 to 7.82 million by 2015. This figure is projected to be increased to 12 million by to create a value chain in which customers, shareholders, employees, and society develop 2030. Moreover, with the rapid development of medical science, an average life span will soon together. We recognize our duties as a corporate citizen and, therefore, we are reflecting in our reach 100. Such societal changes are expected to bring about significant alterations in terms of management strategies that will help us to achieve our target goals. the purpose and method of financial investment. Majority of Koreans manage their assets asymmetrically with most of their investment concentrated on real estate, and savings accounts in the form of deposits and installment •Comply with the regulations •Fulfill our duty as a accounts. However, the decrease in the number of the working age population will lead to a •Ethical management corporate citizen to increase value drop in growth rate, which may result in the decline in housing demand and interest rate. •Risk management Therefore, to secure financial stability after retirement, the current assets with decreasing •Innovation in profitability must be redistributed, and investment assets such as annuities must be expanded. management With rapid growth of the post-retirement asset management market projected, we expect to see Management Performance opportunities in various markets, including monthly-paid products for individual customers and the diversification of investment schemes for institutional investors such as National Pension Services. •Develop customer•Provide gains Increase in Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) oriented products & •Address societal & services Value environmental issues There has been a growing interest in SRI in Korea in recent years. In many developed economies Business Creation •Develop products & with financial services such as Europe, the financial market has already witnessed Pension Funds and Investment services reflecting changes •Social activities such as Banks’ active involvement in SRI. In accordance with global trend, Korean institutions, especially in business environment financial education, National Pension Fund, are increasing the amount and scope of SRI. •Invest in companies volunteering, etc. SRI refers to an investment method that, when it comes to selecting investment targets and that produce societal & environmental value volume, it considers companies’ financial and non-financial factors such as companies’ governance structure, social contribution and environmental engagement. This type of investment seeks to address social issues and fosters sustainable development of a country as well as individual companies. The UN has been actively supporting and encouraging such an investment model through the sustainable investment initiative, the UN Principles for Goals and Strategies for 2013 Responsible Investments (PRI). Woori I&S is operating in five projects with the goal of becoming the “Game Rule Maker that Market Trust Leads the New Market in the Low-Growth Era”. The global financial crisis has eroded customer confidence in financial companies. Despite the lack in confidence, there are corruptions taking place in a few financial companies, and this leads to a public demand to disclose financial companies’ management practices for more transparency. Against this backdrop, an adequate monitoring organization, transparent governance structure and decision-making processes, and the establishment of ethical awareness among employees are 01 02 03 04 05 becoming essential prerequisites for financial companies to restore trust. Increase Profitability from Discover new growth engine Sophistication of Risk Recover Dynamism in the Intensify OneDo Innovation Security of Financial Systems Cash Cows in Low-Growth Era Management corporate culture and Synergy The development of the data network infrastructure has been utilizing online financial services. However, some companies have recently seen breaches in their computer network, with serious •Strengthen stock brokerage •Enhance product competency •Establish contingency plans •Systems and company culture •Continue with site-oriented damages such as service interruption and leakage of customers’ data. Under such circumstances, with distinguished advanced with Future Product to promote dynamism OneDo innovation •Improve processes to intensify security has emerged as the top priority issue in the financial service sector. A single incident can strategies and solutions Development (FPD) Dept. risk analysis •Increase resource efficiency • Strengthen business modelpotentially destroy a company‘s reputation and seriously impair society as a whole. An advanced •Lead underwriting with •Marketing for increasing company-wide centered synergy •Enhance syndication function security system and risk management protocol will be required for financial services companies. dominant competitiveness number of seniors •Increases risk management •Drastically increase client book •Strategic support for star competency with businesses diversification of products •Enhance mobile-based operations 18•19 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix 2013 Business Strategy Strategy for Each Main Sector in 2013 Two-Track Strategy Investment Banking (IB) We will classify our current operations and future operations into “Star business” and “Cash Our IB sector seeks to become the true powerhouse in the IB industry. To this end, our IB sector’s cow business”, and approach them in a strategic manner. management objective in 2013 will be: securing our No. 1 position in the industry based on the Choose and Focus principle, enhancement of risk management and internal management, and creating profit in new business sectors. We will build the foundation for a stable profit structure Star Business Cash Cow Business and diversification of operation, both in the private deals sector, which is highly profitable, and the This refers to a promising business that has Cash cow businesses are the traditional structured finances sector, which is seeing consistent growth. We will strengthen our grasp on the the potential to grow into a new source of businesses that are currently the main market through the training of specialized training of personnel. revenue due to changes in the environment source of revenue. With our unique solutions or the expansion of the sector. Through and network, we will extend our market Trading strategic growth plans, we will predetermine dominance and enhance profitability. Our trading sector is seeking to maximize absolute profit through the diversification of the market and develop the star business into trading asset scope and the enlargement of the scale. As we foresee a continued low-interest a cash cow business in the future. environment in 2013, we will focus on dealing of foreign bonds, which is relatively volatile, and establish a platform for an operating in-house DLS hedge. Also, we expect to establish a trading platform for a foreign bonds and to scale up their sales. Two-Track Classification by Sector Wealth Management (WM) With the low-interest environment and the aging of the population, we expect to see a rapid increase in asset management needs. As such, financial products will be diversified–including •Star business: platform-based service, mobile trading system monthly-paid products, multi-asset distribution products, and overseas investment products– •Cash cow business: large discounts, offline/online and we are projecting full-scale growth of the wealth management sector. As of the end of 2012, there are 156,000 high net worth individuals in Korea, and this number is increasing and thus, Brokerage we project that private banking services will be increased in line with this demand. Thus, the WM division, as a customized wealth management partner, will strengthen the comprehensive wealth management model that reflects the life cycle and financial needs of our customers. •Star business: retirement market, asset management trust, foreign bonds, long-term bonds Wealth •Cash cow business: stock funds, company bonds, advisory Global Operations Management With the continued inflow of investment into the Asian market projected in 2013, we expect that the FICC investment atmosphere will persist as investors prefer the Asian market over advanced •Star business: grant credit, cross-border deals, advisory, financial markets, and bonds over equity. Our global operations division is currently focusing on PEF, structured finance Hong Kong to strengthen our presence in the Asian financial market. The sector’s goal is the Investment •Cash cow business: issue company bonds, company IPO diversification of revenue sources and the securing of a foundation for stable profits. We expect Banking to see visible results from the hedge fund market, which we have been assessing, and, with the fixed income sector strengthened through the capital increase of the Hong Kong office, we will continually strengthen our efforts further. Moreover, along with the securing of new markets •Star business: HFT, arbitrage, Quant, global trading, ARS, PIS and customers in the Asian market, we plan to also focus on securing cross-border deals in •Cash cow business: ELS, DLS, Prop. trading collaboration with the IB sector. Sales & Trading •Star business: hedge fund, prime brokerage, securities lending & borrowing •Cash cow business: stock loans, cash products (money market products) Other 20•21 Value Creation Outcome Woori Investment & Securities has outperformed the market to stay on the cutting edge of innovation by developing an advanced risk management system and new services that would meet the needs of our clients. Our efforts and activities have been the driving force behind our performance within the business sector. Business Performance 24 Development of New Services 28 Innovation From Inside 32 Risk Management 35 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Business IB Sector Trading Sector Performance True IB Powerhouse Annual Net Operating Revenue Producing Absolute Profit through Sophisticated Financial Techniques of Trading Department In 2012, Woori I&S, with its top competitiveness in the industry, became the No. 1 company in the Our trading sector is consistently contributing to the profit generation for the company through 273.1 traditional corporate finance sector such as corporate bonds and paid-in capital increase. We billion client book expansion and portfolio management that reacts efficiently to market volatility. Also, we also demonstrated the industry’s top performance in the M&A sector with our specialized merger are decreasing the ratio of directional trading and creating the most of our profit through various Corporate Bond Underwriting KRW 1 execution. operational techniques and effective risk management at home and abroad. In particular, our FICC 2012 Synergy with affiliates Regarding the debt capital market, we were able to lead the market despite changes in the issuing derivatives sector has grown into becoming the industry’s first successful new business model, by 114 system such as the introduction of demand forecasting system for corporate bonds, thereby making bold system investments in its early days, establishing effective infrastructure, and nurturing No. cases achieving approximately KRW 8.983 trillion in the lead-managed bond issuance and a 15.95% share specialized personnel. The equity derivatives sector is leading the industry with an effective system in the corporate bond market. Notably, we were able to display outstanding performance despite built on accumulated knowledge and experience. 1 Rights Offering the rapidly-changing market environment through proactive risk management. Furthermore, we Amidst the consistent growth of foreign investment in Korean Treasury Bond, the foreign interest is 2012 Annual Net Operating Revenue contributed to the revitalization of the ABS market by providing newly structured products based on From Hong Kong GTC extending to KRW-denominated corporate bonds as well. 8.9 receivables from sales of device at kt and LG U+. billion Domestic corporate investors and HNW clients are also showing increasingly high interest in Korean No. In the equity capital market, Woori I&S became the top company in underwriting of rights offering. In paper in overseas markets as well as various foreign currency denominated bonds. In response, the case of rights offering by LG Electronics, we successfully funded KRW 940.8 billion amidst market KRW we are going beyond the simple brokerage operations for domestic and foreign bonds, to pursue 1 Largest Domestic M&A Volume anxiety. Despite the drastic decrease in IPOs, due to the slump in the Korean stock market, we a business model innovation to further boost trading of strategic items through warehousing 2012 successfully carried out four IPO deals, meeting the needs of market participants and accomplishing and market making, thereby expanding our client network to ultimately lead to IB deals such as optimal funding. underwriting sales of won-dominated or foreign bonds to foreign investors. To this end, Woori I&S No. Sales Trend of Commodity DLS (In billions of KRW) In the M&A sector, Woori I&S was recognized by Bloomberg as the Financial Advisor of the Year increased capital at the Hong Kong subsidiary office by USD 100 million since May of 2012, and, Jan. 3.1 – Korea with USD 8.864 billion in gross transaction volume. In particular, we assisted SK Hynix to since the completion of the English version of the foreign bond back system, we began to operate Feb. 8.6 successfully close a sell-off deal through our advisory services providing multi-faceted analyses and our approach at the Hong Kong GTC in earnest. Currently, the size of the book operation has been reviews to help them resolve various issues, and promote our involvement as one of our landmark Mar. 26.9 increased by USD 100 million, and we are obtaining visible results already on this early stage. achievements. Apr. 11.9 Woori I&S is rising as Korea’s top investment bank that has the industrial competitiveness, as we May. 4.9 2012 Hong Kong GTC Net Operating Revenue provide strategic solutions, design newly structured products, and develop diverse funding schemes Jun. 5.9 Before Increase After Increase Annual to keep pace with the changes in the needs of our corporate clients. (Jan. 1 – May 31) (Jun. 1 Dec.31) (Jan. 1Dec. 31) Jul. 2.5 1.09 7.76 8.85 Aug. NOR billion billion billion 63.0 KRW KRW KRW Sep. 57.3 Oct. 69.3 Nov. 75.9 Dec. 13.9 0 20 40 60 80 CASE •Successful Public Offering of Parallel Oil Field Fund CASE •Commodity DLS Sales in 2012 Through the origination and structuring of the Parallel Oil Field Fund, Korea’s first private sector led public offering fund for overseas Since the first release of the Gold/Silver DLS in November 2011, it has recorded a monthly average issuance of KRW 9.1 billion. Since the 1,000-unit natural resources development, Woori I&S could enhance its product development capacity as well as create a new business model. DLS event in August, however, this amount has increased, reaching a total of KRW 275 billion in 2012. With the sudden increase in the corporate Overseas natural resources development is an area that requires a high level of expertise. The Parallel Oil Field Fund could only be investor demands in November, we have been issuing hybrid products that combine stocks and commodities. successful thanks to our one and half year long efforts to identify market needs, conduct on-site verification for overseas assets, and design a stable investment structure. Through all this, we could acquire a unique know-how in the development and operation of oil fields, and establish trust with relevant government institutions and companies. 24•25 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Wealth Management Sector Global Sector A Leader in tailored Wealth Management Services Rising Regional Player in Asia Total Retail Client Assets Most Number of Overseas Branches To maximize customer coverage and to provide tailored asset management solutions that meet Among Korea’s Securities Companies Woori I&S is strengthening an overseas network with a focus on Asia, creating a foundation for stable 83.8 10 customer needs, Woori I&S approaches asset management in three sub-sectors: private banking, profit having a total of ten branches as important business bases in nine countries, and we have been trillion branches wealth management, and direct sales. As of March 31 2013, our total retail client assets reached working to diversify our profit structure by going beyond the business model by heavily focusing on equity KRW KRW 83.8 trillion, a 6% increase compared to 2011 despite the global financial turmoil. Net Operating sales in the past to have more competitiveness in the fixed income, hedge funds, and Global IB sectors. Revenue stands at KRW 38.6 billion, an outstanding accomplishment in the midst of sapping investor Clients with More than Best Manager of Funds of Hedge Funds KRW 100 Million in Asset sentiment and a challenging business environment. However, the industry is generally facing (AsianInvestor Award) 53,713 challenges in the retail sector due to the decrease in trading volumes and fierce competition, and this 2 sluggish growth momentum is projected to continue for some time. Years in a Row Others 2010 83.1% On the other hand, increased longevity, the retirement of baby boomers, and the indirect investment Retail hf 4.2% trend are causing an increase in the demand for asset management services, especially in the PB ib Annual Net Operating Revenue of WM Department services. Global Fixed Income Book Size Fixed Income Equity Sales 2011 75.7% As of the end of December 2012, Woori I&S holds 53,713 clients with more than KRW 100 million 38.6 5.2% 200 billion deposits, which outnumbers our main competitors’. These HNW customers serve as core contributors to our business , accounting for 78.1% and 57.3% in asset and profit sectors, respectively. Million KRW USD 2012 45.7% 27.2% Retail Client Assets (trillions of KRW) The Composition of Retail Client Assets (FY 2012, trillions of KRW) With the expansion of the bond trading book at the Hong Kong subsidiary in 2012, we have become more FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 active in the market and thereby could accomplish a notable result. In equity sales, our efforts to explore 87.1 83.6 83.8 Consigned Assets 70.2% Global Presence Overview new business opportunities through the expansion of the strategic network enabled us to begin trading Financial Product 13.6% •6 local subsidiaries with several major sovereign wealth funds including ADIA in the Middle East and the Singaporean GIC. Asia (1 advisory office, 1 operations, We also installed a foreign stock trading desk at the New York subsidiary to diversify our products. Beneficiary Certificate 2.4% including 2 JV) Brand Character of OCTO In the hedge fund sector, we have established global partnership with an American investment company, Bond 5.0% •2 offices by establishing a global partnership with Skybridge, in which we create a base for investing in global Europe •1 local subsidiary hedge funds as well as establishing a base for our very own hedge fund platform. ELS 2.2% Americas •1 local subsidiary RP/CMA 4.0% We also began a joint operation of Asian seeding funds along with New Alpha, a company based in France that specializes in hedge fund investments, preparing for investments in sub-funds and marketing to foreign corporate investors. CASE •Our Main Wealth Management Brand “Octo” CASE •Global Hedge Fund Seeding Octo, the first wealth management brand in the industry, is the result of our accumulated asset management know-hows. In the beginning, it Seeding investment is a sophisticated financial operation that provides initial funds to a new hedge fund, and incubates the entire process of risk was provided in the form of “Comprehensive Buy/Sell Account” inclusive of eight benefits , but its scope has been gradually extended to become management, marketing, and product development. Our seeding investment is taking place through the “Woori New Alpha Fund” established a brand platform to provide a wide range of financial products and services for asset management. in 2012 in cooperation with New Alpha in France. A new hedge fund, “Woori New Alpha Fund” has accumulated USD 50 million to date. The Moreover, the Octo mascot serves as a messenger to provide our customers with better accessibility to complex financial products with easier operation and management of the fund are handled by our Singaporean affiliate, Woori Absolute Partners (WAP), and the global seeding and friendly introduction of such products on advertisements and customer communication tools. specialist, New Alpha. Two most notable aspects about Octo are that it is the first ever character marketing in the financial industry with the use of a friendly character, This seeding investment in global hedge funds marks the first milestone of a Korean securities company advancing into the field in cooperation and this enabled us to have the consistent communication through an expandable brand. This was unprecedented in the financial services with a global partner. We will continue to establish global seeding funds in the future and develop it into a new-growth business. industry, and, as a result, we were able to display differentiated performance compared to other companies in brand recognition. 26•27 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Development BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Education of In the persistent low-interest environment, the competition in the asset management market is more intense than ever. To survive in this environment, With the downturn of the real estate market and the low-interest on savings, retirees without a New Services Woori I&S is developing and providing new services addressing diverse needs of our customers. diversified portfolio are facing challenges in securing a decent quality of life with a stable income after retirement. In response, our Centenarian Research Center is advising on redistributing of assets with low profitability, and offering various training programs such as the Centenarian WHAT WE’VE DONE Academy which, we expect, will help our customers plan their retirement by taking advantage of Developing products appropriate to the aging society, Providing distinguished annuities and investments. online & mobile financial services In addition, we are also offering the Centenarian University service, led by the faculty from Seoul National University, as an educational event for our VIP customers’ fulfilling retirement. KEY PERFORMANCE Total Number of Woori Smart Investor Accounts Ratio of Transactions through Mobile Consultation (As of Mar. 31, 2013) Services in 2012 We offer consultation services to enable our clients to create efficient asset management by 11,530 14.0 quantifying the retirement index based on the assets held by the client. Notably, we offer a comprehensive retirement planning service that addresses, aside from asset management, various % topics including hobbies and family life. For example, we assist retirees with asset management through a financial asset overhaul by utilizing various products such as separate taxation products and long-term savings insurance. Products and Services for the Centenarian Era Online & Mobile Services It is anticipated that Korea will become an “aged society” around the year 2018. By 2050, more than With the development of IT infrastructures, the demand for online services has increased in 50% of the population will become 65 and over. While we are anticipating some major changes in the recent years. With the wide usage of smartphones, in particular, we have seen a drastic increase areas of health, education, retirement, real estate, and financial investment in the aged society where in the number of customers who use the Mobile Trading System (MTS) services through mobile the average life expectancy is 100, customers are facing difficulties in preparing for these changes in applications, as well as the Home Trading System (HTS) and web services via PCs. Woori I&S has a systematic way. Especially with the retirement of baby boomers as of late, the importance of wealth predetermined the significance of online & mobile services and offered a variety of relevant services. management after retirement is becoming ever more important. Ratio and Amount of To meet the demands of the aging society, and to ensure a decent quality of life for retirees, Woori Mobile App Users: Monthly Average Trading through Mobile Apps I&S is operating the Centenarian Research Center. Here, researches hold the responsibility to CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 undertake various topics of retirement such as health and leisure, with a focus on developing financial services for retirees and financial investment products suitable for this aging society. Furthermore, 20,000 54,000 80,000 2.0% 4.7% 14.0% 5.0 trillion 11.2 trillion 18.7 trillion we are offering education and consultation services for the benefit of our customers who are soon approaching the retirement age soon, in order to fulfill our responsibility as a corporate citizen. With the increase in financial transactions via online & mobile media, security is becoming a social issue. In response, Woori I&S has established, and is currently enforcing, a Privacy Policy in compliance with the Personal Information Protection Act and the Communication Network Act. Product Development These policies are posted on our official website for reference of our customers. On all mobile Woori I&S, the Centenarian Research Center and the Future Product Development Department have applications, various security measures have been undertaken, including authorization certificates, together made efforts to develop products for retirees and senior clients. With a variety of monthlyvaccines, and keyboard security. We also provide encryption applications and counterfeit applications paid products to guarantee a stable source of income, and other alternative products in preparation solutions for the safety of our customers. for a low-interest rate environment, we are offering our customers a wide range of options and satisfaction with optimal financial solutions. 28•29 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Mug Club Woori Smart Investor The Mug Club is a subscription service for online investment consulting. It notifies our customers of data Having been released in September of 2011, “Woori Smart Investor” is our unique cost average analyses by our experts in each sector in real-time via emails, text messages, online forums, and phone investment solution developed to assist investors who find it difficult to select items and capture calls. One-on-one consultation service is offered to customers in Premium category or higher, or online transaction points. The greatest benefit to this solution is the reduction of risk and the stable long-term customers with KRW five million or higher in asset on the pervious day. accumulation of profit by distributing assets through ETFs and, at the same time, distributing prices Moreover, the official Mug Club website, the “Mug Café” (mugcafe.wooriwm.com), provides information through installment buy/sell. Based on “Woori Trader” (HTS), a real-time automatic buy/sell system, this on recommended stocks, and investment information, real-time stock market broadcasting, and solution increases the investor’s ability to react to market volatility, and offers various forms of services, community services. The stocks recommended by the analysts, called “Baristas” in the Mug Café, are including pre-arranged investment services, funds and wraps. In just eighteen months after its release, listed in detail with date of recommendations, purchase price, target price, loss-cut price, rationale, this solution has accumulated 11,530 accounts and KRW 466 billion in asset. The public offering fund etc. During the broadcasting time, customers can have a live Q&A session with the analysts who released in April of 2012 achieved a record high of a 8.0% rate of return (as of March 31, 2013), exceeding recommended certain stocks. KOSPI by 7.6%. Provides high-quality Bi-directional broadcasting investment data gathered with live Q&A with the host Smart Investor Strategy and analyzed by our Investment Securities •Standard Index: KOSPI top experts Info. Broadcast •Installment call on ETFs with every 30 pt. change in index, but buy more when index falls Buy 2060 Investment Buy Community Distinguished consultation Consultation A free exchange of 2030 Buy Buy services via online chat, investment data among 2000 Buy Buy more phone, and online forum Mug Café members 1970 Buy Buy more Buy more 1940 Buy Buy more 1910 Our goal in 2013 is to increase our subscriber base to 40,000. To this end, we are seeking to enhance the quality of recommended stocks, improve customer confidence with one-on-one services, and provide opportunities to engage with individual investors and analysts through weekly broadcasting. We are anticipating a favorable response from our investors on the new ‘Woori Smart Investor 5.0 Version’ released in February of 2013. Woori Smart Investor 5.0 Version expands its investment targets to include individual stocks, and provides optimal installment investment strategies that faithfully reflect Mug Smart the buy/sell tendencies of the investor. Mug Smart is an application service provided to the mobile customers, whose numbers are increasing rapidly as of late, for advanced stock trading. It provides a number of convenient services utilizing the nature of mobile devices, such as the “one-stop mobile service” which provides not only the services previously offered via HTS, but also services immediately available on the smartphone by acquiring an ID and the digital certificate; the “SNS sharing service” which allows customers to share news and reports with ease on such social network services as KakaoTalk and Facebook; and the “lock screen service” which allows customers to monitor items of interest on the lock screen of the phone in real-time. In 2013, we will introduce the Mobile Customer Center and offer Mobile Consultation services. Starting with a forum-based consultation service, we will also offer regular and item-specific Mobile Consultation service, to proactively manage our customers on mobile devices. Moreover, we will offer mock investment services to expand our customer base. 30•31 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Innovation BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CASE •OneDo Innovation Case Study From Inside In this modern world where business environments are changed rapidly, innovation of the company is inevitable. Through constant innovative efforts, Woori I&S seeks Traditionally, all investment companies issue an investment card to clients who opened a new account. However, with the increase in the number of customers who use the online services, the number of customers using the card decreased drastically. Especially, if a customer were to open to not rest on its laurels of success but continues to move onward. an account without visiting an onsite office location, the subsequent issuing and delivery of the card caused much inconvenience. Section Chief Yong Kim of the Wealth Management Solution Department suggested a process by which investment cards are issued optionally. This suggestion WHAT WE’VE DONE was approved immediately and, by September 2012, the suggestion was applied to our business operations. In December, this was extended OneDo Innovation Activity, Establishing Future Product Development Department, to those opening an account by visiting a branch. This enabled Woori I&S to save approximately KRW 270 million in annual operating costs. Group synergy activities Furthermore, through this decisive action, we increased customer satisfaction by excluding inconveniences and reducing time for providing services. KEY PERFORMANCE Financial performance through Centenarian Plus Income Wrap sales OneDo Innovation Activity (2013.03.04 04.30) 6.4 75 Future Product Development Department billion billion During the reorganizing of the company in January of 2013, Woori I&S officially established the Future KRW KRW Future Product Development Dept. Emblem Product Development Department, an organization which formerly belonged to task force team. This is part of our efforts to suggest appropriate investment alternatives to our customers in the rapidly changing economic environment through the restructuring of operational structures, by which the OneDo Innovation Activity company went beyond the simple brokerage of conventional products like stocks and funds to the securing of portfolios based on a diverse selection of products. OneDo is our innovation brand and innovative way of management which expresses consistent waste With the resources of the entire company at our disposal, the Future Product Development Department reduction activities carried out through each individual’s (One) creative thinking and consistent practice seeks to develop and supply new products that can draw the attention of the financial industry. This (Do). For the full engagement of the OneDo Innovation Activity, the top management actively participates provides our customers with investment alternatives and products that can adequately respond to the in the program by meeting those who are showing outstanding performance with our OneDo Innovation, changes in the economic environment. and reviewing some of the selected projects. Furthermore, we anticipate that diversification of our profit structure, which was once heavily dependent OneDo Innovation Activity was one of the case studies explored by the “Global Brand Leadership Center” upon brokerage, will serve as an opportunity to become a leader in the financial markets. Through under Columbia University’s School of Business. Entitled “Woori Financial: Becoming a World-Class brainstorming meetings in each business sector, we have selected six product lines and have been Organization through OneDo”, this case study examines the Woori Financial’s 3-year journey with OneDo. developing relevant products to offer our clients. Moreover, we have been pursuing projects with responsibility and accountability by placing executive level experts to oversee each product line. OneDo Innovation Activity System Innovation Innovation Action OneDo Brand Objective Principles Program Six Product Lines Ask Questions OneDo [ Suggestion System ] WhyDea Trading Strategy Products Creating Our Change Perspective OneDo Unique DNA OneDo Changing One Maestro [ Innovation Leader ] Person at a Time Gather Annuities Hedge Funds Ideas OneDo Innovation Activity Outcome 2012 OneDo Amount (KRW) Cases (Number of.) Reduce WhyTing [ Small Groups ] Future Product Waste Development 5.51 38 billion WhyTing Foreign Bond Profitability Note 660 14 million WhyDea OneDo Innovation Activity Outcome Products With the active participation of all employees in 2012, we recorded a total of 58 cases with KRW 6.4 Trading 270 6 OneDo million Projects Index billion in financial performance. The project that received the highest praise among Woori Financial Division Group was an innovative project called the “no plastic card” system, the first in the financial industry, 6.44 58 billion Total which enhanced customer satisfaction while reducing the cost. 32•33 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix CASE•Centenarian Plus Income Wrap Risk BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The first collaborative project between the Future Product Development Department and the Centenarian Research Center, the Centenarian Management The downturn of economy and the subsequent series of financial crises have alerted financial companies of the importance of risk management. Woori Plus Income Wrap is a product that brings about both stability and profitability. A monthly income solution that supplements the retirement cash I&S will do its best to achieve stable and continuous growth through risk flow, 70% of the portfolio allocated to bond funds for monthly stable profit, and the other 30% used to gain bonus profit through volatile buy/sell management. tactics and hit & run tactics that takes advantage of the month-end effect with ETFs. Despite acceleration of baby-boomers retirement, there are limited alternatives in preparing a nest egg. In this aspect, we have developed WHAT WE’VE DONE Centenarian Plus Income Wrap, an effective retirement product for recent retirees. Since its release in March of 2013, within two months, a total of 1,200 accounts were open with KRW 75 billion in sales. Establishing risk management processes, Expanding scope of risk management, Conducting risk management training programs KEY PERFORMANCE Total number of new and regular analyses by Total number of Committee meetings regarding Credit Assessment Dept. IB deal negotiations 386 48 Creating Synergy Woori Financial Group operates independent affiliates in a variety of fields including banking, securities, and insurance. With these diverse business environments, we are seeking to increase profit by creating synergy among our affiliates. In particular, through the cooperation with the bank – a stronghold of customer assets and networks – Woori I&S is pursuing a variety of opportunities to grow together in a complimentary manner. Woori Bank now offers investment accounts linked to bank accounts and offering securities-backed loans. And through this collaboration, anticipated net loan increase is estimated KRW 348.2 billion, Systematic Risk Management Process highlighting the significance of synergy between affiliates. With the globalization of the national economy and industry, along with the easing regulations on capital Woori I&S is also working to maximize the synergy between affiliate companies by taking advantage of flows the correlation between the financial sector and the global economy is becoming more significant. the strength of holdings companies, creating new profits and advancing collectively. Also, with the expansion of risk transfer in the financial investment industry and product structures becoming ever more complicated, risk management has become a major factor that would determine the survival of a financial company in the market. Woori I&S has established comprehensive scenarios that reflect financial and non-financial risk factors, and therefore has reached pre-emptive risk management. We have defined risk measurement and Synergy through Sharing of Network and Solution management as core competency factors of our company, and have managed and controlled risks to achieve an optimal balance between risk and profit. Nonetheless, some of risks may be transferred to customers due to the nature of financial products, in some cases. Woori I&S minimizes risk of this sort and strictly prohibits the sale of any high-risk products that may arise risk issues, and is raising the criteria of complete sales of product by making it Banking Laws mandatory to provide sufficient explanation of products to customers. Since 2012, we have expanded the •Woori Bank scope of our risk management further to customer accounts in product sales and trust management. •Kwangju Bank There is a notion that credit risk management of the securities industry is structurally weaker than that •Kyongnam Bank of the banking sector. Woori I&S, however, assign credit ratings of companies based on our internal credit assessment criteria and processes. Our Credit Assessment Dept. is comprised of experts, and collects and assesses timely information. After the assessment, Woori I&S applies different investment Capital Market Laws Insurance Laws limits and processes to companies in accordance with the resulting credit ratings. •Woori I&S •Woori Aviva All of Woori I&S’ employees and executives clearly understand the significance of risk management •Woori Asset Life Insurance Management and we do our very best to protect the company against unexpected risk by implementing appropriate policies and systems. 34•35 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix CASE • Integrated Risk Management System at GTC in Hong Kong Organizational Structure of Risk Management Woori I&S has been making direct inroads into strategic points around the world to broaden our overseas market, with a particular focus With the Risk Committee chaired by the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and the Risk Management on the Asian bond market. We have invested USD 100 million into establishing the Global Trading Center (GTC) in Hong Kong to pursue an Committee chaired by the head of the Risk Management Division (Chief Risk Officer), Woori I&S innovative business model that moves us beyond the simple brokerage of foreign and domestic bonds and leads to IB deals including sales and manages and responds to the risks that the entire company assumes. The Risk Committee reviews underwriting of KRW-denominated bonds and foreign bonds for foreign investors. and approves essential particulars of the Company’s management, including general risk policies As for the Hong Kong GTC, the importance of a rigorous framework for risk management cannot be overemphasized since it is located overseas and appetites, risk regulations, M&A, new business, and large-scale investment/deals. The Risk and trades in a large volume. Woori I&S has established management policies and daily monitoring processes for each risk type such as market Management Committee reviews and approves implementation of the company-wide risk policies & risk, credit risk, operational risk, etc. The GTC’s system works together with the risk management system of our head office, enabling us to regulations, risk limits at a variety of levels, such as company-wide, book and position, risk management monitor and get timely information on trading exposures of the Hong Kong GTC. This ensures that the level of risk management at the Hong rules and provisions, financial stability, and investment with substantial credit risk. Furthermore, since Kong GTC is comparable to that of the head office. We are also making efforts to minimize risks by separating authority and responsibilities of December 2012, the Risk Management Committee has delegated part of the Committee’s authority to departments with potential conflict of interest among its members, and by maintaining three levels of controls. the Investment Risk Management Committee that is established to strengthen risk measurement and management regarding investment/deals associated with substantial credit risk. Chair: CEO Board of Members: 4 outside directors Directors Trading System MUG Hong Kong GTC Risk (Risk Management System) Committee CEO Chair: CRO CFO FI Desk Members: Management support executive Foreign Bonds Transaction Balance (Local Corp.) Management Check Risk Research control executive Management Compliance monitoring executive Committee Head Office Management strategy executive Head of Risk Risk Data Comprehensive Management Products control executive VaR Analysis Mart Limit Monitoring Division (CRO) Trading Dept. RM Dept. Investment Risk Chair: CRO Management Committee Members: : Management strategy executive Compliance monitoring executive Risk Management Dept. Credit Assessment Dept. Credit Assessment team head Financial Engineering Dept. Others appointed by CEO Risk Management Training In order to increase awareness of the importance of risk management, and to improve relevant competency, Woori I&S conducts annual training programs for all employees and executives. We have provided online as well as offline training programs in consideration of the topics and training period to make it more accessible and timely. In 2012, we provided an eight-hour offline The Division of Risk Management is composed of three departments: Risk Management, Credit training to 187 employees and one hour of online training to 2,882 employees. We plan to continue to Assessment and Financial Engineering. The Department of Risk Management is responsible for every strengthen our risk management training programs. aspect of risk management practices on the basis of risk management regulations and rules, such as monitoring, analyzing, reporting and controlling of various types of risk that the company is taking. The Department of Credit Assessment is responsible for implementing strategies and policies with regard Risk Management Training Results to assessment and management of credit risk. The Department of Financial Engineering analyses the CY 2012 CY 2011 CY 2010 structures of financial instruments and valuates these instruments through setting pricing standards Off-line Online Off-line Online Off-line Online and developing/validating pricing models. Trainee 187 2,882 2,887 20 Total Time 8 hrs. 1 hr. 4 hrs. 2 hrs. 36•37 Sharing our Values Woori Investment & Securities is committed to playing our social role of a responsible corporate citizen. We have strengthened our compliance policy and pursued a variety of activities to reinforce customer values. In addition, we have run various programs to enhance our competitiveness and to achieve work-life balance for employees. We also strive for a society where its members lead excellence standard of life through various social contributions. Customer Value Management 40 Attraction of Talent 45 Social Activities 49 Environmental Activities 52 Compliance 54 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Customer BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Complete Sales Process at Woori I&S Customers select a financial investment company in consideration of not only Value profitability, but also a variety of factors such as services, brand image and reliability. Woori I&S always endeavors to reach beyond meeting customer satisfaction to Management establish and solidify good relations with customers based on trust, value and Identify Investor premier services. Information WHAT WE’VE DONE Categorize Strengthening the Complete Sales Policy of financial products, maximizing Investors customer’s life-time value, providing differentiated premium PB services Select Adequate KEY PERFORMANCE Product Life-time value of customers with asset of In-house CS level evaluation result KRW 100 million or more Explain Product 68 90.8 and Risks million points KRW Confirm Investor’s Decision Follow-up Measures Complete Sales of Financial Products In order to protect the rights of our customers and to foster a proper investment culture, Woori I&S aims for the complete sales of all products. Our employees and executives understand that incomplete sales can damage the trust built with customers over a long period of time, therefore product sales take place under strict procedures. Compliance Manager Activities We make it mandatory for all our employees to provide sufficient clarification of the product In every branch, there are Compliance Managers who monitor general compliance activities and including risks, and check whether the customer fully understood the explanation as well as confirm product subscription approval. Through such process, we uphold our professionalism and confirm the investor decision before selling the product. Also, in accordance with the Financial soundness in product sales activities. Investment Services and Capital Markets Act (FSCMA), customer types and financial products are divided into five categories in order to prevent the recommendation of investment products Strengthened Product Sales Standards that are riskier than the investment tendency of the customer. Moreover, Woori I&S applies high internal standards to complete sales, which is stricter than In order to ensure that an appropriate product is sold, our Customer Asset Management what is generally required in the industry, thereby promoting appropriate financial product sales Committee takes into consideration even the credit rating of the product. In addition to the practice in the market. customer investment tendency categories defined by law, the Committee considers previous * Complete Sales : meaning a financial product is sold properly following due process transaction types and level to provide our customers with an appropriate product. Furthermore, we apply stricter standard in analyzing new product’s structure, type, and risk profile. In the case of the oil field fund that was offered recently, senior customers were accompanied with a family member(as a witness) to understand the product’s details and risks involved. Post-Sales Monitoring Woori I&S operates two organizations separately: one designs and sells products, and the other manages and verifies sales. This structure enables us to provide thorough follow-up measures for products sold regardless conflict of interests. The department in charge of postsales management continuously monitors as to whether a product is sold following appropriate protocols and procedures. This prevents the sale of inappropriate products early on. 40•41 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Maximizing Customer Life-Time Value Premier Blue Woori I&S proactively manages its customer relations to expand the customer base and increase profitability of customer assets, thus maximizing the life-time value of its customers. Customers are divided in accordance with trading stages, thereby encouraging customers on the initial stage of trading to activate investment and re-inviting customers that have withdrawn their investment. In consideration of customers’ investment tendencies and asset size, we designate appropriate •Brand Essence: PRIDE Target Product Customers & service channels and provide adequate services to meet the needs of all customers. Moreover, we & Membership •Brand Slogan: Operational provide stratified and differentiated services considering a customer’s current and future value, in Services No.1 Value Management Channels order to provide better services suitable for each and every customer. Customer Classification Our customers are classified into new, active, and withdrawn depending on the transaction terms and activities. With operations customized to each class – early activation (new), Real private Exclusive Highest Expertise maintenance & expansion (active), and induce new transaction (withdrawn) a friendly Strict confidentiality / Exclusive services that are Thorough asset management relationship between Woori I&S and its customers can be established early on and maintained 1:1 customer service differentiated from regular services by top asset management for a long period of time. (customized investment services experts of Woori I&S consulting services focusing on Assignment of Appropriate Service Channels customer needs, strict privacy Our employees manage our customers through tailored services. Employees visit clients who management) prefer consulting services in person, send e-mails and text messages for those who prefer to buy/sell directly through our system. Premier Blue, the main private banking brand of Woori I&S, is a comprehensive asset management The establishment of the PB operations allows us to focus on HNWIs, and we have an exclusive and life care brand targeting customers with high level of assets. We opened our very first Premier service group tailored for various categories of customers. Blue Center in Gangnam by merging the existing five PB centers in October, 2010. In September 2011, we took over Merrill Lynch Korea’s PB sector and opened the Premier Blue Center Gangbuk Preferential Services branch, integrating Merrill Lynch’s advanced PB system and know-hows into Premier Blue and Woori I&S categorizes its customers into five classes depending on their current value thereby further strengthened our status as a leading company. As of the end of the year 2012, we (income) and future value (asset size). Fee exemption and preferential interests are provided re-organized the three wealth management centers into Premier Blue centers, operating five in accordance to customer class. In addition, we take into account the customer’s entire asset centers collectively. invested through the affiliates of Woori Financial Holdings during classification, and we are Our Premier Blue centers are comprised of top PBs in the industry. For stable management of our currently running the “Woori Bonus Family” service whereby customers receive the same customer assets, these centers provide comprehensive wealth management services including services from each of our affiliate company. advisory services in tax, inheritance, real estate, and financial consulting. In particular, our global financial service, which includes foreign exchange and hedging tools have strengthened through the acquisition of Merrill Lynch’s PB sector. Thereby we have experienced positive and favorable responses from customers interested in foreign investments. Moreover, we introduced “Art Advisory” service for the first time in the securities industry. In the year 2013, our plan is to focus on providing products for stable asset management in close cooperation with the Future Product Development Department and on enhancing the service quality of Life Care. With achieving the Top Honors in the PB Awards in 2012 (hosted by Asia Business Daily), Premier Blue is becoming more and more valuable as a premium wealth management brand. By offering our customers with differentiated financial products and services, we seek to provide our customers with top value that matches well with customer pride and confidence, and to strengthen our status as a leader in the domestic PB business. 42•43 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix In-House CS Quality Surveys Attraction BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Competition to attract outstanding talents is becoming more fierce due to its In order to provide our customers with better services, Woori I&S conducts an annual CS of Talent essential impact on corporate competitiveness. To attract and train outstanding quality survey, analyzing from various perspectives, such as sales procedure, manners, and human resources, Woori I&S is equipped with various specialized training consultation skills, we examine our CS competency from the perspective of our customers, programs. come up with improvement tactics and implement them. WHAT WE’VE DONE In-House CS Quality Survey Results Open recruiting, systematic program for human resources development, diverse employees welfare programs. Comp. Score Sales Regular Operations KEY PERFORMANCE 2011 98.2 2011 97.6 2011 96.9 Annual average training hours per employee Employee welfare expenditure 2012 90.8 2012 91.9 2012 89.8 51 69.8 hours billion KRW In 2012, the results from the survey showed that the comprehensive score was 7.4 points lower than the previous year. This is due to the mystery shopping performed throughout the year, not just a certain period of time. Through this effort, we were able to evaluate and improve the CS Company Fostering Dreams and Visions quality from the perspective of our customers. Woori I&S’s Ideal Human Resource *Mystery shopping: A system by which a supervisory staff visits a branch office acting like an ordinary customer to evaluate the branch’s customer service quality from customer’s perspectives. Those with unlimited potential Those who Those continuously can work seek to develop harmoniously and his/her talent cooperate with others CASE•Surveys by the Financial Supervisory Service Each employee at Woori I&S strives to become the best in his/her sector. Standing firmly on their Woori I&S obtained the “Excellent” rating for two consecutive years in the fund sales surveys administered by the Financial Supervisory Service conviction of their own infinite potential, all personnel at Woori I&S, employees and executives (FSS) in 2010 and 2011. As a result, Woori I&S was exempt in the 2012 survey. FSS administers these surveys in an effort to find out whether the alike, will continually improve themselves to secure expertise in their field, achieving individual and company adequately informs customers during the sales of a fund, regarding risk of capital loss, whether the fund is being sold in favor of other corporate dreams through cooperation and harmony in the organization. affiliates, etc. Woori I&S also received the “Excellent” rating in the ELS sales survey by FSS. This has served as a fine opportunity for us to let others know that Woori I&S is faithfully fulfilling its duty to protect its investors. Open Recruiting Woori I&S provides equal opportunities to potential candidates, regardless of their educational background or gender. In 2012, we hired twenty-six high school graduates to fill entry level FSS Fund Sales Survey Results positions. For candidates with disabilities or national merit, we provide wider opportunities. As of March 2013, we have sixteen workers with disabilities and 105 workers with national merit. We plan to further increase the hiring the disabled through events such as Disability 2010 2011 2012 Employment Fair. Furthermore, we strongly support the hiring of local citizens, giving Exempted for advantages to local school graduates when hiring for a local branch. We also have many other Excellent Excellent the evaluation employees with diverse backgrounds, displaying outstanding performance and receiving the recognition and reward. 44•45 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Expert Training Strategies Distinguished Training Programs For the training of talents appropriate for our corporate values and growth strategies, we have The financial industry requires highly-trained experts. In addition to the Professional Courses at established the <Woori University> HRD framework. In this framework, we are sharing the core Woori University, Woori I&S is training specialized experts through various training programs, corporate values, systematically raising leaders, and training the industry’s leading experts. nurturing them to serve as our core competency factor. Value Course In-House Training School •Value Vision Practicing, spreading •Ethical Management Through in-house offering, we select employees who wish to be trained as experts and provide and sharing of core corporate values training in IB, trading, products, and PB. With in-house teachers and external experts in each sector, this program is offered online as well as offline over the course of three months, with an emphasis on practical knowledge directly related to on-site works. After a certain period of Leadership training, the workers may be given with an opportunity to work in the relevant sector after re•Section Competency configuration of human resources in the company. Course •Leadership Systematic training of next-generation •Core Talents MBA Support Program Woori global leaders For the distinguished training and management of core talents, we select outstanding University •WM Competency employees with potential and offer part-time MBA programs through many fine Korean Professional universities, so that they can understand changes in business environments and enhance their •Section Tasks Course competence as global leaders. •Corporate Competency Mass training of top experts with •In-house Training Wealth Management Expert Training Program competitive edge •Certification A program established to strengthen the comprehensive financial design competency, this training program comprises four tracks: products, market, services, and life. We are also focusing on providing distinguished brokerage solutions and PB specialization courses. •Self-Improvement General Course •Work Basics Improvement of basic work •Test Management competency Value Course This program is to share values which the company aspires to achieve. Recently, we are emphasizing values related to sustainable management such as the enhancement of corporate ethics and risk management. Leadership Course We have provided leadership training programs for employees at different stages of their career and nurtured core talents through our own “leadership pipeline”: “active learner (employee) – selfmotivated worker (assistant manager) – creative expert (section chief) – strategic veteran (deputy CASE•Delicious Sandwich director) – performing leader (department manager)”. A word that contains the dreams of office workers in Manhattan, “sandwich” is a symbol of a leisurely evening time after an intensive daytime work where workers have quick lunch in their offices, nearby parks, and on benches on the side of the street. Professional Course In order to achieve our company culture aim, “a company where dreams are fulfilled: company culture where the dreams of workers We are conducting distinguished training programs for each sector for the purpose to prepare and the vision of the company are achieved altogether,” Woori I&S holds seminars on a variety of topics. The goal of these seminars employees to become a group of experts who lead the market in their given sector. is to improve competency through creative thinking by accumulating wide range of knowledge that spans across various sectors and strengthening the observation of major trends. The seminars take place during lunch hours every second Friday of a month. General Course Lectures address various areas including humanities, science, culture, management, philosophy, global issues, art, and other A voluntary training program for the enhancement of basic work competency, the general course general topics. The topic for each month is selected in advance and the lecturers are selected through employee survey to encourage offers foreign language training among other things. This is available on mobile devices as well. active participation of our employees. 46•47 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Employee Welfare Social BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT There has been much discussion on the issue of social responsibility of corporate Activities citizens. Through a variety of social contribution activities, Woori I&S strives to Woori I&S strives to create a cozy and healthy workplace where every employee works with achieve a business model where the company and the society grow together. pleasure while managing work-life balance. To this end, we provide our own welfare services inclusive of welfare benefits in general and consulting services for mental health, etc. Furthermore, we conduct a survey of our employees to identify the level of their satisfaction WHAT WE’VE DONE at their work, engagement on tasks and views on the corporate culture, thereby to perform A variety of CSR activities such as volunteer charity work by employees and our utmost to foster a corporate culture where everyone works with pleasure and create a executives and Woori Angel Funding competitive corporate atmosphere. Based on survey results, we are pursuing various measures and activities to improve our corporate culture. KEY PERFORMANCE Volunteer teams in service Annual pool of Woori Angel Fund I & II EAP (Employee Assistance Program) 101 390 Many of those working in the financial industry suffer from mental stress due to the nature of million the business. Such stress negatively affects not only work efficiency, but also the creation of a KRW pleasant workplace. By providing company-level support for a variety of issues that arise in the life of our employees, at work or at home, Woori I&S seeks to help restore work-life balance. We also provide professional counseling services to improve employee satisfaction and work efficiency. The counseling Our Social Contribution Goal services cover non-work-related issues such as marital issues and family issues as well as workrelated issues such as conflicts at work, interpersonal relationships, and stress management. Our social contribution slogan is “A brighter future with Woori I&S”. This means that we wish to This program is available to the employee’s family at no additional cost, and all records from the help our customers create a basis for happiness and freedom in the future, and would readily counseling sessions are kept strictly confidential. become their friend, neighbor and colleague. We pledge to build a brighter world by sharing happiness with our underprivileged neighbors, and to build a better world by being a friendly Family Day neighbor to our customers and the society at large. At Woori I&S, we believe that happy family life of our employees have positive impacts on work performance. As such, under the motto “Balance of Work and Life”, we are running the “Family Day” program whereby all employees finish work at 5 pm on the second and the fourth Friday of Social Contribution Aim each month. We encourage our employees to spend more time with their family, thereby helping them enjoy decent quality of life at home as well as at work. Sabbatical Program Company Customers In order to improve productivity through adequate rest and to cultivate a culture of enjoying Providing support appropriate for an Creating opportunities to contribute vacation, Woori I&S runs a sabbatical program which offers a one week vacation every five years. investment company by creating funds to the society with as responsible at the company level citizens Through this program, we seek to give our employees a chance to be refreshed and a chance for self-improvement, so that they can be more enthusiastic and creative after they return to work. Company Customers Employees Employees Volunteering for a better world as representatives of the company 48•49 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Diverse Social Contribution Activities Since 2005, Woori I&S has been carrying out social contribution activities through volunteer Hope Tree Scholarship work by our employees and executives. As a result, we have been able to carry out diverse In an effort to help underprivileged children living under challenging circumstances and to activities, including “One Company, One Village”, “Hope Tree Scholarship” and “Woori Angel be able to concentrate on their studies without losing hopes, Woori I&S has been offering its Fund”. In 2011 and 2012, we put together social contribution activity organizations and systems annual scholarships to forty-one high school students with outstanding academic performance to increase efficiency and encourage employees’ participation. Through this effort, we have since the second half of 2005. Local Woori I&S branch offices set up sisterhood ties with been able to carry out our social activities in a systematic manner, having divided our activities selected scholarship student, and has provided various support programs to nurture them to into three themes: dreams, hope, and a better tomorrow. Furthermore, by encouraging our grow as future leaders. employees to contribute to the Woori Angel Fund, and by introducing the social contribution certification system to manage our activities systematically, we are actively practicing our social Octo Junior Camp values of sharing. Woori I&S hosts Octo Junior Camp to provide financial education to juniors. Octo Junior Camp provides various contents and programs to the children of our customers, including career planning and education on the economy. Marking its eighth year in 2013, the Octo Junior Camp offers suitable educational contents in accordance with children’s education level, by Volunteer Activities dividing them into two groups: upper elementary and middle school group. This camp provides Volunteering CY 2012 volunteer activities Currently, a total of 3,002 employees and executives are participating in volunteer work in 101 programs enabling children to learn and obtain knowledge by participating in a variety of volunteer groups. Groups are formed at branches and at the head office to allow as many activities. 271 times employees as possible to participate. Also, by structuring our efforts in this way, there is active communication between branch offices and departments, and we are fostering social One Company, One Village contribution activities as a corporate culture. For further organized social contribution activities, As part of the Love Our Farms campaign, Woori I&S has established sisterhood ties with we created three themes: ‘dreams’(education, child welfare), ‘hopes’(social welfare, local CY 2012 donations from Volunteer Mileage Junam-ri village in the Gyeongbuk province and Soyong village in the Chungbuk province. communities), and ‘a better tomorrow’ (green growth environment) to run programs that meet Each year in May, employees and executives visit Junam-ri to help farming families with the 8 the needs of the local communities. times grafting work in orchards. In October of 2012, we helped neighbors in Soyong village with their To enhance the social contribution activities of the 101 volunteer groups, Woori I&S holds harvest, sharing the joys of the harvest and bonding friendly ties with the local community. annual online votes through its intranet with volunteers and groups to reward outstanding Moreover, through direct trading of local agricultural goods, Woori I&S is practicing the Love cases. To encourage the culture of sharing, we have also introduced the Volunteer Mileage Our Farms campaign. system whereby, when the cumulative volunteer hours are 50 or over, the company donates KRW 500,000 to a charity organization chosen by employees. Financial Support for the Underprivileged ‘Smile Micro-credit Financing’ is a project offering self-support assistance and providing small Woori Angel Fund Amount or Woori Angel Fund funds without collaterals or guarantees to those having difficulties in accessing official sector Raised in 2012 Since 2005, Woori I&S has been operating the Woori Angel Fund I along with the worldfinancial institutions, thereby providing them with a base for economic independence. Woori Woori Angel Fund I renowned relief organization, World Vision, to bring hopes and love to our underprivileged I&S has been contributing KRW 500 million annually since 2009, and ‘Woori Smile Financial neighbors and children. With the know-how from managing the Woori Angel Fund I, we Foundation’ has donated KRW 40.7 billion in loans as of March, 2013. Woori I&S will continue established the Woori Angel Fund II managed directly by Woori I&S. with such financial support for our financially isolated neighbors. KRW 205,696,000 Woori Angel Fund I and II are voluntary contribution systems created to support social contribution activities for the needy, to which our employees and executives contributes a Woori Angel Fund II certain portion of their monthly contribution. While the contribution method is the same for Second-Hand Clothing Donations Woori Angel Fund I and II, the funds from the Woori Angel Fund I are delivered through World Woori I&S has established a partnership with ‘Otcan’, a non-profit organization registered to the 186,058,000 Vision, whereas the funds from the Woori Angel Fund II are delivered through our own donation Ministry of Environment, for their ‘Dreaming Sketchbook’ program designed to donate secondKRW hand clothing, and provide support to children in third world countries. Donated clothes are program. In making a contribution, employees can freely choose the program and the amount through shipped to the third-world countries and sold at a bazaar, and the fundraised from the program the company’s intranet. Woori I&S also contributes to the funds through matching grants with are used to provide children with art education and relevant supplies in the developing regions. an average of KRW 33 million spent on charitable activities every month. We plan to further expand our efforts and provide assistance to aid underprivileged neighbors The Woori Angel Fund is fulfilling its role as a reliable source that supports our underprivileged on a regular basis, as part of our diverse social contribution activities. We will also actively carry neighbors and children, and becoming a tangible figure of the donation culture to which the out other global social contribution activities in the future. company and its employees unite. 50•51 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Environmental CY 2012 Total Savings from (unit :KRW) BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Water Conservation Water Management 19,780,000 The Company’s efforts to protect the vulnerable environment is a primary As United Nations designated Korea as a nation with water shortage, Woori I&S is actively Activities responsibility of a corporate citizen. Woori I&S will contribute in making a pursuing water conservation measures in various ways, such as reducing water pressure in brighter future of the Earth by creating an eco-friendly work environment and * KRW 2,523 /ton the pipelines. Assuming the hours of water running remains the same as in 2011’s, the total through energy conservation and green financial services activities. (average annual water fees) amount of water saving in 2012 is estimated to be 7,840 tons with reduced water pressure. WHAT WE’VE DONE Responding to Climate Change Paper Use (unit : tons) Environmental activities such as energy conservation, Participating in Carbon Woori Financial Group established a greenhouse gas management system in 2011. Part Disclosure Project (CDP), Social Responsibility Investment (SRI) CY 2011 75.8 CY 2012 63.2 of the efforts are to reflect the reduction of greenhouse gas emission in the management objectives, and we are doing our part as a industry leader through voluntary management and participation, even though Woori I&S is not required to report these under the governmentKEY PERFORMANCE initiated energy/greenhouse gas target management system. Water conservation Paper conservation We were also designated by the Korean CDP Commission in 2011 as a carbon management leader in the non-banking industry. Woori I&S will continue to participate proactively in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and take preemptive steps in responding to future changes. 7,840 12.6 tons tons Paper use reduction With the introduction of electronic transaction systems in 2006 and the mobile office system in 2010, we are improving work efficiency and minimizing the use of unnecessary resources such as paper. Each branch office is also carrying out its own conservation campaign such as Eco-Friendly Management using reusable paper, minimizing color printing, error-checking before printing, etc. in order to Compared to other industries, the financial industry which Woori I&S operates in has relatively practice paper conservation in daily operations. low impact on environment due to the nature of the business. However, Woori I&S recognizes Greenhouse Gas Emission the importance of environmental issues and accepts the responsibility and interest as a (unit: ton CO2) member of society. Scope 1 Against this backdrop, Woori I&S is carrying out various activities focusing on the conservation Scope 2 of energy and other natural resources. Also, by practicing Social Responsibility Investment (SRI), 1,364.78 28,110.42 we are reducing pollution and contributing to the development of a variety of alternative energyCY 2010 total 29,475.20 generating technologies and industries. 1,467.47 24,483.64 CY 2011 total 25,951.11 Environmental Activities 1,482.52 18,053.85 Energy Conservation CY 2012 total 19,536.37 Annual Electricity Consumption (MWh) 0 10000 20000 Woori I&S adheres to the government recommended temperature regulations in all its buildings to reduce excessive use of heating and cooling. We also limit unnecessary lighting of advertising CY 2010 228,130 towers and night time lighting, and have replaced guidance lights with LED. These initiatives are CY 2011 247,189 part of our efforts to practice energy conservation. We are also consistently pursuing various CASE•Environmental Protection through SRI CY 2012 246,701 other activities, such as voluntary called operation of elevator on odd-even floors ensuring the In cooperation with the Korea Finance Corporation, Woori I&S is operating the Emerging Drive Fund to nurture emerging industries lights are off when leaving work, and turning down the lighting by 50% during lunch times, and support reliable companies in relevant industries. Through this effort, we contributed to the R&D support for domestic small and among others. medium size companies making investments in 2011 and 2012 for the purpose of supplying funds for R&D and equipment purchase to Top Engineering, a manufacturer of the next-generation display, OLED. As an iconic eco-friendly product, OLED possesses all (unit : tons) Waste Management three “lows” (low energy consumption, low carbon, low waste) which are essential to green IT. Currently, Top Engineering has been Category CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 The total waste generated by Woori I&S is approximately 240 tons per year and among developing new products with the investment fund provided by Woori I&S and its OLED sector is expected to begin generating this waste, more than 50% is processed as recyclables. Moreover, in accordance with the revenue in earnest during the latter half of year 2013. In addition, we made pre-IPO investments in Wonik Materials, a manufacturer Total Waste Produced 240 247 238 construction waste minimization policies, we store used office equipment and furniture in and distributor of solar battery materials, and converted preferred stocks and BW investments in DKT, a chemical process •Landfill 100 107 118 separate storage spaces at the head office and in Pangyo. Through this effort, when there equipment and energy company. •Recyclable 140 140 120 are any constructions or renovation of branches, we generally use the stored equipment and In collaboration with Woori Asset Management, we have introduced and are currently selling ‘A2 Fund,’ which invests in companies furniture for 70% or more during that time. producing OLED and secondary batteries. Recently, the application of second batteries are not limited to small batteries for mobile devices and IT power supplies, but have also been expanding into areas such as electric cars and power-storage units, making it an iconic eco-friendly business that will replace the conventional fossil fuel business. 52•53 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | aPpendix Compliance BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Compliance System Trust with our customers is our precious asset and future. To maintain this trust, We are continually setting and amending compliance standards and guidelines that are Woori I&S will strengthen its compliance activities. appropriate for the work environment. In 2012, we reflected the revision to the Association Model Standard in our internal standards and policies. Outdoor activity policies and Erroneous Sales Protocol were revised and shared with all employees. Furthermore, in order to carry out WHAT WE’VE DONE due diligence for our customers, we introduced a checklist for compliance self-inspection at Expanded compliance scope, Implemented advanced compliance system the head office and support departments, and examined a total of 3,552 items through internal compliance issue pre-deliberation process. Moreover, all employees and executives renew their compliance pledge every year, with 2,944 KEY PERFORMANCE employees including oversea branches reaffirmed their commitment to compliance. Conflict of interest prevention Advance compliance deliberation sessions CIMS operation status Financial Crime Prevention System 156 3,552 In accordance with the Act on Reporting and Use of Certain Financial Transactions, we are eliminating any possibilities of money laundering activities that use financial transactions in Korea, and joining the international anti-money laundering efforts by such organizations as the OECD. Woori I&S have established Anti-Money Laundering (AML) system to fortify customer verification process, and we have adopted Transaction Monitoring System (TMS) to screen Increased Compliance Activity any suspicious transactions. We also implemented Cash Transaction Reports (CTR) for any high volume cash transactions and actively report to Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU) for any Trust with our customers is the fundamental basis for Woori I&S to operate our business. suspicious customers’ transaction activities. In order to further strengthen this trust, Woori I&S operates compliance department. The In addition, we select customers with high level of assets among those having the compliance department seeks to eliminate corruption fundamentally by establishing internal comprehensive asset management services on a quarterly basis and a person in charge of the policies and procedures. In addition, this department heightens the ethical awareness of our report reviews and approves the relevant data of such customers to prevent any risk of money employees through training and shares knowledge about relevant regulations. Moreover, laundering. the scope of compliance was recently expanded, and the compliance activity was tightened by requiring a preview in releasing new products, producing advertising material, risk Compliance Training management, and changing work processes. Woori I&S conducts regular training programs annually on compliance-related issues and protocols. In 2012, we operated an on-line training program for all employees, and held twenty-four Compliance Strategies group sessions for 1,067 employees. In particular, we are striving to provide systematic compliance training by running differentiated and stratified training programs in ethics and compliance suitable Strengthen Compliance Activities for Stable Business Operation for each position, new employees, new employees with previous career backgrounds and newly appointed branch manager. Minimize legal Proactive Response to Changes in Business Environment Increase Continuously Establish processes risk on important compliance monitor to prevent for accident We expect an advent of global IB in the near future. If Woori I&S is to continue to grow as a company issues monitoring to inappropriate prevention and and strengthen comprehensive financial investment company, we need to sufficiently establish adequate protect business complaint reduction contract reviews compliance policies and systems keeping pace with changes and any additions to our business, investors operations control process and legal advising through updates and in connection with existing systems and policies. By anticipating and proactively responding to the changing business environment, Woori I&S will further solidify its position as a leading company to outpace the industry. Advanced Investor Protection System In accordance with the Personal Information Protect Act, we have assigned personal information managers to each department and branch and created a personal information viewing system to enhance the protection of personal information. Also, by inspecting the complete sales process of all branch offices, we have achieved fulfillment in our duty to protect the rights and interests of our investors, and are deducing improvement measures. Moreover, we have established, and are operating, a process whereby any conflicts of interest factors are detected in advance so that our investors do not suffer loss from conflicts of interest, and the transmission of related trading information is reviewed and approved in advance. 54•55 Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Management’s Discussion & Analysis Global & Domestic Market Environment In 2012, the global economy and the financial industry remained in turmoil, due to the aftermath of the global financial crisis. Major economies suffered from sluggish GDP growth and the European fiscal crisis prolonged. However, as major central banks continue to express commitment to boost the economy, and market indicators of the U.S. economy recover, uncertainties over economic prospect is reduced. Korean economy also encountered challenges as export growth rate declined due to the slow recovery of the European market and emerging markets such as China. Also, as household debt increased and the real estate market weakened, consumption declined. As a result, economic growth slowed down and companies grew reluctant to make new investments. The total market trading value in the stock market plunged sharply, along with corporate funding demand. Despite the economic slowdown, however, the inflow of abundant liquidity from major economies into the domestic market followed by implementation of quantitative easing policies, boosted bonds and foreign exchange markets, thereby improving credibility of foreign currency and credit standing. Furthermore, the interest rate has dropped twice which led the KOSPI to sustain near 2,000 points. FINANCIAL In the midst of persistent global economic slowdown, we anticipate a gradual recovery due to abundant liquidity and reduction in political uncertainties. Still, many challenges are expected to emerge in the process of European economic recovery, but we expect a robust growth from the U.S. and Chinese economy thanks to stable policy measures by governments and central banks as well as economic stimulus measures to boost and accelerate the domestic economy. SECTION We expect some visible signs of economic recovery in Korea as economic recovery is prospected after the inauguration of the new administration, and as economic stimulus measures would bring positive impact in the economy. In addition, the improvement in the global economic conditions are expected due to increase in export, won value appreciation and interest rate cut, giving rise to the recovery of the domestic economy. In the stock market, foreign investors’ investment sentiment is expected to be weakened due to economic uncertainties and decline in corporate earnings. On the contrary, pension funds such as the National Pension Service are projected to increase the ratio of stocks in their investment portfolio. On the whole, the stock market has negative factors including economic uncertainties and weakened corporate performance, as well as positive factors such as increase in stock valuation and continuous momentum-buy from pension funds. As a result, the stock market is expected be affected by particular economic events rather than overall trading trends. Regarding the bond market, bond interest rates are expected to be determined according to the extent of economic recovery and external variables. Regarding the overall supply and demand of bonds, we expect the corporate demand of bond investments will continue to increase, but the overall size of bond supply is not likely to be increased simultaneously. Accordingly, interest rate of bonds will be increased within a certain limit. Furthermore, with abundant market liquidity and the demand for blue chip corporate bonds with high yields, we project contraction trend in credit spread for corporate bonds. WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Performance and Prospect Income Analysis Due to the overall slowdown in the financial market, we faced many challenges in business expansion in 2012. Although we saw Income Statement (In billions of KRW) a boost in overall net interest margin, commission from brokerage business significantly declined due to the drop in market FY11 FY12 Change 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 trading value. Also, with the decrease in corporate investments, the overall profitability in the IB business has deteriorated as the demand for funding through bond issuance, rights offerings and IPOs declined compared to the previous year and the M&A Net Operating Revenue (I)(1) 843.9 675.7 -19.9% 169.7 175.4 142.7 187.9 sector showed a stunted growth. (+) Gain or Loss on Valuation and Disposal of Loans -19.1 -5.3 6.6 2.7 -10.6 -4.1 Net Operating Revenue (II)(2) 824.8 670.4 -18.7% 176.4 178.2 132.1 183.8 In order to prevail over the market slowdown, Woori I&S has promoted modification in our business model through advanced (-) Sales in General and Admin Expenses 592.9 561.1 -5.4% 153.1 135.9 126.7 145.3 financial techniques such as structured and derivative financial products. We have also strengthened our global business with Operating Income 231.8 109.3 -52.8% 23.2 42.2 5.5 38.4 the Global Trading Center (GTC) in Hong Kong subsidiary. Furthermore, in preparation for the centenarian era, we have expanded Non-Operating Income -3.1 -0.5 -0.6 0.2 -3.2 3.0 our customer base centering on high net worth individuals and those who seek for a better retirement-related product and Pretax Income 228.7 108.8 -52.4% 22.6 42.4 2.3 41.5 services. Woori I&S has also diversified its business portfolio by exploring new incomes sources including mobile services, Net Income 169.8 88.1 -48.1% 19.5 34.4 2.1 32.1 securities lending business, and foreign bonds. ROE(3) 5.4% 2.4% -3.0%p 2.9% 3.3% 0.2% 3.2% SG&A Expenses/NOR Ratio(4) 71.9% 83.7% +11.8%p 86.8% 76.3% 95.9% 79.1% With the continued financial uncertainties globally, it will not be easy for Woori I&S to improve its surrounding business Net Capital Ratio(5) 632.7% 591.9% -40.8%p 575.2% 549.0% 603.0% 591.9% environment. In brokerage, intensifying competition amidst the decreased market trading value and the increased low(1) Net Operating Income Revenue (I) = Operating Income – Operating Expanses (Except Gain or Loss on Valuation and Disposal of Loans and Selling and Administrative Expenses) commissioned mobile trading will pose challenges to the recovery of profitability. We also suspect that the inflow of money to (2) Net Operating Income Revenue (II) = Operating Income – Operating Expenses + Selling and Administrative Expenses (3) ROE = (Comprehensive Income Attributable to Controlling Interest * 4) / (Quarterly Average Equity Capital of Controlling Interest) funds will be limited in the wealth management business. We anticipate continued decrease in the sales of equity-type funds (and (4) SG&A Expenses/NOR Ratio = Sales in General and Administrative Expenses / Net Operating Revenue (II) mixed equity-type funds) with high commissions. As for the IB sector, while a few M&A deals are anticipated in the market due (5) Net Capital Ratio = Net Capital / Total Risk to corporate structural reformations, the prolonged economic slowdown will consequence a challenging M&A market inevitably. Moreover, although we expect a quantitative growth in IPOs in the capital market, the overall IB growth will be limited. Due to the continued global recession and financial turmoil, the overall profitability has decreased compared to FY2011. With the significant However, in the midst of such market hindrance, we anticipate a variety of business opportunities that may arise in accordance decrease in the total market trading value brokerage and other related operations have seen reduced income. This economic slowdown has with the market shift. With the upcoming amendment of the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, we expect a affected not only corporate finances but the asset management market, as well. Because of this, the Net Operating Revenue of FY2012 stood at structural growth in the securities industry through the diversification of income sources. In particular, Woori I&S will be able to 675.7 KRW billion, a 19.9% decrease from FY2011. Sales in General and Administrative Expenses and Non-Operating Income decreased slightly, at KRW 561.1 billion and KRW -500 million respectively. Net Income was at KRW 88.1 billion. pursue profitable business with grounds of capital strength and risk management capability. In terms of quarterly performance, the profitability turned upward after hitting the bottom in the 3rd quarter. This is giving rise to some expectations for the recovery in performance in 2013 fiscal year, coupled with the positive prospect for the gradual recovery of the global economy. Furthermore, with the acceleration of baby-boomers retirement and with the “aged society”, we project a full-scale growth in our wealth management businesses. Woori I&S is already preparing for the market demand with the Centenarian Research Center and Premier Blue to assimilate clients seeking retirement related products and high net worth individuals seeking customized financial products. In the wealth management market, we expect a continued growth in the sales of ELS and DLS, which are considered as alternative investment tools to funds and wraps in this volatile market condition. As for the IB sector, we expect an adequate growth in the bonds issuance market with the continued low-interest rate environment, and we also anticipate a growth in the overseas M&A market thanks to the strong KRW. In 2012, Woori I&S was ranked No. 1 in the domestic bond issuance sector and total volume of M&A deals. We have confidence that we will uphold outstanding performance in 2013. 58•59 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Net Operating Revenue Sales in General and Administrative Expenses (In billions of KRW) FY11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 FY12 SG&A Expenses 592.9 153.1 135.9 126.7 145.3 561.1 (In billions of KRW) Labor expenses 352.4 91.6(2) 87.0 72.0 94.6(3) 345.1 824.8 IT expenses 8.7 2.4 3.8 1.3 4.6 12.1 Advertising expenses 17.8 4.2 3.0 3.2 3.2 13.6 82.2 Misc. commissions 43.4 11.6 6.3 10.5 8.7 37.1 Tax and dues 32.4 6.7 7.6 7.2 7.5 29.0 670.4 (1) Others 138.2 36.6 28.2 32.5 26.7 124.2 68.2 Loan-related interest income -17.0% 255.6 No. of employees 3,057 3,063 3,085 3,089 3,053 3,053 (1) Others include rent, employee training, depreciation, amortization and service commission fees. (2) The figure includes backpay in regards to the settlement of wage increase W9.9bn. 273.1 Trading +6.9% (3) The figure includes incentives W7.2bn. 70.7 49.2 Sales in General and Administrative Expenses in FY2012 stood at KRW 561.1 billion, a 5.4% decrease from FY2011. Due to the effects of recession, 40.3 IB -43.0% we spent 24% less on advertising (KRW 13.6 billion), and misc. commission and taxes and dues decreased by 15% and 11% respectively 38.6 WM -21.6% compared to FY2011, recording KRW 37.1 billion and KRW 29 billion. Reflecting the aggravated performance, labor expenses were recorded at KRW 345.1 billion, KRW 7.3 billion less than FY2011. During the same term, the number of employees was 3,053, without any significant changes. 367.6 240.6 Brokerage -34.5% -0.5 9.5 Other* 0 FY11 FY12 * “Other” includes gain or loss on disposal and valuation of loans/receivables. Non-Operating Income (In billions of KRW) With the 30% decrease in total market trading value, the Net Operating Revenue from the brokerage sector, the largest revenue-generator of FY11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 FY12 FY2011, decreased from KRW 367.6 billion in FY2011 to KRW 240.6 billion, a 34.5% decrease. The IB sector and the WM sector have also seen Non-Operating Income -3.1 -0.6 0.2 -3.2 3.0 -0.5 a decrease at 43.0% and 21.6% respectively. Such drops may be attributed to the conservative management practices of companies resulting from the aggravating global economic environment and the sluggish domestic economic recovery, as well as to individual investor’s reluctance to Gains and Losses on Disposal of Tangibles -2.2 -0.5 -0.4 -0.7 -0.1 -1.6 make new investments amid the uncertainty in the market. Impairment Losses on Intangibles 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.9(1) -0.9(1) -1.7 On the other hand, the trading sector has seen a 6.9% increase compared to FY2011 in Net Operating Revenue with KRW 273.1 billion. This was Gains and Losses on Equity Method 15.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.0 3.0 possible because the trading sector increased the asset size of the client book mainly through Hong Kong GTC and responded efficiently to the Others -15.9 0.1 0.6 -1.6 1.0 -0.2 market volatility. Loan-related interest income decreased by 17.0%, standing at KRW 68.2 billion compared to FY2011, and we have recorded KRW 9.5 billion in Net Operating Revenue in others sector, including gain or loss on disposal and valuation of loans and receivables. (1) Includes KRW 900 million in impairment loss on intangibles from decrease in FMV of Golf Membership by Woori Futures (2) Includes KRW 3 billion in valuation gain on Mars-2 equity method Non-Operating Income was KRW -500 million, which is improved from KRW -3.1 billion in FY2011. While gains and losses on equity method were recorded at KRW 3 billion, KRW 12 billion less than FY2011, we saw KRW -200 million recognized in “Others” which has improved since KRW -15.7 billion in FY2011. 60•61 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Performance Analysis by Sector Investment Banking Trading IB Commission Income Main Performance Trading Gains and Losses Overview of Main Balance 70.7 (In billions of KRW) (In billions of KRW) FY2011 FY2012 FY2011 FY2012 Bond underwriting Domestic bonds (In trillions of KRW) 8.5 11.1 25.0 Total volume (In billions of KRW) 8.4 7.0 Prop. trading 0.4 0.8 273.1 Market share 8.1% 7.7% 255.6 Client book 8.1 10.4 40.3 Rights offering Domestic stocks (In billions of KRW) 269.0 348.5 11.2 Advisory Total volume (In billions of KRW) 272.5 354.2 Prop. trading 59.5 72.0 Trading-related Market share 13.4% 18.6% 344.8 Client book 209.5 276.6 293.5 Interest income 45.7 M&A RP Sales (In trillions of KRW) 6.4 6.4 29.1 Underwriting Total volume (million USD) 9,355 8,864 CMA RP 3.1 2.9 Market share 18.0% 15.9% 0 Others 3.3 3.5 -37.9 -71.6 Gains and losses 0 on trading FY11 FY12 FY11 FY12 In 2012, Woori I&S was ranked No. 1 in corporate bond underwriting, rights offering, and total volume of domestic M&A deals. Nonetheless, The trading sector achieved a total of KRW 273.1 billion in profit in FY2012, a 6.9% increase from FY2011. The rise in the sales of RP and the size of DCM market was decreased by 11%, and ECM market by 47% compared to FY2011, due to the recession in the industry at large. derivative-combined securities led to an increase in the size of client book, thereby raising the average balance of bond up to KRW 10.9 trillion, a 1.5 Profit from the IB sector in FY2011 was recorded at KRW 40.3 billion, a 43% decrease. We recorded KRW 29.1 billion in underwriting profit, and trillion increase from FY2011. As a result, the trading-related interest income increased. Moreover, we saw gains in bond valuation resulting from KRW11.2 billion in advising, a 36.3% decrease and a 55.2% decrease from FY2011, respectively. the interest rate drop, and operating gains and losses saw general improvement thanks to the reduced volatility of interest rate. Wealth Management Brokerage Commission from Financial Product Sales Overview of Customer Assets and Sales Volume Brokerage Commissions (net) Main Performance (In billions of KRW) (In billions of KRW) FY2011 FY2012 FY2011 FY2012 Beneficiary certificates year-end balance 10.4 11.7 Brokerage M/S (%) 6.9 6.2 (In trillions of KRW) M/S in individual market (%) 6.5 6.1 49.2 MMF 3.1 3.5 Bonds 3.6 4.4 38.6 20.4 Stocks 1.9 1.8 Reference 18.5 Beneficiary certificates Alternative Investments 1.8 2.0 367.6 Wrap balance (In trillions of KRW) 4.1 5.6 240.6 FY2011 FY2012 19.5 10.7 Wrap ELS sales (In trillions of KRW) 4.7 4.6 Average of daily market trading value 9.0 6.3 Retail bond sales (In trillions of KRW) 3.1 2.7 9.4 9.3 Trusts (In trillions of KRW, ELW excluded) 0 0 Commission rate (bp) 12.4 12.6 FY11 FY12 FY11 FY12 The wealth management sector recorded KRW 38.6 billion in profit, a 21.6% decrease from FY2011. Commission from Wrap saw a 45% decrease Total market trading value in FY2012 saw a 37.1% decrease at KRW 3,165 trillion, compared to the KRW 5,028 trillion in FY2011. Consequently, with KRW 10.7 billion, a greater decrease than any other product lines. Regarding fund sales commissions, bond-type funds and AI funds saw profit from brokerage also fell to KRW 240.6 billion, a 34.5% decrease from FY2011. With the decrease in the market share of low commission increased sales balance, while stock and mixed-stock types funds sales balance saw a slight reduction with a 9.1% decrease from FY2011 at markets such as online TX channels and the ELW market, we saw a decrease in the total market share, standing at 5.9%, a 0.5% decrease from KRW 18.5 billion. The amount of trust commission were maintained at more or less the same level as in FY2011 at KRW 9.3 billion. FY2011. However, because of the increase in the commissions from institutional markets while commissions in the individual market remained at a similar level, the total fees saw a slight increase from 11.0 bp of FY2011 to 12.3 bp in FY2012. 62•63 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT English Translation of a Report Originally Issued in Korean Loan-related Interest Income Loan-related Interest Income Overview of Main Balance (In billions of KRW) (In billions of KRW) FY2011 FY2012 Stock-loan 790.4 904.7 82.2 Margin loan 449.3 378.8 68.2 Client deposit 1,008.0 934.5 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of 50.2 Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. 49.7 Stock loans We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the 32.0 18.5 Client deposit interest “Group”). The consolidated financial statements consist of the consolidated statements of financial position as of March 31, 2013 and 0 March 31, 2012, respectively, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows, all FY11 FY12 expressed in Korean Won, for the years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively. The Group’s management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements and our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Loan-related interest income, majorly driven by stock-loans, was recorded at KRW 49.7 billion, similar to FY2011. On the other hand, due to the consolidated financial statements based on our audit. slowdown in the stock market, the average balance of customer deposits and related interest income saw a slight decrease at KRW 18.5 billion, a 42% decrease from FY2011. As such, total loan interest income in FY2012 was recorded at KRW 68.2 billion, a 17% decrease in FY2011. We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012, respectively, in conformity with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Accounting principles and auditing standards and their application in practice vary among countries. The accompanying consolidated financial statements are not intended to present the financial position, results of operations, changes in equity and cash flows in accordance with accounting principles and practices generally accepted in countries other than the Republic of Korea. In addition, the procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report and the accompanying consolidated financial statements are for use by those knowledgeable about Korean accounting procedures and auditing standards and their application in practice. June 17, 2013 Notice to Readers This report is effective as of June 17, 2013, auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between this auditors’ report date and the time the report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. 64•65 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AS OF MARCH 31, 2013 AND MARCH 31, 2012 FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2013 AND MARCH 31, 2012 (Unit: Korean Won in millions) (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for income per share data) March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 2012 2011 ASSETS OPERATING REVENUE: Cash and cash equivalents ￦112,215 ￦240,644 Fee and commission income (Notes 34 and 49) ￦ 408,571 ￦571,003 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (Notes 4, 6, 7, 11, 17, 18, 27 and 28) 18,802,662 13,121,335 Gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (Note 35) 2,570,314 2,202,258 Available-for-sale financial assets (Notes 4, 6, 8, 11 and 17) 666,317 1,852,328 Gain on available-for-sale financial assets (Note 36) 19,585 62,339 Investments in associates (Note 9) 149,345 146,319 Gain on derivative instruments (hedging) (Note 37) 7,527 221 Derivative assets (hedging) (Notes 4, 11 and 27) 6,763 806 Interest income (Note 38) 723,507 675,719 Loans and receivables, net (Notes 4, 6, 10, 11, 16 and 47) 6,955,305 7,080,823 Gain on loans and receivables (Note 39) 592 Premises and equipment, net (Notes 12 and 17) 304,554 317,011 Gain on foreign currency transaction (Note 40) 78,522 60,114 Investment properties, net (Note 13) 74,910 78,727 Other operating revenue (Note 42) 25,927 33,746 Intangible assets, net (Note 14) 40,551 52,386 3,833,953 3,605,992 Current tax assets (Note 44) 28,904 20,329 OPERATING EXPENSE: Deferred tax assets (Note 44) 1,149 1,522 Fee and commission expense (Note 34) 73,048 70,990 Other assets (Notes 15 and 16) 85,409 72,757 Loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss (Note 35) 2,656,842 2,258,580 Total assets ￦27,228,084 ￦22,984,987 Loss on available-for-sale financial assets (Note 36) 9,398 31,201 LIABILITIES Loss on derivative instruments (hedging) (Note 37) 2,410 528 Deposits due to customers (Notes 4, 11 and 19) ￦1,345,053 ￦1,444,114 Interest expense (Note 38) 336,986 330,720 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss (Note 4, 11, 20, 27 and 28) 8,475,862 7,309,136 Loss on loan and receivables (Note 39) 5,358 19,719 Borrowings (Notes 4, 11, 21 and 47) 10,538,654 8,584,478 Loss on foreign transaction (Note 40) 72,593 66,213 Debentures (Notes 4, 11 and 22) 998,762 301,024 General and administrative expenses (Note 41) 560,686 592,203 Other financial liabilities (Notes 4, 11 and 23) 2,269,099 1,747,277 Other operating expense (Note 42) 6,634 2,759 Derivative liabilities (hedging) (Notes 4, 11 and 27) 2,541 6,793 3,723,955 3,372,913 Provisions (Notes 24 and 47) 9,307 9,887 OPERATING INCOME 109,998 233,079 Current tax liabilities (Note 44) 1,505 Non-operating income (Note 43) 11,764 23,451 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 44) 64,657 75,261 Non-operating expense (Note 43) 12,948 27,833 Other liabilities (Notes 25 and 26) 40,259 55,768 NET INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 108,814 228,697 Total liabilities ￦23,744,194 ￦19,535,243 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (Note 44) 20,713 58,896 EQUITY NET INCOME ￦88,101 ￦169,801 Owners’ equity: Net income attributable to owner (the net income after the planned reserves provided for the years ended ￦87,695 ￦166,077 Capital stock (Note 29) 1,120,500 1,120,500 March 31, 2013 and 2012 amount to ￦77,051 million and ￦154,996 million, respectively (Note 32)) Capital surplus (Note 29) 1,156,640 1,154,395 Net income attributable to the non-controlling interests ￦406 ￦3,724 Other equity (Note 30) 165,538 170,529 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS), NET OF TAX: Retained earnings (Notes 31 and 32) (the beginning balance of regulatory reserve for credit loss as of March 31, 1,031,728 994,894 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets ￦(2,170) ￦(3,686) 2013 was ￦18,481 million and the amounts estimated to be appropriated as of March 31, Share of other comprehensive income (loss) on investment in associates (785) 2013 and March 31, 2012 were ￦10,644 million and ￦18,481 million, respectively) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments 978 (3,302) 3,474,406 3,440,318 Gain (loss) on overseas business translation (4,515) 6,304 Non-controlling interests 9,484 9,426 (5,707) (1,469) Total equity 3,483,890 3,449,744 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ￦ 82,394 ￦168,332 Total liabilities and equity ￦27,228,084 ￦22,984,987 Comprehensive income attribute to owners 82,704 165,655 * See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Comprehensive income attribute to non-controlling interests (310) 2,677 NET INCOME PER COMMON SHARE (In Korean Won) (Note 45) ￦428 ￦1,045 * See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 66•67 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2013 AND MARCH 31, 2012 FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2013 AND MARCH 31, 2012 (Unit: Korean Won in millions) (Unit: Korean Won in millions) Capital Capital Other Retained Owners’ NonTotal 2012 2011 controlling stock surplus equity earnings equity equity equity CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Balance as of April 1, 2011 ￦786,800 ￦849,694 ￦170,951 ￦874,811 ￦2,682,256 ￦245,550 ￦2,927,806 Net income ￦88,101 ￦169,801 Dividend paid (45,994) (45,994) (45,994) Adjustments Total comprehensive income Income tax expense 20,713 58,896 Net income 166,077 166,077 3,724 169,801 Interest income (723,507) (675,719) Other comprehensive income Interest expense 336,986 330,720 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (3,244) (3,244) (442) (3,686) Dividend income (17,128) (20,427) Share of other comprehensive loss on investment in associates (416) (416) (369) (785) Distribution income (3,295) (4,521) Loss on valuation of derivative instruments (3,302) (3,302) (3,302) (386,231) (311,051) Gain on overseas business translation 6,540 6,540 (236) 6,304 Additions of expenses not involving cash outflows: Increase in paid-in capital of owner 333,700 300,397 634,097 634,097 Loss on valuation of financial assets held for trading 32,172 29,894 Increase in paid-in capital of subsidiaries 34,536 34,536 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 26,878 12,088 Decrease in paid-in capital of subsidiaries (15,008) (15,008) Loss on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 7,817 52,646 Disposal of treasury stock 2,241 2,241 2,241 Loss on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 355,855 114,480 Increase of capital surplus 2,063 2,063 2,063 Loss on valuation of derivatives instruments 418,254 416,648 Changes in equity of non-controlling interests (258,329) (258,329) Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 4,306 4,803 Balance as of March 31, 2012 ￦1,120,500 ￦1,154,395 ￦170,529 ￦994,894 ￦3,440,318 ￦9,426 ￦3,449,744 Impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 5,092 26,398 Loss on valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 303 390 Balance as of April 1, 2012 ￦1,120,500 ￦1,154,395 ￦170,529 ￦994,894 ￦3,440,318 ￦9,426 ￦3,449,744 Bad debt expense 5,358 19,719 Dividend paid (50,861) (50,861) (50,861) Loss on foreign currency translation 22,955 23,891 Total comprehensive income Salaries 2,100 Net income 87,695 87,695 406 88,101 Severance benefits-defined benefit 17,663 19,406 Other comprehensive income Depreciation 28,768 29,656 Loss on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets (2,170) (2,170) (2,170) Amortization 10,682 10,029 Share of other comprehensive loss on investment in associates 978 978 978 Lease expense 312 1,184 Gain on valuation of derivative instruments Provisions 628 553 Loss on overseas business translation (3,799) (3,799) (716) (4,515) Loss on disposal of premises and equipment 1,851 2,353 Increase in paid-in capital of parent company 23 23 23 Impairment loss on intangible assets 2,741 2,293 Disposal of treasury stock 1,927 1,927 1,927 Loss on disposal of investments in subsidiaries and associates 2,007 18,056 Increase of capital surplus 295 295 295 Other operating costs 2,656 Changes in equity of non-controlling interests 368 368 Depreciation of investment property 752 715 Balance as of March 31, 2013 ￦1,120,500 ￦1,156,640 ￦165,538 ￦1,031,728 ￦3,474,406 ￦9,484 ￦3,483,890 947,050 787,302 * See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Deductions of revenues not involving cash inflows: Gain on valuation of financial assets held for trading 139,466 92,195 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities held for trading 9,843 11,558 Gain on valuation of financial assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 63,444 13,738 Gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss 69,701 204,736 Gain on valuation of derivatives instruments 574,369 376,181 Gain on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 18,781 58,068 Gain on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets 804 Reversal of impairment loss on available-for-sale financial assets 4,271 Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (hedging) 2,465 221 (Continued) 68•69 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (Unit: Korean Won in millions) (Unit: Korean Won in millions) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Gain on disposal of loans and receivables 592 CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES : Gain on foreign currency translation 35,902 37,237 Increase in borrowings ￦990,796,840 ￦946,813,190 Lease profit 249 Decrease in borrowings (988,836,963) (947,832,490) Reversal of provisions 2,784 3,463 Increase in deposit received 2,392 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment 274 130 Decrease in deposit received (633) (894) Share of profits of associates 3,026 14,969 Increase of paid-in capital of subsidiaries 10,887 34,536 Gain on disposal of investments in subsidiaries and associates 85 Increase of paid-in capital of parent company 23 634,097 921,193 817,359 Disposal of treasury stock 1,927 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Increase in debentures 700,000 Increase in financial assets at designated fair value through profit or loss ￦(5,378,895) ￦(2,592,090) Decrease in debentures (1,166) (286,110) Decrease in collective fund for default loss 423 1,151 Decrease in paid-in capital of subsidiaries (1,256) (15,008) Decrease in derivative assets (hedging) (3,434) 10,401 Dividend (55,080) (45,994) Decrease in loans and receivables 120,909 734,247 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 2,614,579 (696,281) Increase in other assets (15,281) (1,451) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (129,273) 80,690 Decrease in deposits due to customers (96,960) (50,735) EFFECTS OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 844 8,584 Increase in financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 883,451 2,739,574 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, BEGINNING OF THE PERIOD 240,644 151,370 (Decrease) increase in other financial liabilities 492,083 (648,081) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, END OF THE PERIOD ￦112,215 ￦240,644 (Decrease) increase in derivative liabilities (hedging) (2,452) 344 * See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Decrease in provisions (703) (314) Decrease in other liabilities (33,165) (19,886) (4,034,024) 173,160 Cash received (paid for) operating activities: Income taxes paid (41,145) (67,423) Interest income received 688,335 627,757 Interest expense paid (320,320) (317,673) Dividend received 18,479 24,610 Distribution income received 3,295 4,521 348,644 271,792 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (3,957,653) 273,645 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 1,495,124 1,516,775 Disposal of investments in subsidiaries and associates 24,324 98,362 Dividends received from investments in associates 366 Decrease in deposits 16,887 63,112 Disposal of premises and equipment 1,885 4,294 Disposal of investment properties 1,940 Disposal of intangible assets 1 196 Disposal of lease assets 2,187 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (298,471) (1,075,591) Increase in deposits (12,515) (58,974) Acquisition of premises and equipment (16,338) (39,234) Acquisition of investment properties (7) Acquisition of intangible assets (1,223) (5,973) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 1,213,801 503,326 (Continued) 70•71 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Subsidiaries March 31, 2013 Number of Percentage of March 31, 2012 Number of Percentage of The day of Financial statements shares owned ownership (%) shares owned ownership (%) AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED MARCH 31, 2013 AND MARCH 31, 2012 Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. Woori Futures Co., Ltd. 5,000,000 100 5,000,000 100 March 31, 2013 Woori Investment Asia Pte, Ltd. 50,000,000 100 50,000,000 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) 1. GENERAL Woori Absolute Global Opportunity Fund (*6) 7,920 100 44,700 100 February 28, 2013 (*7) LG Investment Holdings B.V. 1,642,398,242 100 1,642,398,242 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) (1) Woori investment & Securities Co., Ltd. Woori Securities (H.K.) Ltd. (*3) 122,500,000 100 22,500,000 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. (the “Company ) was incorporated on January 16, 1969 to engage in Korea Exchange, Connacht Capital Market Investment (*8) 15,000,000 100 September 30, 2012 underwriting and brokerage services, and operates through 108 domestic branches, 4 domestic offices and 2 overseas offices. The Woori Securities Int'l Ltd. 5,788,000 100 5,788,000 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) Company merged with LG Merchant Bank Co., Ltd. on October 1, 1999 and changed its name to LG Investment and Securities Co., Woori Securities America, Inc. 300 100 300 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) Ltd. On March 31, 2005, the Company merged with Woori Securities Co., Ltd. and changed its name to Woori Investment & Securities Woori CBV Securities Corporation (*1) 6,615,000 49 6,615,000 49 February 28, 2013 (*7) Co., Ltd. The Company’s capital stock as of March 31, 2013 is ￦1,021,145 million for common stock and ￦99,355 million for preferred MARS 1st Private Equity Fund (*9) 1,116,000 52.9 March 31, 2013 stock. Major shareholders as of March 31, 2013 are as follows: MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund (*2) 25,066,666,670 8.9 25,066,666,670 8.9 March 31, 2013 (*5) Woori Absolute Partners Pte, Ltd. 5,000,000 100 5,000,000 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) Number of shares Percentage of ownership (%) Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia 150,000,000 60 150,000,000 60 March 31, 2013 (*5) Common stock Preferred stock Common stock Preferred stock Woori Absolute Return Investment Strategies Fund 30,000 100 30,000 100 February 28, 2013 (*7) Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. 75,426,214 37.85 KoFC Woori Growth Champ Private Equity Fund (*2,3) 19,833 27.3 15,819 27.3 March 31, 2013 (*5) Other 123,827,649 18,870,968 62.15 100.00 Woori Investment advisory Co., td. (Beijing) 95.05 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) 199,253,863 18,870,968 100.00 100.00 KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*4) 150 15 150 15 March 31, 2013 (*5) G3 Pro Short-Term and other beneficiary interest (*10) March 31, 2013 (*5) MARS INS First, Ltd.(*9) 4,000 100 March 31, 2013 (2) The financial statements for the Company and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) include the following subsidiaries Woori Giant First Co., Ltd. 3,000,000 100 3,000,000 100 March 31, 2013 (*5) Subsidiaries Capital stock Main business Location (*1) As the Company has controlling power over the entity so as to obtain benefits, the entity is included in the consolidation scope. Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. (*2) As the Group has controlling power over the entity so as to obtain benefits, the entity is included in the consolidation scope. (*3) For Woori Securities (H.K.) Ltd. and KoFC Woori Growth Champ Private Equity Fund, the number of holding shares has increased due to the paid-in capital increase occurred during the year Woori Futures Co., Ltd. KRW 25,000 million Securities investments Korea ended March 31, 2013. Woori Investment Asia Pte, Ltd. USD 50,000,000 Securities investments Singapore (*4) Classified as a special purpose entity (“SPE”) and included in the consolidation scope in accordance with Standing Interpretations Committee (“SIC”) No. 2012, considering the activities of the SPE, the decision-making powers, benefits and risks. Woori Absolute Global Opportunity Fund (*6) USD 79.2 Securities investments Cayman islands (*5) Provisional settlement data were used, and verification procedure about the reliability on the companies’ financial statements has been conducted. LG Investment Holdings B.V. EUR 16,423,982 Securities investments Netherland (*6) The number of holding shares decreased due to the paid-in-capital decrease occurred during the for year ended March 31, 2013. Woori Securities (H.K.) Ltd. (*3) USD 122,500,000 Securities business China (*7) Provisional settlement data were used, and verification procedure about the reliability on the companies’ financial statements has been conducted. (*8) Connacht Capital Market Investment has been excluded from the consolidation scope because of its liquidation as of December 31, 2012. Connacht Capital Market Investment (*8) Securities investments Malaysia (*9) MARS 1st Private Equity Fund and MARS INS First, Ltd. have been excluded from the consolidation scope because of their liquidation as of March 29, 2013. Woori Securities Int'l Ltd. USD 5,788,000 Securities investments U.K. (*10) Twins subordinated bonds 1st has been excluded from the consolidation scope because of disposal occurred during the year ended as of March 31, 2013. Woori Securities America, Inc. USD 3 Securities investments U.S.A Woori CBV Securities Corporation (*1) VND 135,000 million Securities business Vietnam MARS 1 Private Equity Fund (*9) st Other financial business Korea MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund (*2) KRW 282,000 million Other financial business Korea Woori Absolute Partners Pte, Ltd. USD 5,000,000 Securities investments Singapore Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia IDR 105,020 million Securities investments Indonesia Woori Absolute Return Investment Strategies Fund USD 300 Securities investments Cayman islands KoFC Woori Growth Champ Private Equity Fund (*2, 3) KRW 72,700 million Other financial business Korea Woori Investment advisory Co.,Ltd (Beijing) USD 3,208,720.08 Securities investments China KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*4) KRW 10 million Asset securitization Korea G3 Pro Short-Term and other beneficiary interest (*10) Beneficiary certificates Korea MARS INS First, Ltd. (*9) Other financial business Korea Woori Giant First Co., Ltd. KRW 30,000 million Other financial business Korea 72•73 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (3) Summarized financial information of subsidiaries whose financial information is included on the consolidated 2. SIGNIFICANT BASIS OF PREPARATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES financial statements, is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Basis of Consolidated Financial Statement Preparation As of and for the year ended March 31, 2013 The Group has adopted Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”) as issued by the International Accounting Subsidiaries Assets Liabilities Operating revenue Net income Standards Board (“IASB”) for the annual periods beginning on April 1, 2011. Major accounting policies used for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are stated below. These accounting policies Woori Futures Co., Ltd. ￦457,925 ￦379,813 ￦34,341 ￦5,508 have been applied consistently to the consolidated financial statements for the current period and accompanying comparative period. Woori Securities (H.K.) Ltd. 170,285 26,966 18,149 4,278 The Group’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on the historical cost method except for specific nonWoori Investment Asia Pte, Ltd. 49,475 1,358 4,472 547 current assets and certain financial assets or liabilities reported at fair value. Woori Absolute Global Opportunity Fund 8,004 41 375 (265) The consolidated financial statements of the Group were approved by the board of directors on June 12, 2013. Woori Absolute Return Investment Strategies Fund 36,211 194 1,941 1,305 Woori CBV Securities Corporation 8,818 1,591 484 (317) 1] The Group has newly adopted the following new and revised standards and interpretations that made changes in accounting Woori Securities Int'l Ltd. 1,808 249 699 (1,394) policies: Woori Securities America, Inc. 6,457 93 1,926 (1,385) Woori Absolute Partners Pte, Ltd. 4,145 11 1,050 (223) Amendments to K-IFRS 1001 – Presentation of Financial Statements Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia 56,526 42,303 5,015 1,401 In accordance with the amendments to K-IFRS 1001, the Group changed the presentation of operating income by deducting cost of LG Investment Holdings B.V. 31,311 5,074 239 (286) sales and general and administration expenses from operating income line items. The Group applied these amendments retroactively MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund (*2) 235,420 211,750 2,588 5,264 for the comparative period and restated the statements of comprehensive income for the years ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012. Woori Investment advisory Co., Ltd. (Beijing) 2,292 99 2,617 140 Accordingly, Interest expense and General and administrative expenses amounting to 580 million Won and 752 million Won for the KoFC Woori Growth Champ 2010 No.3 Private Equity Fund (*1, 2) 100,934 78,718 6,849 56 year ended March 31, 2013, respectively, and 523 million Won and 714 million Won for the year ended March 31, 2012, respectively, KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. 895 1,552 492 were reclassified into non-operating income (expense) from operating income (loss). As a result, operating income increased by 1,332 G3 Pro Short-Term and collective investment schemes 128 6 1 million Won for the current year and increased by 1,237 million Won for prior year. There was no impact on net income and earnings ￦1,170,634 ￦749,818 ￦80,746 ￦15,121 per share for the year ended March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012. Amendments to K-IFRS 1107 Financial Instruments Disclosures – Transfers of Financial Assets As of and for the year ended March 31, 2012 In accordance with the amendments to K-IFRS 1107, the Group discloses the nature of the transferred assets, the nature of the risks Subsidiaries and rewards of ownership to which the Group is exposed, the carrying amounts of the transferred assets and the associated liabilities Assets Liabilities Operating revenue Net income and other requirements for each class of transferred financial assets that are not derecognized in their entirety. In addition, when Woori Futures Co., Ltd. ￦399,909 ￦314,641 ￦43,574 ￦11,222 the Group derecognizes transferred financial assets in their entirety but has continuing involvement in them, the Group discloses the Woori Securities (H.K.) Ltd. 31,591 3,103 12,866 1,959 carrying amount of the assets and liabilities that are recognized in the Group’s consolidated statements of financial position and the Woori Investment Asia Pte, Ltd. 48,934 193 4,016 (1,090) amount that best represents the Group’s maximum exposure to loss and others, such information to evaluate the nature of, and risks Woori Absolute Global Opportunity Fund 48,346 46 1,547 (330) associated with, the Group’s continuing involvement. The Group is in the process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the Connacht Capital Market Investment 25,109 14 783 (60) consolidated financial statements. Woori Absolute Return Investment Strategies Fund 36,984 1,277 739 268 Woori CBV Securities Corporation 8,797 1,374 949 69 Amendments to K-IFRS 1012 Deferred Tax – Recovery of Underlying Assets Woori Securities Int'l Ltd. 3,413 396 1,402 (1,157) The amendments to K-IFRS 1012 allows that the measurement of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities should reflect Woori Securities America, Inc. 8,070 142 3,600 11 the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expect to recover the carrying amount of an asset. Woori Absolute Partners Pte, Ltd. 4,456 1,476 294 Investment properties are measured using the revaluation model under K-IFRS 1040 Investment Property or non-depreciable assets Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia 42,592 28,492 4,553 1,523 measured using the revaluation model in K-IFRS 1016 Property, Plant, and Equipment, are presumed to be recovered through sale for LG Investment Holdings B.V. 32,534 5,398 359 88 the purposes of measuring deferred taxes, unless the presumption is rebutted as it could occurred under certain circumstances. The MARS 1st Private Equity Fund (*1) 9,938 4,677 181 (8,370) adoption of the amendments has no effect on consolidated financial statements. MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund 230,199 209,754 945 6,161 Amendments to K-IFRS 2114 – Minimum Funding Requirements Woori Investment advisory Co., Ltd. (Beijing) 1,933 21 158 (1,463) The amendments permit the benefit of such prepayment to be recognized as an asset. The adoption of the amendments has no effect KoFC Woori Growth Champ 2010 No.3 Private Equity Fund (*1, 2) 80,881 20,377 3,615 1,932 on financial statements. KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. 1,595 2,745 252 (20) Twins subordinated bonds 1 and others st 6,533 111 80 (2,722) ￦1,021,814 ￦592,761 ￦81,095 ￦8,315 (*1) Consolidated financial information with MARS INS First, Ltd. and Woori Giant First LLC. (*2) Non-controlling interests of MARS 1st Private Equity Fund, MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund and KoFC Woori Growth Champ 2010 No.3 Private Equity Fund were classified as liabilities. 74•75 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 2} The Group has not applied early the following new and revised K-IFRS early that have been issued but are not yet effective: (2) Basis of Consolidated Financial Statement Preparation Amendments to K-IFRS 1001 – Presentation of Financial Statements The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Group and entities (including special purpose The amendments of K-IFRS 1001 requires that other comprehensive income shall be presented and classified by “items” not to be entities) controlled by the Group. Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of reclassified subsequently to net income and “items” to be reclassified subsequently to net income upon meeting certain conditions. The the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. amendments to K-IFRS 1001 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2012. The Group is in process of evaluating Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statements of the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. comprehensive income from the effective date of acquisition and up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate. The carrying amount of non-controlling interests is adjusted to reflect their proportional share of changes in equity subsequent to the initial Amendments to K-IFRS 1019 – Employee Benefits recognition. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Group and to the non-controlling interests The amendments to K-IFRS 1019 mainly relate to the elimination of the ‘corridor approach’ permitted under the previous version of even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. K-IFRS 1019. The amendments delete the options to present income (loss) from retirement benefit obligation and plan assets either When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies in line with those in comprehensive income or other comprehensive income. The amendments require the Group to disclose the changes in retirement adopted by the Group. benefit obligation separately into three components service cost, net interest and recognition factor. Service cost and net interest shall All intra-group transactions, related assets and liabilities, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. be recognized in comprehensive income and recognition factor shall be recognized in other comprehensive income. The amendments Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries without loss of control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity to K-IFRS 1019 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Group is in process of evaluating the impact transactions. The carrying amounts of the owners’ interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and Amendments to K-IFRS 1032 – Financial Instruments: Presentation the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to owners of the Group. The amendments to K-IFRS 1032 clarify the existing application issue related to the offset of financial assets and financial liabilities When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, the gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of requirements. The Group’s right to set-off must not be contingent upon any future events but enforceable anytime during the contract the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets period in all of the circumstances, i.e. in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy of the entity or the counterparties as well as in (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at the ordinary course of business. The amendments to K-IFRS 1032 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative profit or loss has been recognized in other comprehensive income and 2014. The Group is in process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to net income or transferred directly to retained Amendments to K-IFRS 1107 – Financial Instruments: Disclosures earnings). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is recognized as the fair The amendments to K-IFRS 1107 are mainly focusing on presentation of the offset between financial assets and financial liabilities. value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement or, The amendments to K-IFRS 1107 are effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Group is in progress of when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a jointly controlled entity. reviewing the effect of the amendments on financial statements as of March 31, 2013. Enactment of K-IFRS 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements K-IFRS 1110 establishes a single source of guidance for assessing control of an investee thanks to three combined elements consisting (3) Business combinations of power over the investee, exposure, or rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and the ability to affect those Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a returns through its power over the investee. K-IFRS 1110 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the fair values of the assets transferred by the Group is in process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. Group at the acquisition date, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquire and the equity interests issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in net income as incurred. Enactment of K-IFRS 1111 – Joint Arrangements At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognized at their fair value at the acquisition The enactment of K-IFRS 1111 classifies a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control into joint operations and joint date, except that: ventures depending on the rights and obligations of the parties. In case of joint operations, the joint operator accounts for its share of the joint assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. In case of the joint venturer, joint ventures account for its investment in the joint • deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in venture using the equity method. K-IFRS 1111 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Group is in accordance with K-IFRS 1012 Income Taxes and K-IFRS 1019 Employee Benefits respectively; process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of: a) the consideration transferred, b) the amount of any non-controlling interests Enactment of K-IFRS 1112 –Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities in the acquiree, and c) the fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquire over the net of the acquisitionThe enactment of K-IFRS 1112 establishes disclosures requirements for entities that have an interest in a subsidiary, a joint date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition-date arrangement, an associate or an unconsolidated structured entity. K-IFRS 1112 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of: a) the consideration transferred, b) the January 1, 2013. The Group is in process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and c) the fair value of the acquirer's previously held interest in the acquiree (if any); the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. Enactment of K-IFRS 1113 – Fair Value Measurement Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net The enactment of K-IFRS 1113 establishes a single source of guidance for fair value measurements and disclosures about fair value assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interests' proportionate share measurements. The enactment defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and requires extensive disclosures of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-byabout fair value measurements. K-IFRS 1113 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The Group is in transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in process of evaluating the impact of the amendments on the consolidated financial statements. another K-IFRS. 76•77 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair (5) Goodwill value at the acquisition date (i.e. the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net Goodwill is recognized as the acquisition cost less accumulated impairment loss at the date of acquiring control (acquisition date). income. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) expected to benefit comprehensive income are reclassified to net income where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. from the synergies of the combination. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, A CGU to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is indication that the the Group reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the CGU is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first during the measurement period (within a year after the acquisition date), or additional assets or liabilities are recognized, to reflect to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to the other assets of the CGU on a pro-rata basis new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the based on the carrying amount of each asset in the CGU. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in net income in the amounts recognized at that date. consolidated statement of income. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. On disposal of a subsidiary, the relevant amount of the related goodwill is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal. The group’s accounting policy for goodwill related to acquisition of the associates is described in Note 2 (4). (4) Investments in associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate making decision on the financial and operating policy decisions of the (6) Accounting for foreign currencies translations investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. Significant influence is generally presumed to exist when the Group The individual financial statements of each entity of the Group are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in holds 20% or more, but less than 50%, of the voting rights. which the entity operates (its functional currency). For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial The net income of current period and the financial results of associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements position of each entity of the Group are expressed in Currency Units (CU), which are the functional currency of the company and the using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under the equity method, an In preparing the financial statements of the individual entities, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency investment in an associate is initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to (foreign currencies) are recognized at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting recognize the Group's share of the net assets of the associate and any impairment. When the Group's share of losses of an associate period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items exceeds the Group's interest in the associate, the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. associate. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Exchange differences are recognized in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for: liabilities of an associate recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount • exchange differences on transactions entered into in order to hedge certain foreign currency risks (see Note 2 below for hedging of the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities accounting policies); and over the cost of acquisition is recognized immediately in net income. • exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign operation for which settlement is neither planned Upon a loss of significant influence over an associate, the Group discontinues the use of the equity method and measures at fair value nor likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognized initially in other of any investment that the Group retains in the former associate from the date when the Group loses significant influence. The fair comprehensive income and reclassified from equity to profit or loss on disposal or partial disposal of the net investment. value of the investment is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 39 Financial For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Group’s foreign operations are Instruments; Recognition and Measurement. The Group accounts for all amounts recognized in other comprehensive income in expressed in Currency Units using exchange rates prevailing at the end of the reporting period. Income and expense items are relation to that associate on the same basis as would be required if the associate had directly disposed of the related assets or translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuated significantly during that period, in which liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income by an associate would be reclassified to case the exchange rates at the dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognized in other net income on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to net income as a comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (attributed to non-controlling interests as appropriate). On the disposal of a foreign reclassification adjustment. operation (i.e. a disposal of the Group’s entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary The requirements of K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement to determine whether there has been a loss that includes a foreign operation, loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or loss of event are applied to identify whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group’s investment in an significant influence over an associate that includes a foreign operation), all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance that operation attributable to the Group are reclassified to profit or loss. Any exchange differences that have previously been attributed with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value to non-controlling interests are derecognized, but they are not reclassified to profit or loss. less costs to sell) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized is not allocated to any asset (including goodwill), which forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. When the Group transacts with its associates, unrealized profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associates are eliminated to the extent of interests in the associate. 78•79 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix In the case of a partial disposal (i.e. no loss of control) of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL. accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests in equity and are not recognized in profit or loss. For A financial asset is classified as held for trading if: all other partial disposals (i.e. of associates or jointly controlled entities not involving a change of accounting basis), the proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassified to profit or loss. Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the • it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in the near term; or acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. • on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Group manages together and has a recent The Group identifies the most appropriate functional currency for each foreign operation based on the foreign operation’s activities. If actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or Korean Won is not the foreign operation’s functional currency, its assets and liabilities, including goodwill and fair value adjustments • it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedging instrument. arising on acquisition, are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the end of each reporting date while the revenues and expenses are translated into Korean Won at average exchange rates for the period unless these do not approximate to the foreign A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange differences arising on the translation of a foreign operation are • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or recognised directly in equity and included in net income on its disposal. • the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its • performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or • investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and (7) Financial assets Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. All financial assets are recognized and derecognized on trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are initially Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognized in profit or loss. measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which The net gain or loss recognized in profit or loss incorporates any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included are initially measured at fair value. in the other gains and losses line item in the Statement of Income. A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term requires delivery of the asset within the time 3) HTM investments frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned. Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity dates that the Group has the positive Financial assets are classified into the following specified categories: financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM investments. HTM investments are measured at amortized cost using held-to-maturity (“HTM”) investments, available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets and loans and receivables. The classification the effective interest method less any impairment, with revenue recognized on an effective yield basis. depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition. 4) AFS financial assets 1) Effective interest method Non-derivatives financial assets that are not classified as at held-to-maturity; held-for-trading; designated as at fair value The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest income through profit or loss; or loans and receivables are classified as at financial assets AFS. Financial assets can be designated as over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all ale on initial recognition. fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or Financial assets AFS are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently discounts) through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on measured at fair value. Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost. Gains and initial recognition. Income is recognized on an effective interest basis for debt instruments other than those financial assets classified losses arising from changes in fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments as FVTPL. revaluation reserve, with the exception of impairment losses, interest calculated using the effective interest method, and foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognized in profit or loss. Where the investment is disposed of 2) Financial assets at FVTPL or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. Financial assets are classified as at FVTPL when the financial asset is either held for trading or it is designated as at FVTPL upon Dividends on AFS equity instruments are recognized in profit or loss when the Group’s right to receive the dividends is initial recognition. A financial asset is classified as held for trading if it has been acquired principally for the purpose of selling it in established. near term. Every financial instrument, containing one of more embedded derivatives, treated separately from the host contract, is The fair value of AFS monetary assets denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated classified as held for trading if it is a derivative that is not designated and effective as a hedge instrument or not a financial guarantee at the spot rate at the end of the reporting period. The foreign exchange gains and losses that are recognized in profit or loss are contract. Financial assets at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognized in profit determined based on the amortized cost of the monetary asset. Other foreign exchange gains and losses are recognized in other or loss. Transaction costs attributable to acquisition upon initial recognition are immediately recognized in profit or loss in the period comprehensive income. occurred. 80•81 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 5) Loans and receivables 8) Fair value of financial assets Trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market are Derivatives, financial assets and liabilities held for trading, AFS financial assets are recognized at fair value. Fair value is the amount classified as loans and receivables. Loans and receivables are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less for which an asset could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the The fair values of quoted financial instruments in active markets are based on bid prices. If there is no active market for a recognition of interest would be immaterial. financial instrument such as non-marketable equity securities, the Group establishes the fair value using valuation techniques. These include the use of recent arm’s length transactions, reference to the current fair value of similar transactions and 6) Impairment of financial assets discounted cash flow analyses. Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period. Fair value measurement methods for each type of financial instruments are as follows: Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been affected. Fair value measurement technique Classification For listed and unlisted equity investments classified as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below Securities Securities are measured at fair value using a price quoted by a third party, such as a pricing service or using valuation its cost is considered to be objective evidence of impairment. techniques. For all other financial assets, including redeemable notes classified as AFS and finance lease receivables, objective evidence of Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are measured by discounting expected future cash flows at a market interest rate of other impairment could include: loans with similar condition. • significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty; or Derivatives Derivatives are measured at fair value using a quoted market price in an active market. If a quoted market price is not available, they are measured at fair value using valuation techniques. Valuation techniques are including recent deals • default or delinquency in interest or principal payments; or made between independent parties who are willing to deal with the reasonable judgment, reference from the current • it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organization. fair value of substantially similar to other instruments if it can be used, discounted cash flow method and option pricing models. For certain categories of financial asset, such as trade receivables, assets that are assessed not to be impaired individually are, in Deposits due to customers Fair value measurement for deposits due to customers is classified by maturity date. However, if the carrying value is addition, assessed for impairment on a collective basis. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables could include not significantly different from the fair value, it assumes that the carrying value is equal to the fair value. the Group’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average Borrowings Borrowings are measured by discounting expected future cash flows using current market rate. credit period of 60 days, as well as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with default on Debentures Debentures are measured by discounting expected future cash flows using current market rate. receivables. For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognized is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. (8) Financial liabilities and equity instruments The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is 1) Classification as debt or equity considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognized in profit or loss. contractual arrangement. When an AFS financial asset is considered to be impaired, cumulative gains or losses previously recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss in the period. 2) Equity instruments With the exception of AFS equity instruments, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and the An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognized, the previously recognized impairment Equity instruments issued by the Group are recognized at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. loss is reversed through profit or loss to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortized cost would have been had the impairment not been recognized. 3) Financial Liabilities In respect of AFS equity securities, impairment losses previously recognized in profit or loss are not reversed through profit or loss. All financial liabilities are recognized and derecognized on trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a Any increase in fair value subsequent to an impairment loss is recognized in other comprehensive income. contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the time frame established by the market concerned, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or 7) Derecognition of financial assets loss, which are initially measured at fair value. The Group derecognizes a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at FVTPL or other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. In case of removing the all financial assets, the difference between value received and sum of the cumulative gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and book value is recognized in profit or loss. 82•83 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 4) Financial liabilities at FVTPL 1) Embedded derivatives Financial liabilities are classified at FVTPL when the financial liabilities is either held for trading or designated as at FVTPL. A financial Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and liability is classified as held for trading if it meets one of the following criteria: characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at FVTPL. • acquired or incurred principally for the purpose of selling or repurchasing it in the near term; An embedded derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the hybrid • part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of a recent actual instrument to which the embedded derivative relates is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realized or settled within 12 pattern of short-term profit-taking; or months. Other embedded derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities. • a derivative (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a designated and effective hedging instrument). 2) Hedge accounting A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: The Group designates certain hedging instruments, which include derivatives, embedded derivatives and non-derivatives in respect • such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a recognition or measurement inconsistency that would otherwise arise; of foreign currency risk, as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges, or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Hedges of • the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is foreign exchange risk on firm commitments are accounted for as cash flow hedges. evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and At the inception of the hedge relationship, the entity documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. • it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly Measurement” permits the entire hybrid (combined) contract to be designated as at FVTPL. effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. 5) Other financial liabilities 3) Fair value hedges Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recognized in profit or loss Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, with interest expense immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk. The recognized on an effective yield basis. change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense in the line of the statement of comprehensive income relating to the hedged item. over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments through the Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition. terminated, or exercised, or when it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. The fair value adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortized to profit or loss from that date. 6) Derecognition of financial assets The Group derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire. 4) Cash flow hedges The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss, and is (9) Derivative financial instruments included in the ‘other gains and losses’ line item. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate periods when the hedged item is recognized in profit or loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognized hedged item. risk, including foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate swaps and cross currency swaps. However, when the forecast transaction that is hedged results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability, Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently remeasured the gains and losses previously accumulated in equity are transferred from equity and included in the initial measurement of the cost to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss immediately unless the of the non-financial asset or non-financial liability. derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in such case the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, the nature of the hedge relationship. The Group designates certain derivatives as either as hedges of recognized assets or liabilities terminated, or exercised, or it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss accumulated in equity at that time remains in or firm commitments (fair value hedges), hedges of highly probable forecast transactions or hedges of foreign currency risk of firm equity and is recognized when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in profit or loss. commitments (cash flow hedges), or hedges of net investments in foreign operations (net investment hedges). When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in A derivative with a positive fair value is recognized as a financial asset; a derivative with a negative fair value is recognized as a profit or loss. financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realized or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current 5) Hedges of net investments in foreign operations assets or current liabilities. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss, and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’. Gains and losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve are reclassified to profit or loss in the same way as exchange differences relating to the foreign operation. 84•85 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (10) Lease If each part of an item of property, plant and equipment has a cost that is significant in relation to the total cost of the item, it is depreciated separately. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership The Group reviews the depreciation method, the estimated useful lives and residual values of property, plant and equipment at the to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. end of each annual reporting period. If expectations differ from previous estimates, the changes are accounted for as a change in an 1) As a lessor accounting estimate. In addition, when an acquisition of a tangible asset occurs free-of-charge or at a value less than fair market value, due to government Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognized as receivables at the amount of the Group’s net investment in the subsidy, the acquisition cost less government subsidy is recorded as the acquisition cost upon initial acquisition and depreciation leases being the minimum lease payments and any unguaranteed residual value discount interest rate implicit in the lease. Finance expense is calculated based on the carrying amount. lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group’s net investment outstanding in respect of the leases. Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognized on a (12) Investment property straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease assets are included within premise and equipment and depreciated over their Investment property, which is property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation (including property under construction for useful lives. such purposes), is measured initially at its cost, including transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, investment property is measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. 2) As a lessee Subsequent costs are recognized in carrying amount of an asset or as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the consolidated repairs are expensed as incurred. statements of financial position as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and Amongst the investment properties, land is not depreciated. However, investment properties other than land are depreciated over 10reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent 40 years of their useful lives using the straight-line method. rentals arising under finance leases are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. The depreciation method, residual value and useful lives of investment properties are reassessed or reviewed at the end of each Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another annual reporting period, and any changes from them are treated as change in accounting estimates. systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. (13) Intangible assets (11) Property, plant and equipment 1) Intangible assets acquired separately Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated amortization and Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less subsequent accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is directly attributable to their purchase or construction, which includes any useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner accounted for on a prospective basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less intended by management. It also includes the initial estimate of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site accumulated impairment losses. on which it is located. Subsequent costs are recognized in carrying amount of an asset or as an asset if it is probable that future economic benefits 2) Intangible assets acquired in a business combination associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. Intangible assets that are acquired in a business combination are recognized separately from goodwill and are initially recognized at The Group does not depreciate land and certain tangible assets. Depreciation expense is computed using the straight-line method their fair value at the acquisition date (which is regarded as their cost). based on the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are reported at cost less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible assets that are acquired separately. Estimated useful lives Buildings and structures 40 years 3) Derecognition of intangible assets Delivery equipment or vehicles 4 years An intangible asset is derecognized on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Gains Equipment 4 years or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are recognized in profit or loss when the asset is derecognized. 86•87 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (14) Impairment of non-monetary assets 2) Retirement benefits The Group operates defined benefit plans. For defined benefit plans, the liability recognized in the consolidated statements of At the end of the reporting period, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether financial position is the present value of the current deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the date of the consolidated statements of financial there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of position, less the fair value of plan assets, as adjusted for unrecognized past service cost. the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if any. If the recoverable amount for an individual asset The deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated on an annual basis by independent actuaries according to the projected unit credit cannot be estimated, recoverable amount is determined for the CGU. Where a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be method. The present value of defined benefit obligations is expressed in a currency in which retirement benefits will be paid and identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual CGUs, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of CGUs for is calculated by discounting expected future cash outflows with the interest rate of high quality corporate bonds which maturity is which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. similar to the payment date of retirement benefit obligations. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives and intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually, Actuarial gains and losses arising from the differences between changes in actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell or are recognized in net income in the period in which they occur. value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of 3) Termination benefits future cash flows have not been adjusted. Termination benefits are paid when employment is involuntarily terminated by the Group before the normal retirement date or an If the recoverable amount of an asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or employee accepts voluntary retirement in exchange for benefits. The Group recognizes termination benefits when employment CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is immediately recognized as an expense. is terminated based on detailed formal plans or voluntary retirement is encouraged, providing termination benefits. Termination Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is increased to its recoverable amount, benefits are discounted at present value when they are due more than 12 months after the reporting date. but the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized immediately in profit or loss. (18) Share-based payment (15) Bonds under resale or repurchase agreements Equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing similar services are measured at the fair value of the equity instruments at the grant date. Bonds purchased under resale agreements are recorded as loans and bonds sold under repurchase agreements are recorded as The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the borrowings when the Group purchases or sells securities under resale or repurchase agreements. vesting period, based on the Group’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest. At the end of each reporting period, the Interests incurred on resale or repurchase agreements are reported as interest income or expense. Group revises its estimate of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to the equity-settled employee benefits reserve. (16) Securities in short position The Group has the short selling transaction. When the Group borrowed securities, the Group recognized securities in short position and when the Group sells the securities, the securities are recognized as securities in short position. The difference between the (19) Current tax payable and deferred tax selling price and buying price when buy and redeem is recognized as gain or loss on financial assets held for trading. Also, the Income tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. difference between fair value and carrying value of the securities in short position is recognized as gain or loss on valuation of securities in short position. 1) Current tax The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the consolidated income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never (17) Employee benefits taxable or deductible. The Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 1) Short-term employee benefits The Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expecting payment in exchange for the services, when employee renders services. Also, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities in the case of accumulating compensated absences, when the employees render service that increases their entitlement to future compensated absences. Though the Group may have no legal obligation to pay a bonus, considering some cases, the Group has a practice of paying bonuses. In such cases, the Group has a constructive obligation, and thus the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities when the employees render service. 88•89 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (21) Interest income and expense recognition 2) Deferred tax The Group recognizes interest income and expenses from HTM financial assets measured at amortized cost, loans and receivables, Deferred tax is recognized on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial and other financial liabilities on an accrual basis using the effective interest method. statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognized for Effective interest method is the method of calculating the amortized cost of financial assets or liabilities and allocating the interest all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are generally recognized for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that income or expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate reconciles the expected future cash in and out through the it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred expected life of financial instruments or shorter period if appropriate, and net carrying value of financial assets or liabilities. tax assets and liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that (22) Earnings per share (“EPS”) the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognized to the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable Basic EPS is calculated by earnings subtracting the dividends paid to holders of preferred stock and hybrid securities from the net profits against which to utilize the benefits of the temporary differences and they are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. income attributable to ordinary shareholders from the statements of comprehensive income and dividing by the weighted average The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. all dilutive potential common shares. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in (23) Others which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. The group recognized transaction income and loss of the derivatives in connection with the swap as the total amount until the first quarter, but changed it as net amount from the second quarter. As a result of this alteration, changes in value and sales of financial 3) Current and deferred tax for the year assets and liabilities have been reduced by 40,946 million, respectively. Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in other comprehensive The financial statement presented for comparative purposes reflects the effect of the account reclassification and there is no impact income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive income or directly on the net assets and net profit. in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTION (20) Provisions In the application of the Group's accounting policies described in note 2, management is required to make judgments, estimates and Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of be different from those estimates. the reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured using The estimates and underlying assumptions are continuously reviewed. The changes in accounting estimates are recognized in the the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows (where the period in which the estimate is changed if the change affects only that period, or in the period of change and future periods if the effect of the time value of money is material). change affects both current and future periods. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognized as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be (1) Impairment of goodwill measured reliably. The Group performs impairment test of goodwill annually or more frequently when there is indication that a CGU may be impaired. At the end of each reporting period, the remaining provision balance is reviewed and assessed to determine if the current best Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated. estimate is being recognized. If the existence of an obligation to transfer economic benefit is no longer probable, the related provision The value in use calculation requires the Group’s management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and is reversed during the period. a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. (2) Fair value of financial instruments Described in notes 11, the Group individually recognizes an impairment loss on financial assets by assessing the occurrence of loss events or it assesses impairment for a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Notes 11 provides sensitivity analysis about Impairment loss for financial assets is the difference between such assets’ carrying value and the present value of estimated recoverable cash flows. The estimation of future cash flows requires management judgment. 90•91 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (3) Impairment loss on financial assets 4) The maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): The Group performs impairment test of goodwill annually or more frequently when there is indication that a CGU may be impaired. Determining whether goodwill is impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the CGU to which goodwill has been allocated. March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 The value in use calculation requires the Group’s management to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the CGU and Loans and receivables Government ￦90,000 ￦a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value. Banks 3,883,184 3,505,413 Corporates 1,671,193 1,467,682 (4) Defined Benefit Plan Consumers 1,310,928 2,107,728 Financial liabilities are recognized when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments. Financial Subtotal 6,955,305 7,080,823 liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction cost that are directly attributable to the issue of financial liabilities are added Financial assets at FVTPL Debt securities for trading 15,689,975 9,844,920 to or deducted from the fair value of the financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction cost directly attributable Derivative assets 582,840 516,848 to acquisition of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognized immediately in net income. Subtotal 16,272,815 10,361,768 AFS financial assets AFS debt securities 122,656 1,338,736 (5) Deferred tax Derivative assets (hedging) Currency derivatives 6,763 806 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized and measured based on management’s judgment. In particular, whether or not to Off-balance sheet ABCP purchase (*) 338,300 556,500 recognize deferred tax assets and the scope of recognition are determined by assumptions on future circumstances and possibility of Total ￦23,695,839 ￦19,338,633 realization. (*) Composed of ABCP purchase agreement and purchase agreement of beneficiary certificate 4. RISK MANAGEMENT 5) Credit risk of loans and receivables The credit risk of loans and receivables by loan conditions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): The Group’s operating activity is exposed to various financial risks; hence, the Group is required to analyze and assess the level of complex risks, determine the level of risks to be accepted, or to manage the risks. March 31, 2013 The Group’s risk management procedure is set for improvement in the quality of assets held and investments by making a decision Corporate about how to avoid or mitigate risks through the identification of the cause of the potential risk and its scope. Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer Total The Group takes the approach to minimize risk and maximize it profit by managing risks to an acceptable level and eliminating Loans neither overdue nor impaired ￦90,000 ￦3,883,184 ￦1,355,398 ￦213,061 ￦1,568,459 ￦1,305,776 ￦6,847,419 excessive risks of financial instruments. For this, the following procedures are performed: risk recognition, measurement and Loans overdue but not impaired 5,125 5,125 assessment, control, and monitoring and reporting. Impaired loans 74,703 65,818 138,891 1,931 141,822 The risk is managed by the risk management department based on the Group’s policy. The Risk Management Committee of the Gross loans 90,000 3,883,184 1,429,471 278,879 1,708,350 1,312,832 6,994,366 Group makes the decision on the risk strategy such as allocation of risk assets and limit settlement. Provisions for credit losses 17,100 20,056 37,156 1,904 39,060 Total, net ￦90,000 ￦3,883,184 ￦1,412,371 ￦258,823 ￦1,671,194 ￦1,310,928 ￦6,955,306 (1) Credit risk Credit risk represents the possibility of financial losses incurred when the counterparty fails to fulfill its contractual obligations. The March 31, 2012 goal of credit risk management is to maintain the credit risk exposure to a permissible degree and to optimize the rate of return Corporate considering such credit risk. Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer Total Loans neither overdue nor impaired ￦￦3,505,413 ￦1,138,119 ￦184,399 ￦1,322,518 ￦2,099,249 ￦6,927,180 1) Credit risk management Loans overdue but not impaired 7,130 7,130 The Group considers the probability of failure in performing the obligation of its counterparties, credit exposure to the counterparty Impaired loans 43,435 168,890 212,325 7,333 219,658 and the related default risk and the rate of default loss. The Group uses the credit rating model to assess the possibility of Gross loans 3,505,413 1,181,554 353,289 1,534,843 2,113,712 7,153,968 counterparty’s default risk. Provisions for credit losses 17,929 49,231 67,160 5,984 73,144 Total, net ￦￦3,505,413 ￦1,163,625 ￦304,058 ￦1,467,683 ￦2,107,728 ￦7,080,824 2) Credit line management In order to manage credit risk limit, the Group establishes the appropriate credit line per obligor, company or industry and monitors obligors’ credit line, total exposures and loan portfolios when approving the loan. 3) Credit risk mitigation The Group mitigates credit risk resulting from the obligor’s credit condition by using financial and physical collateral, guarantees, netting agreements and credit derivatives.Maximum exposure to credit risk. The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to net book value of financial assets net of provisions, which shows the uncertainties of maximum changes of net value of financial assets attributable to a particular risk without considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. However, the maximum exposure is the fair value amount (recorded on the books) for derivatives, maximum contractual obligation for payment guarantees and unused commitment for loan contracts. 92•93 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix a) Credit quality of loans and receivables c) Individually impaired loans and receivables The Group manages its loans and receivables that are neither overdue nor impaired through an internal rating system. Segregation of Considered as impaired loans and receivables by the Group are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): credit quality is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): The collateral value held is the collateral-allocated amount used when calculating the respective provision for loan loss. March 31, 2013 March 31, 2013 Corporate Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer(*1) Total Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer(*1) Total Impaired loans ￦￦￦ 57,040 ￦46,177 ￦103,217 ￦67 ￦103,284 Investment grade(*2) ￦90,000 ￦3,883,184 ￦1,355,331 ￦212,645 ￦1,567,976 ￦1,305,756 ￦6,846,916 Value of collateral 71,830 68,579 140,409 140,409 Non-investment grade(*3) Total ￦90,000 ￦3,883,184 ￦1,355,331 ￦212,645 ￦1,567,976 ￦1,305,756 ￦6,846,916 Value of collateral 4,656,412 4,656,412 March 31, 2012 Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer(*1) Total March 31, 2012 Impaired loans ￦￦￦25,666 ￦119,662 ￦145,328 ￦1,370 ￦146,698 Corporate Value of collateral 27,768 165,480 193,248 3 193,251 Government Bank General Small & Medium Subtotal Consumer(*1) Total (*) Amount after deducting allowance for doubtful accounts Investment grade(*2) ￦￦3,505,413 ￦1,137,958 ￦184,396 ￦1,322,354 ￦2,099,228 ￦6,926,995 Non-investment grade(*3) Total ￦￦3,505,413 ￦1,137,958 ￦184,396 ￦1,322,354 ￦2,099,228 ￦6,926,995 6) Credit quality of debt securities Value of collateral 538,733 538,733 5,165,429 5,704,162 The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on the basis of External (*1) Amount after deducting allowance for doubtful accounts Credit Assessment Institution (“ECAI”)’s rating is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (*2) Classified from AAA to BBB for corporates, from level 1 to level 6 for consumers by the internal credit rating (*3) Classified from BBBto C for corporates, from level 7 to level 10 for consumers by the internal credit rating March 31, 2013 Grade FVTPL (held for trading) AFS financial assets Total (1) AAA ￦11,946,839 ￦51,354 ￦11,998,193 b) Aging analysis of loans and receivables that are overdue but not impaired are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (2) AA-~AA+ 2,960,064 2,960,064 (3) BBB-~A+ 765,164 67,334 832,498 March 31, 2013 Overdue (4) C-~BBBGovernment Bank Corporate(*) Consumer(*) Total (5) Lower than D 17,908 3,968 21,876 Less than 30 days ￦￦￦￦5,105 ￦5,105 Total ￦15,689,975 ￦122,656 ￦15,812,631 30 to 60 days 60 to 90 days Total ￦￦￦￦5,105 ￦5,105 March 31, 2012 Value of collateral 6,507 6,507 Grade FVTPL (held for trading) AFS financial assets Total (1) AAA ￦8,265,008 ￦1,205,041 ￦9,470,049 March 31, 2012 (2) AA-~AA+ 821,613 81,507 903,120 Overdue Government Bank Corporate(*) Consumer(*) Total (3) BBB-~A+ 758,299 41,533 799,832 Less than 30 days ￦￦￦￦6,957 ￦6,957 (4) Lower than BBB10,655 10,655 30 to 60 days 172 172 Total ￦9,844,920 ￦1,338,736 ￦11,183,656 60 to 90 days 1 1 Total ￦￦￦￦7,130 ￦7,130 Value of collateral 2,772 2,772 (*) Amount after deducting allowance for doubtful accounts 94•95 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 7) Geographical and industrial distribution of credit risk b) Industrial distribution of credit risk a) Geographical distribution of credit risk The industrial distribution of credit risk of financial asset is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): The geographical distribution of credit risk of financial asset is as follows. The Group classifies the countries by the control point. March 31, 2013 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Bank and Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Consumers Others Total March 31, 2013 Loans and receivables Government ￦￦￦￦￦￦90,000 ￦90,000 Korea USA UK China Others Total Banks 3,833,184 3,833,184 Loans and receivables Government ￦90,000 ￦￦￦￦￦90,000 Corporates 21,303 87 1,203,030 150 446,623 1,671,193 Banks 3,731,269 5,783 1,423 6,093 138,616 3,883,184 Consumers 5,145 1,305,783 1,310,928 Corporates 1,530,915 99 26 7,811 132,342 1,671,193 Sub-total 21,303 87 5,091,359 150 1,305,783 536,623 6,955,305 Consumers 1,310,758 12 158 1,310,928 Financial assets at FVTPL Debt securities for trading 1,083,922 876,688 7,538,834 211,124 5,979,407 15,689,975 Subtotal 6,662,942 5,894 1,449 13,904 271,116 6,955,305 Derivative assets 4,839 452 558,424 16,160 2,965 582,840 Financial assets at FVTPL Debt securities for trading 15,508,346 154,243 27,386 15,689,975 Sub-total 1,088,761 877,140 8,097,258 211,124 16,160 5,982,372 16,272,815 Derivative assets 582,720 120 582,840 AFS securities AFS debt securities 2,581 6,764 3,968 17,466 91,877 122.656 Subtotal 16,091,066 154,363 27,386 16,272,815 Derivative assets (hedging) Derivative assets 6,763 6,763 AFS financial assets AFS debt securities 122,656 122,656 Off-balance ABCP purchase 286,300 52,000 338,300 Derivative assets (hedging) Derivative assets 6,763 6,763 Total ￦1,398,945 ￦883,991 ￦13,252,348 ￦228,740 ￦1,321,943 ￦6,610,872 ￦23,695,839 Off-balance ABCP purchase 338,300 338,300 Total ￦23,221,727 ￦5,894 ￦1,449 ￦168,267 ￦298,502 ￦23,695,839 March 31, 2012 Bank and March 31, 2012 Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Consumers Others Total Korea USA UK China Others Total Loans and receivables Government ￦￦￦￦￦￦￦Loans and receivables Government ￦￦￦￦￦￦Banks 3,505,413 3,505,413 Banks 3,450,486 4,048 2,375 5,689 42,815 3,505,413 Corporates 18,889 238,769 685,578 37,182 487,264 1,467,682 Corporates 1,419,901 47,781 1,467,682 Consumers 2,107,728 2,107,728 Consumers 2,107,728 2,107,728 Sub-total 18,889 238,769 4,190,991 37,182 2,107,728 487,264 7,080,823 Subtotal 6,978,115 4,048 2,375 5,689 90,596 7,080,823 Financial assets at FVTPL Debt securities for trading 2,338,454 671,096 2,068,702 373 4,766,295 9,844,920 Financial assets at FVTPL Debt securities for trading 9,780,949 11,469 52,502 9,844,920 Derivative assets 162,943 35,250 210,074 31 108,550 516,848 Derivative assets 516,848 516,848 Subtotal 2,501,397 706,346 2,278,776 404 4,874,845 10,361,768 Subtotal 10,297,797 11,469 52,502 10,361,768 AFS securities AFS debt securities 8,060 125,635 797,955 407,086 1,338,736 AFS financial assets AFS debt securities 1,338,736 1,338,736 Derivative assets (hedging) Derivative assets 806 806 Derivative assets (hedging) Derivative assets 806 806 Off-balance ABCP purchase 556,500 556,500 Off-balance ABCP purchase 556,500 556,500 Total ￦2,528,346 ￦1,070,750 ￦7,825,028 ￦37,586 ￦2,107,728 ￦5,769,195 ￦19,338,633 Total ￦19,171,954 ￦4,048 ￦2,375 ￦17,158 ￦143,098 ￦19,338,633 (2) Market risk Market risk is the possible risk of loss arising from trading activities in the volatility of market factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Market risk occurs as a result of changes in the interest rates and foreign exchange rates for financial instruments that are not yet settled, and all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to changes in the interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and the price of equity securities. 1) Market risk management For trading activities, the Group makes judgment to avoid, bear or mitigate risks by identifying the underlying source of the risks: measuring parameters and evaluating their appropriateness. 96•97 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 2) Market risk measurement 5) Other market risk The Group uses both standard risk measurement model and internal risk measurement model approach to measure market risk. a) Interest rate risk A standard risk measurement model is used to calculate individual market risk of owned capital while internal risk measurement The Group manages the interest bearing assets and liabilities by measuring the risk of interest rate fluctuation for each maturity of model is used to measure internal risk management measure. The risk management committee allocates owned capital to market cash flow (Time Bucket). The maturity structure of interest rates by each maturity is as follows: risk. The risk management department measures the Value at Risk (“VaR”, maximum losses) limit by department and risk factor and loss limit on a daily basis and reports regularly to the Risk Management committee. March 31, 2013 Total Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years 3) Risk Control Asset At the beginning of each year, the Risk Management Committee establishes the VaR limit, loss limit and risk capital limit for its Loans and receivables (*) ￦4,732,819 ￦1,967,219 ￦1,408,159 ￦739,838 ￦430,441 ￦164,523 ￦22,639 management purposes. In addition, depends on management strategies and characteristics, the Group gives the various limits by AFS financial assets 122,656 31,256 5,044 4,914 10,203 71,239 individual, rate, sensitivity and stress loss limit, etc. Total ￦4,855,475 ￦1,998,475 ￦1,413,203 ￦744,752 ￦440,644 ￦235,762 ￦22,639 Liabilities 4) Sensitivity analysis of market risk Borrowings ￦10,544,347 ￦9,330,366 ￦1,160,305 ￦43,675 ￦10,001 ￦￦The Group performs sensitivity analysis for both trading and non-trading activities. For trading activities, the Group uses a VaR model Debentures 1,100,535 313,363 787,172 which uses certain assumptions of possible fluctuations in market condition and, by conducting simulations of gains and losses, Total ￦11,644,882 ￦9,330,366 ￦1,160,305 ￦357,038 ￦10,001 ￦787,172 ￦under which the model estimates the maximum losses that may occur. For non-trading activities, it is measured and managed by the interest rate VaR calculations based on a ‘Gap’ in interest rate per Bank March 31, 2012 for International Settlements (“BIS”) Framework. Total Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years For sensitivity analysis, the Group set the risk factors of interest rates, currencies, equities, credit, and instruments, and quadratic parametric VaR method was used by using volatility of each risk factors and variance and covariance matrix. Variance and covariance Asset matrix is calculated based on continuous rate of return basis by using time series of risk factors. In addition, VaR is calculated based Loans and receivables (*) ￦5,231,782 ￦2,293,482 ￦848,335 ￦575,801 ￦1,216,748 ￦51,155 ￦246,261 on 99% confidence level and one day of retention period. In addition, VaR is calculated based on 99% confidence level and one day of AFS financial assets 1,393,849 51,517 280,209 192,600 514,014 355,509 retention period. On the other hand, for the case of complex structures instruments like ELS and others that cannot be evaluated by a Total ￦6,625,631 ￦2,344,999 ￦1,128,544 ￦768,401 ￦1,730,762 ￦406,664 ￦246,261 simple formula, the Group apply the sensitivities of Delta, Gamma, Vega, and etc. calculated and derived from the fair value method to Liabilities the market risk system; hence it may result in not fully reflecting the fair value of assets and liabilities. Borrowings ￦8,588,383 ￦7,236,021 ￦1,327,868 ￦￦24,494 ￦￦Debentures 335,053 1,166 333,887 a) Trading activities Total ￦8,923,436 ￦7,236,021 ￦1,327,868 ￦￦25,660 ￦333,887 ￦The minimum, maximum and average VaR for the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the VaR as of March 31, (*) Loans and receivables that did not generate interest, such as accounts receivables and accrued income are excluded. 2013 and 2012, respectively, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 b) Currency risk Factors March 31, 2013 Average Maximum Minimum March 31, 2012 Average Maximum Minimum Currency risk occurs from the financial instrument denominated in a foreign currency other than the functional currencies. Interest rate ￦3,753 ￦3,083 ￦6,148 ￦1,415 ￦3,883 ￦5,297 ￦7,732 ￦3,195 Therefore, no currency risk arises from non-monetary items or financial instruments denominated in the functional currency. Stock price 3,364 3,210 7,543 989 3,771 4,171 7,478 1,903 Financial instruments in foreign currencies exposed to currency risk are as follows (Unit: USD in millions, JPY in millions, CNY in Foreign currencies 2,027 809 3,309 177 466 773 2,713 126 millions, EUR in millions and Korean Won in millions): Commodity 147 140 656 7 132 206 3,112 2 Total risk 4,938 4,997 10,519 2,013 6,206 7,253 10,173 4,183 March 31, 2013 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won b) Non-trading activities currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent The interest rate VaR, calculated, respectively, based on the BIS Framework of the Group is as follows (Korean Won in millions): Assets Loans and receivables 127 ￦141,761 790 ￦9,329 26 ￦4,716 2 ￦2,207 ￦74,956 ￦232,969 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Financial assets at FVTPL 989 1,100,023 1,005 11,865 268 48,024 7 10,571 35,511 1,205,994 VaR 26,644 38,158 AFS financial assets 64 71,192 71,192 Total 1,180 ￦1,312,976 1,795 ￦21,194 294 ￦52,740 9 ￦12,778 ￦110,467 ￦1,510,155 Liabilities Deposits due to customers 193 ￦214,288 367 ￦4,334 ￦2 ￦3,518 ￦20,995 ￦243,135 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 7 7,801 7,801 Borrowings 185 205,339 205,339 Other financial liabilities 72 80,387 1 90 3,621 84,098 Total 457 ￦507,815 367 ￦4,334 1 ￦90 2 ￦3,518 ￦24,616 ￦540,373 98•99 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix March 31, 2012 March 31, 2012 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Total Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won Deposits due to customers ￦1,444,114 ￦1,126,800 ￦￦￦314,707 ￦￦2,607 currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Financial liabilities at FVTPL 6,699,996 1,297,887 248,765 236,854 457,241 4,274,320 184,929 Assets Borrowings 8,588,383 7,236,021 1,327,868 24,494 Loans and receivables 320 ￦363,967 193 ￦2,671 29 ￦5,193 3 ￦3,914 ￦34,748 ￦410,493 Debentures 335,053 1,166 333,887 Financial assets at FVTPL 393 447,376 1,005 13,872 243 43,903 505,151 Other financial liabilities 1,748,231 1,352,854 335,314 16,059 44,004 AFS financial assets 39 44,208 44,208 Total ￦18,815,777 ￦11,013,562 ￦1,576,633 ￦236,854 ￦1,132,922 ￦4,624,266 ￦231,540 Total 752 ￦855,551 1,198 ￦16,543 272 ￦49,096 3 ￦3,914 ￦34,748 ￦959,852 Liabilities Above maturity analysis includes both principal and interest cash flows by contractual maturities. Deposits due to customers 171 ￦195,065 81 ￦1,123 ￦2 ￦2,710 ￦5,383 ￦204,281 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 153 153 Borrowings 156 177,825 177,825 3) Maturity analysis of derivative financial liabilities is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Other financial liabilities 22 24,658 1,376 26,034 Total Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years Total 349 ￦397,701 81 ￦1,123 ￦2 ￦2,710 ￦6,759 ￦408,293 March 31, 2013 ￦600,475 ￦73,672 ￦26,546 ￦47,396 ￦41,917 ￦281,281 ￦129,663 March 31, 2012 ￦615,512 ￦37,699 ￦24,144 ￦36,329 ￦241,077 ￦236,419 ￦39,844 (3) Liquidity risk 4) Maturity analysis of off-balance sheet accounts is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may encounter difficulties in meeting obligations from its financial liabilities. Total Within 3 months(*) 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years 1) Liquidity risk management March 31, 2013 ￦338,300 ￦338,300 ￦￦￦￦￦Liquidity risk management is to prevent potential cash shortage as a result of mismatching the use of funds (assets) and sources of March 31, 2012 ￦556,500 ￦548,500 ￦￦8,000 ￦￦￦funds (liabilities) or unexpected cash outflows. Of the financial liabilities on the consolidated statements of financial position, financial (*) It was included in the 3 months, because for the case of ABCP purchase agreement provided by the Group, if the maturity of the contract exists but refinancing is not issued, the Group needs to liabilities in relation to liquidity risk become the objects of liquidity risk management. immediately implement the agreement. Assets and liabilities are grouped by account under Asset Liability Management (“ALM”) in accordance with the characteristics of the account. The Group manages liquidity risk by identifying maturity gap and such gap ratio through various cash flows analysis (i.e. based on remaining maturity and contract period, etc.); while maintaining the gap ratio at or below the target limit. (4) Capital Management 2) Maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities The Group’s maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities, cash flows of principals and interests, by remaining contractual Capital regulation for financial investment firms is established by the Financial Investment Services Regulation. Woori Investment maturities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): & Securities Co., Ltd. and Woori Futures Co., Ltd. manage and control 150% or above to follow the regulation. Woori Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. report quarterly to Financial Supervisory Service for compliance with net capital ratio on non-consolidated basis. March 31, 2013 Total Within 3 months 3 to 6 months 6 to 9 months 9 to 12 months 1 to 5 years After 5 years Deposits due to customers ￦1,345,053 ￦1,222,818 ￦￦￦122,220 ￦￦15 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 7,876,363 1,607,862 128,476 266,758 637,803 4,978,721 256,743 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS Borrowings 10,544,347 9,330,366 1,160,305 43,675 10,001 Debentures 1,100,535 313,363 787,172 Disclosures of sales information were prepared in accordance with K-IFRS 1108: Operating segments. K-IFRS requires the CEO of the Other financial liabilities 2,269,468 1,954,672 299,901 14,895 Group to disclose resource allocation and segment information of the Group that periodically review and evaluate the performance. Total ￦23,135,766 ￦14,115,718 ￦1,288,781 ￦623,796 ￦1,069,925 ￦5,780,788 ￦256,758 Segment reporting for the Group is composed of Sales, Investment Bank (“IB”), Trading, headquarter and other departments, and the configuration of these reporting segments are distinguished based on business activities that providing different services. The nature of the main business activities of each reporting segment are as follows: Reporting segment Main business activities Sales Asset management services including brokerage consignment, financial commodity sale and etc. to individual, domestic or foreign institutional investors IB Corporate finance services including corporate finance, M&A, PE, and Investment Advisor and etc. Trading Stocks and bonds operations, supply derivatives and capital investment Headquarters and others Activities other than the above including headquarters management 100•101 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (1) Financial information of segment reporting (2) Information on financial products and services The financial products of the Group are classified as interest, non-interest and other goods; There is no single external customer March 31, 2013 accounts for more than 10% of the sales revenue of the Group during the year. Sales IB Trading Headquarter/Other Subtotal Adjustments Total Assets ￦2,649,932 ￦66,417 ￦15,571,840 ￦8,939,895 ￦27,228,084 ￦￦27,228,084 Liabilities 2,069,391 481 15,059,863 6,614,459 23,744,194 23,744,194 (3) Information on geographical areas Of the Group’s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from external services, revenue from the domestic customers for March 31, 2012 the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 amounted to ￦3,796,988 million and ￦3,573,545 million, respectively, and revenue from Sales IB Trading Headquarter/Other Subtotal Adjustments Total the foreign customers amounted to ￦36,965 million and ￦32,447 million, respectively. The Group's non-current assets (investment Assets ￦1,731,902 ￦105,389 ￦16,399,561 ￦4,748,135 ￦22,984,987 ￦￦22,984,987 in associates, property investment, premises and equipment, and intangible assets) as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012 are Liabilities 1,652,683 94,612 16,277,220 1,510,728 19,535,243 19,535,243 ￦564,768 million, ￦589,874 million, respectively, for domestics, and ￦4,592 million and ￦4,569 million respectively, for foreign customers. The amounts for foreign customers are owned by the Group's oversea subsidiaries and branches. 2012 Sales IB Trading Headquarter/Other Subtotal Adjustments Total Operating revenue Interest income ￦119,505 ￦10,868 ￦349,257 ￦243,877 ￦723,507 ￦￦723,507 6. RESTRICTED USE OF DEPOSITS Non-interest income 515,118 82,116 1,900,907 618,560 3,116,701 (6,255) 3,110,446 Details of restricted use of deposits are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 634,623 92,984 2,250,164 862,437 3,840,208 (6,255) 3,833,953 Operating expense March 31, March 31, Counterparties Descriptions 2013 2012 Interest expense 78,620 8,161 204,958 45,686 337,425 (439) 336,986 Financial assets at FVTPL: Non-interest expense 132,453 25,929 1,916,252 759,041 2,833,675 (7,392) 2,826,283 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) (*1) KSFC ￦814,500 ￦833,364 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits Administrative expense 405,686 42,400 72,354 40,885 561,325 (639) 560,686 Loans and receivables 616,759 76,490 2,193,564 845,612 3,732,425 (8,470) 3,723,955 Deposits: Operating income ￦17,864 ￦16,494 ￦56,600 ￦16,825 ￦107,783 ￦2,215 ￦109,998 Subscription deposits Korea Securities Depository 71 Subscription deposits Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (deposits) (*1) KSFC 285,531 256,753 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits Securities borrowed Korea Securities Depository 250,000 Securities borrowed 2011 Deposits for exchange-traded Derivatives transaction Samsung Futures and others 107,242 19,265 Deposits for exchange-traded derivatives Sales IB Trading Headquarter/Other Subtotal Adjustments Total Guarantee deposits for stock borrowings from KSFC KSFC 11,731 8,732 Guarantee deposits for stock borrowings Operating revenue from KSFC Interest income ￦108,350 ￦9,831 ￦356,508 ￦201,030 ￦675,719 ￦￦675,719 Guarantee deposits for KSFC trading KSFC 27,390 Guarantee deposits for KSFC trading Non-interest income 550,796 89,527 1,528,141 762,313 2,930,777 (504) 2,930,273 Restricted due from financial institutions Standard Chartered Bank 46 46 Guarantee deposits for checking accounts 659,146 99,358 1,884,649 963,343 3,606,496 (504) 3,605,992 and others Operating expense Other (deposits) Shinhan Bank and others 357,074 520,876 Pledged as collateral and etc. Interest expense 71,397 9,782 214,653 34,888 330,720 330,720 AFS financial instrument assets Collective fund for default loss (*2) Korea Exchange 9,908 10,330 Reserve for default loss to Korea Exchange Non-interest expense 56,923 16,609 1,514,816 864,024 2,452,372 (2,382) 2,449,990 ￦1,586,103 ￦1,926,756 Administrative expense 413,182 44,012 75,655 59,775 592,624 (421) 592,203 541,502 70,403 1,805,124 958,687 3,375,716 (2,803) 3,372,913 (*1) Pursuant to the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act, the Group is required to deposit with the Korean Securities Finance Corporation (“KFSC”) for the payment of its customers’ deposits and those amounts are restricted for use. Operating income ￦117,644 ￦28,955 ￦79,525 ￦4,656 ￦230,780 ￦2,299 ￦233,079 (*2) The Group deposits collective fund for default loss in Korea Exchange for default losses to compensate. for default losses caused by transactions in securities and derivative linked markets in accordance with the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act. 102•103 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 7. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL 8. AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) Details of financial assets at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 Deposits Gross unrealized Accumulated Acquisition cost Carrying value gain (loss) (*) impairment loss Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) ￦814,500 ￦833,364 Securities Equity securities ￦98,136 ￦303,384 ￦215,358 ￦10,110 Equity securities 376,713 302,047 Investment in partnerships 124,545 117,445 9,699 16,799 Government bonds 1,953,377 935,839 Government bonds 2,963 3,046 83 Local government bonds 325,334 299,442 Financial bonds 39,963 40,510 547 Financial bonds 3,074,573 2,572,980 Corporate bonds 66,769 67,225 456 Corporate bonds 5,682,344 4,733,263 Beneficiary certificates 51,439 41,733 (1,373) 8,333 Beneficiary certificates 576,192 654,649 Securities in foreign currencies 62,303 71,192 8,889 Corporate commercial papers 159,873 487,580 Collective fund for default loss 9,908 9,908 Securities in foreign currencies 1,205,994 505,151 Others 16,600 11,874 (1,077) 3,649 Securities loaned 111,196 2,712 ￦472,626 ￦666,317 ￦232,582 ￦38,891 Transferred bonds as RP 1,645,827 393,153 Others 1,617,471 145,539 March 31, 2012 Subtotal 16,728,894 11,032,355 Gross unrealized Accumulated Acquisition cost Carrying value gain (loss) (*) impairment loss Derivative assets (trading) Interest rate derivatives 281,731 116,787 Equity securities ￦90,928 ￦297,587 ￦215,183 ￦8,524 Currency derivatives 43,266 251,269 Investment in partnerships 127,281 121,221 9,956 16,016 Equity derivatives 200,719 126,657 Government bonds 2,977 3,011 34 Credit derivatives 30,912 11,352 Financial bonds 472,223 472,342 119 Commodity derivatives 25,122 10,524 Corporate bonds 842,822 847,569 4,747 Others 1,107 259 Beneficiary certificates 50,346 40,246 (2,647) 7,453 Subtotal 582,857 516,848 Securities in foreign currencies 39,585 44,208 4,623 Total ￦18,126,251 ￦12,382,567 Collective fund for default loss 10,330 10,330 Others 17,619 15,814 1,805 ￦1,654,111 ￦1,852,328 ￦232,015 ￦33,798 (2) Financial assets designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (*) Amount before directly subtract income tax from unrealized holding gains or losses. March 31, 2013 Face value (contract) Acquisition cost Fair value (carrying value) Derivatives linked securities Equity linked securities ￦644,903 ￦642,099 ￦662,164 Other derivatives linked securities 10,103 10,103 11,169 Other Other securities 2,620 2,484 3,078 ￦657,626 ￦654,686 ￦676,411 March 31, 2012 Face value (contract) Acquisition cost Fair value (carrying value) Derivatives linked securities Equity linked securities ￦756,685 ￦748,894 ￦718,446 Other derivatives linked securities 10,000 10,000 10,237 Other Structured deposit 10,000 10,000 10,085 ￦776,685 ￦768,894 ￦738,768 104•105 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (2) Details of unrealized gains or losses on AFS financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 9. INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES 2012 (1) Investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Beginning Gain (loss) Realization Ending Others balance on valuation by disposal balance Investors Investees Capital stock Main business Equity securities ￦215,183 ￦(9,584) ￦(733) ￦10,492 ￦215,358 MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. KRW 1,200 million Golf Course Operation Investment in partnerships 9,956 7,315 2,920 (10,492) 9,699 Government bonds 34 49 83 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Financial bonds 119 1,829 (1,401) 547 Investors Investees Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Financial Corporate bonds 4,747 (1,132) (3,159) 456 shares owned ownership (%) shares owned ownership (%) statements as of Beneficiary certificates (2,647) 1,292 (18) (1,373) MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. 55,860 47.5 55,860 47.5 December 31, Securities in foreign currencies 4,623 6,878 (2,612) 8,889 2012 (*) Others (1,077) (1,077) (*)The Group used modified financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 for Seoul Lakeside. The Group examined the effect of significant transactions or events that occurred Subtotal 232,015 5,570 (5,003) 232,582 during the 3-month period. Deferred tax (56,063) (54,958) Non-controlling interests (3,842) Amount after deferred tax ￦175,952 ￦173,782 (2) Changes in carrying value of investments in associates accounted for using the equity method are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Investees Acquisition Beginning Gain (loss) on Dividends Capital Other change Ending Beginning Gain (loss) Realization Ending balance on valuation by disposal balance cost balance valuation balance Equity securities ￦241,960 ￦11,933 ￦(38,710) ￦215,183 Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. ￦198,450 ￦146,319 ￦3,026 ￦￦￦￦149,345 Investment in partnerships (11,894) 19,357 2,493 9,956 Government bonds 7 27 34 2011 Financial bonds (222) 192 149 119 Investees Acquisition Beginning Gain (loss) on Dividends Capital Other change Ending Corporate bonds 1,466 4,431 (1,150) 4,747 cost balance valuation balance Beneficiary certificates 725 (628) (2,744) (2,647) Sempio Foods Company ￦￦44,701 ￦9,535 ￦(366) ￦(785) ￦(53,085) ￦Securities in foreign currencies (13) 4,636 4,623 Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. 198,450 212,134 5,434 (71,249) 146,319 Subtotal 232,029 ￦39,948 ￦(39,962) 232,015 ￦198,450 ￦256,835 ￦14,969 ￦(366) ￦(785) ￦(124,334) ￦146,319 Deferred tax (52,833) (56,063) Amount after deferred tax ￦179,196 ￦175,952 (3) Financial information of investments in associates accounted for using the equity method is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 Investees Assets Liabilities Operating revenue Net income Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. ￦230,753 ￦255,138 ￦48,997 ￦6,371 March 31, 2012 Investees Assets Liabilities Operating revenue Net income Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. ￦248,499 ￦129,256 ￦50,408 ￦11,441 106•107 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 10. LOANS AND RECEIVABLES (2) Brokers’ loan i. The Group loans stock acquisition funds for margin transaction customers and such margins to customers are financed by (1) Details of loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): borrowings from Korea Securities Finance Co. and the Group’s capital, and annual interest rate ranges from 5.9% to 16%. The March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Group records this transaction as margin to customers. Deposit ii. The Group provides loans for securities purchases and loans secured by securities for which annual interest rate ranges from Subscription deposits ￦71 ￦4% to 16% and such rate can be re-adjusted depending on the market condition. The Group also provides stock subscribed loans Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits 285,531 256,753 and 80% or less of application money for stock can be loaned with an annual interest rate of 8%. Securities borrowed 250,000 iii. For margin loans, amount equivalent to 140% of loans in forms of securities or cash is set to be pledged as collateral and the Deposits for exchange-traded derivatives transaction 107,435 19,265 amount is calculated by summing margins to customers and loans. The securities purchased by the customers using such loans Guarantee deposits for stock borrowings from KSFC 11,731 8,732 are firstly pledged as collateral. Guarantee deposits for KSFC trading 27,390 Bank deposit 46 46 Others 3,031,281 3,112,303 Subtotal 3,436,095 3,674,489 Loans (3) Changes in the provisions for credit losses on loans and receivables are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Call loans ￦10,000 ￦72,002 2012 Broker's loan 1,283,468 1,239,771 Loans Bonds purchased under resale agreements 70,000 Consumer Corporate Others Total Other loans 22,726 22,159 Loans 68,832 334,557 Beginning balance ￦940 ￦43,895 ￦28,309 ￦73,144 Loans purchased 22,500 27,404 Provision for credit loss for the period 597 2,802 1,959 5,358 Advances for customers on guarantees 1,536 939 Recoveries of written-off loans 14,934 186 15,120 Dishonored bills receivable 767 1,877 Charge-off (44,426) (7,035) (51,461) Privately placed bonds 46,770 Others (2,764) (338) (3,102) Discount (2,649) (6,706) Ending balance ￦1,537 ￦14,441 ￦23,081 ￦39,059 Subtotal 1,407,180 1,808,773 Other receivables Securities receivables 742,747 860,165 2011 Others 1,123,212 544,761 Loans Subtotal 1,865,959 1,404,926 Consumer Corporate Others Total Accrued income Beginning balance ￦732 ￦61,871 ￦25,935 ￦88,538 Accrued fees and commissions income 16,308 18,038 10,954 8,557 Provision for credit loss for the period 208 19,719 Accrued interest income 160,449 130,388 2,179 154 Recoveries of written-off loans 2,333 Accrued dividends income 3,920 5,271 (23,594) (11,404) Charge-off (34,998) Others 5,513 5,990 (7,515) 5,067 Others (2,448) Subtotal 186,190 159,687 Ending balance ￦940 ￦43,895 ￦28,309 ￦73,144 Other loans Deposits 99,879 106,363 Finance leases 362 875 Loans to be converted to equity securities 1,225 1,225 Others 1,443 2,649 Discount (3,969) (5,020) Subtotal 98,940 106,092 Provisions (39,059) (73,144) Total ￦6,955,305 ￦7,080,823 108•109 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 11. THE FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES March 31, 2013 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total (1) Hierarchy of the fair value AFS financial assets Equity securities 358 303,026 303,384 The fair value measurement is described in the one of the following three levels used to classify fair value measurements: Investment in partnerships 117,445 117,445 • Level 1: Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Government bonds 3,046 3,046 • Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly; and Financial bonds 40,510 40,510 • Level 3: Inputs that are not based on observable market data. Corporate bonds 54,912 12,313 67,225 If the financial instruments are traded in active market, best estimate of fair value is disclosed price (level 1). Disclosed price is easily Beneficiary certificates 34,302 7,431 41,733 available on a regular basis through exchanges, seller, broker, group of industry, rating agencies or regulatory agencies, and if those Securities in foreign currencies 11,121 60,071 71,192 price represent any actual market transaction between independent parties, then it is considered that the price of the financial Collective fund for default loss 9,908 9,908 product is presented in active market. If there is no active market for the financial product, the fair value is measured using valuation Others 11,874 11,874 techniques. The Group use full information of market and minimum of the Group's information for evaluation techniques. Subtotal 14,525 129,724 522,068 666,317 The evaluation techniques are including all the elements that participants will consider to determine the price. The Group periodically Derivative assets (hedging) use similar financial product's observable current market price with same evaluation techniques, or based on observable market Currency derivatives 6,763 6,763 data for the validity. Total ￦1,856,199 ￦16,400,281 ￦1,219,262 ￦19,475,742 Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at FVTPL (2) The fair value and its hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are as follows: Financial liabilities held for trading Securities in short position 1,385,429 6,793 1,392,222 March 31, 2013 Derivative liabilities (trading) (*) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Interest rate derivatives 245,208 68,711 313,919 Financial assets Currency derivatives 40,576 70 40,646 Financial assets at FVTPL Equity derivatives 5,943 121,161 73,036 200,140 Financial assets held for trading Credit derivatives 373 14,392 14,765 Equity securities ￦376,713 ￦￦￦376,713 Commodity derivatives 7,879 20,041 27,920 Government bonds 617,158 1,336,219 1,953,377 Others 1,922 187 2,109 Local government bonds 325,334 325,334 Subtotal 7,865 415,197 176,437 599,499 Financial bonds 3,074,573 3,074,573 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Corporate bonds 5,682,344 5,682,344 Equity linked securities 994,004 2,988,348 3,982,352 Beneficiary certificates 548,912 27,280 576,192 Other derivatives linked securities 573,276 1,928,513 2,501,789 Corporate commercial papers 159,873 159,873 Subtotal 1,567,280 4,916,861 6,484,141 Securities in foreign currencies 85,845 1,120,149 1,205,994 Derivative liabilities (hedging) Loaned securities 111,196 111,196 Currency derivatives 2,541 2,541 RP built-for-sale bonds 95,189 1,550,638 1,645,827 Total ￦1,393,294 ￦1,991,811 ￦5,093,298 ￦8,478,403 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) 814,500 814,500 Others 1,599,563 17,908 1,617,471 Subtotal ￦1,835,013 ￦15,690,473 ￦17,908 ￦17,543,394 Derivative assets (trading) (*) Interest rate derivatives 213,155 68,576 281,731 Currency derivatives 42,873 393 43,266 Equity derivatives 5,554 59,433 135,732 200,719 Credit derivatives 11,557 19,355 30,912 Commodity derivatives 7,898 17,224 25,122 Others 1,107 1,107 Subtotal 6,661 334,916 241,280 582,857 Financial assets designated at FVTPL Equity linked securities 227,338 434,826 662,164 Other derivatives linked securities 11,067 102 11,169 Other securities 3,078 3,078 Subtotal 238,405 438,006 676,411 (Continued) 110•111 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix March 31, 2012 March 31, 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Financial liabilities Financial assets at FVTPL Financial liabilities at FVTPL Financial assets held for trading Financial liabilities held for trading Equity securities ￦302,047 ￦￦￦302,047 Securities in short position ￦721,185 ￦￦￦721,185 Government bonds 707,026 228,813 935,839 Derivative liabilities (trading) (*) Local government bonds 299,442 299,442 Interest rate derivatives 117,485 16,110 133,595 Financial bonds 2,572,980 2,572,980 Currency derivatives 250,971 250,971 Corporate bonds 4,733,263 4,733,263 Equity derivatives 7,800 84,242 117,000 209,042 Beneficiary certificates 605,286 49,363 654,649 Credit derivatives 1,342 6,761 8,103 Corporate commercial papers 487,580 487,580 Commodity derivatives 507 6,501 7,008 Securities in foreign currencies 46,467 458,684 505,151 Others 421 421 Loaned securities 2,712 2,712 Subtotal 8,221 454,547 146,372 609,140 Reserve for claims of customers’ deposits (trust) 833,364 833,364 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL RP built-for-sale bonds 182,571 210,582 393,153 Equity linked securities 1,155,284 2,991,156 4,146,440 Others 145,539 145,539 Other derivatives linked securities 1,133,456 698,915 1,832,371 Subtotal 1,846,109 10,019,610 11,865,719 Subtotal 2,288,740 3,690,071 5,978,811 Derivative assets (trading) (*) Derivative liabilities (hedging) Interest rate derivatives 100,412 16,375 116,787 Currency derivatives 6,793 6,793 Currency derivatives 250,716 553 251,269 Total ￦729,406 ￦2,750,080 ￦3,836,443 ￦7,315,929 Equity derivatives 14,672 75,919 36,066 126,657 (*) Derivative assets and liabilities which are included financial assets and liabilities for trading are disclosed separately. Credit derivatives 4,317 7,035 11,352 Commodity derivatives 1,226 9,298 10,524 AFS securities which were measured at cost due to the unobservability of actively quoted price were 40,727 million Won and 59,557 Others 259 259 million Won as of March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These equity instruments are mainly unmarketable or unquoted equity Subtotal 14,931 432,590 69,327 516,848 instruments which were invested to special purposed entity such as asset securitization specialty. They are measured at cost Financial assets designated at FVTPL method because it was unavailable to get financial information which are needed on valuation, variance of estimated cash flow was Equity linked securities 183,545 534,901 718,446 significant, or various estimated amount’s occurrence probability can’t be measured reliably. The Group has no plan of disposition on Other derivatives linked securities 10,237 10,237 financial instruments in the near future. Structured deposit 10,085 10,085 Subtotal 203,867 534,901 738,768 AFS financial assets Equity securities ￦9,851 ￦￦287,736 ￦297,587 Investment in partnerships 121,221 121,221 Government bonds 3,011 3,011 Financial bonds 472,342 472,342 Corporate bonds 812,523 35,046 847,569 Beneficiary certificates 31,860 8,386 40,246 Securities in foreign currencies 14,393 29,815 44,208 Collective fund for default loss 10,330 10,330 Others 15,814 15,814 Subtotal 27,255 1,316,725 508,348 1,852,328 Derivative assets (hedging) Currency derivatives 806 806 Total ￦1,888,295 ￦11,973,598 ￦1,112,576 ￦14,974,469 (Continued) 112•113 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (3) The financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, which classified to use other valuation techniques for 2011 the year ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Other Beginning Profit or comprehensive Purchase Ending balance loss income /issuance Settlement balance 2012 Financial assets Other Financial assets at FVTPL Beginning Profit or comprehensive Purchase Transfer to Ending balance loss income /issuance Settlement Level 3 balance Derivative assets (trading) Interest rate derivatives ￦21,196 ￦(832) ￦￦￦(3,989) ￦16,375 Financial assets Currency derivatives 1,431 (550) (328) 553 Held for Trading financial assets Equity derivatives 37,306 2,652 15,782 (19,674) 36,066 Others (2,458) 20,366 17,908 Credit derivatives 4,477 8,719 (6,161) 7,035 Financial assets at FVTPL Commodity derivatives 3,923 (328) 7,206 (1,503) 9,298 Derivative assets (trading) Subtotal 68,333 9,661 22,988 (31,655) 69,327 Interest rate derivatives 16,375 52,201 68,576 Financial assets designated at FVTPL Currency derivatives 553 (160) 393 Equity linked securities 439,295 (29,243) 348,758 (223,909) 534,901 Equity derivatives 36,066 116,867 14,455 (31,656) 135,732 AFS financial assets Credit derivatives 7,035 17,021 (4,701) 19,355 Equity securities 253,924 9,974 784 35,142 (12,088) 287,736 Commodity derivatives 9,298 8,634 781 (1,489) 17,224 Investment in partnerships 98,378 (16,016) 10,630 40,107 (11,878) 121,221 Subtotal 69,327 194,563 15,236 (37,846) 241,280 Corporate bonds 12,053 2,993 20,000 35,046 Financial assets designated at FVTPL Collective investment securities 10,886 (2,500) 8,386 Equity linked securities 534,901 87,464 248,907 (436,446) 434,826 Securities in foreign currencies 25,497 550 (733) 6,534 (2,033) 29,815 Derivative combined securities (1) 103 102 Collective fund for default loss 11,482 (1,152) 10,330 Other securities 628 2,964 (514) 3,078 Others 14,332 1,278 588 (384) 15,814 Subtotal 88,091 251,974 (436,960) 438,006 Subtotal 415,666 (1,221) 8,181 102,371 (27,535) 508,348 AFS financial assets Total ￦923,294 ￦(20,803) ￦8,181 ￦474,117 ￦(283,099) ￦1,112,576 Equity securities 287,736 (1,236) (8,954) 25,325 (480) 635 303,026 Financial liabilities Investment in partnerships 121,221 2,166 9,674 28,299 (43,915) 117,445 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Corporate bonds 35,046 5,381 (28,114) 12,313 Derivative liabilities (trading) Collective investment securities 8,386 (880) (174) 99 7,431 Interest rate derivatives ￦17,255 ￦(188) ￦￦1,000 ￦(1,957) ￦16,110 Securities in foreign currencies 29,815 2,493 27,891 (128) 60,071 Equity derivatives 10,205 80,964 21,134 4,697 117,000 Collective fund for default loss 10,330 232 10 (664) 9,908 Credit derivatives 3,686 6,558 1,520 (5,003) 6,761 Others 15,814 (1,844) (1,077) 10 (1,029) 11,874 Commodity derivatives 13,089 7,392 2,525 (16,505) 6,501 Subtotal 508,348 (1,562) 7,343 53,520 (46,216) 635 522,068 Subtotal 44,235 94,726 26,179 (18,768) 146,372 Total ￦1,112,576 ￦278,634 ￦7,343 ￦341,096 ￦(521,022) 635 ￦1,219,262 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Financial liabilities Equity linked securities 1,706,953 (43,166) 2,849,475 (1,522,106) 2,991,156 Financial liabilities at FVTPL Other derivatives linked securities 353,478 17,709 491,736 (164,008) 698,915 Derivative liabilities (trading) Subtotal 2,060,431 (25,457) 3,341,211 (1,686,114) 3,690,071 Interest rate derivatives ￦16,110 ￦51,151 ￦￦￦1,450 ￦68,711 Total ￦2,104,666 ￦69,269 ￦￦3,367,390 ￦(1,704,882) ￦3,836,443 Currency derivatives (58) 128 70 Equity derivatives 117,000 (139,779) 13,567 82,248 73,036 Credit derivatives 6,761 4,789 2,842 14,392 The profit ￦129,954 million and loss ￦85,151 million which are recognized profit and loss related with assets and liabilities on the Commodity derivatives 6,501 3,873 4,790 4,877 20,041 book as of March 31, 2013 and 2012 are included in gains and losses on valuation and disposal of financial assets at FVTPL and gains Others 63 124 187 and losses on valuation and disposal of AFS financial assets. Subtotal 146,372 (79,961) 18,485 91,541 176,437 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity linked securities 2,991,156 450,951 2,731,086 (3,184,845) 2,988,348 Other derivatives linked securities 698,915 87,816 1,430,990 (289,208) 1,928,513 Subtotal 3,690,071 538,767 4,162,076 (3,474,053) 4,916,861 Total ￦3,836,443 ￦458,806 ￦￦4,180,561 ￦(3,382,512) ￦5,093,298 114•115 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (4) The following table shows the sensitivity of level 3 fair values to reasonably possible alternative assumptions. (5) Fair value and carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortized cost are as follows The sensitivity analysis of the financial instruments has been performed by classifying with favorable and (Unit: Korean Won in millions): unfavorable changes based on how changes in unobservable assumptions have effects on the fluctuations of financial instruments’ value. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one March 31, 2013 unobservable assumption, the below table reflects the most favorable or the most unfavorable changes which Fair value Carrying value result from varying the assumptions individually. Financial assets The following table shows the sensitivity analysis to disclose the effect of reasonably possible alternative Loans and receivables ￦6,955,842 ￦6,955,305 assumptions on the fair value of level 3 financial instruments for the year ended March 31, 2013 Financial liabilities (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Deposits due to customers 1,345,053 1,345,053 Borrowings 10,538,650 10,538,654 For the year ended March 31, 2013 Debentures 1,023,125 998,762 Net income (loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Other financial liabilities 2,269,099 2,269,099 Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: March 31, 2012 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Fair value Carrying value Derivatives instruments assets Financial assets Interest rates derivatives (*1) ￦14,062 ￦(21,158) ￦￦Loans and receivables ￦7,080,619 ￦7,080,823 Currencies derivatives (*2) 8 (7) Financial liabilities Equity derivatives (*1) 2,317 (7,734) Deposits due to customers 1,444,114 1,444,114 Credit derivatives(*1) 2,130 (9,896) Borrowings 8,584,457 8,584,478 Commodity derivatives (*2) 7,273 (7,345) Debentures 317,358 301,024 Subtotal ￦25,790 ￦(46,140) ￦￦Other financial liabilities 1,747,277 1,747,277 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 4,655 (687) Other derivative combined securities 1 Subtotal 4,656 (687) AFS Financial Assets 12. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT Stocks(*3) 43,518 (22,274) (1) Details of premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment in partnerships(*3) 593 (140) Subtotal 44,111 (22,414) March 31, 2013 Total ￦30,446 ￦(46,827) ￦44,111 ￦ (22,414) Land Building Properties for Construction Total business use in progress Financial liabilities: Acquisition cost ￦161,967 ￦108,367 ￦217,192 ￦881 ￦488,407 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Accumulated depreciation (10,190) (173,663) (183,853) Derivatives instruments liabilities Net carrying value ￦161,967 ￦98,177 ￦43,529 ￦881 ￦304,554 Interest rates derivatives (*1) ￦21,137 ￦(14,062) ￦￦Currencies derivatives (*2) 20 (31) March 31, 2012 Equity derivatives (*1) 7,175 (1,472) Credit derivatives(*1) 2,350 (1,452) Land Building Properties for Construction Total business use in progress Commodity derivatives (*2) 2,756 (3,236) Acquisition cost ￦161,881 ￦107,010 ￦289,110 ￦1,180 ￦559,181 Others 1 (3) Accumulated depreciation (6,854) (235,316) (242,170) Subtotal 33,439 (20,256) Net carrying value ￦161,881 ￦100,156 ￦53,794 ￦1,180 ￦317,011 Financial liabilities designed at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 4,269 (17,663) Other derivative combined securities 20,638 (11,738) Subtotal 24,907 (29,401) Total ￦58,346 ￦(49,657) ￦￦(*1) Fair value changes of equity, interest-rates and credit-linked derivatives among the financial assets are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical fluctuation rate of stock price and correlation by 10%. The historical fluctuation rate of stock price and correlation are major unobservable variables. (*2) Fair value changes of currencies-linked and commodity-linked derivatives are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical fluctuation rate of stock price and correlation by 10%. The historical fluctuation rate of stock price and correlation are major unobservable variables. (*3) Fair value changes of equity securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0~1%) and discount rate (-1~1%). The growth rate, discount rate, and liquidation value are major unobservable variables. 116•117 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (2) Details of changes in premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 14. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 2012 (1) Details of intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Land Building Properties for Construction Total business use in progress March 31, 2013 Beginning balance ￦161,881 ￦100,156 ￦53,794 ￦1,180 ￦317,011 Goodwill Development Software Membership Others Total cost deposit Foreign currencies translation adjustment (62) (13) (75) Acquisition cost ￦3,991 ￦31,619 ￦2,420 ￦27,222 ￦30,073 ￦95,325 Acquisition 13,588 2,750 16,338 Accumulated depreciation (28,175) (2,300) (19,063) (49,538) Disposition (3,603) (66) (3,669) Accumulated impairment loss (1,421) (3,815) (5,236) Depreciation (3,226) (25,542) (28,768) Net carrying value ￦2,570 ￦3,444 ￦120 ￦23,407 ￦11,010 ￦40,551 Others 86 1,247 5,354 (2,970) 3,717 Ending balance ￦161,967 ￦98,177 ￦43,529 ￦881 ￦304,554 March 31, 2012 Goodwill Development Software Membership Others Total 2011 cost deposit Land Building Properties for Construction Total Acquisition cost ￦3,992 ￦31,619 ￦2,376 ￦26,774 ￦28,986 ￦93,747 business use in progress Accumulated depreciation (23,009) (2,213) (13,644) (38,866) Beginning balance ￦162,492 ￦104,484 ￦57,300 ￦1,475 ￦325,751 Accumulated impairment loss (2,495) (2,495) Foreign currencies translation adjustment 4 68 16 88 Net carrying value ￦3,992 ￦8,610 ￦163 ￦24,279 ￦15,342 ￦52,386 Acquisition 1,183 2,111 15,616 20,324 39,234 Disposition (1,026) (2,900) (2,591) (6,517) Depreciation (3,248) (26,408) (29,656) Others (768) (295) 9,809 (20,635) (11,889) (2) Details of changes in intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Ending balance ￦161,881 ￦100,156 ￦53,794 ￦1,180 ￦317,011 2012 Goodwill Development Software Membership Others Total cost deposit Beginning balance ￦3,992 ￦8,610 ￦163 ￦24,279 ￦15,342 ￦52,386 13. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES Foreign currencies translation adjustment (1) (15) (12) (28) Acquisition 50 1,173 1,223 (1) Investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Depreciation (5,166) (91) (5,425) (10,682) Disposition (1) (1) March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Impairment loss (1,422) (1,319) (2,741) Acquisition cost ￦77,205 ￦80,547 Others 462 (68) 394 Accumulated depreciation (2,295) (1,820) Ending balance ￦2,570 ￦3,444 ￦120 ￦23,407 ￦11,010 ￦40,551 Net carrying value ￦74,910 ￦78,727 2011 (2) Changes in investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Goodwill Development Software Membership Others Total cost deposit 2012 2011 Beginning balance ￦3,992 ￦13,777 ￦298 ￦26,071 ￦14,760 ￦58,898 Beginning balance ￦78,727 ￦64,334 Foreign currencies translation adjustment 17 16 33 Acquisition 7 Acquisition 107 680 5,186 5,973 Disposition (1,733) Depreciation (5,167) (89) (4,773) (10,029) Depreciation (752) (715) Disposition (196) (196) Transfer to/from premises and equipment (1,332) 15,101 Impairment loss (2,293) (2,293) Ending balance ￦74,910 ￦78,727 Others (153) 153 Ending balance ￦3,992 ￦8,610 ￦163 ￦24,279 ￦15,342 ￦52,386 Fair value of investment properties as of March 31, 2013 is ￦77,025 million. The fair value of investment properties is determined by the assessment performed by Nara Appraisal Board, the independent appraiser who has proper qualification and experience. For the years ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, the revenue occurred from investment properties is ￦5,078 million and ￦4,278 million, respectively. 118•119 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 15. OTHER ASSETS 17. PLEDGED ASSETS Details of other assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of pledged assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Collateral provided to Pledged assets March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Advance payments ￦72,949 ￦57,014 Korea Securities Depository Financial assets at FVTPL (equity securities) ￦457,566 ￦255,048 Guarantee for lending and Prepaid expenses 11,763 13,036 borrowing securities Prepaid taxes 86 62 Deutsche Bank AG and others Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 251,862 CSA collateral and others Leased assets 2,250 KSFC Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 1,638,733 1,214,005 Guarantee for lending and Others 611 395 borrowing securities Total ￦85,409 ￦72,757 KEB Futures and others Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 28,943 23,386 Guarantee trading deposits for Korean Treasury-Bond futures Korea Securities Depository and others Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 731,699 290,444 Guarantee for lending and borrowing securities 16. LEASE ASSETS Korea Securities Depository and others Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 8,580,840 7,444,639 RP collateral Korea exchange Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 55,266 76,550 Guarantee trading deposits for (1) Lease payments of lease assets are collected quarterly or monthly and terms of a lease contract are as follows: futures and options (a) Lease contract cannot be canceled during the stipulated period and penalty is charged to lessee for the early termination of lease Korea exchange Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 8,199 8,453 Collective fund for default loss and lessee can purchase the lease asset for a contract price (amount multiplied by certain percentage of acquisition cost) upon KSFC and others Financial assets at FVTPL (debt securities) 38,845 Operating fund for debt securties expiration of lease. KSFC Financial assets at FVTPL (CP) 32,000 241,155 Guarantee for lending and borrowing securities (b) Lessee, with agreement by the Group, appoints the Group as an insurance beneficiary to avoid risks related to management of KDB Capital Co. AFS financial instrument assets 30,000 30,000 Guarantee for borrowings leased assets. In addition, the Group possesses the title of the ownership and other related rights. (equity securities) KDB Capital Co. AFS financial instrument assets 20,000 20,000 Guarantee for borrowings (debt securities) (2) Operation lease Shinhancard Co., Ltd. Premises and equipment (real estate) 91,656 92,407 Deposits for rents Operating lease assets based on acquisition costs are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions) ￦11,965,609 ￦9,696,087 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 The Group has pledged assets among securities borrowing company ￦481,283 million and ￦682,632 million as of March 31, 2013 Vessels ￦￦19,378 and March 31, 2012 respectively. Vehicles 140 140 Total 140 19,518 Accumulated depreciation (140) (17,268) Net carrying value ￦￦2,250 (2) Loaned securities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Loaned to Financial assets at FVTPL Securities ￦48 ￦2,712 Korea Securities Depository (3) Finance lease Korean treasury and government agencies 111,148 Korea Money Brokerage Corp. and others The present values of total investment of finance lease and minimum lease payments as of March 31, 2013 are as follows Total ￦111,196 ￦2,712 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Lease payment in Won Lease payment in foreign currency Total (3) Collaterals held with right to sell and pledge without constraints Fair value of the collaterals held with right to sell 2013.4.1 ~ 2014.3.31 ￦174 ￦￦174 and pledge without constraints as of March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2012 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): After 2014.4.1 188 188 March 31, 2013 Total lease investment 362 362 Fair value of collateral Fair value of the collaterals disposed and pledged Unrealized gain on finance lease Securities ￦118,592 ￦115,110 Net lease investment 362 362 March 31, 2012 Finance lease cancellation Fair value of collateral Fair value of the collaterals disposed and pledged Finance lease ￦362 ￦￦362 Securities ￦129,757 ￦129,472 120•121 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 18. SECURITIES IN CUSTODY AND LENDING & BORROWING SECURITIES (2) Details of financial liabilities designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): FROM CUSTOMERS March 31, 2013 Par value (contract) Acquisition cost Fair value Securities in custody and lending and borrowing securities from customers are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Derivatives combined securities sold: Equity linked securities ￦3,872,914 ￦3,869,923 ￦3,982,352 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Valuation Others 2,448,517 2,432,564 2,501,789 Securities received Total ￦6,321,431 ￦6,302,487 ￦6,484,141 Trustor securities in custody ￦16,046,329 ￦109,556,326 Fair value Saver securities in custody 115,007 113,560 Fair value March 31, 2012 Beneficiary securities in custody 12,065,608 10,330,824 Base price for sale Par value (contract) Acquisition cost Fair value Other securities in custody 79,511 89,488 Fair value Derivatives combined securities sold: Total ￦28,306,455 ￦120,090,198 Equity linked securities ￦4,222,800 ￦4,208,677 ￦4,146,440 Lending securities(*1) ￦825,380 ￦635,274 Fair value Others 1,849,200 1,833,135 1,832,371 Borrowing securities ￦2,759,261 ￦1,592,018 Fair value Total ￦6,072,000 ￦6,041,812 ￦5,978,811 (*1) This is the total amount of securities held or borrowed by the group as of March 31, 2013. (3) Credit risk adjustments to financial liabilities designated at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 19. DEPOSITS DUE TO CUSTOMERS (“ DEPOSITS ”) 2012 2011 Details of deposits for use as of are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL ￦6,484,141 ￦5,978,811 Changes in fair value for credit risk adjustments (23,610) (20,543) March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Accumulated changes in credit risk adjustments (32,121) (20,776) Customers’ deposits Customers’ deposits for brokerage ￦879,650 ￦797,458 Customers’ deposits for derivatives transactions 206,175 505,404 Customers’ deposits for savings 15,557 13,009 Customers’ deposits for beneficiary 12,550 5,589 Others 219,390 113,922 21. BORROWINGS Subtotal 1,333,322 1,435,382 Guarantee deposits Details of borrowings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Securities loaned 11,731 8,732 Total ￦1,345,053 ￦1,444,114 March 31, 2013 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Call-money KB Asset Management and others 2.7 ~ 2.8 ￦770,000 20. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FVTPL Borrowings KSFC and others 1.03 ~ 12.4 1,710,520 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements KB Bank and others 0.3 ~ 2.8 8,059,992 (1) Details of financial liabilities held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Present value discount (1,858) Total ￦10,538,654 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Borrowings March 31, 2012 Securities in short position ￦1,392,222 ￦721,185 Lender Interest rate (%) Amount Derivative liabilities: Call-money Shinhan Bank and others 3.27 ~ 3.35 ￦941,300 Interest rate derivatives 313,919 133,595 Borrowings KSFC and others 3.4 689,113 Currency derivatives 40,646 250,971 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements Mirae Asset Global Investment Co., Ltd. and others 3.40 ~ 3.41 6,954,757 Stock derivatives 200,140 209,042 Present value discount (692) Credit derivatives 14,765 8,103 Total ￦8,584,478 Commodity derivatives 27,920 7,008 Other derivatives 2,109 421 Subtotal 599,499 609,140 Total ￦1,991,721 ￦1,330,325 122•123 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 22. DEBENTURES 24. PROVISIONS Details of debentures are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of provisions are as follows(Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Ordinary bonds March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Asset retirement obligation ￦3,272 ￦3,800 Issued Date Due Date Interest rate (%) March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Other Provisions 6,035 6,087 Series 45th corporate bonds 2012.04.27 2015.04.27 3.94 ￦250,000 ￦Total ￦9,307 ￦9,887 Series 46th corporate bonds 2012.09.27 2017.09.27 3.28 30,000 Series 47st corporate bonds 2012.10.18 2017.10.18 3.26 70,000 Series 48rd corporate bonds 2012.11.15 2017.11.15 3.20 100,000 (2) Changes in provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Series 49th corporate bonds 2012.11.22 2017.11.22 3.22 50,000 2012 Series 50th corporate bonds 2013.03.07 2018.03.07 2.99 100,000 Asset retirement obligation Others Total Series 51th corporate bonds 2013.03.28 2018.03.28 2.95 100,000 2010.02.11 Beginning balance ￦3,800 ￦6,087 ￦9,887 Non-guarantee 1-1st ordinary bonds (*) 2013.02.11 AAA Bond 3 years 1,166 monthly yield + 1.3 Provisions provided 628 628 Provisions used (516) (187) (703) Total 700,000 1,166 Reversal of unused amount (2,637) (147) (2,784) Less : discounts (1,180) Foreign exchange translation adjustment (346) (346) Book value ￦698,820 ￦1,166 Amortization 241 241 (*) Unsubordinated security issued by KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. Additional settlement 2,384 2,384 Ending balance ￦ 3,272 ￦6,035 ￦9,307 (2) Subordinated debentures 2011 Issued Date Due Date Interest rate (%) March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Series 42-1st corporate bonds 2008.05.21 2013.11.21 6.86 ￦170,000 ￦170,000 Asset retirement obligation Others Total Series 42-2nd corporate bonds 2008.05.21 2013.11.21 6.86 130,000 130,000 Beginning balance ￦4,104 ￦5,938 ￦10,042 Total 300,000 300,000 Provisions provided 553 553 Less : discounts (58) (142) Provisions used (314) (314) Book value ￦299,942 ￦299,858 Reversal of unused amount (3,463) (3,463) Foreign exchange translation adjustment (404) (404) Amortization 261 261 Additional settlement 3,212 3,212 23. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Ending balance ￦3,800 ￦6,087 ￦9,887 Other financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Other financial liabilities: 25. OTHER LIABILITIES Dividend payable ￦￦1 Other liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Accounts payable 1,849,538 1,360,509 Accrued expenses 131,686 113,520 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Leasehold deposits received 14,894 15,528 Retirement benefit obligation ￦5,011 ￦13,388 Others 273,350 258,673 Advance received 6 Present value discount (369) (954) Unearned revenue 3,238 8,647 Total ￦2,269,099 ￦1,747,277 Deferred tax liabilities 32,002 33,733 Others 2 Total ￦40,259 ￦55,768 124•125 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 26. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATION (6) Details of plan assets and realized returns on plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 (1) Details of retirement benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Deposits ￦15,950 ￦6,502 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Insurer’s guaranteed interest deposits 30,837 16,134 Projected retirement benefit obligation ￦51,798 ￦36,024 Total ￦46,787 ￦22,636 Fair value of plan assets (46,787) (22,636) Liability recognized ￦5,011 ￦13,388 27. DERIVATIVES (2) Details of post-employee benefits recognized in net income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of derivative assets and derivative liabilities are as follows(Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Retirement pension benefits ￦2,022 ￦1,543 March 31, 2013 Current service cost 17,237 16,204 Assets Liabilities Interest cost 2,365 1,158 Nominal amount For hedging For trading For hedging For trading Expected return of plan assets (1,134) (462) Interest rate: Actuarial profit or losses (805) 2,506 Swaps ￦45,111,620 ￦￦281,731 ￦￦313,346 ￦19,685 ￦20,949 Short options 110,000 573 Subtotal 45,221,620 281,731 313,919 Currency: (3) Changes in carrying value of retirement benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Forwards 3,378,615 6,763 14,679 2,541 19,136 Swaps 1,411,202 25,784 20,845 2012 2011 Long options 287,721 2,803 Beginning balance ￦36,024 ￦18,199 Short options 129,209 665 Service cost 17,237 16,204 Subtotal 5,206,747 6,763 43,266 2,541 40,646 Interest cost 2,365 1,158 Equity: Actuarial loss (gain) (674) 2,533 Long options 2,255,639 56,287 Retirement benefit paid (3,235) (1,881) Short options 4,839,429 106,444 Others 81 (189) Swaps 3,364,649 144,432 93,696 Ending balance ￦51,798 ￦36,024 Subtotal 10,459,717 200,719 200,140 Credit: (4) Changes in plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Swaps 2,582,711 30,912 14,765 Commodity: 2012 2011 Long options 32,000 2,001 Beginning balance ￦22,636 ￦11,100 Swaps 1,345,415 23,121 27,920 Expected return on plan assets 1,134 462 Subtotal 1,377,415 25,122 27,920 Actuarial loss 131 27 Others: Employer’s contributions 25,500 12,000 Interest rate futures 1,677,727 91 682 Retirement benefit paid (2,447) (904) Currency futures 1,254,619 Others (167) (49) Equity futures 211,082 464 515 Ending balance ￦46,787 ￦22,636 Commodity futures 45,561 552 725 Other swaps 10,000 187 Subtotal 3,198,989 1,107 2,109 (5) Actuarial assumption used in retirement benefit obligation assessment are as follows Total ￦68,047,199 ￦6,763 ￦582,857 ￦2,541 ￦599,499 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Discount rate 2.88% ~ 3.45% 4.12%~4.63% Expected rate of return on plan assets 3.38% 4.01% Future wage growth rate 4.87% 6.02% Mortality ratio 0.02% 0.02% 126•127 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix March 31, 2012 28. DAY 1 PROFITS AND LOSSES Assets Liabilities Nominal amount For hedging For trading For hedging For trading Changes in deferred day 1 profits and losses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Interest rate: 2012 2011 Swaps ￦49,170,459 ￦￦116,787 ￦￦133,595 Beginning balance ￦61,540 ￦31,873 Currency: New transactions 64,228 57,240 Forwards 1,837,303 806 6,311 6,793 11,156 Financial assets at FVTPL (19,259) (45,100) Swaps 2,790,855 243,705 239,815 Financial liabilities at FVTPL 83,487 102,340 Long options 33,207 1,253 Amounts recognized in profits or loss (41,482) (27,573) Subtotal 4,661,365 806 251,269 6,793 250,971 Financial assets at FVTPL 5,701 7,055 Equity: Financial liabilities at FVTPL (47,183) (34,628) Long options 4,295,362 75,928 Ending balance ￦84,286 ￦61,540 Short options 7,002,772 82,632 Swaps 3,022,933 50,729 126,410 Although no observable elements were available in active market to determine fair value of the financial instruments, valuation Subtotal 14,321,067 126,657 209,042 techniques were utilized to determine fair value of such instruments. These financial instruments are recorded at fair values at the Credit: time of purchase even though there were differences noted on the transaction price and fair value obtained from valuation techniques. Swaps 2,834,568 11,352 8,103 The table above shows the differences yet to be recognized in net income and the details. Commodity: Long options 94,750 4,905 Short options 10,000 Swaps 377,274 5,619 7,008 29. CAPITAL STOCK AND OTHER PAID-IN-CAPITAL Subtotal 482,024 10,524 7,008 (1) Capital stock and other paid-in-capital are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Others: Interest rate futures 349,553 6 27 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Currency futures 572,792 Capital stock: Equity futures 398,450 15 195 Common stock ￦1,021,145 ￦1,021,145 Commodity futures 17,860 238 199 Preferred stock 99,355 99,355 Subtotal 1,338,655 259 421 Subtotal 1,120,500 1,120,500 Total ￦72,808,138 ￦806 ￦516,848 ￦6,793 ￦609,140 Capital Surplus: Capital in excess of par value 1,144,243 1,144,220 The Group has applied hedge accounting to hedge the currency risk arising from net investments in foreign operations. Treasury stock (*) (21,057) (23,434) Gains on sale of treasury stock 15,455 15,905 Other capital surplus 17,999 17,704 (2) Gains or losses on valuation of derivatives are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Subtotal 1,156,640 1,154,395 Total ￦2,277,140 ￦2,274,895 2012 2011 (*) Treasury stocks that the Group holds as of March 31, 2013 are acquired for the stability of stock price, increase the shareholder value, and the compensation for the employees, which will be provided Ineffective gains and losses of cash flow hedging activities ￦4,490 ￦(128) as compensation in future. The Group recognized the ineffective gains and losses from hedging of the overseas net investments as gain and losses on valuation and disposal of hedging derivatives. (2) Details of the capital stock for the Group are as follows : March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Authorized shares of capital stock 400,000,000 shares 400,000,000 shares Par value ￦5,000 ￦5,000 Issued shares of capital stock 218,124,831 shares 218,124,831 shares Common Stock 199,253,863 shares 199,253,863 shares Preferred Stock 18,870,968 shares 18,870,968 shares The Group may retire the shares by the resolution of the board of directors according to the regulations within the scope of benefits to shareholders dividends. The Group has differences of ￦29,876 million between capital and total par value of shares issued due to the retirement of shares. 128•129 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (3) Changes in Capital stock and paid-in capital in excess of par value are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 32. PLANNED REGULATORY RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSS Capital stock paid-in capital In accordance with Article 3 Clause 8 of the Regulation on Supervision of Financial Investment, if the estimated provisions for Common Stock Preferred Stock in excess of par value credit loss under K-IFRS are lower than those in accordance with the provisions under the Regulation on Supervision of Financial April 1, 2011 ￦687,445 ￦99,355 ￦843,823 Investment, the Group shall disclose the difference as the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss. The planned regulatory reserve Paid-in capital increase 333,700 300,397 for credit loss is included in the retained earnings before appropriation, and it will be accumulated as the planned regulatory reserve March 31, 2012 1,021,145 99,355 1,144,220 for credit loss when liquidating the retained earnings. Related to Paid-in capital increase 23 March 31, 2013 ￦1,021,145 ￦99,355 ￦1,144,243 (1) Balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit losses is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Beginning ￦18,481 ￦Amount estimated to be appropriated 10,644 18,481 30. COMPONENTS OF OTHER EQUITY Ending ￦29,125 ￦18,481 Details for the components of other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (2) Planned reserves provided, adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided and adjusted earnings per March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 share after the planned reserves provided are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for earning per share): Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets ￦173,782 ￦175,952 2012 2011 Share of other comprehensive gain loss on investment in associates (3,226) (3,226) Planned reserves provided ￦10,644 ￦11,081 Gain on valuation of derivatives instruments 6,199 5,221 Adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided 77,051 154,996 Loss on overseas business translation (11,217) (7,418) Adjusted Earnings per share after the planned reserves provided ￦389 ￦1,007 Total ￦165,538 ￦170,529 33. DIVIDENDS 31. RETAINED EARNINGS Details of dividends and payout ratio are as follows: (1) Retained earnings consist of the follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of dividends (Unit: Korean Won in millions): March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Legal reserve ￦78,212 ￦72,026 2012 2011 Planned Regulatory Reserve for Credit Loss 18,481 18,481 Common stock Preferred Stock Common stock Preferred Stock Voluntary reserve 870,060 693,960 Shares outstanding (*) 198,268,581 18,870,956 198,160,886 18,870,961 Retained earnings before appropriation 58,130 203,582 Par value per share ￦5,000 ￦5,000 ￦5,000 ￦5,000 Other retained earnings (*) 6,845 6,845 Dividend rate 2.0% 3.0% 4.60% 5.60% Total ￦1,031,728 ￦994,894 Total cash dividend (million) ￦19,827 ￦2,831 ￦45,577 ￦5,284 (*) ￦6,345 million of other retained earnings are gains arisen from the revaluation of the assets in accordance with Assets Revaluation Law, hence gain on revaluation may not be used such cash (*) Excludes treasury stocks dividend but may only be used for capitalization or deficit recovery. (2) Payout ratio (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (2) Legal Reserve 2012 2011 In accordance with the Act of Financial Investment Law, legal reserve is appropriated at least one tenth of the earnings after tax on every Total cash dividend ￦22,658 ￦50,861 dividend declaration, not exceeding paid in capital. This reserve may not be used except for offsetting a deficit or transferring to capital. Net income attributable to owner 87,695 166,077 Payout ratio 25.84% 30.62% (3) Dividend yield ratio is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Common stock Preferred Stock Common stock Preferred Stock Dividend per share ￦100 ￦150 ￦230 ￦280 Ending price 11,750 4,590 13,050 5,240 Dividend yield ratio 0.85% 3.27% 1.76% 5.34% 130•131 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 34. FEE INCOME AND EXPENSE (2) Details of losses on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Fee income occurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 2012 2011 Disposal of financial assets held for trading ￦182,993 ￦231,285 Brokerage commissions ￦274,404 ￦408,886 Changes in value of financial assets held for trading 32,172 29,894 Underwriting commissions 29,076 45,394 Disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 89,719 58,017 Underwriting commissions on debentures 68 340 Change in Value of financial liabilities held for trading 26,878 12,088 Brokerage commissions on beneficiary certificates 18,521 20,380 Derivative transaction 1,122,327 1,172,389 Management fee on wrap account and asset management 12,890 24,431 Change in value of derivative instruments 418,254 416,648 Intermediating, arranging, or conducting as proxy the purchase and merger of corporations 11,175 24,960 Sales of financial assets designated as at FVTPL 6,476 2,008 Trust fees and commissions received from trust account 9,344 9,364 Change in value of financial assets designated as at FVTPL 7,817 52,646 Remittance fee 237 268 Sales of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 414,351 169,125 Others 52,856 36,980 Change in value of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 355,855 114,480 Total ￦408,571 ￦571,003 Total ￦2,656,842 ￦2,258,580 (2) Fee expense occurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 36. GAINS AND LOSSES ON VALUATION AND DISPOSAL AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Trading commissions ￦33,757 ￦41,318 Investment consultant fees 2,184 4,971 (1) Details of gains on AFS financial assets recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Remittance fee 1,237 281 2012 2011 Other commissions 35,870 24,420 Sales of available for sale securities ￦18,781 ￦58,068 Total ￦73,048 ￦70,990 Changes in value of sale securities(*) 804 Reversal of available for sale securities reduction losses 4,271 Total ￦19,585 ￦62,339 * Amount of the difference between the fair value and the transaction price when initially recognized have been recognized in profit. 35. GAINS (LOSSES) ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FVTPL (2) Details of losses on AFS financial assets recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of gains on change in value of and disposal of financial instruments at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Sales of available for sale securities ￦4,306 ￦4,803 2012 2011 Impairment of available for sale securities 5,092 26,398 Disposal of financial assets held for trading ￦282,762 ￦230,872 Total ￦9,398 ￦31,201 Change in value of financial assets held for trading 139,466 92,195 Disposal of financial liabilities held for trading 59,177 57,076 Change in value of financial liabilities held for trading 9,843 11,558 Derivative transaction 1,284,345 1,176,058 37. GAIN AND LOSS ON DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (HEDGING) Changes in value of derivative instruments 574,369 376,181 (1) Details of gains on valuation and disposal of derivative instruments (hedging) reflected are as follows Sales of financial assets designated as at FVTPL 47,866 13,827 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Change in value of financial assets designated as at FVTPL 63,444 13,738 Sales of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 39,341 26,017 2012 2011 Change in value of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 69,701 204,736 Derivatives (hedging) transaction ￦5,062 Total ￦2,570,314 ￦2,202,258 Changes in value of derivatives instruments (hedging) 2,465 ￦221 Total ￦7,527 ￦221 (2) Details of losses on valuation and disposal of derivative instruments (hedging) reflected are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Derivatives (hedging) transaction ￦2,107 ￦138 Changes in value of derivatives instruments (hedging) 303 390 Total ￦2,410 ￦528 132•133 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 38. INTEREST INCOME AND EXPENSE 40. GAINS AND LOSSES ON FOREIGN TRANSACTION (1) Details of interest income consists as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Gains on foreign transaction are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 2012 2011 Interest on margin loans ￦93,721 ￦97,540 Gain on foreign currency transaction ￦42,620 ￦22,877 Interest on loan purchased 1,527 1,833 Gain on foreign currency translation 35,902 37,237 Interest on loans 9,363 14,706 Total ￦78,522 ￦60,114 Interest on bonds 426,879 398,920 Interest on securities loaned 257 181 Interest on negotiable commercial papers 11,006 25,593 (2) losses on foreign transaction are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Interest on deposits with KSFC 7,149 11,083 2012 2011 Interest on certificate of deposits 88 Loss on foreign currency transaction ￦49,638 ￦42,322 Interest on call loans 391 994 Loss on foreign currency translation 22,955 23,891 Interest on bonds purchased under resale agreements 1,037 22,357 Total ￦72,593 ￦66,213 Interest on advances for customers 32 81 Interest on deposits 160,462 92,202 Interest on receivables 644 1,079 Others 11,039 9,062 41. general and administrative expenses Total ￦723,507 ￦675,719 Details of general and administrative expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Interest income accrued from impaired loan is ￦3,059 million and ￦7,542 million for the year ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 2012 2011 Salaries Short-term salaries (2) Details of interest expense consists as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): ￦253,045 ￦264,952 Severance benefits 19,685 20,949 2012 2011 Early retirement 299 Interest on borrowings ￦45,582 ￦34,199 Employee benefits 63,889 56,967 Interest on proceeds from customers’ short sale 46 31 Subtotal 336,918 342,868 Interest on customers’ deposits 15,392 10,284 Depreciation 28,768 29,657 Interest on bonds sold under repurchase agreements 213,841 212,596 Other general and administrative expenses Interest on call money 22,176 30,623 Electronic expenses 12,066 8,693 Interest on debentures 37,571 40,526 Employee benefits 8,219 9,529 Others 2,378 2,461 Rent 20,500 19,810 Total ￦336,986 ￦330,720 Commission 37,064 43,357 Amusement expenses 8,263 10,792 Advertisement expenses 13,613 17,780 Training expenses 1,484 2,336 39. GAINS AND LOSS ON LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Amortization expenses of intangible assets 10,682 10,029 Taxes and dues 29,022 32,392 (1) Details of gains on changes in value and disposal of loans and receivables reflected are as follows Commission on consignment 9,706 15,833 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Conference expenses 838 976 Printings 3,137 3,125 2012 2011 Travel 4,502 5,540 Sales of loans receivable ￦￦592 Vehicle maintenance 1,846 1,713 Supplies 1,116 1,268 (2) Details of losses on valuation of loans and receivables reflected are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Other general and administrative expenses Water, light and heating 3,358 3,237 2012 2011 Insurance 2,740 2,756 Bad debt expense ￦5,358 ￦19,719 Entertainment 8,241 11,087 Others 18,603 19,425 Subtotal 195,000 219,678 Total ￦560,686 ￦592,203 134•135 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 42. OTHER OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) 44. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (1) Details of other operating incomes are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of income tax expense are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 2012 2011 Dividend income ￦17,128 ￦20,427 Current income tax payable ￦36,404 ￦41,222 Distribution income 3,295 4,521 Changes in deferred income taxes due to temporary differences (10,231) 11,098 Gain on lease 1,169 2,214 Changes in deferred income taxes directly in equity 503 356 Reversal of provision 2,784 3,463 Adjustment recognized in the periods for current tax of prior periods (5,963) 6,220 Others 1,551 3,121 Income tax expense ￦20,713 ￦58,896 Total ￦25,927 ￦33,746 (*) Deferred tax liabilities, net— End of year 63,508 73,739 Deferred tax liabilities, net— Beginning of year 73,739 62,641 (2) Details of other operating expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Changes in deferred income taxes by temporary differences (10,231) 11,098 2012 2011 (2) Income tax expense can be reconciled to net income as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Lease expenses ￦312 ￦1,184 Provisions 628 553 2012 2011 Other operating expenses 5,694 1,022 Income before income tax ￦108,814 ￦228,697 Total ￦6,634 ￦2,759 Tax calculated at statutory tax rate (24.19% in 2012 and 2011) 26,307 55,318 Adjustments: Expense not deductible for tax purposes (￦6,976 million in 2012 and ￦7,722 million in 2011) 1,793 1,866 Income not taxable for tax purposes (￦11,693 million in 2012 and ￦13,811 million in 2011) (2,969) (3,340) 43. NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) Others (4,418) 5,052 Income tax expense ￦20,713 ￦58,896 (1) Non-operating income consists as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Effect tax rates 19.04% 25.75% 2012 2011 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment ￦274 ￦130 (3) Changes in temporary differences and the income tax assets and liabilities for the years ended March 31, 2013 and Rent 5,659 4,802 2012 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Share of profits of associates 3,026 14,969 2012 Gain on disposal of investments in associates 85 Beginning balance Addition(*) Deduction(*) Ending balance Other non-operating income 2,720 3,550 (Deductible temporary differences) Total ￦11,764 ￦23,451 Accrued severance benefits ￦31,007 ￦14,084 ￦4,938 ￦40,153 Loss on impairment of AFS assets 51,250 5,092 2,041 54,301 (2) Non-operating expense consists as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Equity securities convertible to receivables 2,639 527 3,166 Valuation of securities in short position 530 16,939 530 16,939 2012 2011 Valuation of derivatives-linked securities (27,633) 196,531 (39,179) 208,077 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment ￦1,851 ￦2,353 Transfer price tax 5,613 5,613 Loss on disposal of investments in associates 2,007 18,056 Asset retirement obligation 3,800 3,272 3,800 3,272 Donations 1,646 3,243 Other Provisions 723 1,017 723 1,017 Impairment loss on intangible assets 2,741 2,293 Discount on private placement bond 3,553 3,553 Other non-operating expenses 4,703 1888 Impairment of intangible assets 2,293 453 2,746 Total ￦12,948 ￦27,833 Accrued expenses 249 287 175 361 Borrowings 273 664 444 493 Privately placed bonds (Cancel Sale) (12,516) (13,646) 1,130 Provision for credit losses (Cancel Sale) 7,777 35 7,742 Others 24,020 39,106 23,683 39,443 Subtotal 85,801 285,749 (12,903) 384,453 Not recognized as deferred tax assets 10,389 7,130 4,776 12,743 Recognized as deferred tax assets ￦75,412 ￦278,619 ￦(17,679) ￦371,710 Tax rate 24.2% or 22% 24.2% or 22% Deferred tax assets 17,636 89,777 136•137 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix 2012 2011 Beginning balance Addition(*) Deduction(*) Ending balance Beginning balance Addition(*) Deduction(*) Ending balance (Taxable temporary differences) (Deductible temporary differences) Derivative-linked securities rating ￦30,126 ￦(21,725) ￦30,126 ￦(21,725) Accrued severance benefits ￦13,460 ￦18,479 ￦932 ￦31,007 Contribution for retirement allowances (22,264) (26,519) (2,531) (46,252) Loss on impairment of AFS assets 53,072 26,398 28,220 51,250 Provisions (1,585) (1,585) Dividends of tax heaven 6,028 6,028 Accrued income (80,359) (85,127) (80,359) (85,127) Valuation of securities in short position 13,820 530 13,820 530 Collective fund for default loss (620) (620) Equity securities convertible to receivables 2,639 2,639 Advanced depreciation provision (7,167) (7,167) Valuation of derivatives-linked securities (27,024) 30,126 (27,024) 30,126 Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS assets (235,703) (4,142) (11,228) (228,617) Valuation of OTC derivatives (15,760) 73,134 (15,760) 73,134 Revaluation reserve (16,155) (16,155) Transfer price tax 5,613 5,613 Loans (10,058) (14) (802) (9,270) Asset retirement obligation 4,104 3,800 4,104 3,800 Derivatives traded in OTC evaluation 73,134 (35,864) 75,359 (38,089) Other Provisions 170 723 170 723 Land (49,797) (357) (281) (49,873) Discount on private placement bond 3,553 3,553 Fixture (2,697) (2,697) Gain on valuation of derivative instruments (195) 10,748 (195) 10,748 Building (7,061) (416) (6,645) Impairment of intangible assets 2,293 2,293 Valuation of derivatives 10,748 (9,030) 10,748 (9,030) Accrued expenses 239 175 165 249 Held for selling evaluation (27,600) (78,775) (27,600) (78,775) Borrowings 273 273 Gain and loss on translation of foreign currency (13,930) (12,053) (13,930) (12,053) Prepaid expenses 728 728 Others (86,554) (74,945) (86,554) (74,945) Others 4,445 6,653 4,108 6,990 Subtotal (445,957) (350,136) (110,165) (685,928) Subtotal 65,165 173,059 15,296 222,928 Not recognized as deferred tax liabilities (63,909) (62,763) (63,909) (62,763) Not recognized as deferred tax assets 5,613 5,613 Recognized as deferred tax liabilities ￦(382,048) ￦(287,373) ￦(46,256) ￦(623,165) Recognized as deferred tax assets ￦59,552 173,059 15,296 ￦217,315 Tax rate 24.2% or 22% 24.2% or 22% Tax rate 24.2% or 22% 24.2% or 22% Deferred tax liabilities (91,375) (153,285) Deferred tax assets ￦12,673 ￦52,579 Deferred tax liabilities – net ￦(73,739) ￦(63,508) (Taxable temporary differences) (*) Temporary differences due to final declaration of income tax during 2012 are reflected. Contribution for retirement allowances ￦(11,055) ￦(12,141) ￦(932) ￦(22,264) Provisions (13,498) (13,498) Accrued income (60,820) (78,650) (59,111) (80,359) Valuation of held for trading 67,793 (27,600) 67,793 (27,600) Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation 8,112 (13,930) 8,112 (13,930) Collective fund for default loss (620) (620) Advanced depreciation provision (7,167) (7,167) Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS assets (240,036) (5,187) (9,520) (235,703) Revaluation reserve (16,155) (16,155) Valuation of derivatives-linked securities 32,333 (99) 59,867 (27,633) Loans (10,047) (178) (167) (10,058) Privately placed bonds (Cancel Sale) (12,516) (12,516) Land (50,374) (577) (49,797) Building (8,451) 277 (1,113) (7,061) Fixture (2,697) (2,697) Others (75,380) 8,467 2,247 (69,160) Subtotal (400,578) (129,041) 53,101 (582,720) Not recognized as deferred tax liabilities (61,609) (406) (2,862) (59,153) Recognized as deferred tax liabilities ￦(338,969) (128,635) 55,963 ￦(523,567) Tax rate 24.2% or 22% 24.2% or 22% Deferred tax liabilities ￦(75,314) ￦(126,318) Deferred tax liabilities – net ￦(62,641) ￦(73,739) (*) Temporary differences due to final declaration of income tax during 2011 are reflected. 138•139 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (4) Details of temporary differences that are not recognized as deferred tax assets are as follows 46. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Investment and financing activities not involving cash inflows and outflows for the transactions as of March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Reasons for exclusion and March 31, 2011 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Transfer price tax ￦5,613 ￦5,613 Uncertain possibilities of extinction 2012 2011 Gain on valuation of AFS securities (*) ￦567 ￦14 (5) Details of temporary differences that are not recognized as deferred tax liabilities are as follows Reclassification of construction in progress to equipment 2,970 20,635 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Transfer to/from premises and equipment 1,332 15,101 Transfer to AFS financial assets from investment in associates 7,923 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Reasons for exclusion (*) Deducted directly from the capital before deferred tax is reflected. Subsidiary ￦62,763 ￦59,153 Almost certainly likely not be disposed of or dividends (6) Details of deferred tax relating to items that are recognized directly in equity are as follows 47. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (1) Details of loan commitments and credit lines which the Group provided for others are as follows 2012 2011 (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Deferred tax, which have been directly added to or deducted from equity: Loss on valuation of AFS financial assets ￦1,323 ￦(3,230) Credit lines Confirmed guarantee Financial institution Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments (1,168) 2,391 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Gain (loss) on overseas business translation 204 1,055 Bank overdrafts Standard Chartered bank ￦30,000 ￦30,000 Gain on disposal of treasury stocks 144 140 Intra-day-credit Woori bank and others 345,000 345,000 Total ￦503 ￦356 Discounting notes (KSFC) (*) KSFC 200,000 200,000 Discounting notes (subscription) KSFC Subscription deposits Subscription deposits Borrowing from KSFC (KSFC) KSFC 700,000 700,000 Borrowing for support to guarantee finance (KSFC) KSFC 1,000,000 1,000,000 Borrowing for operating fund (KSFC) KSFC 500,000 500,000 45. BASIC AND DILUTED EARNING PER SHARE (“EPS”) Borrowing for operating fund (Customers) KSFC Customer’s deposits Customer’s deposits (*) ￦100,000 million Won Discounting notes of commitments were executed. (1) Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income by weighted average number of common shares outstanding (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for per share amounts) (2) The Group had filed lawsuits. The details of the number of lawsuits and the estimated aggregated amounts for 2012 2011 contingent liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Net income attributable to the controlling equity ￦87,695 ￦166,077 Dividend on preferred stock 2,831 5,284 March 31, 2013 Net income attributable to common shares 84,864 160,793 Content Number of lawsuits Amount Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 198,158,987 153,910,597 As defendant Outstanding lawsuits 43 ￦56,008 Basic EPS ￦428 ￦1,045 As plaintiff Outstanding lawsuits 9 ￦7,697 (2) Diluted EPS is calculated by reflecting the dilution effect to net income (Unit: shares) March 31, 2012 Content Number of lawsuits Amount Number of Treasury Number of Weighted-average number of Days shares issued stocks shares outstanding shares outstanding As defendant Outstanding lawsuits 34 ￦40,782 2012 72,727,659,995 399,629,872 72,328,030,123 365 198,158,987 As plaintiff Outstanding lawsuits 4 ￦17,262 2011 56,775,833,858 444,555,465 56,331,278,393 366 153,910,597 As of March 31, 2012, major lawsuits which the Group is facing, are related to incomplete sales litigation of LIG construction CP(￦50,676 million) and Woori Power Income Fund(￦1,297 million). (3) The current and diluted earnings per share is the same as the basic earnings per share because there is no In addition to the above litigation, the Group is also involved in the lawsuit case of LG Investment Holdings B.V.(“LGIH”). If LGIH, dilutive securities granted by the Group. defendant, loses in the lawsuit, the Group will have to pay the portion of the related expenses for the case. Lawsuit is currently filed in Poland, and the Group accounted for ￦5,018 million of provision regarding this case. 140•141 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix (3) Details of corporate bonds that are under court receivership are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Related parties Accounts 2012 2011 <Expenses> Amount Parent Woori Financial Group Commission ￦7,876 ￦8,110 Companies under receivership and commencement of composition ￦4,970 Others Woori Bank Loss on derivative transaction 2,389 18,124 Companies subject to corporate restructuring 32,436 Others Kyongnam Bank Interest expense 21 55 Companies subject to bankruptcy 101,822 Others Kwangju Bank Loss on valuation of derivatives instruments 1 22 The Group has accounted for ￦37,548 million of provisions by assessing the current value in order to recover the debts above. Others Woori Financial Interest expense 184 However, the recoverable amount for the bonds could be different with the estimation of the Group since it is under court receivership. Others Woori Credit Information Commission 15 Possible results from these uncertainties have not been reflected on the financial statements. Others Woori FIS Computer system operation expenses and others 15,055 12,821 Others Kumho Investment Bank Loss on derivative transaction 7 6,058 Others Woori Private Equity Interest expense 71 2 (4) Details of contingent liabilities regarding guarantees are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Total ￦25,604 ￦45,207 Counter party March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 Note purchase agreement Alpenrose LLC. and other ￦338,300 ￦556,500 (3) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 48. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related parties Accounts March 31, 2013 March 31, 2012 <Receivables> (1) The related parties of the Group as of March 31, 2013 are as follows: Others Woori Bank Cash and cash equivalents ￦751,710 ￦1,063,546 Others Kyongnam Bank Cash and cash equivalents 402,898 144,703 Related parties Others Kwangju Bank Cash and cash equivalents 176,388 195,150 Parent Woori Financial Group Others Woori Financial Accrued interest income and others 4,805 10,308 Subsidiaries Woori Futures Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Asia Pte, Ltd., Woori Absolute Global Opportunity Fund, LG Investment Holdings B.V., Woori Securities (H.K.) Others Woori FIS Accrued interest income 22 223 Ltd., Woori Securities Int'l Ltd., Woori Securities America, Inc., Woori CBV Securities Corporation, MARS 2nd Private Equity Fund, Woori Giant Total ￦1,335,823 ￦1,413,910 First Co., Ltd., Woori Absolute Partners Pte, Ltd., Woori Korindo Securities Indonesia, Woori Absolute Return Investment Strategies Fund, KoFC <Payables> Woori Growth Champ Private Equity Fund, Woori Investment advisory Co., td. KAMCO Value Recreation 9th Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd., Twins Parent Woori Financial Group Accrued expense ￦￦37 Subordinated Debt 1th and other beneficiary certificates Others Woori bank Accounts payable and others 8,296 24,827 Associates Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. Others Kyongnam Bank Leasehold deposits received and others 3,249 1,040 Others Woori Bank, Woori Credit and Information, Woori America Bank, Woori Global Markets Asia LTD, Woori Bank China, Woori Bank Russia, Woori Others Kwangju Bank Derivative liabilities 79 Bank Indonesia, Woori Bank Brazil,Woori Bank Preservation Trust of principal, Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund, Woori Fund Service, Kwangju Others Woori Financial Accounts payable and others 5,688 21,337 Bank, Kwangju Bank Preservation Trust of principal, Kyongnam Bank, Kyongnam Bank Preservation Trust of principal, Woori F&I, Woori AMC, Others Woori FIS Accounts payable 400 1,088 Woori private equity, Woori Private Equity Fund, Kumho investment bank, Sahn Eagles LLC, Two Eagles LLC, TY Second Asset Securitization Others Woori credit and information Accounts payable and others 1 Specialty, Woori Financial, Woori Asset Management, Woori FIS, Woori FG Saving Bank, TY Second Asset Securitization Specialty and 53 beneficiary Others Woori Private Equity Deposits due to customers and others 3,002 certificates, Haeorum Short-Term 15th and other 57 beneficiary certificates Total ￦17,633 ￦51,411 (2) Transactions occurred with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): (4) Details of compensation to key management are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Related parties Accounts 2012 2011 2012 2011 <Revenue> Short-term salaries ￦11,668 ￦11,083 Parent Woori Financial Group Other operating income and other ￦9 ￦54 Severance benefits 1,099 715 Associate Seoul Lakeside CC Inc. Paid-in capital decrease and other 71,250 Others Woori Bank Interest income and others 50,258 9,521 Others Kyongnam Bank Interest income and others 9,341 8,712 Others Kwangju Bank Interest income 5,660 8,009 Others Kumho Investment Bank Gain on derivative transaction 5 5,756 Others Woori Financial Interest income 100 518 Others Woori FIS Other operating income 137 1,741 Total ￦65,510 ￦105,561 142•143 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT 49. TRUST ACCOUNTS (1) Financial information of trust accounts that are not audited or reviewed are categorized and listed as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Special money Retirement Pension Property in trust pension trust trust in trusts Total Cash and due from banks ￦680,358 ￦106,979 ￦￦60,539 ￦847,876 Securities 10,879,951 387,330 27,348 2,788,019 14,082,648 Call loans 147,400 92,600 240,000 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 1,551,100 4,500 1,555,600 Money receivables 1,644,406 1,644,406 Personal and real property 199,791 199,791 Other assets 351,181 3,768 1,087 54,953 410,989 Total assets 13,609,990 498,077 28,435 4,844,808 18,981,310 Monetary trusts 12,634,314 463,284 24,200 13,121,798 Property in trusts 3,422,106 3,422,106 Other liabilities 975,676 34,793 4,009 1,422,702 2,437,180 Special reserve 226 226 Total liabilities ￦13,609,990 ￦498,077 ￦28,435 ￦4,844,808 ￦18,981,310 aPpendix (2) Gain and loss of receivables on trust account related services are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 2012 2011 Revenue on trust business: Asset management fees ￦1 ￦Trust revenue 9,344 9,364 Operating and management fees 1,354 976 Fee and commission revenue 621 518 Total ￦11,320 ￦10,858 Receivables on trust business: Trust accrued revenue ￦5,042 ￦3,984 (3) Trust accounts that has principal preservation agreement or promised yield agreement with the Group are listed as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Book value (*) Fair value Trust accounts with principal guaranteed agreements ￦24,200 ￦27,656 (*) Book value refers to the amount of original payments. 144•145 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Sustainable Management in general (1/4) Sustainable Management in general (2/4) profile EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Social performance Indicators LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and suppliers at significant locations of operation absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Currently, most of the purchased goods by our overseas subsidiaries and by gender. LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, representative offices are office equipments and stationary, 100% of which and region, broken down by gender [The Ratio of Shareholder Ownership] are locally purchased. Since the amount spent is minor Woori I&S has (As of March, 2012) Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 neither concluded purchasing contracts with any relevant companies, nor Shareholder Name Ratio(%) Total no. of employees Persons 2,943 3,075 3,089 have we made any relevant policies. Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. 37.86 Classification (unit: persons) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 No. of disaster victims Persons 1 2 1 Employee Stock Ownership Association 5.14 No. of officers and employees 2,968 3,057 3,053 Rate of industrial accident % 0.03 0.06 0.03 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management By Others 57.00 Full-time employees (including officers) 2,418 2,496 2,529 Total working hours Hr 8,593,560 8,979,000 9,019,880 hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Fixed-term contractual employees 0 0 0 To promote effective domestic and international sales activities, Woori I&S is employment Fixed-term employees 550 561 524 hiring local talents, giving preferential conditions to local graduates. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with * The data above may differ from the 2010 Sustainability Report which was based on Calendar Year (CY). * Fixed-term contractual employees: employees under annual-income contracts, contractual sales trade unions Classification (unit: persons) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 specialist, temporary employees, drivers, local-hired employees, advisors and consultants. Woori I&S financially aids medical expenses due to a variety of ailments, economic performance Indicators Total no. of overseas employees 64 63 59 *Short-term contract employees are not included. sick leaves and medical check-ups through the management of health and safety indicators. We provide insurance benefits to decease of employees or if Employees posted overseas 14 16 16 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations employees are diagnosed with three major diseases, cancer, stroke and AMI, Locals hired 47 44 40 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee via a group personal accidental insurance. We also provide financial support Woori I&S provides a retirement pension plan, inclusive of Defined turnover by age group, gender, and region Locals hired as managers 3 3 3 on medical expenses and expenses of medical check-ups for the families of Benefit(DB) and Defined Contribution(DC), to ensure all employees at Woori Investment & Securities enjoy a decent quality of life after retirement with our employees. Classification FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 economic security. [Retirement Pension Program] (persons) Total No. of Total No. of Total No. of retirees retirees retirees LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Launch date End of 2010 Environmental performance Indicators Male 1,753 214 1,813 153 1,789 159 and by employee category Size of retirement pension fund KRW 46.8 billion as of 2012 (based on DB) Female 1,215 73 1,244 71 1,264 51 No. of subscribers (DB) 2,656 Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 EN3 / EN4 Direct/Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source No. of subscribers (DC] 183 Total educational In millions of 2,150 2,386 1,577 How to manage retirement •Woori I&S has diversified the investments of Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining expenses KRW pension fund retirement pension fund for stable management agreements of the fund, and have selected and been Annual per-capita In thousands 740 790 520 LNG Nm³ 275,319 252,881 236,088 education expenses of KRW managing six retirement pension fund operators In accordance with the labor collective agreement, Woori Investment & considering their financial solvency and capability Diesel ℓ 80,947 103,205 113,262 Securities states and guarantees the labor union’s rights to organize, Annual per-capita Hour 50 62 48 to manage the fund. education hours Kerosene ℓ 0 0 0 bargain collectively, and act collectively and does not restrict employees from •Regarding Defined Benefit type, more than 80% retirement pension actuary liabilities are Gasoline ℓ 243,157 270,877 267,890 joining the labor union. Also, joint labor-management committee meeting * Some of the data above may differ from the 2010 sustainable management report due to changes in deposited outside of the company. is held every quarter and temporary committee meeting is also held when the scope and method of measurement Electric power MWh 228,130 247,189 246,701 needed. As of the end of 2012, the number of labor union members is 2,235, Heat Gcal 1,192 1,159 1,219 recording a 100% subscription rate. * Some of the data may differ from the 2010 sustainable management report due to changes in the LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government scope and method of measurement. career development reviews, by gender LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Woori I&S evaluates employee performance on a biannual basis and use the Classification Unit FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source results as a reference for the personal career management and our human changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Tax exemption / Tax deduction In millions of KRW 16 Woori Investment & Securities immediately reports to the executives and resource management to consider in deciding promotions and providing Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 employees on any significant management changes, such as investment differential rates of bonus. All the employees are subjected to the regular Total water ton 89,029 93,616 92,567 decisions, and reorganization of the office. Regarding restructuring issue, a performance evaluation, except for newcomers, persons who are in leaves consumption consultation is made prior to announcement. for more than 30 days, contractual sales specialists, temporary workers, EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender (water supply) contractual service providers, and full-time unionists. In the latter half of compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 2012, a total of 2,743 employees underwent such an evaluation process. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Regarding each business unit and the management strategy department, EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products management-worker health and safety committees that help we additionally conduct constant performance assessments that perform Classification Details Note and other goods and materials used for the organization's monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs analysis of profits. Legal minimum wage 4,580 KRW/hour As of 2012 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Woori Investment & Securities operates the Health and Safety Committee, Annual income of entry level KRW 45,654,000 Based on the Payroll scheme In needs of business support, Woori I&S uses vehicles that fuel gasoline and which is co-managed by representatives from the labor union and employees of the company rule diesel. We monitor transportation related energy consumption so that we corporation, to monitor and control safety related matters on facilities and can reduce greenhouse gases, thereby trying to minimize the environmental operations. impacts. The use of vehicles by our executives and employees does not affect the environment significantly. 146•147 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Sustainable Management in general (3/4) Sustainable Management in general (4/4) SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and relevant engagement, impact assessments, and development programs PR3 Type of product and service information required by employee category, by significant locations of operation actions taken procedures, and percentage of significant products and services For the past three years, there have been no discriminative incidents that subject to such information requirements Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 occurred in relation to race, gender, religion, region of birth and educational Classification CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 We provide information on financial products and services through background at Woori Investment & Securities. advertisements and booklets where information are strictly reviewed by Amount of Average basic pay for men 69 73 77 No. of participated employees (unit: persons) 2,835 3,074 3,002 basic pay Total amount of social contributions 1,558 1,858 3,253 internal compliance department and Financial Investment Association. We Average basic pay for 45 49 53 women In millions (unit: In millions of KRW) comply with the regulations for the complete sales process of the WM Sales HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the & Planning Department. Amount of Basic pay for male of KRW 41 44 46 Education/Child welfare 411 666 2,001 right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining entry level newcomers Social welfare 1,097 1,169 1,222 worker may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support salaries Basic pay for female 40 43 45 these rights Communities, Green environment 50 23 30 newcomers The labor and management of Woori Investment & Securities discuss PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data There is no wage discrimination due to gender for those in the same position. important matters by holding the labor-management consultation council Nonetheless, military serviced period shall be recognized under the company Woori I&S has not received any complaints regarding the failures to protect on a quarterly basis, four times a year. The three basic labor rights are SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy customer information and losses of customer data. pay scheme. expressively stipulated in and guaranteed by Article 12, (Guaranteeing union development and lobbying activities) of the Collective Agreement and are freely exercised. Woori I&S actively participates in the public policies through development of relevant products to vitalize green finance and we prohibit any lobbying FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, activities. environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures by gender HR9 number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken The implementation of social and environmental policies are monitored over We guarantee 120 days of maternity leaves, that is 30 days more than the 90 the annual audit. In addition, a comprehensive audit is conducted to evaluate days set under the Labor Standards Law, thereby providing active support for There have been no incidents of infringing on the rights of locals for the past the properness of corporate social contribution. employees and enabling them to maintain the life and work balance. three years. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political In 2012, there were total of 68 employees who took maternity leaves, where parties, politicians, and related institutions by country among those who applied for child-care leaves took up to a maximum of one Joining a political party or making political contributions are strictly year of child-care leave. And, nine employees either finished their childcare HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been prohibited. FS11 / FS12 Ratio of assets subject to positive and negative subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments environmental or social screening / Voting polic(ies) applied to and maternity leave or came back to work midway. environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting Woori I&S conducts assessments of law-compliance, anti-corruption and organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 ethics in all offices (overseas subsidiaries are not included) SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Woori I&S has not expressively stipulated rules and regulations regarding the Ratio of taking child care Male % 0 0 0 anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes above yet. However, investment decisions are made in consideration of public leave Classification Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 interests, and of its social and environmental impacts to a certain extent. Female % 100 100 100 No. of reports on Cases 0 0 0 Rate of those coming back Male % N/A N/A N/A Type Details Unit CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 corruption to work Female % 87.1 88.5 84.1 Collusion No. of cases Cases 1 No. of reports on Cases 18 11 7 Rate of those working for Male % N/A N/A N/A bribery Penalty Amount In billions of KRW 2.01 more than 12 months after come back Female % 96.3 100 89.2 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, Woori I&S established a process of raising and resolving complaints from the local communities including the percentage of employees trained employees via various channels, including cyber counseling on personnel matters, evaluation appeal and Employees Assistant Program. [Education on ethics and law-abiding] Functions of the mechanism Major details Classification CY 2010 CY 2011 CY 2012 Classification CY 2011 CY 2012 Process to support legal 1. Reorganizing and strengthening the system for of trainees compliance, and to strengthen investor protection Training No. of Training No. of Training No. of Cyber counseling on 1 10 the internal control system Pursuing the complete sales process, proper hours participants hours participants hours participants personal matters intercompany-exchange of data and prevent All employees 1.5 All 1.5 All 1.5 All conflict of interest. Evaluation appeal 7 1 employees employees employees 2. Implementing the Privacy Protection Act, providing training on money laundering, and Experienced new joiners 2 150 2 85 2 56 thoroughly reporting any suspicious incidents. Inexperienced new joiners 2 40 2 107 2 148 Training for executives and Education on compliance and ethics. New branch managers 2 8 2 14 2 11 employees to enhance their awareness Checking and monitoring 1. Monitoring after complete sales of financial legal compliance and products. implementation 2. Monitoring the stock transactions history of executives and employees. 3. Implementing an all-time monitoring system. 148•149 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix UN Global Compact GRI / ISO Table Reported or Indicators Name of Indicator ISO26000 Pages not reported Strategy & Profile Support for international principles and initiatives 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6.2 O 2~5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 O 16~21 Woori Investment & Securities has been publicly supporting the UNGC(UN Global Compact) principles. The UN requires companies 2.1 Name of the organization. O 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. O 28~31 to comply with the 10 universally accepted principles of the Compact in the areas of human rights, environment, labor and anti2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 6.2 O 6~9 corruption. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. O 8 Since joining the UNGC in September 2011, Woori Investment & Securities has been actively engaging in developing products of 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are O 9 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. eco-friendly businesses to cope with the global environmental impacts, and reinvigorating monitoring of ethical management as a 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. O 114 part of its corporate culture. Woori Investment & Securities will continue to increase its efforts to implement and comply with the 10 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). O 16 principles of the UNGC. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. O 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. O 2~9 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. O 156 – President & CEO of Woori Investment & Securities 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. O Cover page 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). O Cover page 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Cover page Principles of the UNGC and current efforts to pursue relevant activities 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. O Cover page 3.5 Process for defining report content. O 10~12 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary O Cover page Sector Principles Related activities Outcomes from activities (pages in the report) Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). O Cover page Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the Comply with the regulations of the International 48, 55, 148 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can O Cover page protection of internationally proclaimed human Labor Organization and the UNGC rights significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Conduct education on in-house sexual harassment prevention and human rights protection 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations O Cover page 2. Businesses should make sure they are not Enforce the welfare system for applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to complicit in human rights abuses employees to manage work-life balance substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.1 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement O Cover page Labor 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Run a labor union 45, 46, 147, 148 association and the effective recognition of the Hold labor-management consultation councils (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). right to collective bargaining 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. O 68~70 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. O Cover page Adhere to the regulations of the International all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labor Organization and the UNGC principles 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. O 65, 157, 158 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific 6.2 O 6~7 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 6.2 O 6~7 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of Establish internal guidelines on prohibiting sexual discrimination in respect of employment and 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance 6.2 O 6~7 discrimination occupation Prohibit discrimination by gender regarding wages body that are independent and/or non-executive members. O Hiring employees from diverse backgrounds 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 6.2 O 6~7 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary Build an inventory of greenhouse gas emissions 52,53 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 6.2 O 6~7 approach to environmental challenges Implement efficient energy consumption departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). Water conservation activities 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 6.2 O 6~7 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to Participate in carbon information disclosure projects promote greater environmental responsibility 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its 6.2 O 6~7 committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 9. Businesses should encourage the Implement Social Responsibility Investment for development and diffusion of environmentally 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, 6.2 O 8 environmentally friendly companies friendly technologies and social performance and the status of their implementation. Anti-corruption 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, 6.2 O 6~7 10. Businesses should work against corruption Run a department dedicated to compliance 54,55 in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Build a compliance management system environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Run training programs on compliance internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 150•151 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Reported or Reported or Indicators Name of Indicator ISO26000 Pages Indicators Name of Indicator ISO26000 Pages not reported not reported 4.1 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 6.2 O 6~7 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 6.5, 6.5.3 O environmental, and social performance. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 6.5, 6.5.3 O No spill nor 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 6.2 O 35~37 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. taking out. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 6.2 O 150 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 O subscribes or endorses. 150 organization's discharges of water and runoff. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the 6.2 O EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 6.5, 6.5.4,6.6.6, 6.7.5 O 52~53 organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 O Not applicable on financial beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. industry 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 O 10 characteristic. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6.2 O 10 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws 6.5 O No 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 6.2 O 10 and regulations. sanction. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 6.2 O 10~12 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 O 146 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Economic Performance Indicators EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 x EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and 6.8, 6.8.3, O 59~144 Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. 6.8.7, 6.8.9 52~53 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 6.4, 6.4.3 O 147 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change 6.5.5 O 146 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 6.4, 6.4.3 O 147 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. O 146 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 O 46~48 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. O 146 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. O 147 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 6.4.4, 6.8 O 146 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, O 147 EC6 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 O 146 . 6.4.5, 6.3.10 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 O LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 O 147 operation. 49~51 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help 6.4, 6.4.6 O 147 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, O monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 28~29 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by 6.4, 6.4.6 O 147 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, O gender. 6.7.8, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, O 46~47 6.8.7, 6.8.9 community members regarding serious diseases. 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.8 Environmental Performance Indicators 52~53 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4, 6.4.6 O 147 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. O 52~53 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 6.4, 6.4.7 O 147 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 146 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 O 46~47 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 146 in managing career endings. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 52~53 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 6.4, 6.4.7 O 147 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 52~53 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 O 6~7 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements 6.5, 6.5.4 O minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. as a result of these initiatives. 52~53 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, O 147 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 52~53 6.4.3, 6.4.4 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 52~53 Human Rights Performance Indicators EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 6.5, 6.5.4 O 52~53 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating human 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.6.6 O on the developing relevant system or EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 6.5, 6.5.4 O rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. process EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 6.5, 6.5.6 O HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, O on the developing relevant system or outside protected areas. and actions taken. 6.4.3, 6.6.6 process EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 6.5, 6.5.6 O HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 6.3, 6.3.5 O 148 Not applicable biodiversity value outside protected areas. on financial operations, including the percentage of employees trained. industry EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 6.5, 6.5.6 O HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, O 148 characteristic. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 6.5, 6.5.6 O 6.3.10, 6.4.3 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level 6.5, 6.5.6 O HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.2, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, O 148 of extinction risk. 52~53 may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 6.3.8, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5, 6.5.5 O 52~53 HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, O Child labor is prohibited EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5, 6.5.5 O 52~53 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 under UNGC EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 6.5, 6.5.5 O principles. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 6.5, 6.5.3 O Not applicable HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, O Forced labor on financial is prohibited EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 6.5, 6.5.3 O industry measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6.3.5, 6.3.7, 6.3.10 under UNGC EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 6.5, 6.5.3 O characteristic. 52~53 principles. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 6.5, 6.5.3 O HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 x are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, O 148 6.3.8, 6.6.7 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. O 148 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formalgrievance mechanisms. O 148 152•153 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix Glossary Reported or Indicators Name of Indicator ISO26000 Pages Terms Explanation not reported Society Performance Indicators Arbitrage Arbitrage trading SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, O 50~51, 149 ARS Swap of market indices that follow the performance of portfolio managed by long-short strategy. A type of an ELS product based on this index 6.8.7, 6.6.7 guarantees principal, and seeks for absolute return regardless of market condition (Absolute Return Swap) SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, O No 6.8.7, 6.6.7 ATS Alternative Trading System SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, O 149 Brokerage Selling and buying of equities and other investment assets on consignment communities. 6.8.7, 6.6.7 BW Bond with Warrant SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 6.6, 6.6.3 O 54~55 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. 6.6, 6.6.3 O 54~55 CCP Central Counterparty for over-the-counter derivative trading SO3 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 6.6, 6.6.3 O 54~55 Cross-border Deal IB Deals such as IPO and M&A of Overseas companies, which provide both domestic and international investment opportunities SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 O 149 Deep Discount An on-line brokerage channel with low commission (Tx) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 O 149 DCM Debt Capital Market including bonds SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 O 149 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 O No cases ECM Equity Capital Market including IPO and Rights Offering Product Responsibility Performance Indicators HFT High Frequency Trading PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, O 40~44 HNWI High Net Worth Individuals of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 6.7.4, 6.7.5 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, O No PEF Private Equity Fund products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 6.7.4, 6.7.5 violations PIS Swap of market indices of which are managed under various trading strategies pursuing absolute return (Performance Index Swap) PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, O 149 Prop. Trading Stocks that are traded using company’s own account (Proprietary trading) such information requirements. 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, O No Quant A technique that uses quantitative analysis such as statistics and mathematical models to develop derivatives models, calculate and analyze a and labeling, by type of outcomes. 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 violations variety of data. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, O 44 Syndication A collaborating system between the business-related department and the sales-related department in association with underwriting securities. 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Company IPO Initial Public Offering PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 O 40~41 promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 O No including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. violations PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 6.7, 6.7.7 O 149 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 6.7, 6.7.6 O No and services. violations Financial industry additional index FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. O 32~33 FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. O 35~37, 54~55 FS3 Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in O 35~37, 54~55 agreements or transactions. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to O 37, 55 business lines. FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. O 10, 28~29 FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. O 9, 16 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by O 28~29 purpose. FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken O 53 down by purpose. FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment O 149 procedures. FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has interacted on O We don't analysis this environmental or social issues. indicators yet FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. O 149 FS12 Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to O 149 vote shares or advises on voting. FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. O 29~31 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. O 29~31 FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. O 40~41 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. O 29, 51 154•155 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Value Creation Strategy | Value Creation Outcome | Sharing our Values | Financial SECTION | appendix History & Awards Assurance Statement History 1969.01 Established Introduction 1995.03 Renamed LG Securities Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out verification on Woori 1999.10 Merged with LG Merchant Banking and Renamed LG I&S Investment & Securities Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘Woori Investment & Securities’) 2012 Integrated Report (hereinafter 2004.12 Incorporated into Woori Financial Group referred to as ‘the Report’). Woori Investment & Securities is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the 2005.04 Merged with Woori Securities and Renamed Woori I&S Report. DNV’s responsibility in performing the work commissioned is solely to the management of Woori Investment & Securities, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. Woori Investment & Securities’ stakeholders are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. Awards Scope of Assurance This Assurance Engagement covered data and information from the calendar year 2012. Woori Investment & Securities’ reporting 2012.04 The Korea Economic Daily Awarded ‘Grand Prize’ in sector of Installment Investment at the 2012 Korea Brand Awards boundaries include only operations under control in Korea. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement, as agreed with Woori 2012.04 The Korea Herald Business Awarded ‘Grand Prize’ in sector of IB at the 2012 Korea Brand Awards (Corporate Finance and M&A) Investment & Securities included the verification of: 2012.05 The Money Today Named ‘Excellent Lead Manager of the Year’ at the 9th Korea IB Grand Awards • Data and activities related to the environment, health and safety management, social aspects, and corporate governance issues 2012.05 The Korea Economic Daily Awarded ‘Grand Prize’ at the 2012 Korea Mobile Trading System Awards that refer to the period between January 2012 and December 2012 as contained in the Report. 2012.06 The Money Today Awarded ‘Grand Prize’ at the 2012 Korea Analyst Awards • As for the financial data included in 57 through 64, our work is limited to verify that the financial data are correctly derived from 2012.08 The Asia Economy Daily Received ‘Excellence Award (Premier Blue)’ at the 2012 Asia PB Awards Woori Investment & Securities’ audited consolidated financial statements. 2012.09 The Asia Economy Daily Received ‘Excellence Award’ in sector of HTS stability at the 2012 Smart Trading Awards GRI Application level and adherence to the principles of Stakeholder inclusiveness, Materiality, and Responsiveness as set out in the 2012.10 The Korea Productivity Center Dow Jones Sustainability Index Korea member 2012 (Financial Service industry) DNV Protocol are also checked by the audit team. 2012.10 The Asia Today Received ‘Excellence Award’ in sector of security & retiree management at the 2012 Asia Today Financial Awards 2012.11 The AJU Business Daily Awarded ‘Grand Prize’ in sector of social contribution at AJU Economic Security Awards 2012.11 The Asia Economy Daily Received ‘Excellence Award’ in IB sector at the 2012 Asia Capital Investment Awards Limitations 2012.12 The Money Today Received ‘Outstanding Award’ at the 1st Centennial era Financial Awards The visits to sales offices of Woori Investment & Securities are not made in the course of verification. No external verification activities 2012.12 The etoday Received ‘Outstanding Award’ in sector of Management Innovation at the 2nd Annual Market Leader Awards related to stakeholder dialogue or to Woori Investment & Securities’ suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the 2012.12 The Korea Economic Daily Received ‘Excellence Award’ in sector for customer convenience in smart banking service at the 2nd Korea MTS Awards Report were not conducted. Any financial information from Woori Investment & Securities’ annual report and company reporting on 2013.01 The Money Today Received ‘Excellence Award’ at the 2012 Korea Best Report Awards operations in 2012 or other sources was not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances based on the financial 2013.02 The Asia Economy Daily Named ‘Best Merchandiser of Securities’ at the 4th Asia Fund Awards data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The assurance engagement is based on the 2013.03 The Bell Received ‘Outstanding Award’ at the Risk Management Awards assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. Hence, our conclusion is based on the 2013.03 Electronic Times & Web Evaluated ‘No. 1 security company’ in sector of smart pad service by Korea Smart App Assessment Index(KSAAI) in 2013 Sustainability Research Institute of discussion with management of Woori Investment & Securities and our review of sampled documents provided by Woori Investment Sookmyung Women’s University & Securities. Verification Methodology This Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with VeriSustainTM, the DNV Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (V.4.1) (www.dnv.com/cr). In accordance with the Protocol, the Report was evaluated with regard to the following criteria: • Adherence to the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness with Moderate level of assurance as set forth in VeriSustainTM • The GRI G3.1, specifically with respect to all the requirements for the ‘A+’ application level As part of the verification, we examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by Woori Investment & Securities. We performed sample-based audits and we interviewed the personnel who is involved in the operational management of matters covered in the Report. The verification was conducted at Headquarter of Woori Investment & Securities. Our verification was carried out in May and June 2013. 156•157 WOORI INVESTMENT & SECURITIES 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT Conclusions In DNV’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the Report is not fairly stated. Further conclusions and observations on the adoption of reporting principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusivity Woori Investment & Securities has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders including Investors, Government, and Local community, Employees, and Shareholders. Responsiveness Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from stakeholder communications are considered in the preparation of the Report and in the formulation of Woori Investment & Securities’ sustainability management approach. Materiality Woori Investment & Securities has identified most material issues. Based on the review of the Report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the A+ application level. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to Woori Investment & Securities’ management. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. • Set up the objectives for sustainability vision and strategy so that the progress of achievement can be at least annually measured and reported. • Set up a specific action plan to implement the policy of investment in the company which provides social/environmental value, as Woori Investment & Securities defines the role of corporate citizen. Statement of Competence and Independence DNV is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification process. DNV expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Seoul, Korea In Kyoon Ahn June 2013 Country Manager Note: Assurance engagement was conducted based on the Report written in Korean. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in the Report between English version and Korean version, Korean one shall be given precedent.
