Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 About this report This Status Report 2012 presents a brief summary of The Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 is the main news from the field of corporate responsibilavailable in German and English in electronic format. ity and the progress made in this area. The report is The next report, scheduled for release in 2013, will intended for all stakeholders of Commerzbank. It reappear in the more detailed long version. lates to Commerzbank AG in Germany, covering the › Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 activities from July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012 and folAll sustainability reports, together with additional http://sustainability2011. lowing on directly from the previous Corporate and continuously updated information related to the commerzbank.com Responsibility Report. It also gives consideration to issue of sustainability, can be found on our “Sustain› Annual Report 2011 the main events after the end of this period. The key ability” internet portal at www.sustainability.commerzhttp://annualreport2011. commerzbank.com figures contained herein are for the calendar year bank.com. 2011 and refer to Commerzbank AG in Germany. › Further information about sustainability can be found on our This information has been obtained locally from the internet portal http://sustainability. individual departments, while the environmental key commerzbank.com data have been determined using the environmental management system and compiled by the Reputation and Sustainability Management department. At the same time, the given indicators correspond with the requirements of a Communication on Progress (COP), providing information on the status of implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. › Communication The tabular overview on page 29 provides informaon Progress tion on the points at which relevant topics are disPage 29 cussed. Key information on the economic performance of Commerzbank can be found in the Annual Report 2011. To make the report reader-friendly, we have avoided gender-based repetition in the text. 3 Contents 4–5 Editorial 6–8 Governance 9 – 14 Market & Customers 15 – 21 Environment 22 – 25 Employees 26 – 28 Society 29 UN Global Compact Published by Department responsible Commerzbank AG Group Communications Kaiserplatz Frankfurt am Main Project management and contacts Postal address: 60261 Frankfurt Heike Heuberger Tel. +49 69 136-20 Simone Heckerodt www.commerzbank.com Thekla Wießner 4 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Martin Blessing Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors in this status report, we would like to give you an insight into how we continued to work toward our bank’s sustainability against a backdrop of challenging macroeconomic conditions caused by the sovereign debt crisis. In our Private Customers business, we paid even greater attention to the quality of the advice we provide to customers. Customer satisfaction, which is measured regularly, is now one of the elements by which all employees in a branch have their performance assessed. All of the equities that we recommend are subject to a mandatory sustainability check, which includes clear screening criteria. Since August 2012 we have therefore stopped recommending any securities that reference basic foods. Moreover, since November 2011, we have ceased issuing any new exchangelisted investment products with basic foods commodity underlyings. As a consequence, we removed these commodities from the only of our Exchange Traded Funds (ETF) that referenced them. Editorial 5 In keeping with our bank’s tradition, our Center of Competence Renewable Energies in Hamburg continued to support the advancement of the green economy, for example by funding offshore wind farms. In summer 2011 we launched the Commerzbank mentoring program, the largest of its kind in the bank’s history. So far, some 570 mentees – almost half of whom are women – have received guidance on their professional and personal development from 353 mentors. As part of our Global Anti-Corruption Policy, we developed an additional integrity clause for the bank’s contractors that lays down the clear principles of ethical conduct that we expect from all our suppliers and contractors. These are just a few highlights to briefly illustrate the various aspects of our diverse activities. You will find all the key information, with the usual level of detail and the relevant figures, on the following pages. I would also like to reiterate specifically that the entire Board of Managing Directors of Commerzbank is committed to continually expanding corporate responsibility to ensure we always act responsibly and sustainably. With this in mind, I would also like to take this opportunity to expressly underline the commitment of Commerzbank to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and their further development. Martin Blessing Chairman of the Board of Managing Directors 6 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Governance Reputational Risk Management expanded reputational risk management at Commerzbank, for example during the eastern European conference for All financing arrangements, products, and customer local internal audit departments, which was held in relations in which sustainability aspects (environmenBudapest in May 2011. In total, 15 roadshows took tal, ethical, or social) play a significant role are intenplace in 2011, followed by a further five in the first half sively reviewed, assessed, and where appropriate of 2012. either rejected or accepted with conditions attached › Governance www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzby the Reputational Risk Management department of In addition, a reputational risk newsletter was bank.de > Governance Commerzbank. This includes sensitive areas such as launched, which is sent to the relevant market and › Reputational Risk weapons and armaments, nuclear power and the back-office departments every quarter. The positive Management exploitation of commodities. In 2011, the Reputational feedback confirms that the newsletter is a suitable tool www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de > Governance > RisikoRisk Management department received some 1,800 for drawing attention to current topics in the bank and management > Reputationsrequests, which it analyzed and voted on in writing. increasing employees’ awareness of environmental, risiko-Management Around 10 percent of them received a negative ethical, and social aspects of companies and projects. › Compliance assessment owing to social, environmental, or ethical www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de > Governance > Comconcerns. Global Policy for Financial Institutions (policy pliance for interbank business) updated During the year under review, the question of how Commerzbank should deal with agricultural comWorking with the Financial Institutions & Cash Manmodities was a key focus of the Reputational Risk agement units of the Mittelstandsbank, Group CompliManagement department’s work. Following in-depth ance is laying the foundations on which our customers analysis of the opposing positions on the possible – whether large corporations or small and mediuminfluence of derivatives on commodity prices, an insized enterprises – can maintain their international ternal “round table” was organised in October 2011, business relationships and seamlessly transact interin which all relevant business units participated. The national payments. Because Commerzbank is a major first significant outcome was the decision that, as a bank present worldwide, many foreign banks turn to preventive measure, Commerzbank would stop issuit as a reliable partner for their payments processing. ing any listed products with basic foods-commodity Group Compliance cooperates with the Financial Instiunderlyings. Another important step was the withtutions unit to ensure adherence to the global standrawal of basic-food-commodity underlyings from our dards for the prevention of money laundering, terrorexchange-traded fund (WKN ETF090) in July 2012. ist financing, and fraud. To this end, the Global Policy Further activities are planned, with the aim of creatfor Financial Institutions was updated in July 2012. ing a comprehensive policy for the bank on this senThis document encompasses the entire customer sitive topic area. acceptance process and the duties of care that apply in this context. To raise Commerzbank employees’ awareness of issues relevant to reputation and sustainability, internal roadshows regularly take place in Germany and abroad. The roadshows are a way of familiarizing employees in Sales, Processing, Compliance, and Internal Audit with topics and processes related to Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 7 Global Anti-Corruption Policy introduced brand, health services, and development opportunities. The learning program’s eleven modules include a Integrity and trust are the cornerstones of sustainable “Sustainability” module, which offers employees an economic success at Commerzbank. That is why the overview of the policies and sustainability activities of resolute fight against corruption and bribery within Commerzbank in the action areas governance, econour sphere of influence forms an integral part of our omy, environment, employees, and society. sense of values and business strategy. The objectives of the Global Anti-Corruption Policy, which we intro“Commerzbank in dialogue” events continued duced in July 2011, are therefore to enshrine the anticorruption principles applied by Commerzbank in In 2010 Commerzbank launched the “Commerzbank its management and business strategy, to define the in dialogue” initiative, a forum in which decision-makmain areas of action and responsibilities, and thereby ers from politics, business, and society can discuss › UN Global Compact to lay the foundations for continually improving the current social and business policy challenges. In June www.unglobalcompact.org action taken against corruption and bribery. This pro2011, for example, Norbert Röttgen, who was Ger› Business Conduct Guidelines vides managers and employees worldwide with a conmany’s Environment Minister at the time, and Markus www.commerzbank.com > Group > Compliance > Business sistent decision-making basis and enables them to be Beumer, member of the Board of Managing Directors Conduct Guidelines guided by Commerzbank’s sense of values. of Commerzbank with responsibility for the Mittel› Transparency International standsbank, met with representatives from the major Deutschland e. V. By taking an anti-corruption stance, Commerzbank is energy suppliers and non-governmental organizations www.transparency.de/en making a clear commitment to the UN Global Compact to debate the risks and opportunities of the Energie› Commerzbank in dialogue and its ten principles (which include tackling corrupwende (switch to renewable energy sources) in Gerwww.commerzbank-imdialog.de/en tion). Integrity in day-to-day activities is therefore a many. This was followed by an event with the member central element of our corporate culture and is specifof the Board of Managing Directors in charge of ically enshrined in our core values (ComWerte) and Human Resources, Ulrich Sieber, which looked at our Business Conduct Guidelines. Commerzbank is the effects of demographic change in Germany and also a corporate member of Transparency Internaincluded a presentation on the initiatives launched tional Deutschland e. V. by Commerzbank to encourage a good work-life balance. In autumn 2011 Commerzbank’s chief executive, Basic banking training: sustainability training Martin Blessing, participated in two dialogue events module developed for all employees with economists and representatives from German and European politics to discuss the European soverRaising employees’ awareness is a central element of eign debt crisis. The last event to be held in the period acting responsibly at Commerzbank. Commerzbank under review took place on June 27, 2012 in Berlin can only fulfill its responsibilities if employees live up and was entitled “Revolution by mouse click – how the to the principle of sustainability in their day-to-day net is changing our society”. Divisional Board Memwork. Since April 2011 new and existing bank employber Richard Lips discussed how the internet was ees have been able to complete an interactive e-learnchanging society and business with guests from the ing program that provides them with an overview of worlds of politics and business. Commerzbank as an employer and organization. A virtual journey including videos, interactive elements, “Political breakfast” in Berlin and Brussels on and quizzes gives them a good insight into Commerzthe Energiewende bank’s strategy, group structure, key figures, history, Another initiative providing a platform for dialogue on issues of social and business policy is Commerzbank’s “Political breakfast”. As part of this event series, distinguished figures from politics, business, ministries, 8 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 and embassies regularly meet in Commerzbank’s liaiThe report was checked by the Global Reporting Inison offices in Berlin and Brussels. “Energiewende and tiative, the internationally recognized benchmark for emissions trading: a conflict or a catalyst for change?”, sustainability reporting, and met the highest possible for example, was the topic up for discussion in Berlin standard (“A”). in October 2011 and in Brussels in November 2011. The event focused on explaining the current situation The LACP’s Vision Awards count among the most disas far as European and international emissions tradtinguished international communication prizes and ing was concerned and on discussing the status of cliare awarded in recognition of the best annual reports mate protection projects in Germany. The lecture by and sustainability reports each year. A panel of interIngo Ramming, co-head of Commodity Solutions at national experts judged the entries on the basis of criCommerzbank, emphasized the opportunities for cliteria such as creativity, cover design, writing style, mate protection opened up by boosting emissions design, layout, transparency, and informativeness. › Global Reporting Initiative www.globalreporting.org trading. 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report awarded Gold Commerzbank’s Corporate Responsibility Report for 2011, entitled One Bank. One Partner. One Future. received the gold award in the Corporate Responsibility Report category at the 2012 Vision Awards of the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP), scoring 97 out of 100 points. This high score meant the report came second in the global ranking of the best CR reports. The panel of judges praised the report, saying “The level of creativity exhibited in the report judged for Commerzbank AG is superb, which is supported by exceptional clarity in communicating this year’s key messages.” Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 9 Market & Customers Mittelstandsbank and does business in 50 of the continent’s 54 countries. Six offices, stretching from Cairo to Johannes“Afrika kommt!” initiative continued burg, look after Commerzbank’s customers there – In October 2011, Tanaka Brian Mukura, a banker more than 500 African banks. Commerzbank handles from Zimbabwe, started a nine-month internship at 11 percent of all euro payments originating in Africa. Commerzbank as part of a professional development It won the Best of European Business Award 2012 for initiative for young managers from countries in subcontinually expanding business relations with Africa, › Market & Customers Saharan Africa. The initiative, which is coordinated by among other reasons. Commerzbank’s business is www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de > Markt & Kunden the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusamenjoying double-digit growth, even in countries where menarbeit (German Society for International Cooperait does not have a direct branch. › Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammention, GIZ) and backed by leading German companies, arbeit (GIZ) took place this year for the second time. It aims “UnternehmerPerspektiven”: eleventh study − www.giz.de/en to enhance the international management skills of Commodities and Energy: Risks of Contested › UnternehmerPerspektiven highly qualified young African managers. The careResources www.unternehmerperspektiven.de fully selected participants attend various events, German small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) enabling them to improve their German skills, inare feeling the effects of rising commodity prices, with crease their management knowledge, and discuss 67 percent reporting that price increases are having current economic and social topics with academics a negative impact on business. Three out of four and practitioners. At the core of the initiative is a companies require commodities or upstream products nine-month internship in a German company. Tanaka involving large amounts of commodities. This was the Brian Mukura, a graduate economist and manager at finding of the eleventh study of the “UnternehmerReserve Bank of Zimbabwe, got to know a number of Perspektiven” initiative, which was entitled Commodidepartments at Commerzbank, including the Finanties and Energy: Risks of Contested Resources and cial Institutions Africa team. “I thought it was great was published in October 2011. The largest German to get an insight into this segment of the bank, which SME study asked 4,000 owners and managing direcworks with more than 500 financial institutions in tors of SMEs throughout Germany about their probAfrica,” concluded Mukura. lems and solutions related to procuring and securing commodities and energy. “Over two-thirds of compaBest of European Business Award 2012 nies complained of difficulties resulting from rising Commerzbank has won the Best of European Business commodity prices. However, the higher prices for (BEB) Award for its successful and enduring business energy – which are currently the subject of much disstrategy in Africa. The award, which was handed out cussion – are having a negative impact on only a third by international strategy consultancy Roland Berger of companies’ balance sheets. There is a genuine for the seventh time in March 2012, goes to German commodities crisis among small and medium-sized companies that implement innovative business modenterprises,” explained Markus Beumer, member of els in Africa, are committed to sustainability, and work the Board of Managing Directors of Commerzbank. in partnership with African economies. This can cer“Besides price increases, the main problem is price tainly be said of Commerzbank: It is the number-one fluctuations, which make business planning more difGerman-speaking bank for corporate business in ficult. Of the companies surveyed, 50 percent said this Africa, where it has operated for the past 60 years, factor was having a negative effect on their business.” 10 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 As a result, there was great interest in the events Customer satisfaction related to the eleventh “UnternehmerPerspektiven” Quality management in the corporate customer busistudy, at which promising solutions to the problems of ness is making a substantial contribution to increascommodities and energy were discussed. The nine ing customer satisfaction. A telephone survey of cusmain branch events and 20 regional dialogue events tomers in the Mittelstandsbank segment is conducted were attended by a total of 4,000 guests. at least once a year to establish satisfaction with Commerzbank and the full range of products and ser“UnternehmerPerspektiven”: twelfth study − vices. The most recent customer survey took place in Good Debts, Bad Debts: Entrepreneurship in early 2012. One of the findings of the survey, in which Uncertain Times almost 6,000 companies took part, was that CommerzDiscussions about saving the euro are currently bank enjoys an excellent reputation among its corfocused on excessive government debt. By contrast, porate customers, with customers rating the bank’s › UnternehmerPerspektiven www.unternehmerthe “UnternehmerPerspektiven” initiative is taking a reputation as very good overall. Approximately 90 perperspektiven.de closer look at debt from the perspective of SMEs. How cent of respondents appreciated Commerzbank’s in› Corporate Customer portal do businesspeople deal with debt? How can comterest in long-term customer relations, while four out www.corporate-clients. panies ensure they have sound finances? How is the of five customers cited the bank’s individual support commerzbank.com European sovereign debt crisis impacting on SMEs’ for their business. Customers’ loyalty to Commerzbusiness? SMEs are of the opinion that banks are bank had also improved significantly since the prenow far more stable than in the financial crisis of vious survey: 88 percent of respondents said they 2008/2009. Here in Germany, increasing finance costs, would definitely or probably continue to work with more difficult access to loans, the consequences of the the bank. In addition, around three quarters of cusintroduction of Basel III, and even unstable banking tomers said they actively recommended Commerzpartners are less of a cause for concern than develbank to others. The high level of satisfaction was opments in the markets and in politics. “The different attributed, above all, to the good standard of advice, perspective that SMEs have shows that they believe flexibility, and proactive and individual customer care. the cause of the current crisis lies not so much in The reliability of customers’ account managers and the mistakes made by the financial sector but in the the strategic advisory meetings also played a key role. high levels of national debt in Europe,” said Markus When asked about their particular wishes for the Beumer when the study was published in May 2012. future, the businesspeople primarily cited new suggestions, impetus, and ideas. As far as the assessment Euromoney Cash Management survey 2011 of products was concerned, customers were particuCommerzbank’s Mittelstandsbank was again desiglarly impressed by Commerzbank’s payments processnated “Best Domestic Cash Manager Germany” in a ing, rating it as excellent or very good. To ensure a survey conducted by international trade journal process of continuous improvement, we are of course Euromoney. More than 16,000 finance managers from aiming to cater to our customers’ requirements even over 110 countries were questioned. They rated the better so that customer satisfaction continues to rise performance and quality of banks in relation to cash steadily. management at national, regional, and international level. The evaluation was published in the October The number of customer complaints in 2011 totaled 2011 issue of Euromoney and underpinned the results 924, with the majority (71 percent) relating to account from 2010 when Commerzbank also came first. management. Of the complaints, 13 percent related to the integration of Dresdner Bank, in particular online banking, which was the focus of the work to unify the IT platforms of Commerzbank and Dresdner Bank. The customer requests were combined and implemented by the responsible units in the bank. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 11 Center of Competence Renewable Energies needed to meet the complex investment needs. In (CoC RE) addition to their traditional role as lenders, banks are Commerzbank has been promoting renewable enerincreasingly also required to act as problem-solvers gies for more than 25 years and, in 2003, brought in relation to funding issues, for example by incorpotogether its expertise in this field in a competence rating subsidies or creating new fund and investment center in Hamburg. This Center of Competence Restructures for institutional investors, such as pension newable Energies (CoC RE) makes the bank one of the funds and insurance policies. Commerzbank is drawworld’s largest providers of funding for renewable ing on its expertise and making a constructive contrienergies. Besides serving companies in the renewable bution to the development of this process. energies sector, the CoC RE’s core business is project finance. This includes, for example, finance for wind Commerzbank was able to maintain its pioneering role farms and solar energy plants operated by instituin funding renewable energies during the period › Renewable energies tional investors, municipal utility companies, energy under review. In 2011, the volume of the CoC RE’s www.commerzbank.com/ renewables conglomerates, and private investors. credit portfolio was approximately €5 billion, of which €3.5 billion was accounted for by project finance. Banks are playing a key role in the Energiewende as a Broken down by technology, 68 percent of the portgreen economy calls for a high level of investment folio was allotted to wind energy, 26 percent to solar throughout the renewable energies value chain, not energy, and the remaining 6 percent to bio-energy, only in wind farms and solar energy plants but also hydropower, and other technologies. in transport and distribution networks and in storage solutions. New funding structures and partners are The output just from wind energy and solar power projects in Germany that Commerzbank funded in 2011 amounted to more than 480 megawatts. Based CoC RE new business by market on this output, around 521,130 tonnes of CO2 emissions were cut within one year. Overall, plants fi% nanced by Commerzbank helped to avoid 10,094,528 tonnes of CO2 emissions within one year. This equates 2011 66 28 6 to approximately 10 percent of the total reduction in CO2 emissions in Germany as a result of the use of 2010 33 63 4 renewable energy sources. Germany Europe (excl. Germany) North America SolarLight Commerzbank has launched “SolarLight”, a new product for financing photovoltaic installations at SMEs. If an SME intends to become a solar power CoC RE new business by technology generator and has a funding requirement of anything from just €250,000 upwards, Commerzbank can pro% vide a lean standardized procedure to help the SME achieve its objectives. Schemes are rapidly verified 2011 51 7 40 2 and handled on a simplified basis by the use of proven (Offshore) (Onshore) technology and partnerships with experienced plan2010 48 10 40 2 ners and installers. Commerzbank offers funding for (Offshore) (Onshore) terms of up to 17 years and, if possible, can integrate Solar Wind loans at favorable rates from the KfW development Other bank. 12 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Since the SolarLight product’s launch in October 2010, would remain a growing market worldwide over the 34 loans with a total volume of €44 million have been next few years. Based on studies and internal analyagreed. In 2011 alone, 23 loans with a total volume of ses, Commerzbank expects average growth of 7 peralmost €22 million were arranged. cent per year until 2015, this growth being measured by the amount of newly installed output per year. On As lead arranger, Commerzbank awarded the back of the stable conditions provided by the ReEuropean Offshore Wind Deal of the Year for newable Energy Sources Act (EEG), it will be possible “Meerwind” offshore wind farm to build new turbines with an output of up to 3.5 gigaThe banking syndicate that helped to finance the watts each year in Germany from 2014. Following the “Meerwind” offshore wind farm, for which Commerzhesitancies and delayed investments seen in recent bank was the lead arranger, has received the Euroyears, Commerzbank predicts there will be a rapid pean Offshore Wind Deal of the Year accolade. This process of catch-up for offshore wind farms too once prize is awarded annually by Project Finance magathe technical and financial hurdles have been surzine. “Meerwind” is scheduled for completion in 2014 mounted. and will comprise 80 turbines generating an output of 288 megawatts at a site some 50 kilometers off Private Customers Germany’s North Sea coast. The investment volume of the offshore wind farm is €1.2 billion. A group of Sustainability portfolio and sustainable seven commercial lenders – Commerzbank, KfW investment process at Commerzbank IPEX-Bank, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Dexia, Lloyds Commerzbank incorporated a comprehensive sustainBanking Group, Santander, and Siemens Bank – will, ability check into its investment process in 2011. This together with Denmark’s export credit agency EKF three-stage process results in a recommendation and the KfW banking group, make a total of €822 milabout which equities to include in the Commerzbank lion available for the project. sustainability portfolio. Upon completion in early 2014, the wind farm is exThe first step is to exclude companies that breach UN pected to supply some 400,000 households with clean conventions. These may be companies that violate electricity, saving around 1 million tonnes of CO2 per human rights or are involved in manufacturing conyear. Meerwind is the first German offshore wind farm troversial weapons, such as anti-personnel mines or to be entirely funded by private investors and the first cluster bombs. The second step is a classic financial to use a loan from KfW’s new offshore wind energy analysis based on the typical quantitative investment program. criteria of return, risk, and liquidity. In the third and final step, an external agency helps to prepare a Advancement of wind power worldwide media analysis (print and online) in order Wind power lies at the core of the Energiewende in to ascertain which companies are economically susGermany and will play a key role in global energy suptainable, environmentally friendly, and socially replies in the future. It accounts for the largest proporsponsible. This positive screening determines which tion of electricity generated from renewable sources equities go into the sustainability portfolio. and at comparatively low cost prices. To coincide with the 2012 Husum WindEnergy fair in September 2012, Commerzbank applied its decision on investment Commerzbank stated that, although global demand instruments in basic-foods commodities consistently would be stagnant in the short term, wind energy and comprehensively, also in its Private Customers business. Since August 2012 the bank has ensured that no basic food underlyings are contained in any securities recommended. Beforehand Commerzbank’s sample portfolios for clients contained 1-2 per cent basic foods underlyings as part of their agricultural commodity exposure. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 13 Since September 2012 the only commodities included course, which gave them the chance to consolidate are industrial and precious metals and energy comtheir advisory skills, practice advising customers modities. Commerzbank does not issue any listed using the KundenKompass, and access a broad range products referencing basic foods commodities, nor of skills training. does it actively market or recommend them – this of course also applies to third-party products. The In addition, 26 events were held to familiarize around Bank has also revised its fund recommendation list 1,500 managers with the requirements of the new accordingly. sales management process, which gives branch employees, and thereby their managers, a new focus. “Sustainability” sales initiative in For example, team objectives are now defined instead Wealth Management of individual objectives for each employee. Every priAs part of the sustainability initiative in the Private vate customer advisor’s team objectives now include a Customers segment, the Wealth Management team customer satisfaction target, which has been a factor ran a four-month series of customer events entitled for the variable remuneration of senior managers in “Sustainability – from a passing trend to the standard?” the Private Customers segment since June 2010. The in autumn 2011. At the debates in Berlin, Bremen, new sales management process also gives advisors Dortmund, Düsseldorf, Hanover, Mannheim, Nuremgreater freedom as regards the length and structure of berg, and Offenbach, experts from Pricewaterhousetheir customer meetings. Coopers and Commerzbank met with customers to discuss the added value of sustainability. The events Customer satisfaction were chaired by journalist Stefan Schulze-Hausmann, The Private Customers segment uses the Net Proinitiator of the German Sustainability Award. Feedmoter Score (NPS), an internationally accepted stanback from customers showed that the panel discusdard for measuring customer satisfaction. Every sions and the subsequent conversations succeeded in month, short telephone interviews are conducted in explaining the relevance of sustainability and its many which customers are asked whether they would recfacets in a clear manner, despite this supposedly ommend their Commerzbank branch to others. The being a complex topic. NPS has shown a highly positive trend over the reporting period, increasing by 29.4 percentage points in New sales management process the Private Customers segment and by 21.2 percentIn the year under review, a new sales management age points in Wealth Management between July 2011 process was introduced in all Commerzbank and July 2012. branches. The overarching objective is to enable even greater focus on customer requirements. Customers are also asked to say why they would or would not recommend their branch to others. This One of the steps taken in this context was the imfeedback is passed on to the branches without delay plementation of the “KundenKompass” advisory tool, so that they can draw conclusions and respond which is used at the start of every meeting with new promptly to customers’ concerns. To give customer and existing customers. Taking less than 15 minutes, satisfaction the necessary priority in the management it uses targeted questions about matters such as the of sales activities, it has been defined as a target formcustomer’s current life and wealth situation to obtain ing an integral element of the variable pay of all sales information with which the advisor can tailor the substaff. This creates opportunities and incentives to sucsequent advisory meeting to the customer’s individual cessively improve the quality of advice and to inteneeds. The KundenKompass therefore assists advisors grate customer feedback into day-to-day sales work by providing a way of opening a targeted customer to an ever greater degree. meeting. The strategic realignment of sales management also included support for employees’ continuing professional development. Around 10,000 employees took part in the “top-class advice” sales training 14 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Customer Advisory Council Formed in 2009, the Customer Advisory Council was For the Customer Advisory Council, 2012 was a the first such committee at a German private bank and chance to reflect on previous years as it marked the primarily focused on monitoring the integration of end of the first council’s three-year term of office. Dresdner Bank with Commerzbank. With 20 customDuring this period, members had shared their sugers representing each bank, it was able to help tackle gestions and ideas on the products and services of the customer-related challenges that arose during the Commerzbank at six full meetings with the Board of merger. The council’s members supported more than Managing Directors, various face-to-face events, twelve of the bank’s projects, demonstrating great workshops, teleconferences, and written surveys. personal commitment and contributing constructive Careful monitoring of customer-relevant topics related ideas. Commerzbank also acted on numerous suggesto the integration was particularly important. tions from the council, for example regarding the customer-oriented design of various communications › Customer Advisory Council www.commerzbankAll of Commerzbank’s private customers in Germany media, optimization of credit procedures, improvement kundenbeirat.de were eligible to apply to be their successors. In May of the process when a customer’s advisor changes, 2012, 25 women and men from the private and busiand simplification of online requests. ness customers segments and Wealth Management were selected as a cross-section of our customer True to its motto “Listen. Talk. Improve.”, the new structure to represent the interests of customers for Customer Advisory Council will continue to assist the next three years. The constituent meeting of the Commerzbank in designing products, processes, and new Customer Advisory Council was held on June 15, services to be more customer-friendly and thereby 2012 and was chaired by Martin Zielke, the member permanently raising customer satisfaction. To this of the Board of Managing Directors responsible for end, the 25 members have direct contact with the Private Customers. In the future, only one full meeting member of the Board of Managing Directors responwill be held per year with the aim of making the counsible for Private Customers, who continues to chair cil’s work even more efficient and flexible. As a conthe council. The Customer Advisory Council can sequence, there will be more dialogue with specialist therefore fulfill its dual role of representing the inmanagers at the bank, participation in themed workterests of customers and advising the bank. shops, and involvement in the early stages of the development of products and services. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 15 Environment Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index 2011 This was an opportunity for employees and visitors to find out about the environmental impact of their own Scoring 77 out of 100 points, Commerzbank has been lifestyles. The two initiatives were conceived and run included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index by the City of Frankfurt as part of its climate protec(CDLI) for the first time. The index is compiled by the tion concept. After opening at the headquarters in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), a non-profit organiFrankfurt, the exhibitions toured various Commerzzation that aims to create greater transparency bank sites across Germany. › Environment regarding companies’ climate strategies. Every year, www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de > Ökologie the CDP uses standardized questionnaires to ask comThe “Klimagourmet” initiative enabled visitors to panies about the opportunities and risks of climate determine the carbon footprint of different foods, › Carbon Disclosure Project www.cdproject.net change, about CO2 emissions, and about their climate thereby illustrating the influence of transportation, protection targets and activities. Many investors, broseasonality, and the way in which food is grown on the › Plant-for-the-Planet www.plant-for-the-planet.org kers, asset managers, and analysts use the data that CO2 emissions for the food that they eat. The “Green it” is collected. Worldwide, the CDP is supported by 655 exhibition provided information about the environinstitutional investors with a total investment volume mental costs of manufacturing and operating IT and of US$ 78 trillion. The CDP uses the data it receives to communications equipment. Besides offering tips on create a ranking. Of the 250 companies that the CDP using the equipment in a way that saves electricity analyzes in Germany, the top 30 make it into the Carand therefore protects the environment, the exhibition bon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). With a score highlighted the vast quantities of raw materials that go of 77 out of 100 points, Commerzbank was ranked into cellphones. Employees were called upon to hand 24th – placing it in a group of companies that meet the in their old and unused cellphones for recycling. requirements for the highest level of quality as far as climate reporting is concerned. Commerzbank was Cellphone recycling campaign and donation to praised for its “well-developed understanding at manPlant-for-the-Planet agement level of business matters related to climate change” and “consideration of such risks and opporCellphones contain a wealth of raw materials, and tunities in its core business”. there are around 60 million of them lying around unused in Germany – i.e. approximately 1.5 per “Klimagourmet” and ”Green it” touring exhibihousehold. To coincide with the touring exhibitions, tions improve employees’ awareness of how Commerzbank’s environmental management theretheir everyday lives affect the climate fore appealed to all employees to hand in any cellphones that they no longer required. Almost 800 Raising employees’ awareness of climate change and employees responded. Recycling the old cellphones environmental protection is a central element of our generated €2,500, which was donated to Plant-forenvironmental activities. In August 2011, the “Klimathe-Planet, an initiative started by schoolchildren. gourmet” and “Green it” touring exhibitions were opened in the lobby of Commerzbank’s headquarters in Frankfurt by Manuela Rottmann, who was the City of Frankfurt’s councilor responsible for the environment at the time. 16 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Plant-for-the-Planet was launched in 2007 in response CO2 from the atmosphere. As 15 percent of the territo a class presentation by the then nine-year-old Felix tory covered by the project has been designated a Finkbeiner. Around 100,000 children in more than nature reserve, it also encourages biodiversity in the 100 countries are now involved. Following a motto of region. The sale of valuable timber produced by the “Every tree is a symbol for climate justice,” the schoolsmallholders, the establishment of community busichildren plan to plant 1,000 billion trees worldwide. nesses, and the introduction of sustainable forestry Commerzbank’s donation enabled the planting of methods benefit the smallholders and support sus2,500 trees, which will absorb around 25 tonnes of CO2 tained economic development in the region. The projper year. ect has been generating positive effects for the local people, biodiversity in the region, and the climate Carbon-neutral Annual General Meeting since 2007. One of Commerzbank’s objectives as part of its cliTo permanently clear the atmosphere of the unavoidmate strategy is to gradually make the bank carbon able CO2 emissions resulting from the Annual General neutral. Commerzbank therefore made its 2012 Meeting, more than 3,000 trees were planted in Annual General Meeting carbon neutral, as it had the Bolivia’s Amazon region with the project’s support, previous year. The first step was to reduce avoidable reforesting almost two hectares of fallow heathland › Carbon-neutral Annual CO2 emissions. As attendee travel to and from the to create a mixed forest of indigenous trees. The CO2 General Meeting meeting accounts for 90 percent of the emissions, certificates for this area were retired on Commerzwww.nachhaltigkeit.commerzbank.de > Ökologie > Klimaattendees were given a ticket for use on local public bank’s behalf. Independent organizations review and strategie > Klimaneutralität transport so that they would use less CO2 on their jourvalidate the project in accordance with CarbonFix and › Environmental policy neys. Other savings were made in the catering, for PlanVivio, two widely accepted standards for climate www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzexample by using regional and seasonal ingredients protection projects. This will ensure that the project bank.de > Ökologie > Umweltpolitik instead of beef, the production of which generates a will deliver the advantages described. vast amount of CO2. The provision of ecofriendly marketing materials demonstrated to shareholders how Earth Hour 2012 they can act in an environmentally responsible manner even when it comes to everyday objects. As part of its climate strategy, Commerzbank makes the public more aware of climate change in various The planning, realization, and follow-up of the Annual ways. One of these was the WWF Earth Hour, in which General Meeting generated a total of 725 tonnes of CO2. the bank participated in March 2012. Under the initiaThese unavoidable CO2 emissions were offset by purtive, which was launched in Sydney in 2007, members chasing and retiring high-quality emissions certificates of the public, companies, and public-sector organizafrom the climate protection project “ArBolivia + New tions are asked to switch off the lights for 60 minutes Forests for Local Development” in Bolivia. ArBolivia is as a sign of support for environmental and climate an initiative run by Bolivian smallholders, who replant protection. Global participation in the campaign has degraded agricultural land on their farms with a mixrisen continuously in recent years, with the number of ture of indigenous trees appropriate to the local enGerman towns and cities taking part doubling in 2012. vironment. This reforestation permanently absorbs Commerzbank switched off the lights at its group headquarters, the Gallileo and Posthochhaus buildings in Frankfurt, the representative office in Berlin, and the offices in London, having called on employees to also participate at home. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 17 Group Environmental Committee Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (GHG emissions) at Commerzbank AG (Germany) Chaired by Frank Annuscheit, member of the Commerzbank Board of Managing Directors, the tonnes of CO2 equivalent 2010 2011 Group Environmental Committee met twice during Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions the period under review. All relevant units of the Buildings energy supply 31,293 28,732 company and the general works council were repreNatural gas1 30,728 28,086 sented. The Group Environmental Committee is a Heating oil 565 637 clearing house designed to ensure that environmental Emergency generator diesel 2 – 9 issues are brought together and interconnected Business trips (cars) 16,716 16,787 throughout the bank. In August 2011, it approved the Bank vehicles 3 14,921 15,010 updated environmental policy, which was then apPool vehicles 1,795 1,777 proved by the Board of Managing Directors in Scope 1 total 48,009 45,519 November 2011. The Environmental Policy (in GerScope 2: Indirect GHG emissions man only) can be found on the “Sustainability” portal Energy supply 43,832 40,169 under Ökologie > Umweltpolitik. The topics preElectricity 30,699 26,882 sented and discussed in the reporting period included District heating 13,133 13,287 the external certification audit of the environmental Scope 2 total 43,832 40,169 management system in the first quarter of 2012, colScope 3: Other indirect GHG emissions lection of the first data from branches outside GerPaper consumption 4 6,123 5,874 many, the purchase of green electricity until 2015, Energy supply 8,451 7,749 and the development of new products with an environNatural gas (upstream and downstream emissions) 8,346 7,629 mental benefit. Heating oil (upstream and downstream emissions) 105 118 Emergency generator diesel (upstream and downstream emissions) – 2 At the last meeting, held in May 2012, it was decided Business travel 18,961 18,912 to draw up a new climate target with various individAir 5,502 6,021 ual action steps, participants, and consequences. A Rail 1,414 1,402 new climate target was needed as the target of reducCars (upstream and downstream emissions) 7,591 7,623 ing CO2 by 30 percent – compared with the base year Private cars 4,454 3,866 of 2007 – had been reached in 2011. All of the relevant Water 449 407 key figures and potential savings were analyzed for 5 Waste disposal 1,399 845 this new climate target in order to identify further Scope 3 total 35,383 33,787 measures for reducing CO2. Total for Scopes 1 + 2 + 3 127,224 119,475 1 The switch to district heating (see CR Report 2011) caused the proportion of natural gas to decline. 2 An appropriate procedure for measuring the volume of consumption was implemented at the beginning of 2011. Emissions were therefore calculated for the first time in 2011 but it was not possible to fully verify them. Full verification is planned for 2012. 3 The business mileage proportion of journeys with bank vehicles was assumed at 56.3 percent of total mileage for 2011 and was taken into account on this basis using statistics from the Federal Motor Transport Authority and German Federal Statistical Office plus calculations from the German Institute for Economic Research. 4 Paper consumption excluding printing obtained from external contractors. 5 The rate of recycling increased from 83 percent (2010) to 96 percent (2011). Only waste from construction work at the headquarters and large-scale projects anywhere in Germany are included in construction waste. 18 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Data collection The total volume of absolute greenhouse gas emissions also declined again during the period under Commerzbank’s environmental management system review, falling from 127,224 tonnes of CO2 (2010) to has been certified in accordance with the ISO 14001 119,475 tonnes of CO2 (2011). In 2010 the switch standard by Det Norske Veritas (DNV). The current to green energy sources had been the main reason certificate is valid until April 2013. for the reduction; the current CO2 savings of around 6 percent are the result of lower energy consumption The CO2 emissions were calculated in accordance with achieved with energy efficiency measures and branch the standards laid down by the German Association consolidation. for Environmental Management and Sustainability in › German Association for Environmental Management Financial Institutions (VfU) in the 2010 Key Figures Green electricity and Sustainability in Financial Update (version of April 2011). The data was then preInstitutions (VfU) www.vfu.de pared in the same way as for the CR Report 2011. Since 2009, the consumption data, the method of data % capture, and the calculated CO2 emissions have been 2009 verified by DNV Zertifizierungsund Umweltgutachter 42 GmbH, a third-party verification organization. Verifi2010 cation since 2010 has been based on ISO 14064-3. 90 2011 The environmental data collected relates to Commerz91 bank AG in Germany and will be successively expanded. The first data has now been collected from the foreign branches. To this end, environmental data was collected from all foreign branches (Amsterdam, Green electricity until 2015 Beijing, Brussels, Dubai, Hong Kong, London, Luxembourg, Madrid, Milan, New York, Paris, Prague, In 2011, green electricity accounted for 91 percent of Shanghai, Singapore, Tianjin, Tokyo, Vienna, and total electricity consumption and will remain at a high Zurich) in 2011. Not all of the data is complete, and level over the coming years. There was a significant the aim is to continuously improve its quality. expansion in the use of green electricity derived from hydro generation. With the aim of promoting investGreenhouse gas emissions ment in new, additional power plants fueled by renewable energy, Commerzbank issued an invitation to tenThe focus of our environmental protection activities der for the supply of green electricity with an EECS as a financial service provider is the optimization of certificate of origin from new hydroelectric power resource consumption, the primary objective being to plants for the period 2013 to 2015. The invitation to reduce CO2 emissions as part of our climate strategy. tender specifically required that 100 percent of the electricity came from new plants (generating plants, Commerzbank attained its climate target of lowering power plants). Four hydropower plants in Norway and greenhouse gas emissions by 30 percent between Sweden were chosen to supply the entire volume for 2007 and 2011 ahead of schedule. The Group Environ2013 to 2015. mental Committee, which is chaired by Frank Annuscheit, member of the Commerzbank Board of Managing Directors, is currently working on a new reduction target. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 19 Direct energy consumption Paper and toner consumption, together with at Commerzbank AG (Germany) the use of recycled paper at Commerzbank AG (Germany) MWh 2009 2010 2011 Natural gas 173,467 151,368 138,357 2009 2010 2011 Fuel oil (heavy, light) 2,600 2,100 2,367 Paper consumption Emergency Virgin fiber paper, generator diesel – – 33 ECF1 (t) 1,971 2,259 1,182 Diesel (fuel)1 63,899 60,935 61,944 Virgin fiber paper, FSC-certified (t) 1,300 1,999 2,872 Petroleum (fuel)1 9,207 4,585 1,682 Recycled paper (t) 1,888 836 833 Total 249,173 218,988 204,383 Total consumption (t) 5,159 5,095 4,888 1 The calculation of fuel consumption for the vehicles is based on the computed business mileage proportion for bank vehicles and the Recycled paper proportion (%) 36.6 16.4 17.0 consumption for all pool vehicles. The business mileage proportion for bank vehicles in 2011 was 56.3 percent of total mileage. Toner cartridge consumption2 (t) 90 105 96 for printers (units) 67,994 79,904 73,513 Energy consumption (electricity and district for copiers (units) 1,127 603 615 heating) by Commerzbank AG (Germany) 1 ECF manufacture using elemental chlorine-free or low-chlorine bleached wood pulp. Approx. 25 percent of ECF paper is PEPCcertified (288t). MWh 2009 2010 2011 2 Cartridge including toner. Electricity consumption 330,000 312,424 307,488 District heating consumption1 202,035 133,463 135,027 Change in paper consumption Total 532,035 445,887 442,515 1 Under the VfU 2010 standard, the standard electricity mix for disIn 2011, absolute paper consumption declined year on trict heating is assumed to be the mix from a gas-fired power plant year, as did the absolute quantity of virgin fiber paper. with combined heat and power. Although CO2 emissions from paper consumption make up a relatively small proportion of total emissions at 4.9 percent (2010: 4.8 percent), Commerzbank does Energy consumption by source of energy not ignore their environmental footprint and considers the use of recycled and FSC-certified paper to be very MWh important. 133,463 135,027 Back in October 2008 we defined a sustainable paper 312,424 standard as part of our new brand image. It stipulates 307,488 that only recycled paper with Blue Angel certification may be used for internal purposes and FSC-certified paper for external communications. 2,100 2,367 151,368 138,357 4,585 1,682 60,935 61,944 0 33 2010 2011 District heating Electricity Heating oil Natural gas Petroleum Diesel Emergency generator diesel 20 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 To further increase the proportion of paper consumpBusiness travel at Commerzbank AG (Germany) tion accounted for by recycled paper, various communications were posted on the intranet with the aim of km 2009 2010 2011 increasing employees’ awareness of the subject. They Cars (AG, Germany) 107,167,637 100,915,370 99,210,057 included information on efficient and economical use Bank vehicles of paper, such as duplex printing. (AT Leasing) 79,659,853 76,128,161 76,581,976 Pool vehicles 9,964,635 9,160,274 9,064,911 Commerzbank also uses various options based on digKm accounted ital technology so that fewer hard copies are printed. for as private 17,543,149 15,626,935 13,563,170 Around 144,000 sheets of paper were saved alone as Air: Group 50,507,928 56,472,616 57,026,623 a result of electronic archiving of documents (e.g. conAG, Germany 33,194,096 43,811,958 47,267,014 tracts, invoices, itemized cellphone bills) in the period Subsidiaries 17,313,832 12,660,658 9,759,609 under review. Rail: Group 35,809,818 33,006,470 31,773,573 Waste at Commerzbank AG (Germany) AG, Germany 30,749,891 29,566,676 29,325,573 by type of disposal Subsidiaries 5,059,927 3,439,794 2,448,000 tonnes 2009 2010 2011 Waste for Transportation reuse/recycling 8,992 13,1861 32,555 1 of which paper waste 8,447 6,144 9,618 Making up approximately 30 percent of total CO2 Waste for incineration 1,518 2,407 1,006 emissions in 2011, employee travel is one of the main Landfill 2 72 325 264 sources of Commerzbank’s greenhouse gas emisHazardous waste3 107 1 101 sions. For this reason, environmentally efficient Total waste 10,689 15,919 33,925 means of transport such as rail are preferred to air 1 The increase in the volume of waste since 2010 was attributable travel and we take low emission values into account to the inclusion of construction waste including a huge amount of when purchasing pool vehicles. recyclable construction and demolition waste in connection with the renovation of the Silver Tower (former headquarters of Dresdner Bank) and vastly improved reporting by waste disposal comThe bank’s Business Travel Policy stipulates that air panies. The rate of recycling increased from 83 percent (2010) to travel should largely be avoided for short journeys, 96 percent (2011). 2 Only construction and demolition waste went to landfill. that staff should investigate the possibility of car shar3 Hazardous waste included hazardous waste from the renovation of ing, and that alternative technological options such › German Sustainable Building the Silver Tower. The extensive renovation of the 166m-high Silver as video and telephone conferencing should be used if Council (DGNB) Tower, built in 1978, was completed on December 31, 2011. The www.dgnb.de/en building has been certified in accordance with the standards pubpossible. We publicize these options on our intranet. lished by the German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB). Despite these efforts, the number of kilometers travelled by rail stagnated, while the kilometers travelled by air for business trips within Germany rose sharply year on year. The preference for air travel over rail travel can be attributed to lower costs and time savings. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 21 Green IT Sustainable procurement The basic idea and objective of green IT is to impleIn September 2006 the bank launched a “Standard for ment and operate information and communications Sustainable Procurement”, which is regularly updated technology using the least possible amount of energy and supplements the procurement guidelines. and resources. Key action steps in the area of green IT, which were launched at the end of 2010, continued In the period under review an even greater number of to be put into practice in the year under review. These sustainability aspects were included in a range of propredominantly comprised the replacement of hardcurement categories, including office supplies, paper, ware and systems with low-energy alternatives, such office machines, company vehicles, and travel, and in as virtualization, and avoidance of mixing warm and processes ranging from invitations to tender to the cold air in data centers, making them more efficient. selection and validation of suppliers. The number of data centers was reduced by one in 2012. In addition, energy savings of up to a third were At the end of 2011, for example, the Travel Manageachieved just by replacing fat clients with thin clients. ment department included environmental standards As part of this process, the computing power of the in the contract negotiations for the first time when it individual machines is transferred to the substantially issued an invitation to tender for hotels. Providing more efficient center. There were also further reducdata about environmental standards was voluntary at tions in the amount of cables and in the end devices first, but has been mandatory since the start of 2012. per user. This process has already resulted in decreased consumption of energy and resources but An electronic self-declaration questionnaire was is not yet complete and was continued in 2012. issued to suppliers to check the quality of external service providers. 22 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Employees Integration The rate of employee turnover in the year under review was 4.8 percent. This figure has fallen almost The integration of the workforces of Dresdner Bank without interruption since 2000, when the figure and Commerzbank was completed in the year under stood at 9.4 percent for Commerzbank in its previous review. With effect from July 1, 2011, a further 2,500 form. We keep a close eye on employee turnover and or so employees were transferred to their final target take action if necessary. function. As before, good progress is being made with › Employees www.nachhaltigkeit.commerzreducing the number of positions in connection with Employee survey 2011 bank.de > Mitarbeiter the integration. The elimination of positions agreed as part of the integration of Dresdner Bank continues to Organizational development continued systematically, go to plan. We therefore expect that the interim target even once the integration was completed. The for reductions will be reached by the end of the year. Commerzbank Monitor was an important part of this In which case, there will be no need for compulsory process, with almost 26,000 employees in Germany redundancies under the agreements reached as part and abroad taking part in the employee survey “How of the integration, which apply until 2013. I see the bank”, which was conducted in autumn 2011. Among the strengths cited were the culture in the immediate working environment, the focus on perCommerzbank AG employees (Germany) formance and customers, and the good level of colHeadcount 2010 2011 laboration within teams. Employees also rated their Total number of Group employees 59,101 58,160 line managers’ leadership positively and praised the Total number of AG employees 39,695 39,081 health services offered by the bank. Nonetheless, the Commerzbank Monitor also highlighted deficiencies. As at December 31, 2011 Commerzbank AG employed Employees were skeptical about Commerzbank’s 39,081 people, 614 employees fewer than at the end overall situation. They also said implementation of the of 2010. bank’s objectives and continuing professional development both needed to be improved. In mid-December 2011 more than 1,600 managers received detailed Employee turnover at Commerzbank AG (Germany) by reason for leaving reports for their units and departments that will enable them to take targeted action in their areas of Headcount 2010 2011 responsibility. Contract terminated by employee 668 820 Contract terminated by employer 12 15 Mentoring program Amicable agreement 607 468 (Early) retirement/partial retirement 119 99 In summer 2011 we launched the Commerzbank Incapacity/death 1 31 mentoring program, the largest of its kind in the bank’s history. So far, some 570 mentees – almost The average period of service for Commerzbank half of whom are women – have received guidance employees is around 18 years. A fifth of employees on their professional and personal development from have been with the bank for up to nine years, 38 per353 mentors. The Board of Managing Directors and cent for between ten and 19 years, and 43 percent for managers at levels one and two are available as men20 years or more. tors. The mentees are managers at levels two, three, Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 23 and four as well as employees pursuing a specialist the top ten in two independent studies and was or project management career path. Mentees are ranked higher than any other page created by a finanassigned a mentor who works in a different board cial institution. The Facebook page enables young area and is two management levels higher than talent who are interested in joining the bank to gain them. It is planned to run the program regularly in an insight into the many aspects of working for order to establish mentoring as an ongoing process. Commerzbank. It also provides guidance on the different entry options (apprenticeships, internships, Talent management trainee programs). Communicating with young people as “equals” is the key to the success of this page. A Commerzbank supports its young professionals right high number of “fans” and intensive dialogue between from when they join the bank and offers attractive the target group and the bank show that we are focusdevelopment options as part of specialist, manager, ing on the right topics and adopting the right tone. In › Career or project management career paths. Of the 39,081 2011 Ulrich Sieber, member of the Board of Managing www.commerzbank.com > Careers people employed as at December 31, 2011, 2,343 Directors in charge of Human Resources, also used were apprentices. The bank also employed 195 the Commerzbank-Career page to explain the various › Diversity www.commerzbank.com trainees, while an average of 334 students belonged to careers available at the bank. Commerzbank’s “fans” > Careers > Equal Opportunities the Commerzbank study group. Around 850 people on social networks total almost 30,000. We are one of completed internships at Commerzbank as part of the five most active DAX companies when it comes to their studies during the year under review. social media-based HR activities. In 2011 we again hired around 1,000 apprentices and In addition to this social media activities Commerzstudents pursuing integrated work/study courses. bank also reaches out to young talent directly. In the Commerzbank offers apprenticeships in banking, year under review, we offered job application training office communications, and real estate. We generally in schools and enabled schoolchildren to take on the train more apprentices than we need for our own role of entrepreneurs in case studies. The bank was also requirements, enabling us to offer apprenticeships to involved in cross-sectoral talent management proas many school-leavers as possible. In this way, we grams, for example Start-Stiftung, “business@school”, are investing in the future of the bank and fulfilling and the “Joblinge” initiative. our corporate responsibility. During the year under review, we again hired more than two-thirds of all the The success of these activities was underpinned by interested apprentices after they had finished their Commerzbank’s third-place ranking among Germany’s training, offering them promising career opportunitop-500 employers in the independent Career’s Best ties in the bank. Recruiter study 2011. The bank in fact came first in the banking/financial services sector and was awarded the golden seal in recognition of the outstanding qualApprenticeships at Commerzbank AG (Germany) ity of its recruitment. 2010 2011 Total number of apprentices 2,299 2,343 Diversity Ratio of apprenticeships to other employees (%) 6.8 6.7 We specifically promote the diversity of our employHiring rate (%) 66.3 66.0 ees because this diversity supports our success as a business and embodies our corporate values. The conCommerzbank first responded to the way in which stituent meeting of the Global Diversity Council was schoolchildren and students now use media in 2010 held in March 2012, putting the groupwide implewhen it launched its Commerzbank-Career page on Facebook. In 2011, this “career fan page” made it into 24 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 mentation of diversity activities on a more solid and All segments of the bank have set themselves individbroader footing. By mid-2012, regional councils had ual targets for the proportion of women at all four also been set up in Germany, western Europe, eastern management levels, which they must achieve by 2015. Europe, Asia, New York, and London. They will impleThe segment targets are combined to create a groupment strategic requirements and run local projects. wide target for the bank as a whole, according to which 30 percent of leadership positions must be held Besides the activities taking place as part of the projby women by the end of 2015. ect launched in 2010 to support “Women in leadership positions”, three innovative new programs were In August 2011 Commerzbank opened its own afterintroduced across the bank in March 2012: school daycare center in Frankfurt am Main. It currently looks after 15 elementary schoolchildren – whose n “Keep in Touch” enables employment on a minimal parents work for the bank – from when lessons have › Total E-Quality www.total-e-quality.de/en part-time basis during parental leave, which emfinished until 7 p.m. The plan is to increase capacity ployees should use for continuing professional to up to 80 children in the next few years. The center development. is run by the certified pme-Familienservice, which n The “Guaranteed Return after Parental Leave” proalready offers around 260 full-time places in crèches gram allows employees to return to their same job and kindergartens across Germany for the children of after a short, limited period of parental leave. Commerzbank employees. n “Management Experience” gives employees the chance to try out a role at the next highest level by In 2011 the non-profit Hertie Foundation awarded us deputizing for a manager. the “Work and Family” audit certificate for the fourth time in recognition of our family-friendly activities. The Board of Managing Directors, all level-one manCommerzbank won its sixth TOTAL E-QUALITY award agers, and more than 1,300 managers at levels two to for its diversity-oriented HR policy in August 2012. In four have attended our diversity workshops so far. explaining its decision, the panel of judges emphaParticipation has been mandatory for all managers in sized that the bank was setting a benchmark with its the bank since the year under review. “Career days” successful equal opportunities activities. were offered for the first time in 2011, also as part of the project. Around 500 women took part in these netIn June 2012, 200 employees, managers, and guests working events for the banking industry, which procelebrated the tenth anniversary of the gay and lesvided a forum for dialogue with experienced manbian employee network ARCO. The various speeches agers. given made it clear that employees who do not have to keep their private lives secret from their colleagues stay motivated and perform well. Commerzbank recProportion of female employees at Commerzbank AG (Germany) by employee structure ognized this a long time ago: “In recent years, we have succeeded in establishing a culture in which % 2010 2011 everyone is appreciated,” reported Albert Reicherzer, Proportion of women in overall workforce 50 50 head of the Group Human Resources division. Most Proportion of women at management employees had been shown respect and cooperativelevels (MLs) 1-4 in total 23 23 ness and felt that they were treated fairly, irrespective ML 4 – head of group 29 29 of their sexual orientation. The most recent employee ML 3 – head of department 13 14 survey also confirmed this. ML 2 – head of unit 11 12 ML 1 – head of division 5 9 Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 25 Health management Ideas management Commerzbank uses a variety of measures to protect We continued to develop our ideas management sysand improve health in the workplace. In this way we tem in the reporting year. Based on the “ComIdee” IT are increasing our employees’ well-being, motivation, platform, it enables all employees to submit suggesand ability to perform. tions for improving processes in the bank. In 2011, 2,824 employees submitted a total of 4,404 ideas, a In 2011, for example, we launched the interactive year-on-year increase of around 10 percent. training course “Healthy at Commerzbank” to make employees more aware of their health. The program, In addition, the “WikIdee” platform went live in Sepwhich can be completed on the intranet, also offers tember 2011. Employees can use it to work interpractical tips on health in the workplace, stress manactively on overarching problems, such as those agement, exercise, nutrition, and prevention of addicaffecting processes, technical applications, and custion. tomer care methods. Ideas are rated, thereby creating a ranking that highlights important topics and possiPsychological stress was also actively tackled again in ble innovations, but also critical aspects. Commerz2011. The bank’s general works council and health bank employees submitted around 1,400 ideas, 4,883 management team set up the HORIZONT network for comments, and 38,693 votes in 2011. Ideas that are people affected by burnout in August. The aim of the taken further are then transferred from “WikIdee” to network, to which the people affected can contribute, “ComIdee”. The success of our ideas management is to provide a platform for dialogue and information. system meant it again won an award from the internaIt is also in close contact with the works council and tional Ideas America organization. “WikIdee” is the health management team. first platform of its kind in the financial sector. After deduction of all costs, the benefits achieved through Exercise is key to well-being and is promoted by the ideas management in 2011 amounted to around €3.42 bank’s largest network, inhouse sports. Commerzbank million (based on an average usage period of five has 160 inhouse sports groups across Germany. They years). offer all of the common types of sport and have a total of around 17,000 members. The sports groups are managed by three members of the Board of Managing Directors and additional sectoral managers; all in all, around 1,000 employees help to run inhouse sport on a voluntary basis. In September 2011 Commerzbank held its first Germany-wide sports tournament, ComGames, in which around 800 sportswomen and men from across the country competed against one another. The competitions were held in eight disciplines, including soccer, athletics, and volleyball. 26 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Society Commerzbank AG’s Donation Policy approved Germany’s president welcomes “Internship for the Environment” In June 2012 Commerzbank introduced a Donation Policy that sets out the framework for approving and “Internship for the Environment”, a joint project of making donations. The new policy provides guidance Commerzbank and Europarc Deutschland, the umfor all employees. In particular, donations must not brella organization for Germany’s national parks and conflict with Commerzbank’s Business Conduct Guidenature reserves, was showcased to more than 12,000 › Commerzbank Foundation Center lines, the compliance principles (e.g. the Global Antiguests from politics, business, academia, society, and www.commerzbank.com Fraud Policy and the Anti-Corruption Policy), and spethe media during Environment Week in June 2012 in > Our responsibility > Foundation Center cially defined exclusion criteria. Donations that might Berlin. It was the fourth time that the federal president cause a conflict of interests must also be avoided. Joachim Gauck and the Deutsche Bundesstiftung › Internship for the Environment Commerzbank also forbids donations to recipients Umwelt (German Foundation for the Environment) www.praktikum-fuer-diesuch as associations and sects monitored by the Fedhad invited around 200 companies, institutions, umwelt.de eral Office for the Protection of the Constitution and research organizations, associations, and initiatives to › Environment Week organizations for which the German Central Institute the president’s official residence, Schloss Bellevue, to www.woche-der-umwelt.de for Social Issues (DZI) has issued a warning. present their environmental and conservation proj› MMK Museum für Moderne ects. An independent panel of judges selected “InternKunst Frankfurt am Main www.mmk-frankfurt.de/en ship for the Environment” from among more than 550 Endowment capital of the Foundation Center applicants. The interns spoke in-depth about the proj€ million 2010 2011 ect, which has been recognized by UNESCO. Commerzbank Foundation 58 58 Jürgen Ponto Foundation 11.8 11.8 New MMK Foundation set up in Frankfurt Dresden Cultural Foundation of Dresdner Bank 7.7 7.7 The MMK Museum für Moderne Kunst’s (MMK Social foundations 20.2 20.3 Museum for Modern Art) new foundation was entered Total 97.7 97.8 in the City of Frankfurt’s Golden Book of Foundations on June 1, 2012. The foundation’s assets of €1 million Breakdown of funding provided by the Foundation Center are the result of a donation from Commerzbank in € 2010 2011 2010. Among other things, the MMK Foundation will Commerzbank Foundation 1,463,000 1,417,000 support restoration work, cultural education projects, Jürgen Ponto Foundation 198,000 243,000 exhibitions, collection presentations, and research Dresden Cultural Foundation projects of the MMK. The City of Frankfurt has mainof Dresdner Bank 318,000 242,000 tained a Golden Book of Foundations for more than Social foundations 408,500 493,000 80 years as a sign of appreciation for the work of local Total 2,387,500 2,395,000 foundations. Hosts Petra Roth, who was mayor at the time, and Professor Felix Semmelroth, the city’s councilor for culture, the MMK’s director Dr. Susanne Gaensheimer and Martin Blessing, Chairman of the Commerzbank Board of Managing Directors, entered their names in the Golden Book at the ceremony in the Römer, Frankfurt’s city hall. Governance Market & Customers Environment Employees Society 27 Prize of the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Donation of €10,000 to the Stiftung Deutsche Sciences and Humanities awarded Schlaganfall-Hilfe Sponsored by the Commerzbank Foundation, the prize In 2011 the Commerzbank Foundation again supof the Berlin-Brandenburg Academy of Sciences and ported Stiftung Deutsche Schlaganfall-Hilfe (German Humanities went to Professor Armin Falk in 2011. The Stroke Foundation), a cause to which it has been comrespected economist received the accolade, which mitted for almost 20 years. The latest donation of comes with prize money of €30,000, at a ceremony in €10,000 went toward the association’s exemplary the academy’s building on Gendarmenmarkt square in care and information network for children who have Berlin on October 21, 2011. Günter Stock, the acadhad a stroke. The network ensures affected families emy’s president, highlighted the interdisciplinarity of receive the best possible support and have a forum the findings from experimental economic research, where they can support each other through dialogue. social psychology, the neurosciences, and genetics With help from stroke “pilots”, parents can also obtain that Falk combines in his work. Falk’s research is important specialist medical information. The care based on an approach that seeks to find a psychologinetwork’s members include the Neurological Rehabilcal explanation for economic behavior. This prize for itation Center Friedehorst, the Pediatric Psychology outstanding academic achievements in law and ecoClinic at Bremen University, and Münster University nomics is awarded every other year and aims to Hospital. encourage new academic talent. Dresden Cultural Foundation of Dresdner Bank Commerzbank Foundation supports selected turns 20 exhibitions and museums The Dresden Cultural Foundation of Dresdner Bank The Commerzbank Foundation expresses its commitcelebrated its 20th anniversary in the year under ment to art and culture by sponsoring selected musereview. On October 18, 2011 representatives from the › Dresden Cultural Foundation ums and exhibitions. In 2011, for example, it helped Foundation, leading figures from culture and business of Dresdner Bank www.kulturstiftung-dresden.de the Hamburger Kunsthalle to put on the retrospective in Dresden, and recipients of donations from the “Max Liebermann. Pioneer of Modern Art”, which feaFoundation gathered in Dresden’s Societaetstheater tured 100 exhibits. It was the second time that the to look back on two decades of cultural, arts, and acaFoundation had supported an exhibition of works by the demic sponsorship as well as occasional support for famous German painter and printmaker in Hamburg, urban development projects. Three young movie-makfollowing on from “In Max Liebermann’s Garden” in ers from Dresden depicted the 20 years in words and 2004. pictures. Their movie was created as part of a sponsorship project of the Dresden Cultural Foundation of In 2012 the Foundation sponsored an extensive retroDresdner Bank and received its premiere during the spective of Claes Oldenburg, a leading figure in US anniversary celebrations. pop art, at the Museum Ludwig in Cologne. This year the Foundation also donated €25,000 to “Learning to Since its establishment in 1991 the Foundation has Learn”, an innovative education project in the new strived to identify social changes and incorporate library and media center at Frankfurt’s Städel them into its work – with the aim of raising the profile Museum. of Dresden, capital of Saxony, as a modern center for the arts. Martin Blessing, chairman of the Foundation’s board of trustees, said of this approach: “Let us preserve what has proven its worth so that we pave the way for the future, and let us support the present so that we make the past understandable.” 28 Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 Jürgen Ponto Foundation supports “Focus on “Commerzbank Cup”: promoting regional Young Art” causes through soccer For many years the Jürgen Ponto Foundation has been In 2011 Commerzbank branches in Dortmund, Essen, steadfast in its pursuit of a strategy of providing indiBielefeld, Hanover, and Munich invited company › Jürgen Ponto Foundation www.juergen-ponto-stiftung.de vidual support for young artists. This strategy is also teams in their regions to participate in mini soccer the basis of the Foundation’s “Focus on Young Art” tournaments. The entry fees paid by the teams, which sponsorship program, which fosters young talent in added up to €28,750, went toward regional sports aid the fine arts in their home regions. Every year, the projects for children. The donation from the largest Foundation provides exhibition spaces in different Commerzbank-Cup tournament, held at FC Schalke regions with funds so that they can showcase the 04’s grounds, was given to the “Culture meets footworks of up to four local artists. In this way, the Founball” project run by the club’s “Schalke hilft” charity, dation is contributing to the development of an art which is dedicated to promoting sport among children scene away from the usual cultural centers. On June from socially deprived families. The 23 teams that 18, 2011 the Foundation opened its first exhibition took up the invitation from Commerzbank Essen in the Lindenau Museum in Altenburg, Thuringia. It raised over €6,000, which Commerzbank increased featured works by up-and-coming artists Claudia to €8,000. A total of 86 teams took part in the tournaNeuhaus, Anke Stiller (both born in 1980), Wieland ments. Payer (1981), and Robert Seidel (1977). New department for Corporate Citizenship “Unternehmer packen an” activities Under the banner of “SMEs as role models”, CommerzThe bank has set up a new Corporate Citizenship bank’s Mittelstandsbank segment launched the projdepartment to manage its social responsibility activiect “Unternehmer packen an” (business gets down to ties. It focuses on educational projects and initiatives business) in 2011. Employees teamed up with their as well as support for corporate volunteering. The corporate customers to renovate playgrounds, kinderdepartment also oversees Commerzbank’s art collecgartens, and elementary schools as a way of supporttion, the endowment fund in the Stifterverband für die ing children in their region. The first event was held in Deutsche Wissenschaft (German Benefactors’ AssociAschaffenburg in mid-May, when Commerzbank staff ation for Science and Learning), and the bank’s donaand the managing directors of 15 companies in the tions. It also advises other departments on designing region helped with the Christopherus Kindergarten’s and implementing projects of social relevance. move to a new building. Similar projects went ahead in Dresden, Minden, Weiden, and Münster. A total of 62 companies joined in at Commerzbank’s request. 29 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Examples for implementation Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection p. 6, 12/13; CR Report 2011 p. 70/71, of internationally proclaimed human rights 130-133; AR 2011 p. 65 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit p. 6, 12/13; CR Report 2011 p. 70/71, in human rights abuses 130-133; AR 2011 p. 65 › UN Global Compact www.unglobalcompact.org Labour › German Global Compact Network 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and p. 22-25; CR Report 2011 p. 123, 132, www.globalcompact.de the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 133 › Corporate Responsibility 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination p. 6; CR Report 2011 p. 70/71, 131, Report 2011 of all forms of forced and compulsory labor 133 http://sustainability2011. commerzbank.com 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition p. 6; CR Report 2011 p. 70/71, 131, of child labor 133 › Annual Report 2011 http://annualreport2011. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination p. 23/24; CR Report 2011 p. 32-37, commerzbank.com in respect of employment and occupation 127, 132; AR 2011 p. 141; HR 2011 p. 28-31, 41 › Human Resources Report 2011 http://www.menschenEnvironment bewegen-zukunft-gestalten.de/en 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach p. 11/12, 15-21; CR Report 2011 to environmental challenges p. 16/17, 24/25, 46-53, 103, 114/115; AR 2011 p. 64-67 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives p. 11/12, 15-21; CR Report 2011 to promote greater environmental responsibility p. 16/17, 24/25, 46-53, 108, 111/112, 118/119; AR 2011 p. 64-67 9. Businesses should encourage the development and p. 11/12, 15-21; CR Report 2011 diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies p. 16/17, 24/25, 38-47, 50-53, 112; AR 2011 p. 64-67 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, p. 7, 26; CR Report 2011 p. 65-68, including extortion and bribery 135/136 Key/Remarks p. x page of the Corporate Responsibility Status Report 2012 CR Report 2011 p. x page of the Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 AR 2011 p. x page of the Annual Report 2011 HR 2011 p. x page of the Human Resources Report 2011 Commerzbank AG Head Office Kaiserplatz Frankfurt am Main www.commerzbank.com Postal address 60261 Frankfurt am Main Tel. +49 69 136-20 info@commerzbank.com Corporate Responsibility Tel. +49 69 136-44552 Fax +49 69 136-56928 nachhaltigkeit@commerzbank.com
