2012 SUSTAINABLILITY REPORT IBK 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Tilted square: It symbolizes dynamic and progressive energy to veer away from stillness and move forward. I: “I” means customer. It symbolizes the corporate philosophy of IBK to put customers first. Inside of the square: It is designed to visualize IBK graphically: It symbolizes the Bank’s pledge Win-Wing’s B: “Win” from “Win-Wing” of bringing a bright future to customers, like the embodies the Bank’s pledge to serve as the History Awards in 2011 wings of a big bird soaring in the sky. “Wings for customers’ success” and bring 1961. 8.1 Established the Small and Medium-sized Businesses Bank 2011. 4.14 IBK Customer Service Center selected as Korea’s Outstanding Call Center for five success, hope, and bright future for them. 1994. 11.30 Registered on KOSDAQ consecutive years 1997. 11.29 Transformed from a government-invested company into a 2011. 4.19 Carbon labeling for credit card service government-affiliated one 2011. 4.26 Named best agency in ARS operation evaluation, given commendation by KCC 2003. 12.24 Transferred from KOSDAQ to Korea Securities Exchange Commissioner 2007. 1.4 Changed its CI 2011. 5.13 IBK ON-Bank awarded the Korea e-Banking Grand Prize 2009. 6.20 Established domestic corporation in China 2011. 10.14 Cited as Agency for Tomorrow’s Workplace filled with Hope 2009. 8.3 Announced its service identity as SMART Service 2011. 10.20 Grand Prize in the 13th Korea Design Awards (premier’s citation) 2009. 12.29 Selected as pilot project institution for the expansion of 2011. 10.24 Grade of excellence in the 2011 Fund Mystery Shopping management autonomy 2011. 10.26 Named Industrial Leader in CDP (Carbon Discloser Project) 2010. 1.4 IBK core values enacted and declared 2011. 11.4 Environment Minister’s Commendation in climate change response for low carbon, 2010. 10.12 Elevated to the hall of fame as Customer Satisfaction green growth Management Awardee 2011. 11.22 3rd Korea Human Grand Prize (presidential citation) 2010. 12.28 Acquired grade of excellence in the public agency CS survey 2011. 11.29 Recipient of Award of Excellence in the Company History Sector in the 2011 Korea for four years in a row Communication Awards 2011. 1.7 Named 2011’s outstanding financial company in consumer 2011. 12.2 FSS Commissioner’s Citation in commemoration of the 2nd Smile Financial Day protection 2011. 12.5 Named excellent agency in anti-money laundering 2011. 5.12 Recorded 10 million retail customers 2011. 12.7 IBK Open recruitment selected as best practice in 2011 Fair Society 2011. 8.4 IBK ALTOS Women’s Volleyball Team founded 2011. 12.13 Presidential Citation in Customer Satisfaction in the 37th Customer Quality Awards 2012. 1.31 Un-designated as public agency 2011. 12.13 Presidential Citation in Customer Satisfaction in the 37th Customer Quality Awards 2011. 12.16 Selected as the best agency in public agency integrity evaluation for two consecutive years 2011. 12.23 Cited as Outstanding Agency in use of Authentic Software Contents Sustainability Management CEO Message 04 2011 Highlights 06 About this report Company Profile 08 Vision of IBK 10 Introduction and Composition of the Report Management Performance 12 IBK has been offering financial services for SMEs’ development and people’s happiness since its foundation in 1961, constantly striving to fulfill its economic, social, and environmental Communication with Stakeholders 14 responsibilities. This is the third report detailing IBK’s performance for a year in 2011, six and Voice of Stakeholders  15 five years after we published the 2006 and 2007 sustainability reports, respectively. In this Framework to Deduct Key Issues 16 report, key issues have been set based on communication with various stakeholders, and IBK’s sustainability management performance has been objectively described. We plan to publish CSR Experts Committee 18 the sustainability report annually to retain sound partnership with our stakeholders. This report Corporate Governance 21 introduces IBK’s management activities centered on stakeholders engaging in and sharing IBK’s management activities. We have tried to report our vision, mission, strategy, system, activity, Ethical Management 22 and performance in the relevant fields, and we plan to introduce information that has yet to be Risk Management 24 prepared in the future. Reporting boundaries and standards A Truly Good Consideration_ Customer Satisfaction 28 This report has been drawn up based on GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) Guideline G3.1 and Customers Communication with Customers  31 GRI FSSS(Financial Services Sector Supplement). The management performance in this report was derived from using financial statements(or consolidated financial statements), and KRW Customer Protection 33 was used for currency unit. Both Korean and English versions of this sustainability management report are available. A Truly Good Partnership_ Financial Support 38 Reporting Period and Frequency SMEs Management Support 40 This report details IBK’s performance from January 2011 to December 2011. We have drawn Support Local SMEs 42 up the report using three-year data so that time series analysis is carried out in terms of Consolidation of Efforts to Foster Middle Standing Firms 43 quantitative performance. To make the qualitative performance meaningful, we have also included the performance before 2011 and in 2012. In case data collection is impossible based on the date of drawing up the report, the relevant reason has been specified. The report scope encompasses the activities and performance of the IBK head office and branches in Korea. We A Truly Good Communication_ Best Human Power 46 have reported the performance of overseas branches — where data gathering is difficult — Employees Best Workplace 49 within the limited scope. We shall endeavor to expand the report scope to overseas branches Best System 51 in the future. Report Credibility A Truly Good Future_ IBK’s Environmental Leadership 54 The 2012 Sustainability Report has been reviewed by the Sustainability Management TFT and an external expert committee. We shall receive a third-party assurance to secure reliability of Environment Green Finance 58 the overall reporting details and data gathering in the future. Environmental Management Support 60 Engagement in Initiatives 61 Additional Information Offering Users can check various pieces of information on IBK’s management activities on IBK’s homepage(www.ibk.co.kr), where current and past sustainability reports can also be found. A Truly Good Sharing_ Support for Financially Alienated Class 64 Should you have further inquiries or opinions regarding our sustainability management report, please contact us as at the following: Communities Support of SMEs 65 Participatory Social Contribution Activities 66 Mecenat Activities 67 Publisher Cho Jun-hee Date of publication October 31, 2012 Domestic and International Social Contribution Activities 68 Advisory organization Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute Design DesignZoo Publishing company IBK Shared Happiness Dept., IBK Head Office 50, Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Appendix Third-party Opinion 70 Tel. 82-2-729-7977 Fax 82-2-729-6503 Hompage www.ibk.co.kr GRI Index 71 04 05 CEO Message IBK is a bank that is like a neighbor preparing for tomorrow together with you On behalf of all the employees at IBK, I would like to thank you all for your unwavering support and encouragement for the development of IBK. 2011 was a challenging year for us. The global financial market crises in Europe and the U.S. created a trickledown effect, spurring economic slowdown in virtually every sector, including domestic private-sector consumption, facility investments and the construction industry. Despite such difficulties, we at IBK consolidated our basic business practices, principles and strategies under the strategic direction of balanced internal stability in 2011. As a direct result of our active implementation for balanced growth with internal stability(including the adoption of an internal stability index, the bolstering of soundness management and the expansion of our retail base), IBK maintained its top-level position in banking sector soundness and the quantity of our retail customers surpassed the 10 million mark. All in all, we at IBK have laid the foundation for the future cooperative growth with our customers for the next century. We have also come to the realization that IBK is a bank among citizens that fulfills its social responsibility as part of our business philosophy, under the judgment that corporate social responsibility, as well as financial performance, is the paramount factor in sustainability management. In this context, we have done our utmost to ensure sustainable growth in various areas including: customer satisfaction management, win-win growth with small and medium-sized enterprises(SMEs), environmental management, social contribution activity expansion, and job creation. In order to manifest our commitment in achieving top status in customer satisfaction,, we were the first-ever to declare Service Identity in the financial sector. In so doing, the bond of sympathy among all our employees developed regarding the direction of customer satisfaction. In addition, we fortified our role of a “firm-doctor” by supporting SMEs suffering from difficulties arising from economic recession. Through our funding and highly effective consulting services, these SMEs were able to grow into top-notch companies and expand their growth potential. Through our continuous endeavors to practice the national challenge task, “Low Carbon, Green Growth,” we were honorably selected as a leading company in the banking sector for the carbon disclosure project(CDP). We also strove to assist the financially alienated class in gaining independence and exempted and reduced CD/ ATM fees, in addition to providing treatment expenses for rare and incurable diseases and scholarships so that benefits can be offered to communities in a timely and appropriate fashion. In order to solve the challenges of youth unemployment and manpower shortage within SMEs, we created a free employment portal site specializing in SMEs called “Job World.” Furthermore, we assisted in the actual employment of these individuals, which included resume consulting and spot recruitments through the hosting of the Job World Employment EXPO in various regions. For the first time in the financial sector, we intended to lead a recruitment culture that focused on abilities and talents, rather than the “business as usual” approach to recruiting graduates with educational backgrounds from specialized high schools. Moreover, through the creation of a customized employment support system by life cycle(in terms of job creation service) we plan to expand employment opportunities in provincial areas by offering tailored jobs suitable to local industrial features, including high school students with specializations, the younger generation and seniors, In lieu of a mere one-time effort driven by external change demand, the endeavors of IBK for sustainability management have the potential to lead to a continuous virtuous cycle through the integrity of individual employees. Through the creation of an enjoyable workplace, the improvement of the quality of life for each Jun-Hee Cho employee, the establishment of onsite and ethical goal management and internal stability management as the Chairman & CEO of IBK cornerstones of our activities, together with the high priority we place on the satisfaction of our customers, we will do our utmost to make IBK a bank favored by the Korean people. We are committed to developing and growing together with our customers, shareholders, employees, governmental agencies, communities and the entire Korean nation. I cordially request for your continuous support for and interest in our growth for the next 100 years ahead. 06 07 Retail Customers Introduced Braille Pin Pad Laid the foundation for the stable use of Surpassed 10 Introduced the Braille pin pad for the blind retail customers’ surplus funds for loans in million; Recorded Customers the era of 10 million IBK retail customers KRW 100 trillion in as of May 2011; IBK posted a new record of Loans for SMEs having recorded KRW 100 trillion in loans for small and medium-sized enterprises Economy Implemented the IBK High-Quality Service Certification System System certifying efforts for customer satisfaction improvement for IBK’s high(SMEs) for the first time in the banking quality service improvement; IBK implements a system that preferentially treats sector in April 2012 individual employees’ customer-oriented activities by stage Launched A Truly Good Advisory Committee  Operating A Truly Good Advisory Committee consisting of customers to develop products and services in response to customer needs Approved the application of the Advanced Internal Rating-based Acquired Top Rating Approach, the highest rating among in Basel II Credit Risk the BIS calculation methods, for the 2011 first time in Korea’s financial sector Management First Publicly Recruited IBK CEO, First Female IBK Vice President Employees Open recruitment of IBK CEO from the inside of IBK and appointment of Society female Vice President for the first time in IBK’s history Hilights Effort to Expand the Employment of Disabled People As a result of efforts to increase the employment of disabled people, IBK’s rate in disabled people employment rose 2.1% in 2011, exceeding the mandatory employment rate among domestic banks for the first time in March 2012. Employed High School Graduates and Married Multicultural Immigrants  Built GHG inventory for more than 45 small Signed Partner In 2011, 22% of the 303 people hired as new tellers were high school graduates. Hired 12 married multicultural immigrants as employees in April 2012 and medium-sized partner firms to date, Firms’ GHG Emissions offered green strategy consulting including Reduction Support energy savings and carbon emissions reduction strategies Environment SMEs A Truly Good Free Consulting  A one-stop, full-service lineup system through which problems Communities including management, accounting, tax affairs, and legal affairs Childbirth Encouragement Support  can be identified in various ways via legal affairs consulting Provided childbirth subsidies to help address development and solutions can be comprehensively presented low birth and aging problems was built for the first time in the banking sector for SMEs’ growth Selected as an industrial sector Named Excellent and development. leader company in the banking field as a result of CDP(Carbon Company of CDP in Disclosure Project) Korea 2011 Assistance in SME Employees’ Welfare and Low-income Credit Job Creation  Committee’s assessment of the Owner-operators’ Self-support Hosted employment expos in Gaegu, Busan, carbon disclosures of 94 major Gumi, Changwon, and Daejeon to publicize Job Subsidized the treatment cost of rare and incurable diseases for World and on-the-spot employment Korean companies SME workers’ families and provided scholarships, provided low Engaged in Green Actively engaged in the interest rate-bearing loans for low-income credit owner-operators Green Touch(free software) Installed Combination Telephone Booths for Touch Project of Dissemination campaign to cut the Ministry of Support in Searching for SMEs with Promising Female CEOs  Citizens’ Convenience  standby power of PC Environment(MOE) Through an agreement with the Korean Women Entrepreneurs’ By replacing worn-out public telephone booths Association, IBK has provided support in the form of funds and with combination booths(heart impactor+public management consulting to foster SMEs with female CEOs telephone+ATM), IBK improved urban aesthetics and citizens’ convenience. IBK installed 32 combination booths nationwide in 2011 Quantitative Performance in Major Social Responsibility Management Category Item 2009 2010 2011 Economy Asset(KRW trillion) 151 165 180 Operating income(KRW 100 million) 207,638 184,597 169,167 Operating profit(KRW 100 million) 8,416 16,514 21,263 Net income(KRW 100 million) 7,105 12,901 15,522 Corporate income tax(KRW 100 million) 1,907 4,205 5,106 Customer Satisfaction Customer satisfaction(full marks: 100 points) 90.5 92.3 93.4 Employee Education and training expenses per person(KRW thousand) 835 978 1,104 Education hours per person 127.9 133.3 123.9 Social Contribution No. of volunteers 19,663 14,325 15,337 Investment in social contribution activities(KRW 100 million) 736 408 938 No. of personnel(people) 3 4 7 08 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 09 Corporate Status unit : KRW million Capital and Composition of Shareholders Name of Bank Industrial Bank of Korea(IBK) Date Established August 1, 1961 As a government-invested agency, IBK Others has as its largest shareholder the Korean 34.9% CEO Cho Jun-hee government with total shares of 65.1%. Company Profile No. of Employees No. of Branches 10,463 641(16 abroad) IBK’s Capital is KRW 3,219.9 billion. Total Shares Address of Head Office 50, Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Issued Capital 3,219,869 Total Assets 179,945,867 IBK was founded in 1961 to ensure that the autonomous economic activities of SMEs are carried out smoothly Ministry of Net Income 1,552,216 Strategy and Finance and to promote their economic status by establishing an efficient credit system for SMEs as per the IBK Act. 65.1% Having endeavored for SMEs’ development and ordinary people’s happiness, IBK contributes to national economic development. Today, it has grown into an excellent bank supported by the Korean people. In the loan Subsidiaries Unit: KRW 100 million, shares, % sector for SMEs, IBK has provided KRW 5.5 trillion in support or 48.3% of the total increase in loans for SMEs in the banking sector and captured 21.4% of the market to record a 0.7%p increase compared to 2010. In the retail Company Name Address Main business Date Established Capital No. of Shares Ownership deposit sector, IBK posted a record-high performance of KRW 6.9 trillion. We will do our very best to become a (Y/M/D) Owned New technology banking business, installment truly good bank by engaging in sustainable banking with new attitude and mindset. IBK Capital Corporation 321 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea 1986. 11. 1 1,655 33,090,308 100.00 banking business, factoring banking business IBK Securities Co., Ltd. 50 63-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Finance and investment business 2008. 5. 29 3,770 60,000,000 79.58 IT outsourcing, system development and 1991.3.22 IBK System Co., Ltd. 141-7 Toegyero, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea 31 3,449,000 55.63 establishment (1991.3.20, etc.) IBK Credit Information 2000.1.18 230 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Claim collection, credit check 30 600,000 100.00 Co., Ltd. (2000.1.17, etc.) IBK Asset Management 30 Eunhaeng-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Asset Mgt. business, investment consulting 2004. 10. 26 200 4,000,000 100.00 Co., Ltd. Korea business, investment entrustment business IBK China Ltd. Tianjin, China Banking business 2009. 6. 22 3,225 100.00 IBK Insurance Co., Ltd. 37, Chilpae-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Insurance business 2010. 7. 9 900 18,000,000 100.00 Domestic and Overseas Branches Domestic Overseas London Tianjin Xinging Tianjin Moscow Qingdao Chengyang Shenyang Incheon 34 Gangwon 6 Seoul 220 Gyeonggi 186 Tokyo Yantai Hanoi New York Chungcheong 30 Gyeongbuk 19 Daegu 24 Ho Chi Minh Daejeon 11 Ulsan 11 Suzhou Busan 37 Suzhou Kunshan Jeonbuk 11 Gyeongnam 25 Shenzhen Gwangju 13 Hong Kong Jeonnam 10 Jeju 4 * Based on June 2012 10 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 11 Core Values Customers’ happiness is the value for vision realization and the highest value among IBK’s core values. As the standard and principle with regard to thinking and conduct, customers’ happiness should be shared and observed by IBK employees. Vision of IBK Customers’ Happiness Customers’ happiness Vison of IBK is our promise as we Best Teamwork become a bank offering IBK is committed to becoming a bank offering sincere services by putting customer-oriented management into happiness to our practice while serving customers and seeking solutions to any and all difficulties. We vow to be a warm bank and It is IBK’s way of doing the job customers. Creative Passion to maximize organizational a true partner bank for our customers, leading the implementation of win-win strategies and sharing benefits competencies. Trust and Responsibility Creative passion is IBK’s and difficulties as an accontable social member. strength and energy, creating IBK’s mental attitude is to take the future with creative the right path at all times. thinking and outstanding Bank with Dreams and Hopes capability in implementation.  utting the highest priority on P Improving employees’ quality of life Laying the foundation to become a customers’ happiness top-tier bank Organizational Structure 12 Business Divisions, 1 Research Institute, 1 Center, 47 Depts., 10 Teams Corporate Banking Dept. Conduct Truth Fruit Corporate Support Dept. Corporate Banking Division Institutional Banking Dept. IBK Consulting Services Dept. Cultural Contents Business Team Retail Banking Dept. Onsite Management Ethical and Right Path Management Internal Stability Management Retail Banking Division Retail Loan Dept. PB Dept. • Consider customers preferentially in • Be a bank that fulfills its social • Build a mature operational culture Marketing Strategy Dept. decision making at all times. responsibility among Korean people. centered on autonomy and reality. Strategic Product Dept. •Establish problem solving and • Pursue sound growth that complies • Implement productive work by Branch Strategy Dept. strategy directions on-site. with the basics and principles. veering away from conventional Marketing Division Smart Business Dept. • Develop innovative and new • Fair evaluation and compensation practices and formality. CMS Dept. products/services based on customers according to abilities and performance • Concentrate on capability that one can IBK Contact Center and sites. do better rather than on something that one does not know. Planning Office Treasury Dept. Trading Dept. Global Markets & Treasury Division Global Business Dept Legal & .International Trade Business Dept. Compliance Dept. Treasury and Vision Investment Banking Dept. Appropriation Team Investment Banking Division Project Finance Dept. IBK is guided by the following vision: “IBK, A New Future in Finance” Chairman & CEO IB Supporting Team Credit Card Business Dept. Credit Card Business Division Credit Card Marketing Dept. Corporate Pension Dept. “IBK, A New Future in Finance” expresses IBK’s commitment to open a new future of finance in Korea by building Trust & Pension Business Division Trust Dept. a successful differentiation model based on Korea’s first bank for SMEs, serve as the benchmark of Asian and Planning & Coordination Dept. Manager External Collaboration Team emerging markets, and have the model become a global role model. Based on such vision, IBK seeks to develop Management Strategy Division Business Management Dept. IR TeamTeam PR Dept. Sports Marketing Team as a Truly Good financial group fostering dreams and happiness and meeting the expectations of various Credit Planning Dept. Design Management Team stakeholders such as customers, employees, government, and markets. Credit Deliberation Dept. Loan Deliberation Center(10) Credit Management Division Credit Management Dept. Corporate Improvement Dept. PE Dept. Midand long-term vision “IBK, A New Future in Finance” HR Dept. HR Development Dept. Chungju Training Center Team Searching for new growth Consolidation of SMEs’ core Bolstering fundamental Employee Satisfaction Dept. 2015 strategic goals engines related to SMEs’ core Executive Director Management Support Division capabilities competitiveness General Affairs Dept. capabilities Operation Services Dept. Loan Support Team Safety Management Office ➊ Securing solid leadership ➌ Searching for SME-related ➏ Customer-oriented sales/ IT Planning and Supervision Dept. status in the market of markets, attaining top Marketing innovation IT Information Dept. SMEs market share IT Division ➐ Optimization of business IT Banking Development Dept. Eight strategic directions ➋ Maintaining top asset ➍ Establishing a financial portfolio for sustainable IT Channel Dept. Post Generation quality, profitability, and belt between East Asia growth Risk Management Dept. Development Office soundness in the banking and IBK Risk Management Division Risk Review Dept. industry ➑ Strategic assetization ➎ Implementation of Onethrough expansion of IBK Economic Research Institute IBK Group strategy social corporate role Secretariat Shared Happiness Dept. ➒ Preemptively coping with domestic and ➓ Establishing a dynamic, effective operational Auditor Audit & Examination Dept. Infrastructure international financial regulations’ consolidation system * Based on the end of June 2012 12 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 13 Core Management Performance Net Income Total Assets Total Shareholders’  unit: KRW billion unit: KRW billion  unit: KRW billion 189,531 13,076 1,552 Management Performance 1,500 1,390 150,000 156,650 174,446 12,000 9,000 9,216 11,849 1,000 100,000 6,000 500 711 50,000 3,000 0 0 IBK pursues sound growth through balanced internal stability. Based on IBK’s strategic keywords, “Building 2009 2010 2011 0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 on Solid Foundation,” we strive for risk management by establishing infrastructure for loan soundness enhancement, SMEs financing performance dominance consolidation, the constant creation of retail banking ROA ROE Net interest margin unit: %  unit: % unit: % growth momentum, and sound growth of IBK. 0.89 2.58 12.26 As of the end of 2011, total assets in IBK’s bank accounts stood at KRW 179.9459 trillion, up 8.0%; total liabilities 0.8 0.84 12 12.15 2.5 2.44 2.71 were pegged at KRW 166.8703 trillion, up 7.8%. Total stockholders’ capital grew 10.4% to KRW 13.756 trillion 0.6 9 2.0 compared to the end of 2010. IBK’s operating income stood at KRW 2.1263 trillion, up 15.6%. Net income 0.4 0.47 6 8.11 1.5 1.0 increased 11.7% to KRW 1.5522 trillion compared to 2010. 0.2 3 0.5 0.0 0 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2011 IBK Review 2012 Internal Environment Analysis 2012 External Environment Analysis unit: KRW 100million, % • Securing basic strength through • Keeping the self-esteem of IBK with active • Preparing a management system by Key Financial Data 2009 2010 2011 YOY(%, %p) improvement of internal stability soundness management viewing the risk of low growth and • Expanding IBK’s fruitful banking territory long-term slowdown as an opportunity Net Income 711 1,390 1,552 11.7 • Building a sustainable organizational culture Total Assets 156,650 174,446 189,531 8.6 Total Loans 114,225 123,664 134,635 8.9 Total Deposits 114,128 124,540 138,683 11.4 Implementation of Sound Growth Based on Balance in Internal Stability Total Shareholders’ Equity 9,216 11,849 13,076 10.4 ROA 0.47 0.84 0.89 0.05%p Building, Ground, Solid, Basics ROE 8.11 12.15 12.26 0.11%p BIS CAR 11.91 12.54 11.70 -0.84%p NPL ratio 1.20 1.83 1.48 -0.35%p Enhance loan Consistently establish Build efficient soundness through Consolidate SMEs’ retail banking growth Secure new growth Make the DNA of a 100infrastructure for preemptive risk financial dominance. momentum(deposit engine capability. year-old bank. sound growth. management. base expansion). • Consolidate corporate • Reinforce robust status • Increase deposits • Bolster • Stable operate mid• Lead banking that Innovative Management Activities loan soundness. in finance for SMEs. procured through communication and long-term new shares with and • Consolidate household • Expand best teller windows. with the front line of growth engine considers customers. ATM Public Telephone Booth loan soundness. customers’ base. • Create new customers. business. businesses. • Actively carry out • Consolidate ALM • Keep the existing best • Retain existing • Fortify communication • Lay the foundation for onsite management. By combining AED(automated external defibrillator) and ATM with public telephone booths, which have function. customers. customers. with customers. takeoff as a global bank. • Support the become an ugly thing of the past due to the diffusion of cellphones, we have enhanced urban aesthetics, • Build risk infrastructure • Secure stable earnings. • Expand transactions • Enhance efficiency • Consolidate marketing undertaking of according to asset size. • Establish a sustainable with the existing best of implementation for companies of ethical and right path diffused AED, and inhanced public welfare and customer convenience. A total of 32 booths were installed as of • Preemptively manage loan culture. customers. system for internal middle standing. management. loans with low • Consolidate marketing • Maintain appropriate stability management. • Develop new markets • Make a happy 2011, and we plan to install some 1,000 more booths in 2012. soundness for customers without profitability. • Consolidate the IBK such as retirement workplace. loans. • Consolidate Micro Group’s synergy pension and securities • Reinforce autonomous • Expand excellent IB Value marketing. system. trust. marketing. assets. • Support effective • Enhance the efficiency • Search for future growth • Build a reliable Loan Interest Rate Cut for SMEs marketing for of marketing channels. engines using IB. information security We have devised a method to enable the drastic cut of loan interest rates for SMEs. We have presented a new branches. • Shape an operational • Expand the base for system. environment based on foreign exchange • Thoroughly protect standard in the financial market through huge cut of default interest rate by 13%P maximum. customer settlement personnel. financial consumers. Introduction of Retirement Pension System IBK implements retirement pension system for all our employees. Building, Ground, Solid, Basics B  efore the traditional multicolored paintwork on wooden buildings gets dry, when building a house, the prop collapses first Category Details since the ground is not hard. This was what Dasan, Jung Yak-yong said when a building was built while he was working as a government official in Goksan County. Launching Year Dec. 29, 2011 T  his statement means building props on solid ground, establishing pillars, and constructing crossbeams by hardening the Introduction type DB and DC ground even though such takes more time. He ordered the building of a house that will not collapse even after a thousand Object All employees of IBK years. Operation Agencies 8 agencies including Samsung Life Insurance  Knowledge Management Method of Sir Dasan(Nov. 2006, Jeong min, Gimm Young Publisher) (Heungkuk Life Insurance, Mirae Asset Securities, Mirae Asset Life Insurance, Hana Bank, MetLife Insurance, Korea Development Bank, Korea Investment & Securities, Daishin Securities) Operated Amount KRW 97.3 billion(based on the end of July 2012) No. of Subscribers 10992 people(based on the end of July 2012) 14 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 15 Communication with Stakeholders Voice of Stakeholders A stakeholder means an object or individual that may affect or be affected by IBK’s management activities or by Valuable comments presented by various stakeholders to IBK. We will humbly accept praises, and reflect on using IBK’s products and services. ourselves through criticism. We will make huge efforts to become better IBK through the sincere advice of IBK has divided key stakeholders into employees, customers, shareholders & investors, communities, and stakeholders government agencies. We are doing our best to fulfill our corporate social responsibility to stakeholders. Amid the rapidly changing domestic and international situations, we at IBK believe that continual communication with stakeholders is important for sustainability management. IBK is committed to consolidating communication channels with each stakeholder, actively identifying their expectations and needs, and strategically reflecting them on its management activities considering materiality and influence of stakeholders’ expectations and needs. IBK will create a sustainable society by listening to various stakeholders’ valuable opinions. • IBK T lub • IBK Wo op Mana ers’ C me ge K Lead • Custom n Entrep ment C HR Department Manager Center Director of IBK Capital IB amp) er sat rene r) • ow-C isfac u lub Kim Jin-man Kim Jae-hyun mme net(Kn tion r Club • IBK (Ya Intra e sur vey • IBK om W NS n azin “The major achievements of IBK in 2011 can “Most companies go into retrenchment when al S ng o • mag • Ca • Pub Cons en E be said to be the employment of specialized rn t i il ll c u n economic conditions become tough. Note, te ee unc en lic in ltin tre high school graduates. IBK supported the selfhowever, that IBK should help SMEs when business • In es’ M t Co ter v g p s n Cu • H itat • IB development of those hired by December 2011; conditions deteriorate. I hope IBK shares hopes and ye e sto om ion g • In lo gem es etin er male employees can take a leave of absence dreams with the financially underprivileged class -ho ye me ep Me seng K a when they need to leave for military service.” plo us a by offering a helping hand when things go bad.” rs wn Mes •V OC e CO cts Em • To ct produ Ex Pa b Dire ce l ct • L lent iviti ab E e Employees are the precious IBK’s customers encompass Clu BK s’ new ur • I or mp assets of IBK and the driving retail customers and various r ne ur me -M an force for its growth. We intend sizes of firms. We will strive re To sto cu to foster a corporate culture to offer services that respect through which we can build a the preferences of our of e Korea Safety Corporation workplace that is great to work in customers and satisfy their g Compliance Support Dept. Team Leader Lee Young-ho via the transparent assessment needs. Team Leader Lee Tae-ho of employees’ performance and “IBK listens to security guards’ complaints open communication. “The purpose of IBK’s foundation is to and offers solutions. IBK also absorbs support SMEs, and 70% of loan products partner firms’ irregular employees, Sisterhood relationship are offered to SMEs. It is important for us i.e., bank clerks and security guards, ents • to research on and develop what products • Regular report • Confere into its own workforce. Such policy for olesc Definition of Key SMEs want and sell those products.” employment stability motivates many d nce a eer Service Group) partner firms a lot.” Stakeholders and for IBK’s communities include The government fosters Volunt o rg • Parliamentary inspe residents of areas where IBK’s an environment wherein tion aniz Communication s(IBK branches are located as well stable management can be a ie ction ed b as all Korean people indirectly Channels carried out by laying a social, c it u iv • Joi affected by IBK. We will do systematic foundation. IBK ed act Gov yg our best for job creation and will comply with related n ial on Labor Union Director IBK’s Homemaker Customer ernm t c o community development. systems and fulfill its nc uti olla v Park Han-jin Ryu Soo-ja bo ernm responsibility of paying taxes a ib ent faithfully. in ntr ies rat “One of IBK’s achievements in 2011 was that a “I received a lot of help in asset plans with kind •F unit co en former labor union member was appointed and scrupulous financial consulting, although I io IBK President. Actually, he was appointed state thought IBK was a bank that mainly deals with ld ty pr t ag IBK strives to maximize n or uni mm investment values through bank president, a position occupied mainly by companies. I actually had some preconceived government officials. This is meaningful since notions about IBK thinking it was somewhat o efficient management W m og en C activities for shareholders the President was the first case of selection business-like before I started transactions b through an internal public recruitment process with IBK. To my surprise, the staff was kind and ra m cy and investors as the actual om owners of IBK. 50 years after IBK was comfortable to talk •C founded.” with, even providing me with good information on the phone.” •J o Shareh olders & Investors • Ann ce ual rep eren • Ge ort • IR homepage • IR conf date neral sure shareho o lders’ meeting • Discl 16 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 17 Selection and Review of Material Issues IBK has deduced material issues taking into account the stakeholders’ concerns and IBK’s vision, core strategies, and management performance and selected 18 issues by key stakeholder. We have secured objectivity and transparency through third-party review in terms of the selected material issues. Manteriality Test Material Issues of IBK high Risk Management Win-win Growth Green Finance Customer Information Materiality Test Process Reduction of Energy Depositor Community We have carried out materiality test to identify the issues seriously affecting the sustainable growth of IBK Coping with Climate Consumption Protection Contribution Change Customer Satisfaction and stakeholders, and to systematically manage those issues. For materiality test, we have used global Management Job Creation assurance standard, AA1000’s Five Materiality Test models, based on the impacts on sustainable growth, and Improvement of Business Revenue IBK stakeholders’ interests. We have chosen key issues in consideration of internal and external stakeholders’ Environmental Communication interests and their influences on IBK through the analyses of IBK’s management strategies and previous years’ Leadership Consolidation Stakeholders’ interest  reports, collection of internal and external stakeholders’ opinions, and examination of international trends, Work-life Balance Employee Value Creation norms, laws and regulations. The key issues have been determined through the review of Sustainability Management TFT, Management, and Social Responsibility Committee. Eco-friendly Branch Fair Employee Assessment Materiality Test Criteria Support for Financially Underprivileged Class Test Factors Duties Culture, Sports, and Arts Internal Vision and Mission Analyses of items on the agenda of the board meeting, past years’ reports Sponsorships Internal System Establishment and Interview with employees, system check Recognition Collection of Internal and External Questionnaire surveys targeting customers, communities, employees, partner firms, and Stakeholders’ Opinions SMEs, gathering of experts’ opinions Industry Analyses Material issues analyses of domestic and international banks and financial institutions External Stakeholders’ Concerns Media analyses Social Norms UNGC, UNEP/FI, UNPRI, ISO26000 low Forming Material Issue Groups IBK has formed 35 issue groups affecting IBK’s sustainable growth through the analyses of international low Influences on IBK(Financial and Non-financial)  high standards including ISO26000 and UNPRI and related domestic laws and regulations, material issues of domestic and international banks and financial institutions, and media research. Centered on the key issue groups, we gathered in-depth opinions from 15 corporate social responsibility(CSR) experts. From May 21, 2012 to June 8, Core Issues by Key Stakeholder 2012, we conducted questionnaire surveys targeting 863 key stakeholders including 463 employees and 400 customers and communities and measured their concern. Material Issue Groups of IBK Customers SMEs Employees Environment Communities Shareholders and Government ➊ Continuous improvement of ➓ Corporate culture that promotes  Establishment of sound laborD  evelopment of new • Customer • Win-win Growth • Job Creation • Green Finance • Community • Continuous business revenue balance between work and life management culture financial products Satisfaction with SMEs • Corporate Culture Support Contribution Improvement of Management that Promotes • Coping with Climate Activities Business Revenue ➋ Win-win growth with SMEs  Equal employment and human  Green finance assistance Governance improvement • Communication Balance between Change • Support for • Risk Management ➌C  ustomer satisfaction rights guarantee Environmental leadership Active implementation of Channel Work and Life • Reduction of Energy Financially Enhancement management  Fair employee assessment and consolidation in the banking international standards Consolidation • Employee Value Consumption Underprivileged ➍ C  ustomer information compensation sector Minor shareholders’ rights • Depositor Protection Creation • Environmental Class protection  Stable employment Enhancement of job efficiency and interests Consolidation • Fair Employee Leadership • Culture, Sports, and ➎ Risk management  Support for SMEs and partner transparency • Customer Assessment and Consolidation in the Arts Sponsorships Fair marketing Information Compensation Banking Sector enhancement firms Ethical management Fair trade execution Protection • Eco-friendly Branch ➏D  epositor protection  Local economic activation support Coping with climate change Enhancement of corporate Operation consolidation  Support for financially Reduction of energy image ➐ Economic growth and job underprivileged class consumption creation  Communication with stakeholders Operation of eco-friendly ➑ Community contribution  Employee communication branches activities consolidation Pursuing innovation and ➒ Culture, sports, and arts change sponsorships 18 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 19 with business management instead of being regarded as a firm’s specific activities. Win-win growth, social contribution, and green management as rapidly emerging issues in society these days should not be the purpose. I suppose true social responsibility management means firms need to be concerned with long-term sustainability, and they should be able to carry out green management, win-win growth, and social contribution. Appropriate finance can detect irregularities such as accounting fraud, and no loans will be offered to firms CSR Experts Committee exploiting child labor. That is because such act may endanger the sustainability of the financial institution concerned from the long-term perspective. Director Shin Tae-joong• A financial institution can play a role in promoting social responsibility management in society. I think financial institutions can perform the function of a hub promoting other companies’ social Domestic Banking’s Social Responsibilities and Sustainable Growth of IBK responsibility and play a huge part in social responsibility management by extending credits or through loan screening, unlike manufacturers. Financial institutions abroad give more opportunities in terms of loans to firms As IBK publishes the IBK Sustainability Report for the first time after four years, following 2007 and 2008, we held performing better in terms of social responsibility. If these activities are disseminated, they can play a pivotal a symposium wherein Korea’s sustainability management experts were invited to diagnose our sustainability role in spreading social responsibility management socially, not to mention financial institutions. management system and performance to date and we listened to some advice on future strategy establishment. CEO Yang In-mok• Risks related to the environment are growing, becoming an invisible trade barrier in the The symposium lasted for about two hours, with the participants debating on domestic financial institutions’ market. Either Korea’s SMEs do not recognize risks on the environment, or they have insufficient capabilities to social responsibility and IBK’s sustainable growth. cope with such risks. I think implementing environmental management properly through finance or banking is the responsibility of financial institutions. Time: June 14, 2012(Thursday), 15:00 Venue: IBK Head Office, Eulji-ro 2-ga, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Manager Seo Hyun-jeong• UNPRI is an international initiative that considers three factors environment, society, and governance(ESG) – to be at the core of investment. I urge financial institutions to comply with those principles and disclose performance with regard to those principles to various stakeholders. If financial institutions establish strategies based on the PRI principle, a virtuous circle considering ESG may be realized in Attending Experts (in alphabetical(Korean) order) society. ➊ Seo Hyun-jeong Manager of UNPRI Korea/Social responsibility investment ➋ Shin Tae-joong Director of Center for Good Corporations/Corporate social IBK’s Social Responsibility responsibility diagnosis and evaluation ➌ Yang In-mok CEO of The Eco/ Director Lee • You have offered suggestions on the financial sector’s social responsibility from various ➊ ➋ ➌ Environmental impacts assessment, standpoints. I think social responsibility should be carried out by combining those suggestions and IBK’s environmental management consulting ➍ Lee Won-jae President of the features. IBK has unique properties that are difficult to find anywhere in Korea and abroad. Although founded Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute/ based on the Industrial Bank of Korea Act, IBK was not included among the public agencies early this year; it also Social economy(symposium presider) ➎ Choi Do-seong Vice President for puts great importance on relationships with SMEs, at the same time making an effort to diversify the moment of Globalization of Pohang Handong truth(MOT) with retail customers. I would like to hear your opinions on IBK’s current social responsibilities. Global University, Former Bank of Korea’s ➍ ➎ Monetary Policy Committee Member/ Professor Choi• Currently, SMEs are weak in three aspects: human resources, technology, and capital. Since Monetary and financial policies they have no sufficient human resources, they bring foreign workers into Korea, serve as subcontractors of large Attending IBK Staff corporations due to insufficient technology, and increase credit guarantee because of insufficient capital. IBK (in alphabetical(Korean) order) needs to cooperate on policymaking with government ministries including the Ministry of Employment and ➏ Lee Gi-seop IBK Corporate Support Labor together with the academe for SMEs’ capability consolidation and laborers’ human rights. Dept. Manager/Job creation ➐ Jeon Dae-seong IBK Consulting IBK Corporate Support Dept. Manager Lee Gi-seop• IBK has actually been operating a job portal since March Service Dept. Manager/Green ➏ ➐ ➑ consulting, green management 2009 to address such problem, albeit partially. IBK also provides assistance of up to KRW 1 million per employee ➑ Choi Seok-ho IBK Shared Happiness and KRW 100 million per company when SMEs hire employees. Still, I feel there is a limitation in changing Dept. Manager/Customer satisfaction, social contribution perception through those activities only. We also participate in some 30 employment expos, and I think there are some differences between job seekers and employers in terms of expectations, etc. IBK Consulting Service Dept. Manager Jeon Dae-seong• Many SMEs do not receive sufficient support, and their resources are inferior. Although they perform well, many of them may fold up if a major incident occurs. From a bank’s viewpoint, supporting SMEs poses high risk. Be that as it may, how many banks except IBK can support SMEs? Financial Institution’s Social Responsibility Director, Lee Won-Jae(Presider)• The financial crisis in 2008 reminds me of the financial sector’s role and social responsibility worldwide. In today’s symposium, we will debate on what IBK’s social responsibilities are after presenting opinions on the social responsibilities of Korea’s banking sector. Professor Choi Do-seong• The financial sector has a public nature and forms an important part of society. “Win-win growth, social contribution, and green management as rapidly emerging issues in society these days should Financial institutions should fulfill their social responsibilities by faithfully engaging in their own work. Most not be the purpose. I suppose true social responsibility management means firms need to be concerned with long-term companies consider social responsibility management and social contribution activities to be the same and think that the yardstick of social responsibility management depends on the extent of social contribution. I sustainability, and they should be able to carry out green management, win-win growth, and social contribution.” beg to disagree. Social responsibility management should be understood in a management mode embedded  _Professor Choi Do-seong 20 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 21 The CEO of IBK said he has two dreams to fulfill during his tenure: first is to lower the maximum lending rate to one digit for SMEs since they are our business partners, and second is to create a working atmosphere wherein employees eagerly look forward to coming to work in the morning and hope for Monday to come sooner during Sundays with regard to employees’ work environment.  _ IBK Shared Happiness Dept. Manager Choi Seok-ho Corporate Governance Director Lee• A research revealed that SMEs’ survival rate was 25% between 1993 and 2003. In this regard, may we have your comments from the viewpoints of SMEs’ instability, non-sustainability, and labor? Composition Director Shin• Korea is sensitive to the issue of irregular workers, but the irregular workers’ rate in the banking IBK’s board of directors(board) consists of the CEO, executive director, and standing directors along with four sector is high. The problem should be solved – however difficult it may be within the banking sector. IBK is outside directors with ample practical work experience. The board carries out decision making on the overall becoming a model case in the banking industry in terms of disabled people employment. I think the issue of management of IBK from an objective, reasonable standpoint and promotes the transparency of such decision irregular workers can be solved if banks care about irregular workers and establish strategies and plans on the making through three committees: Steering Committee, Management Development Compensation Committee, issue from the midand long-term perspectives. and Risk Management Committee. The IBK CEO chairs the board, and the auditor can state his/her opinion by IBK Shared Happiness Dept. Manager Choi Suk-ho• The CEO of IBK said he has two dreams to fulfill during his attending the board meeting. tenure: first is to lower the maximum lending rate to one digit for SMEs since they are our business partners, and second is to create a working atmosphere wherein employees eagerly look forward to coming to work in the Board morning and hope for Monday to come sooner during Sundays with regard to employees’ work environment. Internally, we at IBK are strongly committed to addressing those issues. Chairman: IBK CEO Executive director, Standing director CEO Yang• Concerning IBK’s strategy of “Environmental leadership consolidation in the banking sector,” we Four outside directors need to identify clearly who will ask us about the strategy and who will be interested in such a thing through communication. It may be IBK itself or external stakeholders. It is also important to define what green bank is and to form a bond of sympathy on the need for environmental leadership within the organization to Steering Committee Management Development Risk Management Committee Compensation Committee consolidate environmental leadership. Chairman: IBK CEO Chairman: IBK CEO Chairman: Executive director Director Shin• IBK should efficiently communicate with stakeholders. Consulting for SMEs and job creation draw Executive director, Standing director Executive director, Standing director Standing director Three outside directors Three outside directors Two outside directors good responses from various sectors of society, and IBK is implementing these. Still, this sort of work needs to be performed by government agencies. It is very important to distribute the IBK Sustainability Report regularly and let people know about our various activities through the report. • S teering Committee The Steering Committee consists of the chairman, an executive, and a standing director, with three outside directors appointed by the board. The meeting is convened once every quarter in principle Professor Choi• Social responsibility management is a form of management. I suppose IBK has fulfilled its or at the request of the chairman or two committee members. The Steering Committee deliberates and role if it carries out management from the standpoint of social responsibility management. The key to social decides on the means to improve the operation and procedures of the board meeting, shareholder value responsibility management is to ensure the satisfaction and happiness of various stakeholders including enhancement, and measures to protect stakeholders’ profits. customers, employees, SMEs, and communities beyond the stakeholder scope limited to shareholders. If the number of SMEs increases, employment will go up, and customers of IBK will increase. All in all, society becomes • M anagement Development Compensation Committee The Management Development Compensation Committee consists of up to four outside directors, and the meeting is called once every quarter in principle happier. or at the request of the committee chairman or two committee members. During the meeting, the committee deliberates and decides on performance evaluation and compensation for standing officers and executive officers and review and approval of fringe benefit system for standing directors and executive officers. • R isk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee consists of the committee chairman, one standing director, and up to two outside directors appointed by the board. The meeting is called once every quarter in principle or at the request of the committee chairman or two committee members. The committee deliberates and decides on the agenda presented to the board with regard to basic risk management plans and important issues and matters related to credit rating and credit risk factors’ estimation. Operation and Performance The board meeting is convened once every quarter or anytime at the request of IBK’s CEO or two directors. The board meeting is held when majority of the board members are present. Deliberation on the establishment and change of business plans, convening of shareholders’ meeting, presentation of items on the agenda, and approval of basic plan for risk management is carried out, and resolution is made by approval of majority of the board members present. The board plays an important role in communication activation for important management issues and matters that should be shared with employees, such as new vision and midand longterm strategies. As for IBK’s board meeting operation for 2011, 11 board meetings were held, 41 items on the agenda were decided, and reports on material issues and matters were received. 22 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 23 Programs for Putting Ethical Management into Practice Self-diagnosis on Ethical Operate a legal compliance self-diagnosis program to strengthen the commitment to practice ethical management by letting employees diagnose items each month through the internal IBK communications Compliance network. Ethical Management Monthly Theme in Ethical Practice Enhance employees’ commitment to practice ethical items each month. Operate a system that promises to secure procedural transparency and transactional fairness when Clean Contract System contracting for various services and goods purchase, to refrain from receiving and offering bribes between the contracting parties, and to receive penalties in case of any breach of the promise with regard to bribery. Job Integrity Contract System of IBK operates the job integrity contract system it introduced to maintain high level of integrity with regard to job performance by senior management and to renew its commitment to innovation of ethical Officers management targeting officers. Background and Basic Principles To ensure transparency of budget execution and prevent unreasonable execution in advance, IBK operates Clean Card System a clean card system through which the use of card is restricted in member merchants recognized as IBK has established the four basic principles of the IBK code of ethics to build employees’ solid ethics awareness unsound businesses or luxury entities. Cyber Training Center’s Ethical and an organizational culture based on integrity. We will make all-out efforts to pursue social responsibility, Management(from top) Ethical Employees’ Ethical Awareness Send letters of ethics signed by IBK’s CEO on New Year’s Day and Chuseok, encouraging employees to put customer satisfaction, and shareholder value and take the right path at all times. Management guide(left) Code of Diffusion ethical management into practice and requesting the cooperation of employees and customers. Ethics Booklet cover(right) Operation of Legal Consultant IBK operates a legal compliance consultant system to check and guide legal compliance, ethics, and We contribute to the national money laundering prevention targeting branch employees and strives to collect opinions related to legal We always think and behave from System economy and social development by Compliance Pursuit of compliance and bottlenecks and to offer employee counseling. customers’ perspective and provide respecting social values, complying with rules and regulations, and with Social Customer the best products and services to customers, thereby doing our utmost Operating a Whistle-blowing To promote the activation of the whistle-blowing system, we enact and implement regulations on issues spearheading efforts to lay the sound Responsibility Satisfaction and matters related to the whistle-blowing object, obligation, investigation, investigation results handling, for their benefit and satisfaction. System financial foundation. Four Basic and informant protection. We have also set up a whistle-blowing center. Principles of IBK’s Best Regional Division Selection IBK implements the best regional division system in ethical and right path management to enhance the Code of Ethics We respect dignity and value of each trust and faith of customers. IBK’s advancement in terms of eradicating abnormal product sales related to We strive to maximize the System for Ethical and Proper Path Pursuit of one of our staff in IBK, and work to marketing, shift to customer-oriented thinking, and establishment of transparent management evaluation shareholders’ value through Pursuit of Management Implementation in 2011 will continue. Employee enhance their quality of life with good investments and efficient Shareholder Values equal opportunities and a fair HR management. Satisfaction We divided ethical management into 13 major parts to aid in the understanding and practice of ethical management. Cyber Ethical Management Training management and produced an animated video. With the video registered as training subject at the Cyber Training Center, IBK employees can take and complete the ethical management course. Strategies and Performance IBK’s Ethical Management Violation Reporting Center We operate the detailed strategies and programs that we have established for integrity improvement so as to Ethics Counseling Reporting IBK operates an on/offline reporting center for counseling on employees’ ethical conflict and presents the execute ethical management across the company. We operate systems and programs and education/training Center corresponding solutions. in line with three stages/challenges – zero corruption rate, consolidation of customer satisfaction and trust, and An employee inevitably receiving money and valuables and entertainment reports to the clean center; the system improvement and preventive activities. Thanks to all these efforts, we were rated grade 1 at the Public Clean Reporting Center reported money and valuables are used for social contribution activities. Agency Integrity Measurement organized by the Anti-Corruption Civil Rights Commission in 2011. We set up a financial corruption reporting center to foster a sound financial atmosphere and prevent Financial Corruption Reporting unreasonable requests and pressures from the outside in advance. Center IBK strives to take proper action so that issues and matters received at the Financial Corruption Reporting Plans to Improve Integrity Center are handled as quickly as possible. • Analysis of weak factors related to integrity, diagnosis of problems Strategy Ethical Management Education  unit: hour, people • Cyclical check and evaluation of business satisfaction survey Total Education Hours No. of Trainees Category • In-house measurement of integrity level 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 • Removal of corruption-inducing factors in business procedures Strategy Implementation • Consolidation of internal control and in-house inspection Ethical Management Education for Legal • Drawing up a standard manual to ensure transparency and fairness in the business Compliance(Ethics Compliance, Fair trade, Sexual 24 26 28 2,392 2,667 2,995 process Harassment, Accident prevention, Personal information protection education) On-site Inspection Education for Ethics Compliance • Introduction of continual change through the monitoring of the status of 12 12 12 All branches All branches (Legal compliance consultant’s on-site inspection 1h per month 1h per month 1h per month Employees Employees All branches accomplishing strategic integrity challenges education and examination) Check and Evaluation • Active use of integrity education contents including education on integrity • Promotion of improvement thru in-house measurement and analysis of integrity level • Check and evaluation of internal control and in-house audit functions Anticorruption Education unit: people Category 2009 2010 2011 •Integrity culture establishment through the in-house assessment of integrity evaluation results, performance assessment reflection Branch manager(Pre CEO) 103 127 121 Integrity Diffusion • Continual questionnaire survey for in-house audit function consolidation and Grade 3 1459 1,535 1,588 customer satisfaction maximization Grade 4 268 254 226 No. of Trainees by position New employee(Grade 5) 189 406 599 New teller 293 265 381 Total 2,312 2,587 2,915 24 A Truly Good Bank_ IBK 25 Performance in 2011 In 2011, IBK implemented risk management centered on four themes: global regulation consolidation; preemptive soundness management amid the expected slowdown of SMEs’ business and recession of the real estate industry; use of external regulation as growth engine, and; consolidation of risk management Risk Management implementation and culture dissemination. Above all, we have been rated highly in the external creditworthiness and competitiveness enhancement sectors in terms of soundness management by acquiring approval for the application of high-level internal ratings based approach for credit risk and developing a risk review expert system for the first time in Korea in keeping with preemptive soundness management in 2011. IBK has organized risk management organizations manned by the best experts in the relevant fields to cope with uncertainties and ensure banking soundness. Based on the organizations, we manage risks preemptively in various fields such as credit risk, market risk, operation risk, and liquidity risk. • Proving Korea’s top level credit rating system, risk Approval of Highmeasurement and management capabilities to Since the Risk Management Team was founded in April 1998, we have continually devoted ourselves to the level Internal Ratings investors and supervisory authorities establishment and operation of the risk management system and have applied and successfully managed a based approach for Risk-Adjusted Performance Measure(RAPM), High-level Internal Ratings based approach for credit risk, and Risk credit risk Review Expert System for the first time in Korea. • Improve the supervision • Establishment of council in Development of Use of External the risk management field system with Regulation as Growth to cope with the Basel III prompt system Risk Review Expert supervision and System Engine Liquidity Regulation precise human • Improvement of Risk Management Organization System supervision. Risk Management management evaluation system: Reflect the liquidity Performance regulation ratio. IBK has set up risk management organizations in four stages for systematic risk management. The Risk • Building bad debt reserve Management Committee is a subcommittee affiliated with the board. As the top decision-making body system and accounting application infrastructure for empowered by the board, it takes charge of key policy decision making related to risk management and the stable implementation measurement and analysis of Basel II standards’ major risks and other risks. • Management by distributing The Bell Risk of IFRS A working level committee, the Risk Management Council is a body consulting on risk-related major policies risk-added asset limit by Consolidation of Manager Awards and issues in advance at the working level and is in charge of managing and supervising risk management work. business division in terms of Risk Management Won FSS Councilor’s • 2010: Active, preemptive soundness BIS CAR management Implementation Award two times management according to the The Risk Management Committee carries out overall assets and liabilities management and makes decisions on • Making scenarios integrating in a row execution of RAPM system applied internal indicators by risk to teams in branches the management of liquidity and interest rate risks. Consisting of the Risk Management Dept., and Risk Review situation stage • 2011: Internal control consolidation Dept., the Risk Management Division takes charge of practical work related to risk management and executes • Consolidation of operational through operational risk risk monitoring and internal management, preemptive policies decided on by the Risk Management Committee. control implementation of risk management culture Board (Board of Directors) Risk Management Plans in 2012 Risk Management Committee IBK intends to carry out risk management advancement relentlessly by expanding risk management Risk Management infrastructure according to its asset size to cope with the deteriorating soundness of households and companies Council Risk Management due to the low global economic growth and continued economic recession. Division Plans Goals Risk Management Risk Review Dept. Expansion of risk management infrastructure Continual implementation of risk management advancement Dept. Early selection of potential non-performing companies, loan management Preemptive loan soundness management consolidation targeting blacklist loans Credit Risk Team Market Risk Team Credit Evaluation Operation Risk BIS CAR Management Credit Supervision Team Team Team Team Consolidation of risk management education Enhancement of risk management capability Development of operation risk indicators Prevention of unsound operating activities ●R  isk Management Committee Internal control consolidation Job process improvement to prevent accidents Decision making on risk management policies and strategies Enactment and revision of risk management rules Setting and distribution of risk limit ●R  isk Management Council Prior consultation and adjustment on major systems and issues related to risk management 26 27 What We Did IBK puts customer satisfaction management into practice, aiming at putting the highest priority on customer convenience and benefit increases in all our management activities related to customers. We are doing our utmost to offer better impression, beyond customer satisfaction. Communication with Customer •Gather and reflect VOC through various channels. •Stethoscope system •Customer weather map •Prior consulting system A TRULY GOOD Customer Satisfaction Customer Protection •Establishment of vision and strategic system. Customer information protection •Expansion of Shared Happiness Management •Personal Info protection policy operation. CONSIDERATION Department’s authority. that Places the •Most powerful security system. •Declared Service Identity for the first time in the banking sector. Highest Priority on Customer Depositor protection •Establishment of system to carry out •Product information offering. customer happiness-oriented management. Happiness •Voice phishing prevention activity. CUSTOMERS •Employee education/training system for •Business continuity plan. customer satisfaction improvement. Who’s Accountable IBK has organized the customer satisfaction(CS) organization affiliated with the executive director to practice IBK puts customer satisfaction management into practice, aiming at putting management that puts the highest priority on customer happiness. As the top-level decision-making the highest priority on customer convenience and benefit increases in organization in customer satisfaction, the CS Committee carries out various systems improvement and searches all our management activities related to customers. We are doing our utmost for tasks for customer happiness. We also operate CS Monitors and SMART Club(CS Club) organized through the to offer better impression, beyond customer satisfaction. voluntary participation of branch employees. For CS maximization of the front line in banking work, we operate CS Leaders and CSA system. CEO(Chairman) Operation Meeting, Town Meeting Strategy Meeting CS Implementation Committee Civil Complaint Deliberation Committee CS Supporters Customer Happiness Dept. Financial Consumers’ Protection Team IBK Contact Center HQ Dept. Local HQ Branch Smart Club (CS Club) CS Leaders CS Leaders CS Leaders Regular organization Organization of Members CSA CSA CSA with Another Post Key Performance • Won Grand Prize in the CS Management Awards for five consecutive years, elevated to the hall of fame(Korea Management Association Consulting) • Excellent grade in Civil Complaints Evaluation for four consecutive years(Financial Supervisory Service(FSS)) • The only outstanding financial company in Consumer Protection in the banking sector(FSS) • Introduced a Stethoscope system Looking Ahead IBK shares the vision of “Bank Putting the Highest Priority on Customer Happiness” in 2012 and continually makes an effort to establish SMART Service as a corporate culture. We improve various systems for financial consumers’ rights and interests and expand employee education/training. • Field-centered CS activities • Establishment of optimal CS infrastructure • Improvement of internal CS 28 A Truly Good Consideration_ Customers 29 Declaration of Service Identity for the First Time in the Banking Sector Our Commitment IBK set forth SMART Service as its service identity for the first time in the banking sector to form all its IBK shares the vision of “Bank Putting the Highest Priority on Customer Happiness” in 2012 employees’ bond of sympathy concerning its CS implementation direction and manifest its commitment to be the best bank in CS. SMART Service has upgraded IBK’s CS management by one notch through the production and continually makes an effort to establish SMART Service as a corporate culture. We improve of SMART Service Guidebook, hosting of a Boom-up festival, and education for all employees including the CEO various systems for financial consumers’ rights and interests and expand employee education/ together with a service identity declaration ceremony. The SMART Service Guidebook produced in August 2009 training. was reorganized into a customer response manual in June 2011 on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of IBK’s foundation. SMART Service? SMART Service Insignia Smile Always smile Multi Offer various kinds of information Active Active consulting Service Lozenge-shaped frame: Symbolizes dynamism and enterprising spirit Visual factor, person: Symbolizes service that gives Customer Satisfaction Rapid Quick job handling priority to a customer Blue: Symbolizes success, hope, and future Yellow: Means a fresh, new start True True at all times Orange: Sensitive color pursuing warmth and happiness CS Management Vision and Strategy System IBK has set as CS goals the retention of excellent grade in PSCI, establishment of optimal CS infrastructure, Establishment of a System that Realizes “Putting the Highest Priority on Customer and improvement of internal CS. As strategies to attain such goals, we have selected the improvement of Happiness” Philosophy CS evaluation system, CS education consolidation, and CS culture establishment. By deducing 13 strategic IBK has established its vision and strategies to put into practice its business philosophy of “Putting the Highest challenges, we put our business philosophy of “Putting the Highest Priority on Customer Happiness” under Priority on Customer Happiness.” We evaluate the implementation through various CS survey indices(CSI, ICSI, the slogan of SMART Service of Hopes and Dreams. PCSI, KCSI, and ICI). The opinions received from surveys together with external customers’ opinions like those received by IBK Customer Service Center, VOC, postcards and mails are actively used for products and services CS Vision Bank that Places the Highest Priority on Customer Happiness improvement. And those opinions are reflected in the evaluation and compensation/remuneration system to enhance employee morale. CS Goals Field-centered CS activities Establishment of Optimal Improvement of Internal CS CS Infrastructure Service Identity: SMART Service CS Strategy CS Evaluation System CS Education Consolidation CS culture Establishment Improvement CS Strategy Challenge 13 CS Strategic Challenges •  Customer response monitoring CS slogan SMART Service with Hopes and Dreams •  Assigning CS target score • CSI Evaluation and CS Evaluation Compensation •  Introducing environmental system consulting • ICSI CEO’s business CS Vision Expansion of Authority and Responsibility of the Shared Happiness Dept. philosophy of and • Consolidation of on-site inspection consulting “Putting the Highest CS Education • KCSI Strategy • CS leader/CSA education IBK set up the Customer Support Office in 2007 and reorganized it as the Shared Happiness Dept. to realize IBK’s Priority on Customer • By position/Education by core value ― customer happiness ― beyond customer satisfaction. We expanded the authority of the Shared Happiness” year • ICI Happiness Dept. for the immediate resolution of matters concerning organization operation-related decision • CS Day operation Products CS Culture • Meeting with CEO and Services making and customers’ complaints.. Establishment Improvement • Dissemination of CS • Monitoring mindset Set up Customer Support Office Upgraded to Customer Satisfaction Changed to Customer Happiness in Jan. 2007. Dept. in Jul. 2008 Dept. in Jan. 2010 For the consolidation of civil Through the consolidation of window Reflection of IBK’s core values to complaints handled by individual for civil complaints(same business attain customer happiness. IBK Customer Service Center, VOC(Internet), Customers’ Postcards, Mails, department, the Customer Support group), consistency in customer COP(learning organization), Blog, etc. Office was established. response was maintained, and synergy effect to address customer complaints was realized. •CSI: Customer Satisfaction Index •ICSI: Internal CSI •KCSI: Korean CSI •ICI: IBK Culture Index 30 A Truly Good Consideration_ Customers 31 Employees’ Education System for CS Improvement IBK CS education/training programs by position and by job targeting all IBK employees in eight fields for CS improvement. Number of People Who Completed Education  unit: people Communication with Customers Year 2009 2010 2011 2012(target) No. of People Who 5,248 7,708 7,781 10,000 Completed Education IBK always listens to VOC through various channels to enhance CS through smooth communication with customers. We also operate a “24-hour Service Recovery system” to cope quickly with emerging customers’ CS Education/Training Program by Position and by Job needs and complaints. Job Customer CS CS Job HQ Branch Service Others Position Leaders Center Major Channels and Operational Process Executive VOC is gathered through online and offline channels. Online channels include homepage, e-civil complaints, blog, and Twitter, whereas offline channels encompass customer’s postcard, CSI survey, IBK Customer Service CS capability consolidation Assistant Branch Center, and civil complaints received by the Financial Supervisory Service. Telephone response skill IBK workplace manners Customer Service Center CS Manager VOC received through various channels is immediately delivered to the branch manager concerned and Team Leader personnel in charge. VOC received through a branch is supposed to be answered within 24 hours. They are course by position On-site inspection Morning assembly improvement course graded according to customer complaints, and solutions are prepared by presenting them to the CS Committee. course improvement course Deputy Dept. Manager, consulting course course Deputy Dept. Manager VOC Gathering System Clerk VOC Service Personnel Process service manager course On-line Channel Off-line Channel Others Job capability consolidation IBK Civil (customers, etc.) by position E-civil Customer’s Customer complaints Homepage Blog Twitter CSI Survey Complaints Postcard Service received by Center FSS System Operation to Improve CS Response CS Mileage System Reward system for excellent employees in CS to enhance the CS mindset of all employees (Established on Mar. 30, 2002) and emerge as the best bank for customer happiness Gathering Stage VOC Establishment through Various Channels IBK High-Quality Service System for certifying employees’ CS improvement efforts so as to instill pride among Analysis Stage VOC Classification, Analysis, System Gathering(CS Arena) Certification System employees through preferential treatment and prize money for excellent CS employees as • CS Commission (Kicked off on May 19, 2011) well as improve IBK’s high-quality service • Customer Improvement Stage Devising Countermeasures  System Reflection  Improvement Activities Happiness Advisory Group • Stethoscope system Service System Product Environmental Improvement Improvement Development Improvement  unit: score Performance 3.3% 94 Overachievement of CS Target increase 92.6 92.8 92 Continual VOC Management Implementation Management 91.3 Since the declaration of SMART Service, 3.6% IBK’s customer CSI has continually increase Performance Identification and Index Management risen. As demonstrated by higher 89.6 scores of 94 and 92.75 in the first half and second half of 2011 compared to 88.1 88 the previous year, all of IBK’s employees strive for service that reads customers’ minds and lets employees fulfill their 1st H 2nd H 1st H 2nd H 1st H 2nd H 1st H 2nd H mission. 2008 2008 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 32 A Truly Good Consideration_ Customers 33 Support System Meeting with Excellent Employees for VOC We encourage employees through the meeting held quarterly between the CEO and excellent employees concerning VOC. The participating employees get to have the opportunity to talk with IBK’s CEO and for commemorative photograph shooting and to share each other’s customer response cases. The best practices of Customer Protection the employees are disseminated across IBK through the bank’s internal system. Stethoscope System We have produced VOC into an IBK broadcasting program to deduce improvements by listening to VOC, and Customer’s Personal Information Protection we have shared the program with all our employees since May 2011. The program encompasses the consulting/ IBK places great importance on customers’ personal information protection. We have been operating the counseling details of the IBK Customer Service Center, telephone response cases of branches, and IBK CEO’s Personal Information Protection Policy we enacted to protect and manage customers’ personal information requests. systematically and safely. Prior Consulting System Policy IBK operates a prior consulting system to prevent customer’s complaints in the process of providing financial IBK complies with the Personal Information Protection Guidelines enacted in accordance with the Act on products and services. If a new product is planned and developed, and a service is introduced, the possibility Information Communication Network Use Promotion and Information Protection. Internally, we are fully of customer complaints is actually discussed with the department in charge of civil complaints in advance prepared for customers’ privacy protection through personal credit information management protection through the system. A department that is planning, developing, or introducing a new product is required guidelines. by the Civil Complaints Handling Regulations to consult with the department in charge of civil complaints beforehand(Article 34.3, Chapter 6 of the Civil Complaints Handling Regulations, revised on Feb. 24, 2009). System The personal information protection policy seeks to collect and manage the minimum level of personal Customer Weather Map information to offer optimal services and precise financial information to our customers. For existing customers’ This is a system for inducing quick solution to VOC by offering the status of customer complaints acceptance by privacy protection and stable service support, IBK has set up technical measures including the control of use the local HQ in real time.The customer weather map is posted by the local HQ by classifying the VOC received of in-house PCs and external Internet mails. More specifically, we have secured the stability of computerized each business day into three stages(clear, cloudy, rainy). ledgers against threats such as deliberate file deletion by duplicating internal saving devices as a timely response to information security-related laws including e-banking supervision regulations and by ensuring the stability of IT infrastructure to cope with accidents and disasters. Based on the access control system consisting of a 4-step firewall as well as the most powerful security system and specialized personnel, we block about 60,000 cases of hacking attempts on the average a month, and we have enhanced IBK’s image as an outstanding financial institution. We have built a surveillance system for personal information protection by reinforcing the internal security system and deploying IT leader and personal information protection staff by department, and we offer information protection education frequently. Customer Weather Map System Screen Performance Performance Acquisition of International Standard(ISO27001) for Information Protection IBK acquired international standard certification for information Achieved Excellent Grade in Civil Complaints Evaluation for Three Consecutive Years protection(ISO27001) for the first time in the Korean banking sector in IBK had the achievement of acquiring an May 2006. ISO27001 is an international standard and a highly reliable Category 2009 2010 2011 excellent grade in the civil complaints certification system in the information protection sector for business IS90264 / ISO / IEC 27001:2005 Civil complaints evaluation* Grade 2 Grade 2 Grade 2 evaluation carried out by FSS for three years partners and customer information protection and management. in a row by preventing customer complaints in advance through Civil Complaints 119, complaining customer visit system, and prior consulting system of products. It also endeavors to block the recurrence Acquisition of Domestic and International Information Protection Management System of complaints by immediately solving them upon their occurrence. IBK acquired all domestic and international information protection management system certifications * The Civil Complaints Evaluation was launched in 2002 to enhance financial companies’ autonomous efforts for civil complaints for the first time in the Korean banking sector. In 2002, we acquired BS7799 certification. BS7799 is prevention and offer the information on select financial companies to financial consumers. As evaluation objects, 76 financial a certification specifying the requirements in the institutions in 5 sectors such as banks, credit card companies, life insurance companies, non-life insurance companies, and information protection management system enacted by security companies were considered. Of these, 16 banks were rated grades 1 ~ 5. Grade 1 is considered the upper level, whereas grades 4 and 5 are lower level and are deemed to require special care. BSI(British Standards Institution). We earned ISMS in 2005, guaranteeing the status of conformity to standards based Continual Augmentation in Satisfactory Cases of VOC Acceptance on the Korea Information Security Agency’s objective and IBK’s satisfactory acceptance of VOC continually independent evaluation of firms’ information protection IS90364 / 857799-2:2002 ISMS 05-001 Category 2009 2010 2011 increases thanks to a system reflecting the management systems. No. of satisfactory cases* 2,222 2,283 2,615 voice of customers at branches as well as product development and by putting SMART Service into practice. 34 A Truly Good Consideration_ Customers 35 Depositors Protection Voice Phishing Prevention Activity To prevent voice phishing damages frequently caused by telephone, mail, and messenger, we operate a financial During the incident of non-performing savings banks following the global financial crisis, the consolidation of fraud damage prevention system by telephone. We strive to perform jobs quickly and precisely through the financial institutions’ operational fairness and importance of financial consumers’ protection including investors relevant education data and job guide. and depositors have emerged as new issues. Financial products’ consumers – unlike those of other products – are faced with very high asymmetric information. Thus, devising a consistent regulation system for the financial products sales process wherein direct contacts between financial product sellers and financial consumers are made can be the core of financial consumer protection. Policy and System IBK designs financial products based on fair and appropriate contract conditions and commissions. We strive to ensure customers’ financial transaction security continually by offering precise information and fair product information(contract conditions and commissions) and delivering cautions and guide to the proper use method to financial product selling staff(teller) through education/training. Customer Security Management Means Suspected telephone fraud victims: ·Customer remitting money to ATM/CD with an awkward attitude while talking on the phone ·Customer who wants to remit money by terminating deposit before maturity Information Offering through ·Aged customers over 50 years who hastily apply for e-banking IBK broadcast Fund Mystery Shopping BCP(Business Continuity Plan) Fund Earnings Ratio Information Service An employee distributes the PR materials to prevent telephone fraud damage to the ATM/CD machine users(left). An employee guides the suspected voice phishing victim customers to prevent voice phishing(right) Voice Phishing Prevention Activity Business Continuity Plan(BCP) Information Offering through IBK Broadcast IBK has set up fundamental principles, sharing procedures and methods across the company to restore and IBK produces and broadcasts IBK broadcasting programs for customers to understand precisely and use the resume core work quickly so that a work suspension situation due to an accident/disaster can be dealt with relevant products. By producing and placing posters and leaflets on new and existing financial products, we effectively. help our customers get information easily. Fundamental Principles Fund Mystery Shopping •Place the highest priority on human life protection upon the occurrence of crisis including an accident/ We ceaselessly make an effort to minimize customer loss that may be incurred by a customer subscribing to disaster. a fund through the identification of the fund sales situation by specialized monitoring staff disguised as a •Protect the assets of customers and IBK and fulfill its social responsibility. customer. •Offer continuous customer services by quickly restoring/resuming business. •Carry out documentation of major issues/matters and maintain the documents. Fund Earnings Ratio Information Service We regularly inform all customers who subscribed to funds after 2009 of earnings ratios; thus preventing losses that may arise in financial transactions. Performance The Only One Named Outstanding Financial Company in Consumer Protection in the Banking Sector in 2011 As a result of the Financial Supervisory Service’s evaluation on senior management’s philosophy, leadership, and consumer protection implementation level targeting 19 outstanding financial institutions with excellent civil complaints assessment results, IBK was chosen as an outstanding financial company in consumer protection in 2011 as the only bank in the banking sector. IBK CEO Cho Jun-hee and FSS Governor Kim Jongchang holding the plaque of 2011 Outstanding Financial Company in Consumer Protection PR materials for the Depositors Protection Act(left) Guide to IBK Fund Care Service(right) 36 37 What We Did Small and medium-sized enterprises(SMEs) are the grounds for the establishment of IBK and its major customers. Win-win growth between SMEs and IBK is an essential factor. IBK builds a win-win collaboration and development model through systematic financial support, consulting, and various assisting activities as an active supporter of SMEs. Financial Support Management Support • Direct funds support, • Biz Doctor Center • Interest rate cut, • Consulting offering A TRULY GOOD • Financial products development • Purchase of SMEs’ products • Management information offering • Research on SMEs Win-Win Growth PARTNERSHIP with SMEs Consolidation of Efforts to Foster Support Local SMEs Middle Standing Firms • Funding support for local SMEs • Systems and programs to support • Development of financial products middle standing firms for local SMEs • Expansion of direct financing support SMEs • Implementation of consulting to nurture middle standing firms Who’s Accountable IBK carries out a variety of activities through collaboration between eight departments including Corporate IBK pursues SMEs’ stability and prosperity with a conviction that Customers Division, Loans Mgt. Division, and Shared Happiness Dept. the growth of SMEs leads to national economic growth. We offer systematic financial support and various services as the financial doctor CEO for SMEs that suffer from difficulties in funding and management, and that prepare to launch a business. Corporate Loans Mgt. Loans Planning General Affairs IBK Consulting IBK Economic Corporate Shared Customer Division Division Division Center Research Support Happiness Division Institute Division Division Key Performance • Offered KRW 36.4414 trillion in funds to SMEs • Adopted a Truly Good Free Consulting project; carried out 460 cases of consulting(as of the end of June 2010) • Aggressively engaged in the establishment of Biz Doctor Center • Published 70,000 copies of SME CEO reports • 35 cases of offering consulting to 33 companies of middle standing • Developed financial products that meet SMEs’ needs Looking Ahead A lthough IBK offers a one-digit lending interest rate to SMEs, it plans a Truly Good Free Consulting aiming at offering 1,000 cases of free consulting by July 2013. We also seek to develop continually loan products related to win-win growth with SMEs and expand the application scope to secondary partner firms. We will increase the circulation of CEO reports distributed to the CEOs of SMEs and provide information on industry trends to SMEs that have no business relationships with IBK. 38 A Truly Good Partnership_ SMEs 39 Our Commitment IBK contributes to SMEs’ management activation by consolidating linkage support with policymaking financial institutions for SMEs having weak security capability. IBK has secured KRW 5.2 trillion won guarantee capability by specially contributing KRW 180 billion to a credit guarantee institution. We have awarded credit guarantee IBK carries out various management supports including financial support for win-win growth fee assistance and preferential interest rates to SMEs through special contribution. As a result, we have provided with SMEs. We make constant efforts for local economic activation through the support of local KRW 3.1335 trillion in assistance through special contribution guaranteed loans. SMEs. ➊ Special Contribution ➌ Guarantee ➋ Loan Application Application SMEs ➎ Fund Assistance ➍ Issuance of Guarantee We strive to help SMEs suffering from temporary liquidity crisis by providing funding. We have established a quick assistance system for SMEs suffering from temporary liquidity crisis by operating an emergency liquidity support program(Fast-Track program). As of the end of 2011, we have assisted 3,885 firms(KRW 3.5 trillion or 32% of the supported companies in the banking sector). We also operate a special fund for SMEs suffering from Financial Support temporary funding difficulty, cognizant of their situation of having to pay for raw material purchases and give bonuses to their employees. Fast-Tracked Support Procedure for SMEs Direct Fund Support Application, Guarantee Issuance of Guarantee Assistance(New fund IBK provided SMEs with KRW 36.4414 trillion in funds to solve SMEs’ funding difficulties caused by domestic and Acceptance/ Credit Risk Recommendation of (40~75%) repayment delay) Evaluation Guarantee Agency international economic recessions including the European financial crisis. In 2011, IBK recorded 130.1% fund supply to SMEs compared to the KRW 28 trillion planned fund supply; its market share was 21.4%, making IBK no. 1 in the loan market for SMEs. Development of Financial Products Tailored for SMEs Trend in Fund Supply for SMEs unit: KRW trillion Status of SME Loan Market Share  unit: % We have identified SMEs’ needs and developed products designed to solve SMEs’ difficulties and enhance IBK 21.4 convenience of use of financial products since the financial crisis. 40 Others 32.3 35.6 36.4 35 32.8 Kookminbank Product(support record) Product Development Purpose and Performance 29.1  Hanabank 6.7 14.7 30 28.0 Loan On e-trade Receivable Insurance • Developed loan on e-trade receivable insurance for the first time in the financial sector Shinhanbank Wooribank 13.0 *KRW 429 billion(1,256 cases) to assist in SMEs’ smooth sales amount collection in Jan. 2011 11.9 25 (as of December 2011) • Solving the problem of lack of funds due to the delayed trade receivables of sellers 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 with trade receivable discount products using Korea Credit Guarantee Fund’s trade receivable insurance We implemented the policy of cutting lending rates and default interest rates for SMEs. IBK presented a new Fund Loans to Support Exporting and • Developed loan product for exporting and importing firms in Nov. 2011 to solve standard in the financial market with an extreme cut of default interest rate(maximum of 13 percentage points) Importing firms business bottlenecks caused by the financial crisis *Support record(including export/import • Quick fund support for SMEs suffering from temporary fund difficulties due to (based on Sept. 2011). In fact, we reduced the lending rate for SMEs even if such meant a decline in our profit to purchase fund)(as of December 2011): KRW exchange rate increase and delay of export amount deposit share in their pain. 735.8 billion(12,678 cases) IBK Comprehensive Export/Import • Developed the IBK comprehensive export/import finance product for SMEs’ loan Trend in New Lending Rate for SMEs  unit: % Finance convenience in Sept. 2011 6.15 6.09 • Fund assistance through mutual appropriation of loan limit related to export/import 6.10 6.07 6.05 6.04 Banks’ average within the integrated loan limit by setting the integrated loan limit in relation to 6.03 6.04 6.05 6.01 6.01 foreign exchange 5.97 5.99 6.00 5.99 Loans to Pay Subcontracting Funds of • Subcontracting fund payment confirmation system adopted by Seoul City 5.95 5.97 5.92 5.95 Public Agencies • By participating in the system as a cooperative financial institution, IBK offers support 5.90 5.93 5.93 through good trade receivables provided to subcontractors as security. 5.91 5.91 IBK 5.85 5.81 5.82 5.85 5.84 Collaboration Loan for Win-win Growth • Offered collaboration loan bearing low interest rates for win-win growth with SMEs 5.80 5.81 by signing agreements with large corporations in Nov. 2008 for the first time in the 5.75 5.72 banking sector 5.70 • Signed an agreement with 48 large corporations such as Samsung Electronics, 2011 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 including 16 large firms that newly signed the agreement in 2011 • As of the end of 2011, 3,709 SMEs were supported with KRW 2.5 trillion in funds bearing * Based on September 2011 low interest rates. We plan to expand win-win growth opportunities for secondary partner firms as well. 40 A Truly Good Partnership_ SMEs 41 Procurement of SMEs’ Products The procurement amount of SMEs’ products out of the total procurement of KRW 152.2 billion in 2011 was KRW 134.1 billion(88.1%), up 6.6%p compared to 2010. We actually over achieved the government’s mandatory procurement rate(50%) by 38.1%p. We also executed the procurement budget earlier than expected to activate Management Support domestic consumption and support SMEs’ sales channels, i.e., reinvigorate SMEs’ product procurement. By shunning the practice of selecting the one offering the lowest price as the successful bid, we strive to guarantee an appropriate profit level for SMEs through contract-performing capability screening. Offering of Comprehensive Consulting Procurement Record of SMEs’ Procurement Ratio of SMEs’ Products Amount of SMEs’ Products unit: KRW billion Other products SMEs’ products 100 Procurement Amount of SMEs’ In a situation wherein domestic and international environmental uncertainties increase, including the aging of 88.1% Category 11.9% 88.1% Products(ratio) first-generation business founders, European economic crisis, and fierce market competition, more SMEs request 80 1H of 2011 87.5(65%) consulting on the solution to various business management issues. Meanwhile, most consulting companies offer services centered on large corporations. Thus, it is also difficult for SMEs to get high-quality consulting due to 60 2H of 2011 46.6(35%) the high consulting fees. To address such problems, IBK offers high-quality free consulting to SMEs by employing Total 134.1(100%) 40 specialists. By developing legal affairs consulting for the first time in the financial sector in March 2011, we have 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 built a one-stop, full-service lineup system through which we can identify problems in the fields of accounting, tax affairs, and legal affairs from diverse standpoints and present comprehensive solutions. Offering of Management Information IBK Consulting Service Lineup SME CEO Reports We publish SME CEO Reports in Korea, the only monthly magazine targeting the CEOs of SMEs. Following the Management Firm’s Succession Tax Affairs Accounting Organization Green Legal Affairs massive reorganization in the second half of 2011, we increased the circulation to 80,000. We also provide the Consulting Consulting Consulting Consulting Activation Consulting Consulting(new magazine to the CEOs of SMEs that have no business relationships with us and consequently consolidate its 2003 2006 2006 2008 consulting 2006 2010 service in 2011) status as a leading monthly magazine related to SMEs. A Truly Good Free Consulting Project IBK Friend On the occasion of the 50th anniversary of its foundation in 2011, IBK implemented a truly good Free Consulting Through the home page IBK Friend(www.ibkfriend.com), we provide information on the overall management project in return for SMEs’ support and for SMEs’ growth and development. and economy courtesy of the Samsung Economic Research Institute. As of 2011, 920 people from 747 companies This project seeks to offer free consulting to 1,000 small and medium-sized companies for two years(Aug. 1, used the homepage. 2001 ~ Jul. 31, 2013). This project is a huge project, five times larger than the average annual consulting cases for the past 8 years. To address the various needs of SMEs, we offer management consulting including management strategies, management diagnosis, personnel/organization, performance management, and specialized Consolidation of Linkage Support with the Government to Solve SMEs’ Management consulting such as family business succession, tax affairs, legal affairs, and green management. Approximately Difficulties 60 consultants are actively engaged through the reinforcement of 35 experts including market-verified management consultants, accountants, tax accountants, and lawyers. For five months since the implementation Biz Doctor Center of a truly good Free Consulting project, 392 cases of consulting application for management, company IBK has played a pivotal role in the establishment of the Biz Doctor Center, which spearheads efforts to solve succession, and tax affairs have been recorded as of the end of 2011. We carried out 182 cases of consulting the various bottlenecks of SMEs including the prevention of a non-performing company issue in advance, M&A out of those applications. Companies of middle standing as selected by financial institutions and government consulting, and labor affairs. IBK contributed KRW 5 billion in donation by participating in the building project Image of IBK a Truly Good agencies show great interest in IBK’s consulting, which is forecast to offer considerable help to companies of Free Consulting Project of the Biz Doctor Center to solve management bottlenecks and promote the growth of SMEs and deployed 16 middle standing wishing to take off as world-class companies. implementation consultants in four areas: Gumi, Gwangju, Banwol-Shihwa, and Changwon. Hope SMEs Forum IBK listens to the voices of the front line workers of SMEs, discusses the policy direction with the government Status of a Truly Good Free Consulting Project unit: cases and relevant organizations, and presents the directivity of support policy for SMEs in a proactive manner. In Category Consulting Details Support(2011) 2011, the forum was held quarterly(four times) under the topics “Key to Success of Small Giants,” “50 Years of Korea’s Policy,” “SMEs Ombudsman and Conversation of SME Men,” and “Review of Our History,” aiming at the Presenting solutions by analyzing strategies, personnel organizations, and Mgt. Consulting 45 advancement of policies for SMEs. finance Family Business Study on SMEs’ Situation Presenting the means to transfer stable managerial rights and to save taxes 42 Succession Consulting IBK delivers to the government through the IBK Economic Research Institute the findings of the study on SMEs’ Tax affairs Consulting Offering consulting on tax-related bottlenecks and mock tax investigation service 39 situation from various standpoints. In 2011, three study reports were presented to the government. Building an internal control system, offering cost analysis and value evaluation Impacts of Crisis on SMEs and Countermeasures(Report 2011) Accounting Consulting 24 Analyzed the impacts of increases in interest rates and raw material prices on SMEs service SMEs’ Fund Situation Check Following Sovereign Shock(Report in 2011) Legal affairs Consulting Contract review, legal affairs risks diagnosis and consulting 17 Researched on the impacts of sovereign shock on SMEs’ fund situation Fact-Finding Survey on SMEs’ Financial Bottlenecks(Report in 2011) Green Consulting Green strategy establishment, GHG emissions estimation 15 Policy effects demonstrated including the abolishment of joint surety system by delivering the findings of the survey to the government Total 182 42 A Truly Good Partnership_ SMEs 43 Consolidation of Efforts to Foster Middle Support Local SMEs Standing Firms Continual Increase in Loans for Local SMEs Systems and Programs to Support Middle Standing Firms IBK steadily supplies funds to local SMEs located in non-Seoul metropolitan areas, and the loan ratio is We offered 35 cases of consulting to 33 companies of middle standing including companies with reduced continually rising(3% increase compared to 2010). We contribute to local economic development by persistently export, 300 world-class firms, and global small giants in 2011. expanding fund support for local government-recommended SMEs. Loan Operation Standard for Program of Fostering Exporting M&A Matching Service with Fund Support for SMEs located in Non-Seoul Metropolitan Areas unit: KRW 100 million, % Middle Standing Firms and Small but Robust Companies Japanese Technology Companies 2009 2010 2011 Continue preferential ✚ Foster SMEs and middle ✚ Search for and support new Classification treatment even after SMEs standing firms possessing global growth engines through M&A Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio become middle standing firms exporting and technological with Japanese companies competitiveness Seoul 170,165 19.3 173,858 18.7 178,962 18.1 Incheon 84,337 9.6 89,644 9.6 94,693 9.6 Gyeonggi 334,589 38.0 355,603 38.2 375,432 38.0 Expansion of Direct Financing Support with Japanese Companies Located in the Seoul 589,091 66.9 619,105 66.5 649,087 65.7 Metropolitan Area We have arranged acquisition financing in response to the M&A needs of SMEs(Middle standing firms) and expanded investment subjects to middle standing firms beyond direct investment centered on SMEs. Busan, Gyeongnam 115,788 13.2 124,944 13.4 134,666 13.7 Daegu, Gyeongbuk 66,459 7.6 69,031 7.4 72,986 7.4 Financing Support Structure for Acquisition Honam 36,497 4.1 39,091 4.2 42,218 4.3 • Financial structure design Loan SME/Company of Chungcheong 61,318 7.0 67,463 7.3 75,566 7.7 Application • Financing procurement Middle Standing consulting Gangwon 8,819 1.0 9,178 1.0 9,960 1.0 Fund • Senior loans Support • Mezzanine(CB/BW) ✚ Jeju 2,120 0.2 2,185 0.2 2,263 0.2 Acquired Company Located in Non-Seoul 291,001 33.1 311,892 33.5 337,659 34.3 Financing Participating Financial Metropolitan Areas Arrangement Institutions ·Recruitment of syndication financing Total(nationwide) 880,092 100.0 930,997 100.0 986,746 100.0 ·Financial investor matching Measures to Support Local SMEs Implementation of Consulting to Nurture Middles Standing Companies Operation of Local Loan Screening Center IBK adheres to the government’s policy to foster middle standing firms by expanding support for outstanding We operate the 9 local loan screening centers we have established nationwide, promote quick loan support Local Loan Screening Center middle standing firms selected by the government and financial institutions. We are doing our best to lay the considering the local features, and lead the activation of SMEs’ support. foundation for middle standing firms to grow into world-class companies through IBK consulting, since middle standing firms as well as SMEs show high interest in IBK consulting. Development of Local SME-Only Products Seoul IBK is selling My Town/Village Company Loan Product III that it developed to support local SMEs as well as the Incheon Gyeongsu relocation of firms in the Seoul Metropolitan Area to the provincial areas and is making an effort to contribute Gyeonseo to local SMEs’ development by giving benefits including interest rate cut. We are doing our best to foster local Chungcheong SMEs by giving bonus evaluation points to SMEs located in non-Seoul metropolitan areas in the selection of promising SMEs. We also strive to reinvigorate support for local SMEs including local SMEs’ preferential policy Daegu development as well as the continual expansion of loans agreed upon with the local government, development of local SME-only products, and new store setup within the local industrial complexes. Gyeongnam Honam Busan/Ulsan 44 45 A TRULY GOOD IBK presents HR vision putting importance on talents ranging from HR recruitment to employee value improvement. We will do our very best to be What We Did Employees’ capability improvement, education/training, balance between work and life, fair performance evaluation, and human resources(HR) management are key areas of sustainability management. Our vision COMMUNICATION of “The best human power works in the best workplace through the best system” is the way for IBK and its born again as a leading bank aiming at Great People, employees to be happy together from the long-term perspective. Therefore, IBK will promote sustainability Great Bank. management policy as a firm placing importance on the best human power. EMPLOYEES Best Workplace Offering a work environment where people enjoy working/Fostering a reliable organizational atmosphere through open communication/Considering adequate harmony between work and life Best Human Power Best System HR Vision Optimal talent recruitment/Continual IBK Placing Systematic career development for investment and support for talent Importance on the employee value improvement/Fair and nurturing/Securing competitive Best Human Power transparent fostering-centered evaluation/ compensation level Reasonable compensation Who’s Accountable Four such departments as HR Dept. HR Development Dept., Customer Satisfaction Dept. and General Affairs Dept. seek to be a bank putting high priority on talents, together with Future Planning Office, which is directly affiliated with the IBK CEO. CEO Future Planning Office Executive Director Management Support HQ HR Division HR Development Division Employee Satisfaction Division General Affairs Division Key Performance • Achieved mandate employment rate of disabled people first-ever in the banking sector • Opened 8 a Truly Good Day Care Centers • Labor-management jointly signed the Human Rights Charter for the first time in the banking sector • Diffusion of Culture of Leaving the Office on Time Looking Ahead IBK intends to increase various employee welfare support programs to make it a workplace that genuinely cares for its employees. Starting from disseminating a truly good day care center nationwide, we will spearhead the fostering of an environment that can maintain work and life balance, aside from offering a variety of opportunities for self-development. We will also help our employees’ growth and self-realization by expanding education/training system to foster top notch human resources. We are doing our best to offer equal employment opportunities to everyone and for open recruitment including the expansion of high school graduates’ employment. 46 A Truly Good Communication_ Employees 47 Our Commitment Recruitment Results for Young Intern Workers unit: people Solving Young People’s Unemployment We employ young intern workers to solve young people’s joblessness. By 2011 providing practical bank work to young intern workers through deployment IBK’s talent fostering is based on win-win growth relationship through which employee value Category 2009 2010 1H 2H to business site instead of simple assisting work, we consolidate enhancement and bank’s competitiveness improvement are conducted together. We carry out employment capabilities through the operation of various programs such No. of Employed 326 475 230 232 employee satisfaction through indiscriminate employment, and various fringe benefits. We strive as job training and workshops. We exempt outstanding intern workers from No. of Working Employees at IBK 274 381 211 209 to retain mutually cooperative labor-management relations. document screening during public recruitment for regular positions. We No. of People who completed internship 236 252 148 169 recruit more than 20% of young intern workers at public agencies when recruiting for regular positions. Specifically, we recruited 21.9% of the total employed people working at IBK in the first half of 2011 and 23.4% in the Recruitment Status of Female Employees unit: people, % second half. Category 2009 2010 2011 Support for Female Personnel’s Growth No. of Female Employees(regular 2,321 2,459 2,579 position) people people people The female workforce of IBK constitutes about 35.3% of its total employees. Female Employees’ Ratio(regular We have assigned female branch managers in each local divisions to 32.9% 34.1% 35.3% position) consolidate female employee’s roles and enhance morale, and the female Best Human Power No. of Female Managers(assistant branch manager or higher) 17 people/ 25 people/ 35 people/ 785 people 780 people 782 people branch managers’ ratio reached 4.4% at the end of 2011. With such an effort to expand female workforce, the female vice president was appointed for Female Managers’ Ratio(assistant 2.2% 3.2% 4.5% the first time in the 50 years of IBK history in 2011. Actually, we plan to help branch manager or higher) foster outstanding female workers’ growth continually. * as of December 31, 2011 Optimal Human Power Selection IBK endeavors to secure the best competitive human power equipped with expertise and strong will to win. To Continuing Investment and Support for Best Human Power Fostering select talents meeting IBK’s model personnel, IBK establishes a recruitment culture centered on ability through IBK operates various programs to enhance the market value of employees by improving their capabilities and open employment without restrictions in gender, education, major, and age. We play a leading role in socially increase IBK’s competitiveness. Based on the system of operating business site training and cyber training equitable employment considering graduates of specialized high schools, disabled people, and young intern center, we plan to nurture our employees as core personnel possessing global competency using an education employees and actively assist in the female workforce’s social activities. roadmap considering role capability, marketing capability, and job capability by position. Recruitment of High School Graduates IBK employed 67 graduates of specialized high schools for the teller position to give hope to young people, i.e., Environment Supporting Self-Driven Learning Promotion that they can get a job despite their educational background. After recruiting them, we provide help outside of We have built learning systems wherein job capability consolidation and self-development can be carried out work including consulting on social life and interpersonal relationships by designating work mentors and life through collective education, such as financial asset manager exam course and planning ability improvement mentors. For 2012, we plan to raise the employment of high school graduates as new tellers to more than 30% of course or cyber training. We have set up education/training facilities in strongholds so that trainees’ moving the total new tellers. time to the facilities can be minimized. Education/Training participation opportunities have been expanded by letting instructors visit the facilities. As a result, 6,209 employees received training in 2011, with the educational Recruitment of Disabled People effect increasing. Disabled Employment Rate We frequently employ disabled people by establishing a plan to increase disabled people’s recruitment.  unit: % We actually operated a disabled people recruitment quota system upon new employee recruitment, and we employ more than 3% of the disabled people. In this manner, we link disabled people employment Major Job Education/Training Courses and Performance in 2011 2.5 recommendation with the Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled, and we have carried out awareness2.1 Category 2008 2009 2010 2011 shifting education. As a result, our disabled people’s recruitment rate was 2.1%, having employed 102 disabled Training by position 4,351 4,250 3,608 5,485 people in 2011 or 1.0%p more compared to the end of 2010. For 2012, we plan to overachieve the mandatory 1.2 Job/Function training 1,571 1,579 3,664 1,749 disabled people’s employment rate of 2.5% by employing more disabled people. As of March 2012, we have 0.8 Business site training 2,823 1,501 109 6,209 Collective actually overachieved the mandatory employment rate for the first time in the banking sector by 2.5%(263 In-house training 3,932 4,617 2,826 599 Training disabled people). 2009 2010 2011 2012 In-house Job training abroad 66 273 Training Other training 546 1,250 805 1,440 Recruitment of Local Best Human Power Total 13,223 13,197 11,078 15,755 IBK adopted a local quota system for the first time in the financial sector in 2005 to nurture regional experts and Cyber training 81,039 70,795 104,000 98,661 address the employment problem in non-Seoul metropolitan areas. In this manner, we recruit more than 30% of Training via reading and communications 2,931 2,954 8,085 16,881 the total annual employees recruited through the local quota system and graduates of universities in non-Seoul Subtotal 97,193 86,946 123,163 131,297 metropolitan areas. Financial Training Center 7,849 11,774 14,040 12,183 (IBK China Job Master) (953) (4,492) (4,266) Ratios of Local Employees and Recruitment Status through Local Quota System and Cyber MBA 30 0 33 Managers at Branches Abroad  Graduates from Non-Seoul Metropolitan Areas  Dispatch to domestic specialized institutions 399 478 660 448 External Category 2009 2010 2011 Category 2010 2011 Subtotal Dispatch to international specialized Training 11 16 15 15 institutions No. of Total No. of Expatriates 25 People 24 People 26 People No. of Employed Regular Positions* 406 people 337 people 743 people Workers at Academic training 13 14 21 20 No. of Local Employees at the 68(73.1%) Local Quota System 123(30.3%) 121(35.9%) 244(32.8%) Branches Abroad 73(75.3%) 72(73.5%) (China E-MBA) (1) (7) (6) (9) Concerned Branches Abroad Graduates from Non-Seoul 118(29.1%) 103(30.6%) 221(29.7%) Subtotal 8,302 12,282 14,769 12,666 No. of Local Managers* 12(17.6%) 12(16.4%) 13(18.1%) Metropolitan areas * Local employee: Refers to HR employment of those who are from the concerned local branch. * Based on working at IBK Total 105,495 99,228 137,932 143,963 48 A Truly Good Communication_ Employees 49 Education/Training System by Position IBK uses an education roadmap consisting of education/training, taking into account role capability by position, marketing capability, and job competency. In the new employees’ education course, employees receive selfleadership education/training to foster skills in adapting to the organization and basic skills on customer response. An employee promoted to grade 4 learns professional leadership such as open communication skills and work process management. The team leader course consists of team leadership to conduct team Best Workplace member coaching and efficient team operation. An employee who becomes assistant branch manager learns performance leadership for performance management through strategic thinking. In the case of executives, they receive executive training in the AMP course. Harmony between Labor and Management Assistant Division Category Clerk Manager, Team Leader Assistant Branch Executive IBK intends to realize internal customer satisfaction by vigorously improving the work environment, welfare Manager system, and grievance handling system so that IBK employees can efficiently dedicate themselves to work. Dept. Manager Training for Training for Training Roadmap New employee Basics of employees Marketing In-depth employees Marketing In-depth Pro-CEO Senior management Executive training Signing of Joint Labor-Management Human Rights Charter promoted improvement marketing promoted strategies training marketing to grade 4 to grade 3 training training (AMP course) IBK declared a joint labor-management human rights charter in the Training banking sector for the first time in January 2012. The human rights Period After 4 years After 3 years After 6 years After one year After 4 years charter prohibits discrimination on grounds of position, gender, of work religion, age, disability, employment type, and labor union activities and encompasses compliance with legal labor hours, rights to holidays Second Life Plan and leave, and importance of compatibility between work and life. The labor-management joint signing of the Human Rights Charter is Self-leadership Professional leadership Team leadership Performance Joint labor-management ‘signature look’ Nurturing Participator coaching E fficient team leadership expected to play a pivotal role in shaping IBK’s organizational culture. Charter of Human Rights Capability capability Open communication operation -G  rowth Role to adapt to Work process Motivation management organization management AchievementLeading change Communication Channels between Labor and Management Pursuit of Work implementation oriented -G  oal setting and IBK’s collective bargaining-applied target ratio(No. of employees targeted for collective bargaining)/Total Required professionalism ability Subordinates sharing Capability Teamwork nurturing S trategic thinking number of labor union members) is high at 99.9%. IBK prioritizes communication and cooperation between Management labor and management as partners that mutually encourage and support each other through a horizontal Financial products, Marketing, Loan/Deposit laws, practical insurance work, customer diagnosis, relationship. We promote stable corporate operation and labor and management’s mutual development by tax affairs, products marketing strategy, Job and credit analyses, loan screening/ management, profit increase operating dialogue channels between labor and management in various aspects. More specific policies and appraisal and evaluation, operational Capability window sales strategy, problem systems are handled by the Working-Level Labor-Management Council. In 2011, the Council discussed efficient sales, real estate strategy, planning communication solving, decision financing, customer capability, MBO, working hours, rational compensation, and HR system improvement through 18 meetings. Through regular skills making, negotiation consulting presentation skills Labor-Management meeting, which serves as a means of communication between senior management and labor union officials, major pending issues are shared by labor and management. In the Special Joint LaborRe-training for new employees Business site training(basic course, in-depth course) Management Committee, the causes and status of key pending issues and practical means to solve those are Job Training debated in a constructive manner. Dispatch training to external specialized institutions, in-house training, in-house cyber training, financial training center(collective training, training via communications, cyber training) Category Outline(2011) No. of sessions Labor-Management • Consultation on workers’ welfare enhancement and common labor-management 3 Council interests Implementation Plans in 2012 • Related to working hours exemption system adoption • Management evaluation improvement related to closing time culture improvement Labor-Management IBK intends to implement the following plans to systematically foster specialized human resources and cultivate Working Level Council • Related to holiday work and overtime work 18 • HR system improvement global mindset. • Collective bargaining on wage ●C  ontinual implementation of onsite training reflecting branch’s training needs, and operation of onsite instructor system to share the experiences of branch employees with ample onsite work experiences • Sharing main pending issues through regular communication between management and labor union officers ● Implementation of IBK smart learning(Mobile Training Center) without restrictions of time and place using Labor-Management Regular meeting: 3 • Seeking solutions through first half and second half regular meetings, and meetings Meeting Frequent meeting: 5 smartphones held frequently upon main issues occurrence(including face to face talk between ●C  arrying out IBK Financial Specialists course to nurture professional employees(PB, screening experts, foreign CEO and union head) exchange experts) • Working hours normalization Labor-Management Regular meeting: 9 ●O  ffering cross-marketing training to create new business opportunities and support global marketing • Enhancement of work efficiency through improvement of methods of carrying out Special Committee Frequent meeting: 20 work ● Implementation of Global Business Capability Improvement training to understand international business status and acquire financial expertise Labor-Management meeting, Joint volunteer activities between labor and management, Labor-Management walking Olleh trails together(from left) 50 A Truly Good Communication_ Employees 51 Harmony between Work and Life Diffusion of Culture of Leaving the Office on Time To improve employees’ quality of life and expand self-development opportunities, we have implemented the automatic PC off system since 2009. In the automatic PC off system, the PC is automatically turned off after closing time. When night overtime work is needed, approval from the department manager should be requested. Through this, the culture of leaving the office on time can be established, and work efficiency has Best System been enhanced by reducing unnecessary nighttime work. Grievances Counseling Comprehensive Fair Employee Evaluation IBK operates a system for counseling on various grievances that may arise at the workplace and home in Service Evaluation everyday life through an agreement with an external agency specializing in counseling. Counseling can be done This is a system through which the performance of IBK employees can be evaluated fairly and transparently and Achievement in various methods including telephone, e-mail, and one-on-one, face-to-face counseling; the confidentiality of evaluation(Division their capabilities can be demonstrated well so that they can work toward the vision with pride as IBK members. By and branch counseling details is strictly kept. We offer stress tests for employees who want to undergo the test once a year management devising a system for precise evaluation, we offer performance-related pay reflecting the evaluation outcomes. evaluation) and make an effort to manage their mental health. Service Record To enhance the rationality of the performance management system, we have introduced a comprehensive Evaluation Performance service evaluation system consisting of service record evaluation, management evaluation, and training evaluation IBK’s a Truly Good Day Care Center (performance evaluation. We induce individual capability improvement through diverse and comprehensive evaluations rating) IBK has set up day care centers to offer an environment where employees with little children can work without via the assessments of the person himself/herself, peer, and subordinates and superiors on individual role. any worry. By introducing Korea’s top facilities that put the highest priority on the stability and convenience of We also use the system that considers diverse aspects to complement comprehensive service evaluation children, we established 8 day care centers in 2012; currently, up to 550 children are using the facilities. We plan Basic career and use the evaluation results as reference data. The performance evaluation is used for HR management Career including performance-related pay from a minimum of 50% to a maximum of 150%, i.e., from grade 1 to grade to increase the day care centers nationwide even in small and medium cities so that not only our employees’ Evaluation children but also those of SMEs’ employees can use the convenient day care center by accumulating know-how 5, according to the management evaluation and promotion screening. Reward is offered according to the Exceeding career on workplace day care center operation and management. We intend to engage actively in the resolution of the employee’s achievements. In other words, we strive to expand the performance-related evaluation system that low birth problem as a state bank that assists SMEs. preferentially treats employees with outstanding performance and capabilities rather than on a seniority basis. Minimum credits completion Training Evaluation 360° Multi-Sided Evaluation System Score allocation of various training types Superior Human resources evaluation Opening ceremony of Hannam Self-evaluation Day Care Center, Bus for the day Peer(colleague) Evaluation Person himself/herself care center, Book area classroom Peer evaluation Object of Bundang Day Care Center (from left) Evaluation on superior’s leadership IBK’s Fringe Benefit System Subordinate Type System Outline Communication Channels Childbirth Maternity Childbirth leave system Leave of absence before/after childbirth(within 110 days) IBK believes that communication between employees as internal customers should be activated first to maintain Support Child rearing support Leave of absence for child rearing(two years) smooth communication with external customers. We help ensure that such communication is conducted from Family Day operation: Leaving the office on time every Wednesday Opening of day care center(A Truly Good Day Care Center) various angles by activating information sharing between employees and by establishing in-house SNS through vivid reports for natural communication culture fostering and communication innovation within IBK, based on Life-long learning support Assistance in child’s education expenses Assisting in children’s school tuition until graduation from college horizontal communication and real-time information sharing. Family Assistance Medical expenses assistance Spouse’s comprehensive medical testing(annually for people aged IBK’s Internal Communication Systems 35 years or older) Support for Workers Specialist’s psychology counseling program For employees, 24-hour connection, confidentiality principle IBK Leaders’ Club • Employees voluntarily play the role of a medium between site organizations and head office. • Establishment of communication channels with senior management for pending management issues Life-long learning support Employees’ online foreign language education sharing by delivering site voices upon the senior management’s visit to the business site and by immediately monitoring site responses Medical expenses support Medical expenses: Up to KRW 10 million in support for the person himself/herself, spouse, and unmarried child Business Site • Hold as a type of town meeting by senior management’s visit to the local HQ. Comprehensive medical testing system for employees Meeting • By inspecting business sites and carrying out communication with various levels of employees by position, Free vaccination for cervical cancer gender, and team, maximize the effects. Free vaccination for influenza Conversation • While the IBK CEO has a meal with young employees working in diverse fields, site management and sensitivity Stop smoking clinic support Offering stop smoking counseling programs and rewarding with Young IBK management are consolidated through unreserved conversation between the CEO and the employees. system for employees wishing to stop smoking Employees Public Contest on • Activation of creative and passionate employees’ new product ideas, promotion of ideas improvement, and Employees’ Ideas development of products required at the site • Innovative rewarding of participating employees in the contest and high-achieving employees Employees’ • Give out postcards guaranteeing anonymity; the IBK CEO listens to employees’ suggestions and bottlenecks and Postcards(Feb. 2012) reflects those by issue.  (The place where the postcard will be sent cannot be identified since no postmark is stamped.) 52 53 What We Did In pursuit of low carbon, green growth, IBK makes all-out efforts to cut down energy consumption and reduce greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions based on the firm belief that the financial industry needs to be engaged actively in realizing such vision. We conduct various green growth activities involving key stakeholders such as customers, SMEs, communities, and international society. IBK Customers • Reduction of carbon emissions and energy • Diversification of green products consumption each year • Expand new green financial products • Expansion of eco-branches and environmental management education/ training Consolidation of IBK’s Environmental SMEs Leadership Communities • Green consulting expansion targeting SMEs • Expansion of support for communities’ • Support SMEs’ reduction of carbon green growth emissions. • Expand and engagement in international initiatives. Who’s Accountable IBK’s green management is strategically linked within systematic organization. The Green Growth Committee is the highest decision making body on green management, and the Green Growth Council searches for and selects the challenge tasks for green growth. The Green Growth Support Group and Green Management Support Team are in charge of green growth strategy, research and product development. CEO Green Growth Committee Executive Director(Business Group Head) Green Growth Council Corporate Customer Division Manager Green Growth Advisory Group Green Growth Support Group Green Management Support Team A TRULY GOOD Key Performance • Attained goals of MBO for GHG FUTURE • Selected as CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) industry leader in 2011 • Enhanced SMEs’ eco-friendly competitiveness through green consulting • Built eco-branches and green training center for the first time in the banking industry ENVIRONMENT • Operated and launched various green financial products IBK recognizes the seriousness of environmental Looking Ahead • Reduce energy consumption by at least 2% each year compared to 2012. problems, such as resources depletion, global • Actively engage in international initiatives including CDP. • Expand green consulting services for SMEs. warming, and ecosystem destruction, and strives • Actively cope with the government’s GHG and energy management by objective. to spearhead the implementation of environmental • Dominate the banking industry in terms of green product sales compared to total product sales. responsibilities in the banking industry with active responsive activities. We will endeavor for IBK and all our stakeholders to grow green by bolstering environmental leadership in the banking sector. 54 A Truly Good Future_ Environment 55 Our Commitment Establishment and Operation of IBK’s Carbon Management System(established in May 2010) IBK carries out the relevant activities by completing the carbon footprint work in LCA(Life Cycle Assessment) mode for all products/services processes and by deducing possible energy-saving processes to cope proactively IBK’s green management strategies are connected with new business model development in linkage with climate change as the first Korean financial institution to do so. To identify GHG emissions by emission with core management strategies. We establish strategies for customers, SMEs, communities, source, we operate the GHG inventory we have built in all our branches nationwide. We actually identify carbon and international society to exercise low carbon, green management and put those strategies into emissions based on the international standard ISO 14064-1 and IPCC guidelines. practice based on environmental leadership as a leader in the financial industry. Virtualization of Desktop PCs IBK has realized green IT and shaped an eco-friendly work environment by building the Desktop PCs Virtualization System at the IBK Customer Service Center(Sept. 2010 ~ Nov. 2010) for the first time in Korea’s financial sector. Desktop PC virtualization means offering a pleasant consulting work environment by promoting zero noise and reduction of calorific power reduction through the use of new client without body. After the establishment of the system, we reduced CO2 emissions by 67%; system establishment is spreading to the Nowon TM Office, Chungju Training Center, and Fund Management Dept. of the head office. If the establishment of the virtualization system is completed through step-by-step implementation, we expect annual CO 2 IBK’s Environmental Leadership emissions to be reduced to 213,940 Kg from 481,366 Kg before system establishment. Achievements of Desktop PC Virtualization at IBK’s Customer Service Center  calculate based on 8 hours a day Environmental Organization System Category Before Establishment After Establishment Reduction Effect CEO Chairman CEO Committee Executive Director/ Each Business Division Establishment of green growth directions of IBK Power Consumption(KW/Y) 369,758 122,290 Green Growth (including subsidiaries) Members Manager/ Vice Presidents of subsidiaries Committee Secretary Corporate Customer Division Manager Decision making on challenges related to green growth CO2 Emissions(Kg/Y) 156,777 51,851 67% Executive Director Equivalent Quantity of Trees(Note 1) 8,251 2,729 (Business Group Chief) Chairman Executive Director Searching and selecting challenges and devising Green Growth Corporate Customer Division Manager/ Each Committee detailed means to accomplish them Council Dept. Manager/ Strategic Planning Dept. Members Inspection of implementation status of businesses Managers of subsidiaries Adjustment of duplicate work between departments Corporate Customer Secretary IBK Consulting Services Dept. Manager Division Manager Green Growth Group Chief Executive Director Establishment and Operation of Energy Mileage System Advisory Group Deputy Chief Corporate Customer Division Manager Playing a role as the IBK Financial Group’s control center Green Growth Team Leader IBK Consulting Services Dept. Manager for green management IBK has built a database on energy expenses(electricity, tap water, oil) in all its 650 branches and head office to Support Group Establishment of and research on green growth Team Member Green Mgt. Support Team Leader and team strategies practice the enterprise’s green life, targeting a 10% reduction in energy consumption compared to the previous members of IBK Consulting Services Dept. Green Management year(KRW 1.2 billion). In particular, we offer incentives to departments/branches recording a 10% energy cost Support Team reduction(evaluate every two months, reward given). Shortand Long-term Goals for the Consolidation of IBK’s Environmental Leadership Introduction of the Videoconference System Short-Term(2012~2015) Long-Term(2012~2020) IBK has adopted the videoconference system since 2010, cutting down CO2 emissions in the process with zero IBK • Reduction of carbon emissions 20% by 2015, compared to 2010 • Build the environmental management system • Record at least 2% reduction in energy consumption each including subsidiaries physical movement and consequently realizing green IT. We expect to improve work productivity and realize year compared to 2012. • Expand government-implemented low carbon, time and cost savings as well as address the inconveniences associated with business trips and movement. • Increase of eco-branches green growth relevant projects support Currently, 305 employees(Executives, Division Managers, Branch Managers Abroad, Head Office Planning Team • Diversification of green product • Post upper-level green product sales in the Customers Leader, Pb Team Leaders) use the videoconference system for various meetings. IBK has also offered such • Development and expansion of new green financial products industry compared to total product sales. SMEs • Green consulting expansion targeting SMEs • Support SMEs’ reduction of carbon emissions. videoconference system to customers. To customers who want to receive tax affairs and real estate consulting, • Loan support for eco-friendly worksites • Expansion of SMEs’ response support related to we have been offering top service through the PC videoconference system since February 2011. emissions trading Communities • Expansion of support for communities’ green growth • Actively engage in carbon emissions trading system. International • Increase of participation in external green management • Expand engagement in international initiatives. society information disclosure including CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) • Participate in the carbon emissions trading system. Adoption of Hybrid Cars for Business To reduce atmospheric pollution and cut down energy consumption, IBK has replaced medium/large-sized cars with small/semi-medium cars since 2008. We continually carry out fossil fuel use control and fuel efficiency Efforts to Reduce Carbon Emissions Establishment of GHG Emissions and Management Organizations improvement. Establishment and Management of GHG Emissions Energy Consumption Reduction Target In 2012, we purchased 10 hybrid cars, and have been making efforts to reduce carbon emissions discharged General Affairs and Energy Consumption Reduction Target unit: million Dept from business operation. IBK targets a 20% reduction in carbon emissions by 2015 40000 • Building 35000 -20% Management compared to 2010. By devising an organic collaborative 30000 25000 IBK IT Planning and Eco-Friendly Customers’ Standby Slip and ATM Statements system between departments in charge and designating 20000 Management Consulting departments in charge of the overall supervision and 15000 Services Dept Dept IBK began to use the eco-friendly number ticket in November 2011 for the first time in the financial sector, 10000 5000 • IT Management making an effort to conserve the environment by using eco-friendly paper. We plan to expand the use of ecoimplementation of the reduction of GHG emissions/energy Supervision 0 consumption(General Affairs Dept., Green Management Base year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Safety friendly office supplies continually. Management Support Team), we carry out GHG emissions reduction General Affairs Dept.  IT Planning and Management Dept. Office activities across the organization. Safety Management Office • Vehicle Control 56 A Truly Good Future_ Environment 57 Reasonable Energy Use Energy Use Environmental Management Education/Training Reduction Performance Energy Use Reduction Performance in 2011 unit: kWh Production of Cyber Video Lectures for Green Finance and Execution of Education IBK operates a variety of programs across IBK to mitigate energy consumption. Thanks to such efforts, we cut IBK operated online lectures for all its employees to acquire basic knowledge and green mindset on green 9,915 down energy consumption by 10% in 2011 compared to 2010. Electricity use also fell to 9,064,000kwh in 2011, 9,064 growth and green finance in April 2010, and it has been educating its employees since then. Meanwhile, we down 8.6% compared to 2010; this translates into savings of about KRW 20 million. produce and distribute booklets such as One Hundred Questions and Answers on the Green Certification System, Green Statistics, and Climate Change. Various Activities to Reduce Energy Consumption 2010 2011 Fostering Personnel Specializing in Low Carbon and Green Growth * Based on IBK HQ Through the expansion of cyber training within the bank and by dispatching employees for training at external Eco-Health Way • Elevator use control campaign to protect the environment and for employees’ health enhancement specialist educational institutions, we foster personnel specializing in renewable energy industry outlook, • Foster a culture of reducing the use of elevators and encouraging the use of stairs. carbon market and carbon emissions trading, and policies and systematic environment for small and medium• Create eco-health pathways from the Euljiro head office underground floor stairs to the 19th floor sized venture companies and green finance. stairs. On the rooftop and in front of the IBK Shihwa Industrial Complex branch, solar cell modules and Green Habit Program • Campaign of wearing warm clothes to work in case of indoor hybrid streetlight were installed (Energy and Goods temperature of 19oC or lower Saving Campaign) • Copying paper quota system: Execute this system among the head office (Right under), Hypothetical Eco-Branches and Green Training Center Diagram of Green Training Center departments first. (Under) Eco-Branch using Renewable Energy • Consolidation of energy and goods saving campaign through energy officer activity activation by floor IBK opened eco-branch No. 1 in March 2010 – the first Korean financial institution to do so – and built the • Summer Cool Biz campaign: Wearing of half-sleeved t-shirts from June to Cheongju Green Training Center using clean energy in May 2011. Eco-branch No. 1 is the Shihwa Industrial August Complex branch, where high-efficiency equipment, solar power, wind power facilities, hybrid streetlights, and • Execution of automatic lights off system during lunch break LED lights yielding high energy-saving effects were installed. We expect annual CO emissions reduction of • Developing part of the outdoor parking lot in the west side of the head office as green park 7,900kg, which is equivalent to the effect of planting 4,000 pine trees. Expansion of • Preferential purchase of energy-saving and eco-friendly green technology products upon the Carbon Neutral Building, Green Training Center Green Technology Products procurement of machines, fixtures, and new products Procurement • Items to be procured: purchase of shopping bags for customers by replacing them with ecoThe Chungju Green Training Center sought to build a carbon neutral building by using geothermal and solar friendly shopping bags without coated surface energy and installing LED lights. The green training center uses clean energy(1.6% of electricity, 16.8% of heating • Use of environment mark-certified products: photocopying machines, facsimile, etc. and cooling), and it is open to customers as well as emplyees and their families, By offering a tour opportunity to customers, we are proactively engaging in environmental conservation and enhancement of customers' Construction of • Establishment of facilities infrastructure to reduce CO2 emissions by cutting down energy Energy-saving Eco-buildings consumption and minimizing waste generation in the head office and branch buildings environmental mindset. • Installation of electricity use control devices including LED lights and automatic sensor lights • Installation of radiant heat and insulation systems and water saving devices for washstands and faucets Summary of Environmental Indicators Status of Water Use(scope: head office, waterworks and sewage) unit: ton Category Data Gathering Scope 2009 2010 2011 Water Use Volume Head office Waterworks and sewage 94,009 98,580 96,303 Status of Volume of Raw Materials Used unit: box Category 2009 2010 2011 Reduction of Energy Consumption and GHG Emissions(scope: head office and branches) Purchase Volume of Copying Paper 61,961 66,317 69,975 Category Unit 2009 2010 2011 Power Consumption Reduction MWh 2620 -5376 3554 Status of Energy Consumption(scope: head office) Reduction of GHG Emissions CO2t -1340 -7410 4524 Emission Source 2009 2010 2011 Power Consumption(MWh) 60,884 66,260.1 62,706.3 GHG Emissions(scope: head office and branches)  unit: metric ton, CO2e 2 City Gas Consumption(m ) 1,084,845.8 765,271.6 1,551,499.3 Category 2009 2010 2011 Gasoline Consumption(L) 1,337,528.1 4,077,260.6 2,451,473.2 Scope 1 8,987 13,867 11,000 Diesel Consumption(L) 641,550.8 560,399.8 668,287.8 Scope 2 28,363 30,893 29,236 Total Energy Consumption(tCO2eq) 37,351.2 44,761.2 40,237.1 *Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions *Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 58 A Truly Good Future_ Environment 59 IBK’s Green Financial Products  unit: KRW 100 million Date of Launch Category Product Name Amount Features (Y/M/D) Loans Loan for Solar 08.5.29 1,402 Launched solar power facilities loan to support the solar Green Finance (supply) Power Facilities Fund power generation business in 2008; provided more than USD 1 million in support as of December 2011 Green Growth 09.3.31 24,165 Loan that supports companies designated as green Company Loan business company IBK Green Real 10.3.3 1,624 Loan that supports green real estate as designated by Estate-Secured Loan the government since 2010; provided more than USD 1 IBK has been developing various green financial products that enable customers to put eco-life into practice. million in support as of December 2011 We reviewed the environmental risk application for green finance to be reflected systematically on the banking IBK Green 10.7.14 132 Loan offered to companies having green technology; business with the Ministry of Environment and amended the Green Growth Industry Classification Standards on Company Loan provided more than USD 100 million in support as of December 2011 Jan. 2010. Renewable Energy 11.8.5 61 Support of the credit guarantee type for renewable Win-Win Guarantee energy companies requiring investment Loan Green Growth Industrial Classification Standards No. of Credit Environmental Love 07.7.19 336 Card that contributes part of the sales amount to the The amendment of the Green Growth Industrial Classification Standards seeks to clarify the object and scope Card Subscribers Card environmental culture development fund of green growth industry-operating companies centered on the green certification system. As a system (cumulative total) Eco-Gift Card 09.3.26 506,868 Pursues eco-friendliness by using degradable plastic that evaluates and proves conformity to certification standards by a specific firm’s technology and business, material, which is completely decomposed after use the green certification system consists of green technology certification, green business certification, and Pleasant Air LOHAS Card 09.6.16 15,345 Offers cash back to voluntary participants for atmospheric specialized green company confirmation. IBK actively reflects the following standards for financial products environmental improvement and gives fare discount development when public transport means are used to improve the use ratio of public transport • Green Technology Certification: Certify by searching for technology that minimizes GHG and pollutants IBK Eco-Style Card 11.1.17 496 Card offering points jointly with Seoul City according to Seoul citizens’ reduction of GHG emissions at home to emissions by saving and efficiently using energy and resources across the entire process of eco-friendly promote the practice of green life technologies(including convergence technology), such as GHG emissions reduction technology, technology to Green Card 11.7.22 485,447 Card that acquired carbon labeling certification for the enhance energy use efficiency, clean energy technology, and zero waste technology. first time in Korea(Certification D-2011-001)(Apr. 19, 2011); • Green Business Certification: Search for business that minimizes GHG and pollutants emissions by saving and green mileage provided as reward for putting green life efficiently using energy and resources through green technology. into practice • Specialized Green Company Confirmation: A company at least one year old after its foundation can apply for confirmation. Companies whose green technology sales make up more than 30% as certified in the immediately preceding year are confirmed. Green Financial Products Loans IBK supports eco-friendly technologies and companies by developing various loan products for low carbon, green growth. Typical loan products include the IBK Green Company Loan, Green Real Estate-Secured Loan, Loan for Solar Power Generation Facilities Fund, and Renewable Energy Win-Win Guarantee Loan. We actually provided the biggest support in the banking industry in 2011 with KRW 2.6 trillion won. Credit Cards Combining the individual’s financial life with eco-friendliness, IBK’s green card received carbon labeling certification for the first time in Korea. By providing green mileage as reward for practicing green life, we help our customers and employees enhance environmental awareness. We also offer points jointly with Seoul City according to the GHG emissions reduction by Seoul citizens to promote the practice of green life at home by launching the IBK tyle-Eco Card. In addition, we operate the Pleasant Air LOHAS Card, Environmental Love Card, and Eco Gift Card. Acquired Carbon labeling certification, MOU signing to implement Eco Mileage Card system, Green card, Refreshing Air LOHAS Card(from top) 60 A Truly Good Future_ Environment 61 Establishment of GHG Emission Statistics The green growth strategy presentation precisely calculates the GHG emissions, offers the relevant programs and management guidelines, and consists of climate change risk diagnosis and searches for GHG emissions reduction projects tailored for SMEs. Specifically, solutions that can apply to each company’s situation include the following: ● comprehensive green consulting, ● renewable energy facilities installation planning, ● new Environmental Management Support green business implementation strategy, ● agency work for GHG inventory establishment and verification, ● green regulations risk diagnosis, ● green certification system support, ● excellent green biz certification assistance, and ● green SCM(supply chain management) for win-win growth between large corporations and SMEs. Environmental management is an essential factor in long-term corporate growth regardless of the firm’s size. Nowadays, it serves as a green trade barrier. Relatively lacking in resources, SMEs have difficulties even in Low Carbon, Green Growth Strategy Presentation minimal strategic access to environmental management. IBK strives to build the foundation for SMEs to manage IBK offered consulting on GHG emissions management and carbon market strategies for 61 SMEs as of June and establish strategies for environmental management instead of providing temporary support or education/ 2012. It has been playing a leading role in SMEs’ environmental management system dissemination. We will training. contribute to SMEs’ environmental management establishment by persistently increasing the number of SME consulting targets. Plan to Support SMEs’ Environmental Management according to Domestic and International Environmental Regulation Consolidation Trend Shaping and expanding of carbon emission trading market Regulation Acceleration of consolidation of MBO for GHG reduction of GHG each country emissions through Inventory of GHG Selection of target • UNFCCC the carbon companies and • Kyoto Protocol emissions trading Mandatory energy reduction goal Making an system after the diagnosis setting to build Consolidation of each country’s Mandatory emissions list for efficient analysis and to acquire a systematic GHG management sharp increase in companies targeted for MBO Countries Subject to Engagement in Initiatives energy diagnosis system and own regulations means of reducing realize emissions Mandatory to improve the GHG emissions for energy use mitigation GHG Emissions • Green trade GHG dischargers efficiency ratio Reduction during barrier(Green • Development of green of high energy2013 and Protectionism) life support loans for consuming 2015 IBK supports the low carbon, green growth vision as a member of the community and international society. We • Development of SMEs’ worksites businesses win-win green life • Capturing have undertaken the Green Touch project together with the Ministry of Environment(MOE) targeting Koreans loan among large opportunities such as trust products and produced and distributed a booklet introducing the Basic Low Carbon, Green Growth Act and green corporations and Basis of SMEs in relation to related to the carbon certification system. We are actively involved in the KRW 750 billion Bio Green Energy Fund participated in by International green credit emissions trading Environmental system 18 large corporations in Korea including MOE and Korea Environment Corporation for the development of Regulation Consolidation renewable energy. Continual Consolidation Participation in MOE’s Green Touch IBK Green Touch Screen Green Consulting Goal Today’s Cumulative Total Cumulative Saving Amount Saving Amount For SMEs’ own environmental management system establishment, IBK adopted green consulting to offer • Participation of 10,000 employees, 10,000 customer strategies for managing carbon and GHG emissions reduction projects for the first time in Korea. IBK’s green companies, and 10 million retail customers consulting consists of “Establishment of GHG Emission Statistics” and “low carbon, green growth strategy Status Time Saved Through presentation.” Green Touch • IBK started participating in the green touch project in Aug. 2011 when the project was launched. Cumulative Electricity • Green touch is run on all IBK employees’ PCs. Saving Amount Renewable Plan Cumulative GHG energy facilities Emissions Reduction installation • IBK closely cooperates in the government’s energy-saving Green planning policy by sharing matters to be improved to some 10,000 Cumulative Treecertification New green business employees and plans to engage actively in this project in Planting Effect system the future as well. support strategy Certification Green Strategy/Risk Support Consulting Management Services Excellent Services Green-Biz Green risk International Society: Industrial Leader of Global CDP in the Financial Sector certification diagnosis support Third-party IBK signed the global CDP(Carbon Disclosure Project) in 2009 as a member to contribute to the activation verification of international green investment. In 2011, we became an industrial leader in the financial sector, gaining of GHG inventory recognition for our efforts. By participating in CDP’s CDSB(Climate Disclosure Standard Board) Working Group in July 2012, we make all-out efforts for the dissemination of the practice of carbon information disclosure by Korean companies. 62 63 What We Did IBK carries out social contribution activities in five core areas like support for financially alienated class, SMEs support activation, participatory social contribution activities, domestic and international social contribution A TRULY GOOD activities, and Mecenat activities. In particular, the activation of support for SMEs is our unique social contribution service, and we are conducting various support activities. We encourage our employees’ social contribution activities through corporate participatory social contribution activities and build various support SHARING systems through which community members can engage in social contribution activities. In this manner, we expand the scope of participants in social contribution activities. Participatory Social Contribution Service COMMUNITIES • Establishment of social contribution culture within the organization • Dissemination of community’s donation culture Support of Financially Alienated Class Domestic and International IBK conducts various social contribution activities to realize Social Contribution Activities corporate citizenship as a member of a community and a • Support for IBK Smile Financial Foundation • Financial support consolidation for ordinary • Sponsorship of social welfare facilities • Procurement of social firms’ goods Role Model country. As a specialized bank for SMEs, we are doing our best people Establishment of • Support of social contribution activities abroad to fulfill social responsibilities for SMEs, and make a beautiful Financial Sector’s Social Contribution Activation of Support for SMEs Mecenat Activities society, where all stakeholders can live together in harmony. Service in • Assistance to job-creating companies the Global Era • Sponsorship of concerts for underprivileged • Welfare enhancement of workers at SMEs class • Sponsorship of unpopular sports Who’s Accountable IBK has formed IBK Love Sharing Fund to disseminate employee’s voluntary donation culture. We exchange pending issues of each department on social contribution services by operating Social Contribution Committee in which IBK’s executive director participate. Through IBK Voluntary Service Group, we expand nationwide social contribution activities, which are carried out by employees’ voluntary participation. CEO IBK Smile Financial Foundation IBK Foundation IBK Voluntary Service Group Executive Director IBK Love Sharing Social Contribution Management Committee Committee Shared Happiness Dept. Voluntary Volunteer Service Group Service Club Employees Retired employees Key Performance • Allocating more than 6% of the net income for social contribution service expense in 2011(KRW 93.8 billion) • 3rd Human Awards ceremony(Presidential Citation) • Awarded a citation during Smile Finance Day(Financial Supervisory Service Governor’s Citation) • Won the Grand Prize in the Multicultural Family Support and Contribution Awards(Gender Equality and Family Minister’s Award) • Opening of a Truly Good Donation Portal • Operation of IBK Job World Looking Ahead IBK will strive to secure a role model for company-wide social contribution service and implement a systematic social contribution service through the participation of its subsidiaries beyond its own social contribution service. 64 A Truly Good Sharing_ Communities 65 Our Commitment IBK helps SMEs activation through social contribution activities carried out together with communities and employees, and assists underprivileged class, and implements the Mecenat global environmental support project. Support of SMEs Creation of Jobs at SMEs Operation of IBK Job World We launched Job World in 2009 to address the manpower shortage caused by the mismatch of information between job seekers and SMEs recruiting workers. Support for Financially Alienated Class Status of Members of Job World, a Job Portal, and Number of Employed People  unit: people Firms Seeking workers Job Seekers Category No. of Members No. of Members No. of Employed People at SMEs 2009 34,783 102,366 12,193 Establishment and Support of IBK Smile Financial Foundation 2010 53,572 201,522 24,957 IBK established IBK Smile Financial Foundation in 2009 by investing KRW 40 billion to support low income class Status of Smile 2011 56,087 244,472 38,123 and low credit rating holders’ rehabilitation. We consolidate ordinary people’s accessibility to financial assistance Finance support  by building a network nationwide including Gangreung, Busan, Daejeon, and Yeosu, as well as Seoul. We operate Support Cases of Best Human Power Matching Support through the Employment Expo amount support 17 chapters, the largest among the smile financial foundations of banks and companies. Beyond simple loan work Category (KRW 100 (case) IBK employed 1,101 out of approximately 50,000 expo-visiting job seekers by hosting 10 employment expos by following consulting on loans, we offer advice on customer management or business management using specialist million) theme suitable for the SMEs’ features in Gwangju, Changwon, and Daejeon in 2011. We held cultural contents personnel. Since most merchants are one-man owner-operator, and they have difficulty visiting any of the Smile 2010 31 371 industry employment expos for young job seekers who are accustomed to the service industry and digital Finance chapters during business hours, we provide the visiting smile financial service wherein our consultant 2011 118 1,030 culture. The hosting of specialization high school graduates’ employment expos was in keeping with the MOU employee visits them and offers consulting. This service has received good responses so far. Through specialized Total 149 1,401 we signed for employment activation with 348 specialization high schools nationwide. We endeavor to foster a products such as loans for hair dressers, traditional market merchants, delivery van operators, laundry businesses, Increase rate 380 278 social atmosphere of recruitment centered on one’s abilities rather than one’s educational background. and car repair businesses, we have provided support worth KRW 11.8 billion, which is four times that in 2011. In this manner, we are writing a new chapter of successfully helping people with low income and low credit rating. Special Preferential Fund We offer job-creating SMEs special preferentially treated fund to ease the burden of financial expenses such as interest on loans and commissions paid when SMEs employ regular positions. Launch of Financial Products for Ordinary People IBK has launched various financial products for ordinary people to reinforce financial support for them. We Job World’s Selection and Promotion of Top 600 Companies Free Treatment for Foreign Workers provided KRW 552.8 billion in support through 41,879 cases as of 2011. By selecting and publicizing Job World’s Top 600 Companies as great workplaces to work in, we activate employment for SMEs and spearhead positive recognition on working at SMEs. uunit: KRW 100 million, cases Supply Amount in No. of Category of Products Details 2011(KRW 100 million) Cases Welfare Enhanement of Workers at SME Loan of Fund for Worker’s Support for SMEs’ workers and financially underprivileged class via a business 654 16,081 IBK Established IBK Happiness Sharing Foundation Life Stabilization agreement with the Korea Workers’ Compensation & Welfare Service IBK Happiness Sharing Foundation in an effort to enhance welfare of the SMEs workers’ family in 2006. National Housing Fund Support in the form of Chonsei(key money paying rent) fund and housing 3,565 10,293 Case of Free Treatment for • We implement social contribution service in various aspects for families of SME workers and alienated class by loan purchase fund for the low-income bracket Converting high interest-bearing loans into low interest-bearing loans for Foreign Workers contributing KRW 19.1 billion. Change Loan of Dreams 456 4,437 the financially underprivileged class Nazrul Islam, who came to Korea • We provided KRW 2.7 billion worth of subsidies for the treatment expenses of patients with rare and incurable Banking sector’s joint financial products for people with low income and from Bangladesh to fulfill his diseases and seriously ill patients, KRW 1.9 billion worth of scholarships to workers working at SMEs and their New Hope Loan 853 11,068 Korean dream, graduated from low credit rating children, and KRW 1.5 billion worth of national economic education and mentoring projects. college, the only one to do so out Total 5,528 41,879 • In particular, the Happiness Network Project has a virtuous-cycle structure to address economic, emotional, of 4 sons and 2 daughters in his family. To make money, he got a and cultural poverty by offering mentoring services through sisterhood relations between scholarship job at a textile factory in Pocheon students, patients with rare and incurable diseases, and children of low-income families. Reduction of CD/ATM Commissions for the Socially Underprivileged Class in October 2010 but was diagnosed with chronic renal We try to cut down the financial expenses of the socially alienated class including basic living allowance Free Treatment for Foreign Workers at SMEs and Multicultural Families insufficiency. Although, his older beneficiaries, disabled people, and elderly people by reducing the CD/ATM commissions for them. brother in Bangladesh decided We have implemented the social contribution service of sharing love and health with free treatment in 8 medical to donate his kidney, Nazrul fields including ophthalmology, otolaryngology, and dentistry, targeting 455 multicultural families and SMEs’ Object Details Islam could not even consider foreign workers who have difficulties receiving treatment for various diseases. undergoing surgery due to the • Full exemption from charge for cash withdrawal from IBK, regardless of time of transaction(KRW huge cost. In November 2011, Basic living allowance Support for SMEs’ Foreign Workers and Multicultural Families 700 per transaction for cash withdrawal from other banks, regardless of time of transaction) beneficiaries, next poor class, however, he got connected with • Full exemption from charge for remittance between IBK accounts, regardless of time of During the multicultural festival on Chuseok we hosted for foreign workers and multicultural families’ children, we held disabled people, juvenile heads IBK and completed the kidney transaction(KRW 500 for remittance to other banks in case of KRW 100,000 or less, KRW 700 in of households, patriots transplant surgery. Today, he is cultural events including various countries’ traditional play experiences and offered food from each country for free. In case of more than KRW 100,000) working again. this manner, we cheered up foreign workers who could not visit their home countries during the traditional holiday. Elderly people aged 65 or older • Reduction of commission by 50% 66 A Truly Good Sharing_ Communities 67 Sponsorship of the 2011 One Heart Festival for Disabled People’s Families We have endeavored to support cultural projects to aid in the understanding of disabled people and instill their Participatory Social Contribution Activities rehabilitation in citizens’ minds through the sponsorship of the 2011 One Heart Festival for Disabled People’s Families held at the special stage in Seoul Plaza. IBK dreams of social contribution activities harmonized with our society. We are doing our very best to create an environment where our employees and all Korean citizens are concerned about social contribution activities and they practice such. We constantly provide assistance in line with the community’s needs and practice voluntary activities – not only head office-centered voluntary activities but also those centered on IBK voluntary service clubs consisting of branch employees nationwide – to implement various types of sharing for the development of both IBK and communities. Opening of IBK Chamber Hall at the Seoul Arts Center Supporting a Charity Concert to Help Poor Children We strive to disseminate an easy, clean, and healthy donation culture to society through a truly good donation Portal. As a performance hall with about 600 seats, the IBK Chamber Hall was opened in the Global Village within the Music Hall of the Seoul Arts Center to return love to the Korean people Supporting the charity concert held in the concert hall and promote the balanced development of the Korean culture and arts field. We will Establishment of Organizations for Social Contribution Activities sponsor cultural activities by jointly planning and producing concerts so that more of the Seoul Arts Center to help poor children in the global village, we do our best to spread the culture people can enjoy high-quality performance. of sharing by sharing in the pain of children suffering Category Committee Members Mission What is from famine and diseases. the IBK Love Sharing Fund? IBK Love Planning & Coordination Dept. Manager, PR Dept. Manager, Employee Deliberate and decide on issues and Sharing Fund Satisfaction Dept. Manager, General Affairs Dept. Manager, Shared matters related to IBK Love Sharing A social contribution activity fund Management Happiness Dept. Manager Fund’s management guidelines change, procured in matching grant mode Committee IBK Love Sharing Fund’s operation and wherein employees have been management, and fund’s closing accounts. donating a certain portion of their monthly salary since April 2005 and Social Executive director, Corporate Banking Dept. Manager, Corporate Support Organization to exchange opinions and IBK contributes the same amount to Contribution Committee Dept. Manager, Institutional Banking Dept. Manager, IBK Consulting Services Dept. Manager, Retail Banking Dept. Manager, Retail Loan Dept. Manager, discuss development direction on the pending issues of IBK’s social contribution support the underprivileged class Mecenat Activities Marketing Strategy Dept. Manager, Global Business Dept. Manager, services, and to efficiently implement Foreign Exchange Business Dept. Manager, Credit Card Dept. Manager, preemptive social contribution services Retirement Pension Dept. Manager, Planning & Coordination Dept. Sponsorship of Big Tree Concert for Love of Country Manager, Management Planning Dept. Manager, Business Management In commemoration of the Month of Patriots and Dept. Manager, PR Dept. Manager, Loan Planning Dept. Manager, Loan Veterans in June, IBK helps form a bond of sympathy Management Dept. Manager, HR Dept. Manager, IT Dept. Manager, Future on the importance of national security and strives to spread the sharing culture by inviting patriots and Planning Office Director, Shared Happiness Dept. Manager children from dysfunctional families. Fostering a Sound Donation Culture with Organizations All of IBK’s employees are engaged in social contribution activities. Launched in 2004, the IBK Voluntary Service Group is actively engaged in voluntary activities for communities through the participation of IBK CEO and all employees. As of the end of June 2012, a total of 84 voluntary service clubs(2,065 club members) carried out active volunteer activities in various fields including social welfare centers, facilities for disabled people, and House Repair with Love. To foster a sound donation culture and prepare for social contribution activities, we operate the IBK Love Sharing Fund voluntarily participated in by our employees since 2004. The IBK Love Sharing Fund is operated in matching grant mode wherein IBK contributes the same amount donated by its employees Sponsorship of the Mokpo City Hall Football Team and is used as valuable financial resource for employees’ voluntary activities and public services, such as feeding in the Women’s Football WK League malnourished children, helping poor children in the global village, and donating to disaster relief efforts. Through a sponsorship agreement with the Korea Women’s Football Federation, we are trying to contribute to the development of unpopular sports support for which is meager. We have also made efforts to activate local sports by sponsoring the Mokpo Dissemination of Community’s Donation Culture City Hall Football Team. IBK vows to contribute to the sports industry’s development through constant sponsorship. IBK opened a Truly Good Donation Portal to link non-profit organizations requiring help with more donators in 2011 New conceptual donation service that has built a system through which sharing can be made without restrictions of space and time, anywhere, anytime, and the donated entities can be transparently operated. As of August 2012, KRW 440,712,873 was raised. Potential Offline Donator Customers (teller’s window) Donation IBK Homepage Beneficiaries A Potential Customers Display of A Truly Good Donation Online Donator Portal (A Truly Good Donation Portal) Fund Raising Operation of Teams in Unpopular Sports Potential IBK launched a shooting squad in December 2004 Donation Branch Leaflet Customers and a volleyball team in August 2011 to draw social Beneficiaries B attention to unpopular sports. We have been making Mobile Donator(smartphone) Potential efforts to promote the balanced development of Customers national sports through systematic support. Twitter/Facebook 68 A Truly Good Sharing_ Communities 69 Regular Support Signing the Social Contribution MOU with Korean Red Cross for Social Welfare Facilities Nationwide We carry out the improvement of the residential environment including house IBK regularly makes donations to social welfare building and repair for the underprivileged nationwide. In addition, we signed an facilities located nationwide through our regional MOU for social contribution to carry out the global sponsorship service targeting divisions for social contribution service activation. We poor children in China and Vietnam. We consistently conduct social contribution are committed to sponsoring continually social welfare activities in this manner. facilities nationwide in the future. Helping Flood Victims Suffering from Localized Torrential Downpour in the Central Region We have made efforts to practice the spirit of sharing with and showing consideration for our neighbors by helping victims of flooding due to the localized torrential downpour in the Central Region of Korea. Sponsorship of Community’s Social Welfare Facilities through Onnuri Gift Inviting Children Living in Islands and Global Voluntary Activities Vouchers of Traditional Markets Isolated Areas to Seoul IBK launched voluntary activities in Vietnam after We purchased Onnuri Gift Vouchers of traditional markets to play our social role We offered tours in Seoul to 30 children of Dongrang holding the Global Voluntary Service Group launching as state bank, promoting branches’ voluntary activities along with contribution Elementary School to provide them with a vivid, valuable ceremony on Aug. 10, 2011 to extend a helping hand to traditional markets and supporting social welfare facilities within each regional educational opportunity including cultural experience. to the alienated class abroad beyond Korea. Consisting division. In particular, we invited children living in islands and of 40 employees, the Global Voluntary Service Group isolated areas with inferior cultural environment. installed drinking water facilities that can be used by 100 households in the Kim Boi area close to Hanoi, Vietnam and offered voluntary services including the replacement of desks and chairs, installation of play facilities, and wall painting for elementary schools as part of the school facilities environmental improvement project. Domestic and International Social Contribution Activities Subsidy of Rare and Incurable Disease Treatment Expenses We subsidize the treatment expenses of cash-strapped workers at SMEs and their families who have rare and incurable diseases so that we can share in their pain and give them hope, based on the mindset that we are one big family. Assistance for Overseas Social Contribution Services IBK has supported global social contribution services through donations to assist in damage restoration following Japan’s disastrous earthquake as part of relief activities of international society. We conducted active global social contribution activities such as expansion of the Minh Tam Vocational Training Center in Hanoi, Vietnam, construction of the new Hanoi Korean School, building of a new Nepal Sharing of Kimjang(Winter Kimchi) with Love school, and sponsorship of Peking University. We About 50 IBK employees made 10,000 Chinese cabbage have also subsidized the college education and living Kimchi(about 20 tons) at the plaza of the Seoul Museum expenses of Korean descendants living in Mexico and of History and delivered 10 kg of Kimjang Kimchi to sponsored 547 children in impoverished countries for 2,000 members of the underprivileged class within the three years since 2008. Seoul area. Procurement of Social Enterprises’ Goods IBK delivered its warm heart to the underprivileged class including the elderly living alone in poor condition by purchasing 300 rice bags(10kg per bag) from a social enterprise, the Three Beans Sharing Center, which pursues public interests such as offering of jobs and social services to the alienated class. Onc Company One Village Sisterhood Relationship Multicultural Festivals for Foreign Workers In 2005, IBK forged sisterhood relations with Jeongdang We have taken time out to cheer up lonely foreign workers -who cannot visit their 1-ri Village in Taean-gun, Chungnam. We offer a helping home countries during the Korean traditional holidays -through various programs hand to the village – including picking green peppers that let them experience Korean traditional culture including pounding on rice cake and digging for sweet potatoes – whenever the farm and Korean classical music performance as well as sharing each country’s cuisine and hands are not enough. In addition, we have sponsored traditional culture. the alienated class including social welfare facilities by purchasing agricultural products from them. 70 71 Third-Party Opinion GRI Index Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Statement by the Review Committee on the Sustainability Report ● STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART Ⅰ: Profile Disclosures The formation of the External Review Committee on the Sustainability environmental impacts. IBK needs to present the environmental Report(“the Committee”) is meaningful since it can diagnose the status management vision it pursues, set short-term goals, and present action 1. Vision and Strategy of IBK’s social responsibility management through communication with strategies. This way, IBK’s environmental activities can be shared with the Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization 5 external stakeholders and set the direction for moving forward. members and connected with performance. This report actually comes up 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 5 The primary purpose of the Committee is to help address the areas short in these aspects. for improvement by analyzing and drawing up the standards of the 2. Organizational Profile sustainability report. Through this, we wanted to offer additional Climate Change Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks suggestions to consolidate corporate competitiveness by identifying IBK’s engagement in CDP since 2011 and the best performance attained 2.1 Name of the organization Cover, 8 the risk and opportunity factors of IBK. The review statement has been in the banking sector are worthy of praise, and the sustainability report 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 8 drawn up to review the report details immediately before the printing needs to explain such adequately. The report should also discuss how IBK 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 9 of the report and refer to the statement for sustainability management identifies the risk and opportunities factors related to climate change and 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters 9 system development within the organization. Reliability verification was how IBK responds to them. 2.5 Location of organization's overseas operation 9 not conducted for the assertions and data presented in the sustainability 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 9 report; neither did the review statement present any relevant opinion. Society 2.7 Markets served 9 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 9 The Committee reviewed the report from Sept. 28 to Oct. 4, 2012, and IBK’s efforts to develop products for financially alienated people and to 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2, 6~7 opinions were shared by holding a meeting on Oct. 5. The Committee expand opportunities to access those financial products are laudable. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Cover delivered the review statement personally, and it does not represent the These activities need to be sustained constantly and to be introduced to organization’s opinion. various stakeholders. 3. Report Parameters If IBK’s purpose is to provide funding support to SMEs, IBK needs to report Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Sustainability Management Sector the activities, services, or projects for its employees as well. These activities 3.1 Reporting period Cover The 2011 sustainability report shows that more consolidated stakeholder can be good examples of IBK’s social role. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Cover communication and materiality test were carried out compared to the As for the reported details in the social sector, the quantitative and 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover previous reports. The 2011 report also reflected the various stakeholders’ qualitative performance reports are asymmetric, concentrating on 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Cover voices. In addition, the expectations and needs of stakeholders were communities and social contribution activities. There is a need to balance 3.5 Process for defining report content 14~17 identified in the IBK sustainability report based on the stakeholder between various stakeholders’ activities and performance reporting. 3.6 Boundary of the report Cover 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Cover questionnaire survey. In the aspect of deducing challenging tasks Suggestions for Improvement 3.8 Basis for reporting that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Cover, 9 through mutual communication and organizational response, the report 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Cover, 13 is considered to follow such faithfully. Through the materiality test, the IBK’s sustainability report needs to add specific items to be pursued to put Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such rereport identified important sustainability management issues from the sustainability management into practice, including detailed challenges to 3.10 Cover statement viewpoints of internal/external concerns and risks. Note, however, that be accomplished, objectives, and periods for achieving the objectives. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Cover management of and response to stakeholders are the main theme of Moreover, organizations in charge of sustainability management need 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 71~74 the report. In this regard, two-way communication with stakeholders to be established. The sustainability report is part of sustainability 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Cover, 16~20 needs to be attempted. IBK should also build an operational system and a management and should be in line with the comprehensive process to responsibility structure for sustainability management and make midand implement strategies and challenges established at the organizational 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement long-term plans. level and to evaluate performance. Through this, IBK can have a clear Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 21 performance evaluation system for sustainability management and Governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 21 improve performance from the long-term perspective. The sustainability The report shows the total number of board meetings held and the report is also expected to be used as a means of cooperating with 4.3 Composition of the highest governance body 21 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 14~15 number of items on the agenda. Likewise, the report has described the stakeholders and to acquire useful information within the organization. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 21 principle of convening each committee, conditions of opening a meeting, We suggest improving the index reporting level further according to the 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 21 and issues handled. GRI G3.1 standards and raising the quantitative information ratio in future Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body Nonetheless, the report needs to prove whether the mechanism of control sustainability reports. We also recommend offering a sustainability report 4.7 21 and its committees and balance works properly through appropriate deliberation on key trusted by stakeholders through third-party assurance on the accuracy 4.8 Principles relevant to management 10~11 issues by the board and each committee using specific information on and objectivity of the reported data, sustainability management’s internal Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of 4.9 21, 27, 37, 53 the agenda items dealt with in each meeting, approval rate, and number process reliability, and computation grounds of performance. economic, environmental, and social performance of people present in each meeting. The report should also include the Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 4.10 21 independence guarantee of the board through the transparent disclosure environmental, and social performance of outside directors. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 24~25, 30 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 61 Environment organization subscribes or endorses Oct. 2012 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 61 IBK’s green consulting can be an excellent activity that takes into account External Review Committee for the IBK Sustainability Report 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 14~15 the environment, SMEs, and IBK’s sustainability. IBK needs to enhance 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 14~15 Sustainability Management Team of Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute such activity as its specialized activity. IBK should systematically build Lee Jong-oh, Director of KoSIF 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 14~15 the environmental management system, which involves systematically Shin Tae-joong, Director of the Center for Good Corporations Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has managing all organizational activities or products and services-related Park Joo-won, Managing Director of Korea CSR 4.17 14~15 responded to those key topics and concerns 72 73 ● STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART Ⅱ: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Social Performance Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Labor EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 13 Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 46 EC3 Coverage of the organization's burden in the pension system 13 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 47 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 47~48 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 49 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 42 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations 46 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help of operation monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs EC8 Supporting and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 35, 39, 43, 59~61, 64~65 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 37~41, 60, 64~67 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, 50, 65 or community members regarding serious diseases Environment Performance LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 49 Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 47 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 54 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender 47 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 56 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 21 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 55 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender EN6 54~55 requirements as a result of these initiatives Human Rights EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 55 Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 57 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water HR1 human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, HR2 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value and actions taken EN11 N/A Not Applicable outside protected areas Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to HR3 23, 49 operations, including the percentage of employees trained Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high EN12 N/A Not Applicable HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 49 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by HR6 EN15 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor level of extinction risk Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7 13 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 57 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights HR8 23 that are relevant to operations EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 55, 57 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken No Violation Case. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A Not Applicable HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions N/A Not Applicable HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Social: Society EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A Not Applicable SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 41, 66~70 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 N/A Not Applicable SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption N/A Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures 23 EN25 N/A Not Applicable reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 23 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 59 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 55 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental No Violation Case of SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Not Relevant EN28 laws and regulations Law SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Not Relevant Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A EN29 55 operations, and transporting members of the workforce Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type SO10 local communities 74 Financial Services Sector Supplement We cordially ask for your participation Product Safety Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks To: PR1 Policy for customer’s health and safety Shared Happiness Dept. of IBK PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts No Violation Case FAX 82 02-729-7977 of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 59 Thank you for your time and effort to read this 2011 IBK Sustainability Report. We will strive to draw up a better PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service No Violation Case information and labeling, by type of outcomes report by communicating with you. Kindly send us your comments on this sustainability report, and we will PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 28~30 reflect them on our sustainability management activities and report. We cordially ask for your participation in this survey based on your support and affection for IBK. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including 31 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 1. What do you think of this report? PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Not Relevant communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Contents: Good Fair Insufficient PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 32 Understanding Extent: Difficult Fair Easy PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of Not Relevant 2. Which items or section of this report impressed you? products and services. Sustainability Management Financial Services Sector Supplement 2011 Highlights CEO Massage Company Profile Vision of IBK Index Description Reporting Level Page and Remarks Management Performance Stakeholders Voice of Stakeholders Framework to Deduct Key Issues FS1 Description of policies, with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines 54 CSR Experts Committee Corporate Governance Ethical Management Risk Management FS2 Description of procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines Description of processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social A Truly Good Consideration_Customers FS3 59 requirements included in agreements or transactions Customer Satisfaction Communication with Customers Customer Protection Description of processes for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and FS4 57 procedures as applied to business lines A Truly Good Partnership_SMEs FS5 Interactions with clients/investors/business partners regarding environmental and social risk and opportunities Financial Support Management Aid Support Local SMEs FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size and by sector 59 Consolidation of Efforts to Foster Middle Standing Firms FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business 42~43, 64 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line A Truly Good Communication_Employees FS8 59 Best Human Power Best Workplace Best System broken down by purpose Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment FS9 58 procedures A Truly Good Future_Environment Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has IBK’s Environmental Leadership Green Finance Environmental Management Support FS10 interacted on environmental and social issues Engagement in Initiatives FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental and social screening Voting policies applied to environmental and social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right A Truly Good Sharing_Communities FS12 to vote shares or advises on voting Support for Financially Alienated Class Support of SMEs FS13 Access points in the low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 64, 66, 69 Participatory Social Contribution Activities Domestic and International Social Contribution Activities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people 7, 64 Mecenat Activities FS15 Policies for the fair design and the sale of financial products and services 24~25, 33, 64 FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 41 3. Please freely write down your opinion on good things or things to improve in this report. 4. In which of the following groups do you belong? Retail Customer Corporate Customer Private Investor Institutional Investor Person in Charge of Companys’ Sustainability Management/CSR Researcher and Educator NGO Media Government/Public Service Student IBK’s Employee Others ( ) Thank you! Engagement in Global Initiatives IBK, which became a member of the UN Global Compact in 2006, complies with the 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. IBK is actively engaged in CDP to cope with climate change. It was selected as a leader in the banking sector in 2011.
