China Mobile: Enabling a Better Life China Mobile Limited 2012 Sustainability Report Connecting Us to the Future CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT Connecting Us to the Future Chairman’s Statement From the very first mobile phone call made from Guangzhou in 1987, to Chinese mobile phone users surpassing 1.1 billion in 2012, we have seen immense chance in only 25 years. With the evolution from communication among people to communication between people and things, and even among things, the historic progress of “Mobile Changes Life” is redefining future social lifestyles, and is having a profound influence on the trajectory of the telecommunications industry. The evolution of voice to data services, as well as communication services to a range of applications based on mobile internet, cloud computing and the Internet of Things, is also forcing Mr. Xi Guohua business to adapt and revamp existing development protocols, Chairman, China Mobile Limited organisational mechanisms and management patterns. At the same time, our customers are expecting to enjoy more We inherently believe that a company should leverage its core carefree service and achieve more possibilities by using mobile competence and take its responsibility to contribute to its technology. Employees are demanding greater career and professional stakeholders and the greater society. As such, we are committed development opportunities, to enable the realisation of individual to ensuring the realisation of our vision of “Mobile Changes value and self-fulfillment through meaningful work. Communities Life”, and the promotion of new technology such as TD-LTE. We hope to share and take part in a company’s development actively strengthen infrastructure development and organisational achievements, including fair development for disadvantaged groups, transformation for the future, as well as initiate the development and meaningful progress toward an eco-friendly civilisation. of start-ups and innovations. Building on these efforts, we have promoted the construction of the Wireless City and developed In line with the profound industrial revolution of “Mobile Changes innovative applications to improve social and professional lifestyles, Life” and with the attention and expectation of our stakeholders, economic efficiency and overall urban quality of life. We are also China Mobile is committed to creating a sustainable future for fulfilling the needs of New Countryside construction through the our company and our stakeholders through transformation and Three Networks for a New Countryside initiative, which is helping innovation. farmers increase their income, as well as promoting agricultural In 2012, we improved our corporate governance, strengthened risk transformation and rural development. management mechanisms, emphasised anti-corruption measures, In 2012, we received extensive positive feedback regarding our social and continued to generate value and positive returns for our responsibility efforts and sustainability performance. Examples include investors. With the steady and healthy growth of our company, we our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index for the fifth have also led partners throughout our supply chains to grow together consecutive year, which is an accomplishment that no other company with us in a socially responsible manner. from Mainland China has managed to achieve, as well as honors such We always pay great attention and actively respond to stakeholders' as the “China Charity Award” and “Sustainability Excellence Award,” requirements to fulfill our responsibilities. We continuously strive to among others. We were also honored that some of our corporate social maintain a reliable network with comprehensive coverage for our responsibility practices have been selected by the United Nations Global customers, address our customers' greatest concerns, and protect Compact to serve as best practices for China. their interests through a range of methods, from the optimisation We will strive to fulfill our economic, social and environmental of tariffs, accurate billing and prompt services reminders to the responsibilities. We believe that in the future, we will constantly strict protection of customer privacy and information security. As strive to improve our operations with integrity and responsibility an employer, we consistently generate fair opportunities for our and improve the transparency of our company. By leveraging our employees, protect their occupational health and safety, support innovative technology and services, we are helping the society their personal development, and actively provide a harmonious become increasingly connected so that, together, we can create and and positive working environment. As a community member, we share a better future. 2012 Sustainability Report fulfill our long-term commitments to support social welfare, and continuously implement key programmes to help alleviate poverty, care for vulnerable groups, promote education development as well as volunteering service, and share our company’s development achievements with a wide range of people within the community. As a responsible company, we work unceasingly to improve our environmental policies, with a specific focus on energy saving and emissions reduction measures throughout the entire life-cycle of our networks, provide green services, and propose the implementation and adoption of energy saving green standards with other social forces. We have also made great strides in leveraging advanced March 2013 Information and Communication Technology to support and promote social emission reductions, to ultimately harmonise corporate, social 01 and environment needs. CONTENTS 01 Chairman’s Statement 30 Creating A Sustainable Environment 30 Optimising Environmental Management Systems Contents 03 Company Profile 31 Managing Environmental Impact 04 Sustainability Strategy and Management 33 Leading Society in Environmental Protection 05 Sustainability Strategy 05 Sustainability Vision and Strategy 34 An Information-enhanced Future 06 Key Sustainability Issues 35 Innovation and Transformation 07 Sustainability Management 35 Innovation Capacity for the Future 08 Stakeholder Engagement 35 Infrastructure for the Future 36 Organisational Reform for the Future 10 A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile 36 International Business Layout for the Future 11 Solid Economic Growth 37 A Rich Wireless Experience 11 Continuously Optimised Compliance Management 38 At Home 11 Corporate Governance 39 Study 13 Anti-Corruption and Sound Governance 40 Healthcare 14 Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chains 41 Travel 14 Shared Growth 42 Work 15 Shared Responsibility 43 Consumption 44 Sharing the Benefits of Informationalisation 16 More Satisfied Stakeholders between Urban and Rural areas 17 Ubiquitous and Caring Services 44 Three Networks for a New Countryside 17 Reliable Network 45 Increasing Income for Rural Residents 19 Reliable Services 46 Transforming Agriculture 22 Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth 47 Developing the Countryside 22 Guaranteeing Employee Rights 23 Employee Professional Development 48 Stakeholder Commentary 24 Work-Life Balance 49 Looking Forward 25 Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities 50 2012 Sustainability Performance Summary 25 China Mobile Charity Foundation 53 About This Report 25 Development Aid and Poverty Alleviation 54 Independent Assurance Report 26 Caring for Disadvantaged Groups 56 Feedback 28 Supporting Education Development 57 Report Disclosure Indexes 29 Advocating Volunteer Service China Mobile Limited 02 COMPANY PROFILE China Mobile Limited (the “Company” or “China Mobile”, and Limited (“International Company”), and operates nationwide mobile Company Profile together with its subsidiaries, the “Group”) was incorporated in telecommunications networks in all 31 provinces, autonomous Hong Kong on 3 September 1997. The Company was listed on regions and directly-administered municipalities in Mainland China the New York Stock Exchange and The Stock Exchange of Hong and in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region through these Kong Limited (“HKEx”) on 22 October 1997 and 23 October 1997, subsidiaries. respectively. The Company was admitted as a constituent of the Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong on 27 January 1998. As the largest mobile In addition, the Company owns a 99.97% equity interest in China services provider in Mainland China, the Group boasts the world’s Mobile Group Device Company Limited, a 92% equity interest in largest mobile network and mobile customer base.The Company China Mobile Group Finance Company Limited through China Mobile currently has a corporate credit rating of Aa3/Outlook Positive from Group Beijing Company Limited, and a 66.41% equity interest in Moody’s Investor Service and AA-/Outlook Stable from Standard & Aspire Holdings Limited. Poor’s, equivalent to China’s sovereign credit rating respectively. As of 31 December 2012, the Group had a total employees of The Company owns 100% interest in the following major 182,487, a customer base reaching 710 million, and maintained a subsidiaries: leading market position in Mainland China. China Mobile Communication Company Limited, China Mobile The Company’s majority shareholder is China Mobile (Hong Kong) Group Guangdong Company Limited, China Mobile Group Zhejiang Group Limited, which, as of 31 December 2012, indirectly held an Company Limited, China Mobile Group Jiangsu Company Limited, equity interest of approximately 74.08% in the Company through a China Mobile Group Fujian Company Limited, China Mobile Group wholly-owned subsidiary, China Mobile Hong Kong (BVI) Limited. The Henan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Hainan Company remaining equity interest of approximately 25.92% of the Company Limited, China Mobile Group Beijing Company Limited, China Mobile was held by public investors. Group Shanghai Company Limited, China Mobile Group Tianjin Company Limited, China Mobile Group Hebei Company Limited, Awards and Honors Received in 2012 Include (selected): China Mobile Group Liaoning Company Limited, China Mobile Group We were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index Shandong Company Limited, China Mobile Group Guangxi Company (“DJSI World”) for the fifth consecutive year and the Hang Seng Limited, China Mobile Group Anhui Company Limited, China Mobile Sustainability Index for the third consecutive year; China Mobile Group Jiangxi Company Limited, China Mobile Group Chongqing is still the only Mainland China-based company to have been Company Limited, China Mobile Group Sichuan Company Limited, included in the DJSI World; China Mobile Group Hubei Company Limited, China Mobile Group We were included in the 2012 Global 500 by Financial Times, moving Hunan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Shaanxi Company from 16th place last year to 8th place in this year’s ranking; Limited, China Mobile Group Shanxi Company Limited, China We were ranked 10th in the BRANDZTM Top 100 Most Valuable Mobile Group Neimenggu Company Limited, China Mobile Group Global Brands list published by market research organisation Jilin Company Limited, China Mobile Group Heilongjiang Company Millward Brown in 2012; Limited, China Mobile Group Guizhou Company Limited, China We received the “Sustainability Excellence Award” from the Mobile Group Yunnan Company Limited, China Mobile Group Xizang Chamber of Hong Kong Listed Companies; Company Limited, China Mobile Group Gansu Company Limited, We received numerous prizes at the 2012 Best Asian Company China Mobile Group Qinghai Company Limited, China Mobile Group Awards held by FinanceAsia, including first prize for “Most Committed to a Strong Dividend Policy”, second prize for “Best Ningxia Company Limited, China Mobile Group Xinjiang Company Corporate Governance”, second prize for “Best Corporate Social Limited, China Mobile Group Design Institute Company Limited Responsibility”, second prize for “Best Managed Company”, and (“Design Institute”), China Mobile Hong Kong Company Limited third prize for “Best Investor Relations”. (“Hong Kong Company”), and China Mobile International Company 2012 Sustainability Report 03 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND MANAGEMENT Sustainability Strategy and Management 5 We have adopted “Sustainable Development” as our 20112015 development strategy. As we do our utmost to achieve our own sustainable development, we will leverage our core competencies to contribute to the sustainable development of In 2012, the Dow Jones Sustainability World the economy, society and environment at large. Index included China Mobile, the only In 2012, we continued to optimise our sustainability strategy Mainland China-based company which has framework. We also launched stakeholder engagement ever been included in this index, for the 5th activities through multiple and broad channels. Taking into consecutive year. account the needs of stakeholders and our strategic priorities, we identified our key sustainability issues and robustly strengthened our sustainable development abilities. In 2013, we will continue to expand the extent and scope of stakeholder engagement, as well as build a more open and 3,000 mutually sustainable development strategy and management Since the establishment of the CEO Mailbox system, through which we can share the bright future of two years ago, almost 3,000 letters from informationalisation with our stakeholders. customers, business partners and employees have been addressed and processed in a timely manner. 3 million China Mobile’s official microblog has over 3 million followers, ranked first among all microblogs owned by stateowned enterprises in China in terms of popularity, and was awarded the Excellent Microblog Prize issued jointly by the China Spokesperson Society and People's Daily Online. 200,000 China Mobile’s Annual Corporate Social Responsibility Practice Competition attracted wide participation, receiving 1.36 million online clicks and over 200,000 public votes. China Mobile Limited Sustainability Strategy······························································································05 Sustainability Management······················································································07 Stakeholder Engagement·························································································08 04 Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Sustainability Strategy Economy Society Environment Sustainability should Sustainability should Sustainability should General Requirements For China Mobile, sustainability means having a framework in encourage economic aim to improve life always focus on Sustainability Strategy and Management growth, which should quality, adapt to the protection of the enviplace that is economically, socially and environmentally sustainable; not just focus on pace of social progress, ronment, adapting the carefully considering the company’s own developmental needs and quantity, but pay more to create a social condition of resource attention on improving environment, where and environment, the needs of its stakeholders; pursuing development under the quality, instead of the people could enjoy including controlling old-fashioned patterns their rights of equality, pollution, improving premise of not harming stakeholders; and continuously contributing of production and confreedom and all other the environmental and leading to the improvement of society’s overall sustainable sumption, with clean basic rights. quality and employing production and civilised renewable resources in development. Guided by such objective, China Mobile will use the consumption. a sustainable way. following key paths to achieve sustainable development: The first path is the pursuit of our own sustainability. Vertically, Implement the Promote the integraGreen development this means, under an environment of continuous change, we must strategy of innovationtion of Urban-Rural Cyclic development driven development; development; recognise strategic risk and opportunities, acquire strategic resources, Low-carbon developfoster core abilities, thus achieving excellent performance and Promote the developReasonably allocate the ment Society Issues ment of strategic resource of education; growth. Horizontally, this means we must engage in dialogue and emerging industries; Advance the level of Accelerate transition health care and social cooperation with our stakeholders and continue to meet their needs and upgrade convensecurity; to secure positive support for our development. tional industries; Strengthen and …… innovate social The second path is the continuous promotion of society’s Sustainability Strategy management; …… sustainability in general. Explicitly, this means using responsible business operations to continuously improve resource efficiency and promote social equality, thus improving the level and quality We need to conWe need to benefit We always need to pay of our contributions to societal sustainable development. Indirectly, tinuously enhance the the whole society with attention to our environability of our indepencorporate achievement, ment impact. By using this means demonstrating our expertise in technology and service dent innovation, while to help social issues information communiand providing innovative measures and methods for the sustainable Corporate responses realising the turned-way of rural development, cation technology, we and adjusting-structures education, health care develop environmentdevelopment of other members of society, through these efforts of self-development, with innovative inforfriendly services and leading and forming an impetus that pushes forward the sustainable and assist the acceleramation solutions, to applications to better tion of the integration better assist the realisaserve the development development of society. of industrialisation and tion of a harmonious of ecological civilisation informationlisation, to society. for the whole society. enable the realisation of a more sustainable Sustainability Vision and Strategy macro-economy. China Mobile places great emphasis on the integration of sustainable development into our company’s overall strategy, and we have clearly established “Striving for international leadership with An Informationsustainable development” as our 2011-2015 strategic plan. Having enhanced Future “Mobile Changes Life” as our strategic vision, with an aim to Innovation and Transfomation combine sustainability achieved by our company together with that Wonderful Wireless City of our stakeholders, we have put forward three strategic goals in Smart Home More Satisfied sustainability: Mobile Changes Life Remote Education Stakeholders Mobile Healthcare A healthier and more stable China Mobile: To achieve Reliable Services Smart Transportation Smart Work healthy, sustainable development by maintaining positive business Employee Satisfaction A Healthier and Harmonious Mobile Payment performance growth, optimising corporate governance and risk More Stable Communities Informationalised “New management, and leading supply chain responsibility; China Mobile Friendly Environment Countryside” More satisfied stakeholders: To effectively respond to the Increasing Income for Rural Solid Economic Growth Resident core needs of our stakeholders such as customers, employees, Strict Corporate Governance Transforming Agriculture community and the environment, thus completely meeting our Risk Control Developing the Countryside responsibility to these stakeholders; Fulfilling Responsibilities A n i n f o r m a t i o n e n h a n c e d f u t u r e: A c c e l e r a t i n g t h e achievement of future-oriented innovation and transformation, Operating responsibly to achieve sustainable comprehensively creating a richer and wonderful “wireless” development together with our stakeholders experience, and promoting the sharing of the fruits of informationalisation between urban and rural areas. 2012 Sustainability Report 2001-2005 2006-2010 2011-2015 Service and Business Leap-Frogging Sustainable Development Leadership Striving to be a world class Being a world class company, leap-frogging from Striving for international leadership with communications corporation excellence to pre-eminence sustainable development To be a mobile communications expert To be a mobile information expert Mobile Changes Life The Evolution of China Mobile Strategy 05 Key Sustainability Issues Issue Benchmarking Guidelines for Reporting Issue benchmarking: Guided by our sustainability strategy HKEx nt, Society and Gov on nm e ernan iro ce Env Sustainability Strategy and Management framework, China Mobile commenced analysis in four areas, namely DJSI IS O 26 0 00 standards analysis, industry best practices benchmarking, macroGRI (G4 Draft) policy and public opinion analysis, and stakeholder perception B Inter national mpanies with high sustainab mapping. We used the results of our analysis to set our key ards Analys tand 11 co sustainability issues for 2012. S is 1 for 2011 sustain ility g of rty survey p Be abilit d-pa e Issue mapping: We have focused on the key impacts of our business inability vision and strategy sis on perceptio rkin rfo m a r kin g of i n d Thir y ty of provincial companies China Susta rm operations on various stakeholders, and formed our China Mobile ma ci aly p a nchbest practice ustr ca Mobile key an n sustainability issue map considering sustainability opportunities and risks. ch 4 2 An of stakeholders responsibility perfor sustainability on c inability management n en Issue materiality analysis: We used our materiality analysis array, tio man issues for Susta cep s y ce Per 2012 ns and suggestio ectatio which incorporates the perspectives of internal company experts and ns Exp stakeholder representatives, to further assess the mapped issues ustainability issues 3 Key s o n M a cr through the two dimensions of the importance of issues for China alysis o An and public op Mobile as well as for our stakeholders, to select the key sustainability licy inio po n issues for China Mobile in 2012. e ublic Macro policy trends Key p Sustainability Strategy opinion issue s Issue Mapping To seize opportunities Support employee Optimise the return of Improve independent Wireless city construction Expand industry Support charity Sustainable development development investment innovation Informationalised development Volunteering services Care employee life Strengthen shareholder Lead industry standards New Countryside Cooperation and value Green applications for China Mobile engagement sharing Promote industry growth environmental protection Employees Shareholders and Investors Government and Regulators Customers Value Chain Partners Community and Environment Protect employee rights Improve corporate Fair competition and healthy Ensure network stability Build a responsible Enhance EMF management Promote employee governance market environment Improve customer supply chain Lower energy consumption engagement Risk management services Improve resource efficiency Prevent corruption Protect customer rights To control risks Issue Materiality Analysis Key Issues Content Page Protecting the basic rights of employees, providing a healthy and safe working Protecting environment for employees, and providing channels for employees to make 22-24 employee rights Importance for stakeholders High complaints or appeals. Strengthening the supervision of power, improving understanding of ethical practices, effectively blocking loopholes in systems and processes, continuously Corruption building a comprehensive anti-corruption and corruption prevention and discipline prevention and 13 system, strengthening supervisory inspections and effectively investigating and discipline resolving whistleblowing reports, ensuring that our operations are conducted openly and in a healthy manner. Improving the standardisation of our purchasing and supplier management; Building a building on compliance with laws and regulations as a baseline, using our responsible supply 14-15 influence to strengthen suppliers’ responsibility, and supporting suppliers to High chain mature and grow together with us. Low Importance for the company Focusing on key questions raised by customers, and using technology, Protecting customer management, and service to achieve multi-faceted, comprehensive protection 19-21 rights of our customers’ rights from being infringed upon by the Company or third parties, thus guaranteeing a carefree experience for our customers. China Mobile Limited Honoring our long term commitments, strategically supporting charity, focusing on key fields such as education and disadvantaged groups, launching Supporting charity 25-29 public benefit activities with tangible results, and sharing our company’s growth value with the greater public. Effectively managing the environmental footprint of our business operations in Lowering energy line with our characteristics, improving energy efficiency and the quality of our 30-32 consumption resource use, in these ways achieving green operations. Comprehensively deploying and using the most advanced Information and Wireless City Communication Technology (ICT), and creatively discovering and effectively 37-43 construction fulfilling the various needs of “Mobile Changes Life”, providing a rich and wonderful wireless life experience. Continuously improving the accessibility of services, providing innovative ICT Informationalised applications aimed at the practical developmental needs of rural residents, 44-47 06 New Countryside agriculture and the countryside, thus helping rural areas to share the benefits of informationalised development and achieve their own development. Sustainability Management Since 2007, China Mobile has used the standards and best practices of global corporate social responsibility (CSR) Sustainability Strategy and Management as guide, integrating the foundations of business operations management, constructing a strong CSR organisational system (including closed-loop processes, evaluation tools, and dialogue mechanisms), and innovatively developing a series of management tools such as a sustainable development index and DJSI bench marker management system. We have transformed the company’s previous social responsibility concepts and standards into management practices with controllable and observable processes. In 2012, China Mobile was also selected as one of the “corporate responsibility management models” for Management Improvement Activity of State-owned Enterprises by State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC). China Mobile’s CSR Organisational System’s highest decision making body is the Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Committee. Established in 2008, the Committee carries out the approval and decision-making processes for China Mobile’s social responsibility strategic goals, planning and other important affairs. The strategic management responsibility departments at our headquarters and subsidiaries serve as our vanguard in sustainability management, relying on informal inter-department teams to horizontally coordinate the implementation of sustainability initiatives. China Mobile’s CSR Management System is made up of four sectors, namely strategy management, execution management, performance management and communications management. Each sector is interconnected with the others, creating a closed-loop management of sustainability. Sustainability Management For strategy management, in accordance with our company’s strategic direction, we have established a vision, goals, focus areas and implementation strategy, thus internally transforming our sustainable development management into specific work requirements throughout the company; For implementation management, we have spread awareness of principles, expanded the requirements of sustainability standards, explored best practices, and propelled the implementation of sustainability initiatives; For performance management, we set up an objective performance rating system, using scientific ratings and targeted improvements, to propel comprehensive improvement of our sustainability performance; For communications management, we have set up a communications platform for our stakeholders and responded to their requests in a timely manner, in this way building a positive, mutual cooperation channel between us and stakeholders. China Mobile's CSR Management System CSR value and vision CSR Strategy CSR strategic plan and plan formulations Responsible Operation CSR training Culture Organisation CSR CSR key issues benchmarking Implementation CSR risk management CSR information monitoring and collection Policy Process Sustainable Development Integrate CSR into strategic performance management CSR Sustainbility capability evaluation Performance CSR practices cases competition CSR Sustainability reporting and communication Communication Stakeholder engagement In 2012, we made further improvements in sustainability management in order to supplement previous shortcomings in this area, and launched dedicated work in areas such as sustainability benchmarking management, capability 2012 Sustainability Report assessments, and the improvement of social responsibility management. DJSI benchmarking management: Using the DJSI evaluation standards as a reference, we set up a Sustainability Issue Centralised Management System, made annual changes to benchmark DJSI standards’ requirements and industry best practices, examined our shortcomings, and have implemented targeted improvements in these areas; Sustainability capability evaluation: We assessed our present and future, ourselves and our stakeholders, to organise and construct a Sustainability Capability Evaluation System that includes 33 indicators. In addition, we used indicator evaluations, results analysis, and execution of improvement plans, to build long-term sustainability capability improvement mechanisms for all our provincial subsidiaries; CSR management improvement: We focused on five key topics including CSR integration into business operations, dialogue with stakeholders, reducing the digital divide, improving resource management, and strategic public philanthropic work, to comprehensively research and establish management standards in our provincial subsidiaries. To improve our Group's CSR management, we used best management and work practices of model companies as guidance to aid in the formation of dedicated leadership advice on five important topics, organised the formation of benchmarks at our provincial subsidiaries, and implemented key topic improvement plans. 07 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder engagement is the foundation for us to carry out social business operations, and innovation. Over 35 million issues of the Sustainability Strategy and Management responsibility in a comprehensive and effective manner. We place Mobile Weekly have been distributed thus far; great emphasis on improving transparent operations and actively Active Dialogue: We have used topics such as “Innovating establish good communication with stakeholders in order to focus and pursuing excellence in serving the people”, “Transparent on important topics and launch productive engagement. In 2012, consumption”, “EMF (Electric and Magnetic Field) Management”, leaveraging on new social media, we created new channels for “Controlling malicious internet software (internet malware)”, “4G stakeholder engagement: experience”, and “Reducing fees”, to actively cooperate with authorised media in initiating active dialogue. We have invited Actively responding to public opinion: In 2012, we launched media representatives to do on-site reporting and we closely a public opinion management system and published more than listened to their opinions and ideas. 1,500 China Mobile Daily Public Opinion Abstracts and Special Public Opinion Reports, through which we gained a better understanding of the public's concerns and improved the quality of our services; Creating official microblog: China Mobile’s official microblog is one of the most popular and influential microblogs set up by state-owned enterprises in China. In 2012, we used our microblog to actively open dialogue on topics such as network construction, business services, self-innovation and employee development. We published 1,837 tweets, which were forwarded more than 1.73 Stakeholder Engagement million times; Publishing the Mobile Weekly: China Mobile publishes the Mobile Weekly, a dedicated mobile phone magazine for our employees that focuses on issues that employees care most about, and uses China Mobilers’ stories and current thoughts to In Jiangsu, we invited customers to observe the generate discussions on topics such as employee development, complaint management process Employee Participation in Company Business CEO Mailbox Employee Rights Protection Employee Representative Convention Employees Employee Professional Career Development Training A Harmonious Work Environment and Performance Communication Reduce Work Stress Asset Protection and Growth Periodic Reports and Announcements Shareholders and Preventing Operational Risk Shareholder Meetings Investors Explore New Markets and Investor Meetings Opportunities Implementing Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Training Government and Legally-Compliant Business Operations Related Forums Regulators Contributing to Social Harmony Social Responsibility Dialogue between Enterprises Daily Reports Engagement Key Stakeholders Expectations Approaches Improving Network Quality Supporting Communications during Emergencies CEO Mailbox Customers Optimising Customer Service Customer Day Information Security and Privacy Protection 10086 Hotline Controlling Spam and Unhealthy Content Online Customer Service and Sales Outlets China Mobile Limited Industry Development Prospects and Potential Mobile Apps Developers Meetings Opportunities Daily Dialogue Value Chain Partners Collective Research and Development Evaluation Assessments Experience Sharing Supplier Post-Change Evaluations Development of a Responsible Supply Chain Optimising EMF Management Official Microblog Community and Improving the Lives of Disadvantaged Groups Public Benefit/Philanthropic Project Platforms Environment Aiding Community Development Community Engagement Activities Energy Conservation, Emissions Reduction and Charity Promotion Activities Environmental Protection 08 CEO Mailbox, Connecting You and Me in an Instant On November 15, 2010, China Mobile officially launched its CEO Mailbox (CEO@chinamobile.com). The mailbox was Sustainability Strategy and Management opened to our customers and business partners on May 2, 2011. All mails received are instantly converted into a “Mail Handling Work Order”, which is organised by mailbox management employees then given to company leaders. After company leaders comment on and approve this mail, related departments will complete the associated fact-checking and implementation of solutions within ten working days. The mailbox management employee(s) will then respond to the sender, thus completing the management process cycle from receipt of the mail to its response. During the last two years, almost 3,000 CEO mails from customers, business partners, and employees have been processed and received appropriate treatment. The CEO Mailbox has become an important bridge for dialogue between the company and our stakeholders. CSR Practices Competition Encourages Responsible Innovation Since 2008, China Mobile has held an annual CSR Practices Competition for provincial subsidiaries within our Group, and invited both internal and external stakeholders to participate. The Competition has not only established and expanded our Group’s own use of exemplary CSR practices, it has also effectively attracted responses and advice from our stakeholders, leading to new innovations in CSR practices. In 2012, China Mobile’s CSR Practices Competition’s website attracted over 1.36 million clicks from the public, with over 200,000 votes cast, significantly increasing the level of public participation. Up to now, China Mobile has already held five CSR Practices Competitions, with 91 initiatives from various provincial subsidiaries within our Group receiving awards. The CSR Practices Competition has become one of our key activities to launching social Stakeholder Engagement responsibility dialogues with our stakeholders. • On May 30, 2012, China Mobile held the 7th CEO Forum for our company’s employees. Our Group CEO Li Yue gave a speech, and over 5,000 people attended. The CEO Forum sector in our Mobile LABS website received 1,576 comments and was viewed over 60,000 times. • We have used multiple methods, such as major investment banks’ conferences and daily investor meetings, to maintain good dialogue and interaction with capital markets. In 2012, we participated in a total of 12 investor meetings held by major investment banks. We also met 762 investment institutions, meeting over 1,000 person-times. • We led a group of investors to observe the TD-LTE construction progress in Hangzhou, Shenzhen, Guangzhou, and our southern base and also organised a visit to our Mobile Research Center, enabling our investors to gain an increased understanding of our company, and creating strong, interactive ties between investors and our company. • We used the 2012 Management Improvement Activity of State-owned Enterprises as an opportunity, and attended the SASAC Social Responsibility Management Training and Special Research Forum. We also conducted face-to-face experience sharing activities with numerous state-owned enterprises, including the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC), China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC), China Southern Power Grid, and Sinopec. • We independently supported three workshops held by Global Reporting Initiative in Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen in order to gather public opinion about the G4 Draft, which provided oportunities for Chinese companies to participate in international CSR standards development. 2012 Highlights • Since May 2012, we have launched eight different “Customer Day” activities throughout the Group. Over 900 local company leaders participated in these activities, which were attended by over 25,000 customers. Over 30,000 inquiries and complaints were addressed and over 35,000 suggestions or ideas were collected. • In 2012, China Mobile comprehensively improved its customer satisfaction evaluation indicators, continued to launch customer 2012 Sustainability Report satisfaction surveys, and identified 19 factors that influencing customer perception, thus providing references for making further advances and improvements in customer service. • We issued the China Mobile Supplier Dialogue Guide and utilised numerous engagement methods, including supplier conventions, special dialogue meetings, daily visits and consultations, Department Reception Days, and the collection of messages and complaints on China Mobile’s procurement bidding website, to maintain high levels of efficiency and rapid resolution of problems within our business partnership process, ultimately ensuring the legal rights of suppliers. • On December 5, 2012, China Mobile held the Global Developers Convention, using “Mobile Changes Life, Combining the Power of Innovation” as its theme, and setting environmental awareness, itegrity, and security as standards to create a new eco-system for industry cooperation. • We launched the 2012 Energy Conservation Awareness Week under the theme “You and I Can Change the World”. We informed our followers on our official microblog, used our Fetion platform to inform 2.68 million Fetion users, and sent over 3.5 million multimedia text messages to all of our employees. In addition, we held the “2012 Hundred Energy Conserving Employees Selection” which received a total of over 100,000 votes, and also launched the “Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Knowledge Contest”, in which a total of 66,000 employees participated. 09 A HEALTHIER AND MORE STABLE CHINA MOBILE A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile 560.4 billion China Mobile believes that as a company, our primary responsibility is to create sustainable returns and gains in value for our investors through solid corporate governance and strong business development. In 2012, China Mobile achieved stable In 2012, China Mobile’s development faced great downward growth with operating revenue reaching pressure due to factors such as a slowing macro economic 560.4 billion yuan. growth, a more saturated telecommunications market, fierce 471,200 competition, and the rapid emergence of new and unique services. We also faced difficult and previously unencountered issues related to combating corruption and the promotion of clean governance. In 2012, 471,200 person-times of antiWe have set three important strategic directions: (1) strategic corruption and clean governance training transformation, (2) reform and innovation, and (3) antiwere conducted throughout the Group. corruption and sound governance. 3.78 million We ensure the healthy and stable development of our company by making committed investment in the transformation and innovation for our mobile internet; the continuous improvement of our management and business operations efficiency; risk control optimisation and preventive mechanisms As of the end of 2012, China Mobile's against corruption; and the rapid resolution of adverse issues. Mobile Market had cumulatively 3.78 million registered developers. The ICT industry is currently undergoing great changes, and we are well aware of our responsibility and role in industry transformation and development. We are strengthening responsibility management of our supply chain and creating an open, mutually beneficial cooperation platform to promote shared accountability, as well as lead our business partners to grow together. China Mobile Limited Solid Economic Growth·····························································································11 Continuously Optimised Compliance Management···············································11 Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chains····························································14 10 Solid Economic Growth In 2012, we accelerated the pace of our strategic transformation, reform, and innovation. Under the premise of A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile consolidating our traditional market advantages, we actively promoted our data flow business, aggressively expanded our mobile internet and the new Internet of Things service, and maintained solid economic growth. (For more information on our 2012 financial performance, see pages 28-38 of our 2012 Annual Report) Maintained our advantage in total number of customers: Our total number of customers reached 710 million, up by 9.3% from last year. Realised stable revenue growth: Total operating revenue reached 560.4 billion yuan, up by 6.1% from last year. Achieved impressive growth in data services: Wireless data traffic revenue reached 68.3 billion yuan, up by 53.6% from last year. Increased the pace of our Mobile Internet development: Mobile Market’s cumulative registered customers reached 270 million, and full year application downloads reached 610 million. 9.3% 6.1% 53.6% 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Solid Economic Growth Customer base Operating revenue Wireless data traffic revenue We continued to carry out our economic responsibility in 2012 and made our due contributions in tax payments and employment impetus. In 2012, we paid 41.9 billion yuan taxation, and directly and indirectly generated more than 2.4 million employment opportunities for the society through business development. Continuously Optimised Compliance Management As a listed company, we have always made regulatory compliance one of the core foundation of our sustainable development. In 2012, we strengthened our risk management and internal controls, and further intensified our efforts in optimising anti-corruption mechanisms to ensure our operations in full compliance with laws and regulations. Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System We have established good corporate governance practices following the principles of integrity, transparency, openness and efficiency, and have implemented sound governance structure and measures. We have established and improved various policies, internal control systems and other management mechanisms and procedures. (See pages 39-52 of our 2012 Annual Report for more information about Corporate Governance.) The Board currently comprises of 9 directors, namely Mr. XI Guohua (Chairman), Mr. LI Yue (Chief Executive Officer), Mr. XUE Taohai, Madam HUANG Wenlin, Mr. SHA Yuejia and Mr. LIU Aili as executive directors, and Dr. LO Ka Shui, Mr. Frank WONG Kwong Shing and Dr. Moses CHENG Mo Chi as independent non-executive directors (INEDs). (For more information about corporate governance, see pages 6-9 of our 2012 Annual Report or visit our website.) The Board operates in accordance with established practices (including those related to reporting and supervision). During the financial year ended on 31 December 2012, the Board convened on six occasions. 2012 Sustainability Report The Board currently has three principal board committees, which are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee, all of which are comprised solely of independent non-executive directors. Each of the board committees operates under its respective written terms of reference. In 2012, the terms of reference of each of the board committees were revised in accordance with the revision of the Code on Corporate Governance Practices. 11 The task of our management is to implement the strategy and direction as determined by the Board, and to take care of day-to-day operations and functions of the Company. To promote honest and ethical conduct and deter wrongdoing, the Company, in 2004, adopted a code of ethics, which is applicable to our chief executive officer, chief A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, assistant chief financial officer and other designated senior officers of the Group, in accordance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX Act). In the event of a breach of the code of ethics, the Company may take appropriate preventive or disciplinary actions after consultation with the Board. (For more information about the code of ethics, please visit our website.) Comprehensive Risk Management We adopted the control criteria framework set out in the Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by COSO and established a comprehensive risk management framework. Every year, upon completion of risk identification procedures, we evaluate potential major operation risks and designate relevant departments to develop detailed measures. We practise regular monitoring and reviewing to form a complete risk management circle. Internal Controls In compliance with section 404 of the U.S. SOX Act of 2002, we rely on our standardised organisational structure, mechanism design, efficient policy implementation, strict supervisory checks and informationalisation support measures to effectively minimise the risks in our business operations and achieve sustainable and healthy development. In 2012, we comprehensively improved our internal controls. Continuously Optimised Compliance Management Internal control process optimisation: We reviewed our internal control system from the perspective of our businesses and extended the control requirements to production, marketing and management areas, to ensure the effectiveness of our internal controls. Internal control IT system consolidation: We consolidated our IT system controls to reduce mistakes, promoted the normalisation management of our internal controls to ensure its enforcement. Internal control and business operation synergy establishment: We launched benchmarking of our internal controls with special business operation topics to help them better support each other. We also reviewed internal and external audit findings and created a shared database to achieve a complete process including policy design, implementation and inspection. Internal Audit The Company and its operating subsidiaries have set up internal audit departments, which independently audit the business units of the Company and all operating subsidiaries. We have established an internal audit framework and carried out risk investigations on an annual basis. Based on the results of the risk investigations, internal audit projects are formulated by the internal audit departments on a rolling and annual basis. The internal audit departments conduct independent and objective supervision and assessment of the appropriateness, level of compliance and effectiveness of all business operations and internal control systems by applying systemic, standardised audit procedures and approaches, thereby assisting in the improvement of the Company’s corporate governance, risk management and control processes. In 2012, to further enhance our entire internal audit process, including its crossdepartment functions, we strengthened audit controls covering certain key areas such as procurement and business partners, and identified and analysed weaknesses in our operation flow and management system, which served to push forward and deepen the level and intensity of our management. Legal Risk Management Based on the legal risk management structures established in our 31 provincial subsidiaries, in 2012, we redesigned our legal risk database framework focusing on business operations. We took measures to manage major legal risks related to the protection of intellectual property as relevant to our business partners. We conduct assessments of our provincial subsidiaries’ legal risk management capabilities on an annual basis. China Mobile Limited 12 Anti-Corruption and Sound Governance China Mobile always attaches high importance to anti-corruption construction. In 2012, we integrated corruption A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile prevention into our corporate development strategy, and set “Anti-corruption and sound governance” as our key strategic theme in achieving healthy, sustainable growth. We continuously improve our corruption prevention and disciplinary systems to foster a corporate culture rooted in integrity. In addition, we are working to strengthen our anti-corruption and sound governance programmes. An Optimised Prevention and Disciplinary Optimising and Constructing a “3+1” DecisionSystem Making Policy In 2012, we sought to establish a robust prevention and disciplinary The“3+1” policy decision-making mechanism is a structure that system and prevent corruption-related risks. We furthered our antirequires group agreement about company actions involving corruption efforts. We clarified the responsibilities of different significant policy decisions, key personnel appointments or participants in ethical governance, including employees located at dismissals, important project planning, and/or the approval of large corporate headquarters, staff within provincial and city subsidiaries, and funds disbursements. In order to advance the implementation of employees in specialised areas such as marketing, network operations, the “3+1” policy decision-making mechanism, in 2012 our parent planning, procurement, human resources management, and financial company formulated, printed and distributed two documents: affairs, thus completing our Ethical Governance Responsibility System. the China Mobile parent company “3+1” Policy Decision-Making At the same time, we increased the amount of public competition Continuously Optimised Compliance Management Mechanism Implementation Methods (Trial) and the Company for management positions, as well as the rotation frequency of such headquarters “3+1” Policy Decision-Making Project Catalogue. We positions. We have implemented job rotations for managers who have also emphasised the “3+1” principles, composition, procedures, completed more than two terms of duty at one position. scope, and supervisory methods, and confirmed a 143-issue “3+1” policy decisions notice. Fostering an Ethical Corporate Culture We organise supervisory checks of the “3+1” policy decision-making In 2012, we issued the Employee Code of Conduct and Manager mechanism for all of our companies, with all Group subsidiaries Code of Conduct to guide employee behaviour. We used special study developing their own customised “3+1” policy decision-making sessions, ethics training, and the signing of honesty pledges, to promote methods. professional honesty among our management teams. In 2012, our Group organised the signing of more than 56,000 honesty pledges, held over 3,500 talks to discuss work duties and responsibilities, and conducted honesty and integrity discussions with over 7,800 people. Implementing Specific Audits To educate and build awareness of anti-corruption and sound governance among our employees, we have held anti-corruption Targeting high risk business and services, we have conducted specific and good governance reporting meetings, trainings, and study visits, audits for centralised procurement, and reviewed sourcing rights and and we have used educational methods such as themed activities, accountability. In addition, we organised 28 provincial subsidiaries online education, and the publication of honest culture handbooks. In to complete management risk audits of our business partners and addition, we identified key employee positions in seven fields, including provided them with advice for improvement, subsequently optimising procurement, data management, and project construction, required to our business partners’ services. undergo group training. In 2012 alone 471,200 employees within our Group participated in anti-corruption and good governance education. Encouraging Supervision by the General Public We encourage public supervision and reporting of corruption. As Strengthening Oversight of Corporate such, we have set up multiple channels to receive reports from both Decision-Making Policy the public as well as our own employees. In 2012, we emphasised the improvement of a “3+1” decisionWe set up a public complaint and whistleblowing hotline (010making policy. In line with a collective decision-making process 52616186) and email address (jubao@chinamobile.com) for those based on scientific and legal norms, we optimised the supervision who wish to report illegal activities or violations; systems of several critical functions including procurement, addedWe introduced a “CEO Mailbox”, where copies of employee and value services, position-related consumption, and management. public reports of illegal problems and violations are sent; We also developed a series of management mechanisms, including During procurement bidding processes, we communicate the Procurement Supervision Management Methods, Position-related whistleblowing telephone and contact information, monitor the 2012 Sustainability Report processes for illegal activities or violations that may occur, and Consumption Supervisory Interim Methods, and Managerial Employee follow up on all complaints and whistleblowing reports received. Accountability Implemeretation Methods, thus strengthening our supervision of corporate power and general management. We have formulated management regulations that strictly protect Furthermore, we carried out anti-corruption demonstration projects the rights of whistleblowers, and have continuously improved the within China Mobile’s Planning, Sourcing, Marketing and Data successful processing rate of complaints received. functions. In our daily management, we pay great attention to the implementation of management supervision by line managers, the strengthening of the supervisory responsibilities of dedicated management departments, and the improvement of the supervisory functions executed by multiple tiers of supervisory departments. 13 Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chains A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile Due to our company’s large scale, we have an annual purchasing In Guizhou,we set up a supplier management system which scope in the hundreds of billions of yuan, creating a huge supply identifies high-performing, trustworthy suppliers facing financial chain that includes communication equipment manufacturers, difficulties. China Mobile provides these suppliers with a bridge by information services providers (SP) and even mobile application encouraging banks to provide accounts receivable financing to these developers. We fully realise that carrying out our supply chain firms, thus ultimately supporting the development of small and responsibility entails not only the creation of a mutually successful medium enterprises. and beneficial partnership model with our suppliers to achieve standardised and fair procurement, but even more importantly In Xinjiang, we set up a Cooperation Channel Association in includes paying close attention to the companies’ individual social June 2012 to serve as a communication platform for our business responsibility standards and accountability, and using our influence to partners. Over half of our business partners in Xinjiang have joined lead and improve the accountability of our entire supply chain. the Association. The Association holds various types of activities on a regular basis, enabling each member to have full dialogues and exchange mutual assistance with other members, which has been Shared Growth commented upon positively by our partners. We have established a two-tiered centralised procurement system. In conjunction with the arrival of the mobile internet era, ‘open Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chains The first tier is collective ‘first level’ procurement carried out by our platforms’ have become increasingly accepted across the industry and Group, and the second tier is collective ‘second level’ procurement have pushed forward the rapid development of mobile applications. carried out by our provincial subsidiary companies. We issue annual In August 2009, we introduced our Mobile Market (MM), which we procurement catalogues for both ‘first level’ and ‘second level’ have successfully transformed into an open platform that provides procurement. Purchases of any product in our ‘first level’ centralised “three-in-one” services for customers, developers and supply chains. procurement catalogue must be executed by our headquarters’ As of the end of 2012, Mobile Market had 270 million registered centralised procurement. Every provincial subsidiary formulates its customers, 3.78 million registered developers, and 610 million full own ‘second level’ centralised procurement catalogue, building year application downloads. from the foundation provided by the ‘second level’ centralised Through Mobile Market, we provide developers with manageable procurement catalogue issued by our headquarters. This centralised capacities that derive from our core competency as an operator as management system has enabled China Mobile to continue to well as other open capacities. It's an example of the significant efforts standardise and customise procument management, establish we undertake to create open, cooperative, and mutually successful healthy, standard and fair value chain conditions, and contribute to mobile internet eco-chains for developers and service providers. the development of our supply chains. Released a series of management policies including Procurement Implementation Methods, Bidding Implementation Methods, Mobile Market Million Youth Entrepreneurship Logistics Management Methods, and Inventory and Warehouse Management Methods; Action Improved the functions of our electronic procurement platforms China Mobile has used the Mobile Market platform to construct a and solidified the standardised management process for ‘level-one’ business start-up ‘incubator’ for the youth on the internet, providing centralised procurement and headquarters procurement projects. opportunities for outstanding young developers to realise their Purchases for all headquarters’ centralised procurement projects own abilities. In August 2010, we introduced the Million Youth must be completed through our electronic procurement platform; Entrepreneurship Action and engaged with universities to invite student Established a supplier portal through which registered suppliers participation in mobile internet entrepreneurship. Since its inception can use emails and portal messages to report procurementrelated problems in a timely manner. This results in openness and two years ago, this initiative has involved over 2,000 universities across transparency in procurement activities, and also allows suppliers the nation, and as of the end of 2012, the activity has gathered over to participate in the supervision of these activities; 1.7 million young developers who have collectively created over 1.06 Signed mandatory Integrity and Honesty Promise with our million entrepreneurial products and 87 incubators. At the same suppliers to standardise the actions of both sides, strengthen time, we provided over 11 million yuan in start-up support funds and understanding of honesty and integrity, and prevent bribery used our influence to create a platform for communication between and unfair competition practices. At the same time, all of our entrepreneurs and investment fund companies, resulting in the approval headquarters’ procurement management personnel signed the of nearly 20 cooperative projects, providing developers with “one-stop” Integrity in Work Actions Principles, standardising the actions of support from start-up to success. procurement personnel and promoting honest cooperation. China Mobile Limited 14 Mobile Market Marketing Platform Service Platform Supporting Platform A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile for Customers for Developers for Industry Apps development, testing, Semifinished Innovative unifying First launch policy Innovative brand apps game theme launching, trusted maintainance, Softwares apps store model store model transaction and operation Terminal Worldproducer International Developer / internet known Operation Capacity operator Terminal Pool company APs System (Semifinished Pool Pool Softwares) MM aims to be the fair, open, transparent, music video reading green and safe cooperation platform Shared Responsibility Responsible and Sustainable Supply Chains Improving the accountability of our supply chain is very important for us, which is a critical component for us to improve our CSR management performance. We have introduced Social Accountability 8000 International Standard (SA8000), ISO 14000 and other CSR standards into our supplier rating criteras in the process of bidding, which has subsequently led our suppliers to evaluate their employee health, safety, and environmental protection, thus fostering the healthy development of our suppliers; We required our suppliers to strictly adhere to state environmental protection standards and to take social responsibilities. For example, during our centralised procurement of lead-acid batteries in 2012, suppliers unable to fulfill the environmental requirements were disqualified from the bidding process. Likewise, we terminated the collaboration In Jiangsu, we held the 2012 Supplier Conference with suppliers who were selected in the 2011 bidding process but unable to fulfill the environmental requirements. In Henan, we used SA8000, as well as ISO 14000 environmental certification, to assess and confirm our suppliers’ employee working hours, salaries and disbursements, and safety and health conditions. In 2012, we assessed 174 suppliers, of which 167 passed our assessment. In Jilin, we refined and optimised our suppliers’ product quality, product warranty, and environment standards, and strictly controlled supplier raw materials, production techniques, construction management procedures, product labeling, and user guides, thus improving our product quality. We have also incorporated product environment indexes as a criterion in our procurement process, and do not purchase products from suppliers who do not meet our environment protection requirements. In terms of SP management, China Mobile clearly requires our business partners to construct management systems to strengthen information security and confidentiality, and to ensure the protection of customers privacy. In regards to violations of SPs, we act in accordance with the Monternet Business Partners Credit Point Management Policy and carry out punitive measures for violators which include taking services offline, suspending the payments, executing crossservice collective penalties, and terminating partnerships when necessary. At the same time, Grade of China Mobile's Service Providers we set up a Value Added Service Business Partners Black List Management Mechanism, and carried out punitive measures in line with the severity of violations by SPs, such as crossA 2% service collective penalties, terminating cooperation with involved service lines, and even B 4% terminating all value added service cooperation, thus increasing the cost of violations for our 2012 Sustainability Report C 6% business partners. Others 88% 15 MORE SATISFIED STAKEHOLDERS 31.2 More Satisfied Stakeholders As a member of society, it is essential that our company fulfills the responsibilities we have to our stakeholders, while pursuing business success and meeting the responsibilities we have for our shareholders. We take our social responsibility As of the end of 2012, only 31.2 complaints in accordance with the needs of our stakeholders. To achieve were received per million customers, which mutual and sustainable development through responsible is the lowest rate in the industry for 3 business operations, we must implement real actions in our consecutive years. daily business activities to continuously identify and satisfy our stakeholders’ hopes and expectations. By focusing on key requests expressed by our stakeholder groups such as our customers, employees, and the community, we adhere to the core principle of doing all we can to fulfill 983,000 our responsibilities, in 2012 we have done our best to increase In 2012, we conducted employee training our stakeholders’ satisfaction through: 983,000 person-times. Customer Service Improvement: Continuing to improve our 15,749 network, enhance our services, protect customers’ rights, and improve our service experience; Employee Development: Optimising the protection of employee rights, with special emphasis on professional Since the inception of the “China Warm h e a l t h a n d s a f e t y, c r e a t i o n o f a n e x c e l l e n t w o r k ‘12 •1’ Project” in 2008, the project has environment, and expansion of employee career supported 15,749 children orphaned by development opportunities; AIDS and/or living in extreme poverty. Community Engagement: Keeping our long term promises, 14.6% using our philanthropic resources and employee volunteers to support public work and disadvantaged groups, and promote community harmony; Environmental Protection: Managing our company’s In 2012, we achieved our annual target of environmental impact systematically, scientifically and reducing our energy consumption per unit comprehensively, advocating for green developments within of telecommunications traffic by 14.6% the ICT industry, and leading society in environmental compared to last year. protection efforts. We are deeply aware that as a company serving over 700 million customers, each action creates an impact on our stakeholders. Pursuing stakeholder satisfaction is an endless process of continuous improvement, and we endeavour to work assiduously in this regard. China Mobile Limited Ubiquitous and Caring Services················································································17 Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth·····································22 Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities·······································25 Creating a Sustainable Environment········································································30 16 More Satisfied Stakeholders Ubiquitous and Caring Services 0.29% As the telecommunications company with the largest global network and customer base in the world, China Mobile must work to provide as many people as possible with ubiquitous Our TD-SCDMA network quality has (in both rural and urban areas), ‘anytime’, safe, and sustainable network services. In line continued to improve with a call with the growing integration of information communication services and our customers’ personal lifestyles, we also need to continue to strive for the sake of our customers, take drop rate of only 0.29% in 2012, precautionary measures against risks, make the active protection of our customers one of our representing an improvement of 31% key responsibilities, and improve our service experience. (See pages 20-27 of our 2012 Annual over the previous year. Report for statistics related to our business development.) Reliable network Providing Even Better Coverage Ubiquitous and Caring Services A Wide-ranging Network for a “New Wenchuan” From snow-covered Mt. Everest to the moving sands of the Taklamakan Desert and the After the 5.12 earthquake in Wenchuan, emerald waters of Nansha Islands, China Mobile’s employees have been determined to Sichuan Province, China Mobile actively construct information communication bridges for residents of remote areas. As of the end of participated in post-disaster rebuilding 2012, we have 810,000 GSM base stations in Mainland China and our parent company has and undertook significant efforts to 280,000 TD-SCDMA base stations, making us in a leading position worldwide with respect to improve the area’s network coverage, network coverage area and penetration. geological disaster forecasting, and emergency support, thus contributing to In 2012, we supported our parent company to actively push forward TD-SCDMA, a 3G the construction of a new Wenchuan. As network based on China’s own intellectual property. While continuing to optimise TDof the publication of this report: SCDMA network outdoor coverage in medium and large cities and hot spots, we successfully carried TD-SCDMA signals to the 5,200 meter base camp of Mt. Everest, and enabled Network coverage of the cities, towns complete TD-SCDMA network coverage for the shipping routes at Xisha Islands of South and administrative villages within China Sea. Meanwhile, in 2012 our WLAN network covered more than 80% of key areas the disaster area has reached 100%, including schools, hospitals, airports and bus stations in China, through which our customers an increase of 12.6% in comparison can enjoy high-speed access to our wireless network. The network is the largest WIFI network to coverage before the earthquake. constructed and operated by a telecommunications operator in China. We also participated in the joint construction of over 1,000 base An “Anytime” Network stations in the area, increasing the size of our network to double what it was In 2012, China Mobile undertook significant efforts to establish a network quality before the earthquake; improvement system which emphasise on “the horizontal integration of end-to-end service realisation based on customer experience, and the vertical integration of network operation We launched a “Geological Disaster Early lifecycle management”. In addition, we have made improvements in network quality in Warning System” that provides early 321 cities across the nation. According to the results of a customer survey conducted by an warnings through the video monitoring independent third party, our customer network quality satisfaction improved from 79.23 in of five high-frequency rock slide areas in 2011 to 79.35 in 2012, continuing to outperform our competitors. As of the end of 2012, Yingxiu Township; our network-related complaints had decreased by over 20%. We constructed 59 ‘super’ earthquakeresistant base stations in 39 of the most severely affected counties, as well as in other counties or cities where Richter-scale readings exceeded 2012 Sustainability Report 8.0, thus significantly increasing the earthquake resistance of our network. In Xinjiang, we provided telecommunications support Our base stations in Nansha Islands for major construction projects 17 A Safe and Healthy Network 5,167 Along with the intensive coverage of our network, we have taken actions to address the public concern regarding base station EMFs. China Mobile has continuously improved management regarding this issue and strengthened dialogue with the community to build a healthy network More Satisfied Stakeholders China Mobile provides customers with secure and stable and ease the concerns. networks during crucial moments. We implemented 5,167 instances of emergency support in 2012 alone. Rigorous EMF Management: In 2012, we continued to progress the implementation of the requirements of the Electric and Magnetic Fields Management Methods. Provincial subsidiaries also drafted In response to public incidents and natural disasters, we formed provincial EMF management policies and launched regular training group, regional, provincial, and city-level emergency support systems for employees. In compliance with the Methods, in 2012 we that are under the direction of the Group’s Emergency Support completed EMF checks for the first batch of 10 provincial subsidiaries, Leadership Task Force. We divided China into six major regions including our Beijing company. In 2012, qualified local environmental based on regional, transportation, disaster, and other relevant assessment organisation were invited by our provincial subsidiaries characteristics, built regional coordination support mechanisms, to conduct checks on over 40,000 base stations, with 99% of and established emergency support departments in every province. the stations found to have met EMF management requirements. Our city-level subsidiaries established emergency support positions Base stations that did not meet requirements undertook corrective and have made initial progress in constructing work coordination actions, after which all were found to have met the environmental mechanisms encompassing network, service, goods and materials, requirements. Ubiquitous and Caring Services and logistics support. Throughout 2012, we successfully provided 5,167 instances of emergency support during major incidents or Strengthening Community Dialogue: China Mobile has disasters such as typhoons and the Yiliang earthquake. (See page 52 strengthened engagement with communities during the course of for more statistics related to emergency support.) base station construction. Prior to construction, we conduct public surveys and make environmental impact evaluations publicly available to help communities gain an understanding of the base station Major Incidents and its environmental impact; we also provide reasonable channels Emergency Support in 2012 for community communication. After construction is complete, we During the 2012 flood season, a total of 28 conduct public monitoring and surveys to enable local communities provincial subsidiaries were affected by 95 gain an understanding of base station operations and the real incidences of torrential rain and typhoons, leading degree of its environmental impact. When base station operations to a loss of power in 28,000 base stations. We Flooding and Typhoons commence, we immediately ask qualified companies to perform the promptly initiated emergency response mechanisms following such incidents, investing significant associate monitoring and respond to the concerns of community amounts of manpower and material to ensure the residents. rapid return of communications services. On August 8, 2012, Typhoon “Haikui” hit Conducting Joint Research: China Mobile has actively conducted Zhejiang Province, causing torrential downpours joint research on EMFs with third party organisations, focusing on throughout a large portion of the province, and even torrential ‘super rainstorms’ in certain areas. EMF safety after the adoption of new technologies such as TD-LTE. Typhoon ‘Haikui’, China Mobile mobilised 1,781 repair personnel and Zhejiang 360 disaster relief vehicles, to enable uninterrupted base station operations. We sent a total of 50.54 Research Content Partner organisation million emergency response messages and strongly Critical Technology and Guangdong Province Radiation supported the government’s emergency response. Application Research regarding the Protection Association and Guangdong On September 7, 2012, a 5.7 Richter scale earthquake Environmental Impact of Mobile Province Environmental Radiation struck the borders of Zhaotong City’s Yiliang County Communication Base Station EMFs Monitoring Center in Yunnan Province and Bijie Region’s Weining Yi TD-LTE Base Station EMF China Mobile Group Design Institute Minority Hui and Miao Autonomous County in Environmental Safety Assessment Co., Ltd Electric and Magnetic Guizhou Province. 81 of our base stations in the Research Environmental Laboratory Earthquake in Yiliang, Zhaotong area were rendered out of service and 12 Yunnan Province optical cables were severed. We responded rapidly, China Mobile Group Design Institute TD-LTE Base station EMF Testing activating 990 emergency response employees. We Co., Ltd. Electric and Magnetic Specifications repaired the first group of 26 base stations three Environmental Laboratory hours after the earthquake, and achieved complete disaster-area communications repair by 11 PM on September 9, 2012. EMF Awareness Raising:We actively work with the Environmental Protection Bureau to create informational videos on EMFs, disseminate environmental information on base stations, bring China Mobile Limited Cooperating with the Environmental Protection experts in to conduct talks with communities, organise community competitions on base station EMF knowledge, and conduct Agency (EPA) to Improve Complaint Handling participatory EMF evaluations in residential areas. These activities Efficiency have helped us increase the public’s scientific knowledge of base station EMFs. China Mobile is working with city-level environmental protection bureaus in Jiangsu to build a shared mechanism for tracking baseline statistics. We are also building a local pre-handling mechanism for residents’ complaints management. We have made records and warning signs for base stations in sensitive areas and have rapidly addressed residents’ complaints and inquiries in line with environmental assessment results. 18 Reliable Services China Consumer Association statistics ranked the telecommunications Promoting Transparent Consumption services sector 4th in terms of complaints received during the first half of 2012, which means the sector still receives many consumer In response to problems such as customer complaints due to More Satisfied Stakeholders complaints. Although the complaint rate per million customers unawareness or lack of clarity pertaining to terms of service, we have of China Mobile remains the lowest in the industry, due to our set up a Comprehensive Process Transparent Service System which enormous customer base and the numerous areas affected by our covers the entire service process, from signing contract, purchasing service, it is difficult for us to completely eliminate all occurrences of services, to fee deduction and service use, effectively ensuring our customer rights infringement. According to China Mobile’s annual customers’ rights to knowledge and choice. customer satisfaction survey and related analysis, our customers’ We provide a “Network Joining Reminder” service to the new current concerns are primarily focused in the following aspects: customers, which alerts customers to all purchased service Billing errors; packages, services, and fees through text messages. Provision of services without the awareness or acknowledgement We have comprehensively implemented “Second Confirmations” of customers; for subscriptions; customers must confirm the subscription of services twice before the system processes their request. Tariff-related problems, such as “sky-high” roaming fees; We set up the first ‘fee deduction reminder’ for value-added Customer information security and privacy; services in our industry. Our system automatically sends a fee Third party use of communication services to spread ‘harmful deduction reminder via text message to customers, and if information’ and carry out malicious acts of fraud; and customers disagree they can ask for the fee deduction to be Ubiquitous and Caring Services The timeliness of complaint handling and lack of ease and terminated. convenience in services. We developed a “0000 United Inquiry and Unsubscription” service. While using our services, customers can send “0000” at In response to these issues, in 2012, we actively launched our any time to 10086 to quickly inquire about or unsubscribe to all “Excellence in Serving the People” activity, in line with our mantra value-added services purchased using their phone. of “Customers are our priority, quality service is our principle”. We developed a “Data Flow Reminder” system; when customers On January 20 and May 17, we launched 20 measures to improve first use data usage services or when data usage services reach Serving the People activities, effectively supporting customer rights a certain level, a text message is automatically sent to customers and creating a reliable service experience. to alert them of their data usage status. When customers are roaming, which means their mobile phone is outside their service Ensuring Accurate Billing area, 10086 sends a reminder to avoid “sky high” bills caused by customers unaware of their roaming status. China Mobile set a billing accuracy target of 99.99% and executed We developed new bill format with new items including “Recharge three important measures to achieve this goal. and payment records, gifted and returned monies, the usage of packaged services, bonus points balance and alterations, proxyWe launched management initiatives to increase the data charged services and consumption details”. consistency of our entire network and achieved stable data consistency of 99.99%. At the same time, we optimised Developing Better Billing Measures phone billing error checking standards and strengthened the management of erroneous bills to ensure phone roaming billI n re g a rd s t o re c e n t m e d i a e x p o s u re o f i n c i d e n t s i n t h e accuracy rate exceeded 99.99%. telecommunications industry such as “Sky high phone bills due to We created two levels of data management mechanisms, unlimited mobile internet data flow package” and “Dispute over achieving the aim of “Disseminating from one place, obtaining term of validity for ‘use first, then pay’ cards”, China Mobile has various responses, monitoring together” for data management, developed improved billing measures for customers under its industry thereby ensuring the billing accuracy of data services. supervision framework. We enabled instant reminders for data usage such as first-time use, data thresholds, and reaching individual data caps, allowing In response to issues surrounding high international roaming fees, customers to achieve real-time understanding of their data usage. we have decreased roaming fees for the United States of America, Sweden, Indonesia, the Philippines and Austria, with reductions In addition, based on the motto of “If there is a calculation error, we for some countries reaching 90%. will refund twice the sum”, we implemented a “refund first, then Since January 1, 2012, the validity of all newly issued recharge check to confirm” policy for fee dispute resolutions when the correct cards have been uniformly set at five years; the validity of solution is not instantly clear. We initially refund the appropriate unexpired recharge cards issued before January 1, 2012 has been fee based on the customer’s request, then subsequently manage extended by an additional 3 years, to a total validity of five years. the situation in accordance with investigation results, ensuring the We developed attractive deals such as Easyown’s “Two cities, highest level of customer rights protection. one home” deal and M-Zone’s “Great Vacation” deal. These 2012 Sustainability Report help to lower communication expenditures for migrant workers and students when they return home during the Spring Festival period. Total fee savings from this programme have reached 60%. 19 Protecting Information Security China Mobile has been taking measures to address the serious situation presented by frequent incidents of private customer information theft via the internet in recent years. In addition to the establishment of our Information Security Management Department 17,000 More Satisfied Stakeholders in 2009, at the end of 2011, we officially established China Mobile Information Security Center. The Center centrally handles information security management and the governance of harmful information. In We continuously strengthen employee awareness regarding terms of specific management and technological measures: information security. In 2012, we conducted approximately 17,000 person-times trainings on the topics of information We set up a Customer Information Security Protection Committee and comprehensively implemented the customer information security and privacy protection. security “Five Bans” and related mechanisms, thus establishing a Customer Information Protection System on daily basis; We drafted the Information Security Work Assessment Methods (2012 Version), with points deducted for provincial subsidiaries associated warnings to our customers throughout the year, and that fail to meet standards in this area. We also built a 4A appropriately handled cases involving a total of 31 companies, in (Accounting, Authentication, Authorisation and Auditing) which our partners broke our agreements by using malware. system, which comprehensively records and audits all service and maintenance operations; With respect to the management of harmful information, our company has continuously optimised our centralised management Ubiquitous and Caring Services We developed a “Golden Storehouse Method” that strictly controls key operations involving sensitive customer information, and control platform as well as our mechanisms reporting covering a total of 17 key systems; and handling harmful information, and, in doing so, we have We have carried out measures to obscure sensitive information strengthened our network. in key service systems, preventing operations employees from gaining and divulging sensitive customer information; In 2012, we completed improvements to our 10086999 Report Platform and achieved automatic cross-provincial handling of We have signed confidentiality agreements with employees, multimedia messages spam across the entire nation; business partners and have launched customer information security management study sessions, ensuring that these We investigated 100% of reports of harmful network information trainings cover 100% employees from sales and management, and spam made through channels such as our 10086999 text telecommunication network maintenance and management, message platform and our 10086 hotline; business support and management, third party maintenance and We launched an “Identifying False Information, Tackling Text management; Message and Fraud” initiative on our microblog. This initiative When an inquiry about a customers’ detailed phone information, encouraged the public to report, and together to fight against, personal location, and other sensitive information is made, an text message fraud; alert or confirmation text message is sent to the customer’s We launched a special activity aimed at stopping the mobile phone, ensuring personal information security; dissemination of pornographic and vulgar information on the In the course of new services development, we fully consider internet and mobile phones, and we received and handled a total information security factors, and we appropriately also conduct of over 20,000 customer whistle-blowing reports in this effort. the business services security evaluations, covering six aspects of We also conducted a portal-type text message service cleanup network structure security, platform/software security, and service and rectification activity, closed 41 violating internet ports, and process security. punished 12 illegal internet ports, effectively stopping the spread of such harmful information at its source. Preventing Malicious Information Threats Malicious software (Malware) on mobile phones has already become a threat to customer information security and privacy. Therefore we have set up a series of comprehensive protection systems and Establishing an Information Security Operations technological measures to guard against malware. Center, Creating an Information Security ‘By-your Establishing a united nationwide process. We have set side’ Manager up a Mobile Phone Malware Monitoring Early Warning and On September 21, 2012, China Mobile’s (Luoyang) Information Emergency Response System covering both headquarters and provincial subsidiary levels. We standardised the nationwide Security Operations Center was officially opened, becoming China’s process for discovery, assessment, blocking and protection against first operator-constructed centralised operations center aimed at unauthorised malware mobile phone modification by using a mobile internet information security. The center has 500 service closed loop treatment process; seats, and has a complete technological platform for mobile phone China Mobile Limited Optimising measures and synthesising our defences. We have pornography control, spam control, unsolicited phone call control, set up Mobile Phone Malware Monitoring Systems in Jiangsu and mobile phone malware protection, malicious attack interception and Guangdong Provinces. We conduct real-time monitoring and internet service security monitoring, thus becoming the “Information research on mobile phone malware and have developed antiSecurity ‘By-your-side’ Manager” for China Mobile’s over 700 million virus software such as “Anti-virus Pioneer” and “Mobile Phone customers. Since the center went into service, it has handled about Guard”, which, together with our Network Monitoring System, check and eradicate threats, forming a synthesised defence 590,000 suspected pieces of ‘harmful-information’ per day. system consisting of the “cloud” and the “terminal”; Central treatment, strong identification. We conduct centralised, timely research and daily diagnostics of mobile phone malware and of complaints from customers whose mobile phones were infected by malware. As of the end of 2012, we discovered over 2,300 different types of network-side mobile phone malware, 20 blocked more than 1,300 malicious control terminals, sent 12 Expanding Convenient Service We continuously improved the service processes of our sales outlet, online and 10086 hotline services, effectively improving the convenience of our services. We developed our industry’s first “wait less than 10 minutes” service measure for sales More Satisfied Stakeholders outlets, and, as of the end of 2012, waiting time in over 95% of our sales outlets has been less than 10 minutes. We have actively constructed an online service outlet, providing comprehensive service in areas such as providing product and promotion information to customers, allowing for billing information inquiries, processing and upgrading packages and services, fee payment and phone recharging, and complaint handling. In Hunan, our sales employee advised customers on We use the 10086 customer hotline to provide 24*7 customer service, with over 200 the prevention of spam messages and mobile phone million individual services provided to our customers every month. viruses We have actively managed our commitments, made comprehensive information announcements to customers, and informed customers about service measures. These measures help to inform our customers of key points of services they should be aware of, thus ensuring overall information symmetry. For customer complaints, we have set up a uniform complaint process across our entire network and implemented united complaint handling mechanisms across our network, allowing customer complaints to be handled as soon as possible. For on-site complaints that cannot be resolved immediately, we automatically Ubiquitous and Caring Services transfer these problems to an expert team for handling and keep them updated about the progress and results. In 2012, China Mobile’s complaint rate of only 31.2 per million customers was the lowest in the industry, an achievement we have maintained for the past 3 years. In Guangxi, our sales employee explained our services to customers patiently Serving Special Groups We have continuously improved the accessibility of our communication services. We do our best to overcome the digital divide caused by age, language and technology, and consider this as one of the most important responsibilities to our customers. Elderly-Assistance Services: Our country is entering an era marked by an aging society. It has been estimated that by the end of 2013, China’s elderly population will increase to over 200 million people. Therefore, in cities such as Beijing and Shanghai we have provided “Mobile Elderly-Assistance Card” services for men who have reached 60 years old and women who have reached 55 years old. With this service, our 10086 hotline can automatically identify elderly-assistance card users, and it will automatically connect them to our elderly customer In Guangxi, our volunteers introduced how to use special line. The special line has a speech rate lower than that of our regular hotline, ensuring wireless phones to the elderly that the elderly are able to accurately hear and understand what is being said. In addition to this, China Mobile has also actively expanded our community services for the elderly, providing information services such as emergency calling and services related to medical care and at-home care. (See page 38 for more information on these services) Services for the Disabled: We have carried out numerous care services for individuals with disabilities. In Sichuan, we have opened a special 10086 Care Service for Individuals with disabilities, providing 24*7 dedicated, expert services for over 50,000 individuals with disabilities across the province who use a Care Card. In Shandong, we have partnered with the government to develop an assistance programme for persons with disabilities, provided Care Cards set at the lowest fee standards for those with disabilities, and have given every card a 500-minute local network free calling subsidy every month. This programme covers 17 In Zhejiang, we introduced the emergency mobile local cities throughout the province, with 100,000 beneficiaries. calling system to the elderly Services in Multiple Languages: We fully respect our ethnic minority compatriots’ different language needs and have developed special language services in ethnic minority areas, 2012 Sustainability Report actively integrating into the local culture and meeting customer needs. In Neimenggu, we provide special services for over 4.2 million Mongolian customers in the province by providing services such as a Mongolian language channel and Mongolian script mobile phones. The Mongolian language hotline handles over 350,000 calls per month. In 2012, we also installed Mongolian language hotlines for Eastern Mongolian and Western Mongolian dialects to provide more detailed services. In Xinjiang, in May 2012, we developed a Uyghur Interactive Voice Response fee payment service, allowing Uyghur users to pay fees without leaving their homes. 21 Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth From all of the elements that constitute a company, employees possess the greatest energy and are the building blocks of sustainable development. A company’s responsibility towards More Satisfied Stakeholders its employees is shown not only through the protection of employees’ basic labour rights, but more importantly through imperative initiatives such as the participation and empowerment of employees in the company’s decision-making process, and the sharing of the company’s development achievements to create fair, long-term employee participation mechanisms; expanding the boundaries of professional career development; supporting employees in self development and value actualisation; and creating a harmonious work environment by enabling employees to enjoy professional and personal life. In Anhui, we launched Warm Afternoon Tea, Connect You and Me activities for the female employees at our customer service centre Guaranteeing Employee Rights We respect and abide by the UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles, and Safe Production Responsibility Management System (Trial) guaranteeing labour rights is one of our highest priorities. was comprehensively implemented, ensuring that responsibility for safe production covers in every link of our value chain, and every employee involved in production, thus enabling the gradual Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth Diversity and Women’s Rights Protection establishment of a complete China Mobile safe production We respect diversity and are an equal opportunity employer. We responsibility system; oppose the use of child labour, and consistently adhere to the We actively promoted initiatives to improve safe production principles of gender and ethnic equality. As of the end of 2012, by commencing with modifications on five regulatory frameworks, female employees represented 40.08% of all our employees, and including the China Mobile Safe Production and Protection Management Method, to generate a comprehensive increase in ethnic minority employees represented 6.33%. (See page 51 for the level of expertise in safe production management; more statistics related to our employee diversity.) We carried out large-scale safety inspections with safety In 2012, to enable our Labour Union fully execute its role in checks completed at 405 key sites, including communication protecting employee rights, the company organised five training equipment buildings, base stations, sales outlets, and customer service centers, among others. We discovered safety issues sessions for 280 employee participants, which effectively improved and organised the implementation of the required changes their expertise in employee rights protection and enhanced their own and improvements by work units at the relevant sites. A issue professionalism and vocational knowledge. rectification rate of over 90% was successfully attained; We have actively launched dedicated programmes focusing on the We communicated the importance of safety on a wide spread basis. In 2012, videos on safe production were watched protection of the rights of our female employees: 390,000 times and over 400 emergency evacuation drills were held, The Group’s Labour Union specifically set up a Female Employee with employee participation rates higher than 80% in both cases; Committee and established committee branches in all of our We set up safe production feedback boxes, collecting ideas provincial subsidiaries. The Group’s Female Employee Committee and feedback on strengthening production safety, as well as consists of 628 members; reports of production incidents and issues, from employees; The Labour Principles of the Group’s Labuor Union’s Female We drafted The Safety Performance Evaluation Method, Employee Committee has been fully implemented, with measures which deducts performance evaluation points in the Appraisal in place to protect female employment, salary distribution, System in accordance with the severity of an accident. The vacation leave, social security, and educational development Method also calls for disciplinary measures, such as warnings, rights. In addition, we have launched specialised female employee administrative measures, demotions, or dismissal, to be imposed work inspections accordingly; on the leaders of work units responsible for accidents. 28 of our provincial subsidiaries have signed Female Employee Rights Protection contracts with their female employees, the Employee Engagement implementation of which has gone smoothly; China Mobile has set up an open employee grievance system which We have utilised an array of solutions to help solve real issues incorporates multiple channels, such as an Employee Representative faced by our female employees. For example in Guizhou Province, Conference, fair consultation mechanisms, CEO Mailbox, and female employees with children under 14 are given an extra day off on their child’s birthday. Arrangements have also been made Suggestion Platform, to ensure our employees’ grievance and for female employees to be able to work closer to home while comments are fully expressed. breast feeding; In 2012, we introduced our “Meet Our Grassroots, Understand China Mobile Limited We have showcased examples of exemplary professionalism and Their Expectations, and Change Work Style” initiative. This initiative accomplishments achieved by our female employees to help inspire others to achieve the same. We actively search for and enabled our management to gain an understanding of the company’s cultivate female talent, and select and recommend excellent first-line employees from multiple viewpoints and levels. First-line female employees on an ongoing basis. employees’ thoughts were captured, shortcomings at work were examined, and a multitude of ideas and advice were compiled, all Occupational Health and Safety serving as a foundation for us to build our future decision-making processes. We implemented a number of strategies in 2012 to strengthen safe production management, improve employee safety awareness, and protect employee vocational health and safety. In 2012, there was no construction work related accident. 22 Employee Professional Development More Satisfied Stakeholders Performance and Motivation Achieve more, Earn more — In addition to providing market-competitive compensation and social security benefits for our A New Way to Motivate Our employees, China Mobile is also devoted to establishing fair incentive mechanisms to keep our employees engaged at work. Employees In July 2012, we began to carry out comprehensive, performance-based changes to our sales “Following the implementation of the employee salaries, using an itemised incentive calculation method which ties each employee’s itemised incentive method, my salary this variable income with the individual, as well as their sales outlet’s overall sales performance, month is twice the salary I received the service quality, and other performance targets. This resulted in an increase in the flexibility same month last year. This is the highest of sales employee compensation and also improved implementation of the compensation monthly salary I have received over the distribution principle. As of the end of 2012, the implementation of these changes has past six years.” Wu Jing (anonym) who covered over 95% of sales employees. works at the Mobile Shengli Road sales outlet in Bengbu, Anhui, is an experienced sales employee, having joined China Training and Development Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth Mobile in September 2005. She stated: In 2012, China Mobile focused on refining our corporate strategy, matching employee “Since April this year, my incentive developmental needs, strengthening the foundation for development, enhancing the scope salary has been continuously increasing. of our training, innovating training methods, and increasing training effectiveness. We Although I need to work harder, it’s developed and implemented a plan to enable all employees undergo various types of training. worthwhile, because I can expect how 983,000 person-times of training was conducted throughout the year. (See pages 51-52 for much money I’m able to earn every day, statistics on our company’s employee training and development in 2012.) which makes me feel more satisfied.” The Enhanced Training Management: We have adopted initiatives that included setting up service outlet’s manager explained that a Training Management Quality Evaluation System, formulating and maintaining an online after the service outlet implemented the university, course database, and internal trainers, to construct a strong complementary performance-based incentive system, sales training resource management platform that unifies headquarters and provincial employees’ understanding of the necessity subsidiaries. of sales initiative strengthened. Of course, Innovative Training Methods: We used multiple types of training such as interactive not every sales employee is as exemplary as learning, face-to-face teaching, online examination and certification and provided mixedWu Jing, and some sales employees have type courses, to greatly enhance and expand online studies. In 2012, our National Course had their salaries decrease due to nondatabase contained 7,117 courses. And our online university has provided 230,000 performance, however there has been no person-times of training to the employees, with each person studying up to over 25 hours on average. objection as the principle of “achieve more, earn more”, is understood by everyone. At the same time, we also strengthened the internal job rotation among different ranks, districts, and departments. We sent the first batch of 23 employees from headquarters to 14 of our provincial subsidiaries or production centers for 1.5-2 year terms of practice, which will further enhance their overall competency and ability. 2012 Sustainability Report In Anhui, sales employees receive daily salary notification text messages In Shannxi, we launched Excellence in Serving the People training 23 Work-Life Balance 200,000 In line with the ever increasingly levels of market competition, our employees also unavoidably More Satisfied Stakeholders experience increasing level of mental and physical stress. We have adopted a combination of various initiatives to help our employees achieve good work-life balance, encouraging them to enjoy both their personal and professional lives. EAP covers over 200,000 person-times. Employee Assistance Programme China Mobile has comprehensively expanded its psychology-based Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) to strengthen psychological counselling and ease work stress. As of the end of 2012, our company headquarters and 31 provincial subsidiaries have already implemented the EAP, covering over 200,000 employees. We held EAP backbone employee training classes. In June 2012, 60 of our 180 EAP specialised employees, who were all trained with the cooperation of the Beijing Normal University’s School of Psychology, were selected to continue their EAP training, taking us another step forward in the cultivation of an EAP backbone employee team; Fostering Employee Satisfaction through Mutual Growth We held the second EAP Forum. The second EAP Forum was held in November 2012 to promote our internal dialogue regarding EAP. The forum, which carried the theme of “Happy Company and Harmonious organisation”, also served to actively promote In Gansu, we held junior EAP training for our service domestic EAP industry development; center employees We initiated the Headquarters EAP project. In November 2012 we officially kicked off the Headquarters EAP Project with a theme of “Mental Maturation, A New Future”. The project covers all headquarters employees. Helping Employees in Need As of the end of 2012, 17 of our provincial subsidiaries have established employee Mutual Aid Funds (also referred to as Needs-Support Fund ) which are used to support and provide relief to those employees who experience disasters, serious illness, and accident related injuries. Many employees in need and their families have received help from these funds, and in 2012 we introduced the Advisory on Strengthening Employee Mutual Aid Fund Management (trial) In Hebei, our employees actively joined a shuttlecockto further improve systematic, standardised, and day-to-day aid disbursement as well as kicking competition promote operational standardisation and transparency. In Shanghai, we collected 925,000 yuan through our “Care Aid Day”, of which the entire amount was placed in our Mutual Aid Fund and subsequently disbursed 378 person-times to employees in need. Happy Work and a Happy Life The Labour Union has held a variety of enriching recreational, cultural, athletic, and fellowship-promoting activities, helping our employees enjoy a rich leisure life, reduce work pressure, and strengthen their sense of belonging. Since 2008 our headquarters’ Labour Union has established 19 Employee Interest Societies, In Shaanxi, a tug-of-war competition was launched for covering the fields of sports, culture and arts. These societies encourage our employees to our employees take advantage of their leisure time for healthy activities, for example health-promoting activities, and increase inter-employee dialogue. We have also held a variety of activities such as chess and bridge competitions, mountain climbing competition, and a painting and calligraphy exhibition. In recognition of our accomplishments, the State Sports General Administration of China acknowledged our headquarters’ Labour Union as “Advanced Work China Mobile Limited Unit in Fitness for All” in 2012. In Henan, to improve issues related to poor working environments and low employee perceptions normally associated with rural areas, we adopted “Constructing Employee Mini-home” as our theme. Program activities included assessing the needs of our firstline employees and subsequently providing exercise equipment, cutlery sterilisation units, In Ningxia, we visited mothers with newborn babies refrigerators and air conditioners, building small kitchens, dormitories, shower facilities and small meeting rooms, to further improve working conditions. 24 Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities The development of public philanthropic work is not only an indicator of a society’s progress towards civilisation, but also serves an important function in realising social security, and is one of the foundations for the establishment of a harmonious society. As a large-scale services provider with the widest coverage in the nation, China Mobile is obliged More Satisfied Stakeholders to care and support the social welfare. Our information communication technology and large-scale network coverage creates a conducive environment for us to participate in and support philanthropic work. China Mobile Charity Foundation In 2009, China Mobile invested 100 million yuan to set up the Development Aid China Mobile Charity Foundation in order to realise long term social investment and standardise the operations of the company’s We have actively supported our parent company in assuming charitable resources. The Foundation, under the guidance of the development aid for Xizang’s Gaize county, Heilongjiang’s Huanan Ministry of Civil Affairs, has continuously improved its management and Tangyuan counties, and Qinghai province’s Maqin County. As of structure, operational standardisation and transparency. the end of 2012, we invested a total of 220 million yuan to support local infrastructure construction, and 24 volunteers have individually Our Foundation strictly abides by the regulations of the China visited these poverty stricken districts to initiate development aid and Mobile Charity Activity Management Methods in executing fund poverty relief. In 2012, we distributed a total of 37.43 million yuan Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities management and project operations. It uses comprehensive in development aid and poverty alleviation, with project investments budget management as the basis of fund administration, and focused on grassroots, agricultural and herding initiatives. China establishes a three-year rolling plan and annual public charitable Mobile’s parent company also actively applied to provide new aid in project planning, to ensure the proper application of public charity three nationally-ranked poverty counties in Xinjiang: Kashgar District’s funds; Shule county, Hetian District’s Luopu county, and Kezhou District’s Our Foundation holds regular board administration meetings. Akto (Aketao) county, which has been officially approved by the State Policy decisions are made by the board in a scientific manner, Council. covering various key issues such as planning for the Foundation, In 2012, our parent company was honored as “Outstanding Statekey project regulations, approval of new projects and budgets; owned Enterprise in Developing Poverty Alleviation Work (2001Our Foundation operates transparently, and uses the Foundation’s 2010)” by the SASAC and the State Council’s Poverty Alleviation Website, the Public Charity Times, and other channels to release Office. important information such as the Foundation’s annual report summary, and the status of various project’s operations; Cultivating Self-Reliance in Poverty Alleviation Our Foundation has passed the annual audit conducted by the For China Mobile, targeted poverty alleviation does not simply mean Ministry of Civil Affair, and actively participated in foundation the provision of funding support, but rather that poverty stricken assessment work organised by the Ministry of Civil Affairs. areas can only be truly helped through the adequate use of the As of 2012, the Foundation has launched effective and influential company’s resources, technology, and management expertise; our public charity projects in multiple sectors including poverty relief, goal is not to “give a fish”, but rather to “teach how to fish” to education aid, and child care, winning several external honors. In alleviate poverty. 2012, we received the China Charity Award’s “Corporation with the In Gansu, we invested 1 million yuan to improve basic facilities and Most Love-filled Donations” award from the Ministry of Civil Affairs, alleviate chronic water shortages. In addition, agricultural and herding being the 4th consecutive year we won this award. (See page 52 for specialists were invited to teach in many villages on topics such as more statistics related to the Social Welfare.) animal breeding, crop horticulture, and to provide on-site guidance to farmers, in order to improve rural residents’ technological abilities Development Aid and Poverty Alleviation in cultivation and breeding. In order to promote the development of underdeveloped regions In Hebei, we raised 620,000 yuan to implement drinking water and to actively fulfill our responsibility towards society, we have projects for people and livestock in Su Jia Ju village to resolve actively worked with our parent company to continuously deepen residential and industrial water problems suffered by the villagers our work in development aid and poverty alleviation. This is done by for almost 30 years. In addition, projects encouraging local adopting measures such as industrialisation-based poverty alleviation, modernisationin of chicken, pig, and sheep breeding facilities and 2012 Sustainability Report science and technology poverty alleviation, and management poverty vegetable greenhouses successfully commenced. alleviation to accelerate the economic development of regions In Guangdong, we carried out over 150 person-times of training for receiving aid. junior level rural cadres in Qingyuan city. The trainings, conducted based on our experience in establishing strong performance management, aimed to improve agricultural management links and support the design and development of Excellent Village Management Model. We also formulated the Excellent Village Performance Assessment Principles, with exemplary villages selected to serve as experimental points, effectively improving village management level. 25 Caring for Disadvantaged Groups China Mobile pays great attention to the needs of disadvantaged groups, and for many years has united society’s strength in carrying out targeted sustained assistance for children orphaned by AIDS, impoverished children with congenital heart defects, and rural elderly with More Satisfied Stakeholders cataracts. China Mobile not only provides practical aid to these disadvantaged groups, but also generates great social influence which helps raise the attention of the whole society on these groups, creating a good environment for charitable aid. The Warm China 12.1 Project In 2008, China Mobile partnered with the China Women’s Federation and the China Children and Teenager’s Fund to jointly set up the “Warm China 12.1 Charity Fund China Mobile Care Action”, and contributed 50 million yuan to establish the Warm China 12.1 Charity Fund. Within five years, we planned to help 10,000 children orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme poverty find loving families and provide 1,000 yuan of support to each child per year. Due to the fear and prejudice society has towards AIDS, children orphaned by AIDS face many problems including poverty, disease, loss of schooling, and discrimination. During the course of project implementation, visiting and aid funding initiatives frequently experienced My Dream , painted by a 9-year-old girl Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities unexpected obstructions or hindrances. In the five years since work commenced, under the guidance of the Ministry of Health and the State Council’s AIDS Working Committee Office, China Mobile and various project partners have overcome many difficulties, stabilised implementation, and achieved solid progress. The project now covers over 300 districts (counties, cities, prefectures) in 15 provinces. 15,749 children are covered by the project, with over 50 million yuan in aid distributed. The project is currently the nation’s highest funded and most expansive public benefit project for children orphaned by AIDS and children living in extremely poverty. The project has become a key supplement for the government’s own work in the area. In 2011, the Ministry of Civil Affairs nominated the project as “China Charity Award Most Influential Charitable Project Award”. Thank You , painted by an 11-year-old boy In order to improve project effectiveness, our company has not only contributed funds, but also made practical efforts on several fronts such as the development of comprehensive project management, promotion of project implementation, and raising of public awareness. • Organised the joint participatation of our partners’ high-level management in the Project Management Committee, which formulated The Warm China “12.1” Charity Fund’s Management Regulations and standardised project implementation. Constructing Complete • Developed a project website and project management platform, currently Project Management In Yunnan, our volunteer assisted a child aid recipient China’s largest database of children orphaned by AIDS. with his homework • Established detailed disbursement and receipt records for funding and hired accounting firms to conduct audits to ensure sufficient and timely disbursement of funding. • Held project training at regular intervals, covering over 8,000 persontimes of training to project managers and care parents. • Traveled to Anhui, Yunnan, Xinjiang, Hebei and Hubei provinces to Promoting Project implement project supervision, direction and leadership, and have set up We spread the seeds through the ‘12.1’ Implementation dialogue mechanisms to ensure timely reporting of project progress. Project. We hope that the seeds will • After funds has been disbursed, we use multiple measures during the lead more people to care for children follow-up process to protect the orphans’personal data privacy. orphaned by AIDS and create more • We have solicited young aid recipients for the creation of “My Dream”harmonious living conditions for these China Mobile Limited themed articles and pictures. orphans, as well as creating a more • We co-held the “Bright Futures in Our Hearts” children rights forum to bright future. Initiating Care Activities research and discuss rights issues of children affected by AIDS. -Li Zhengmao, Vice Chairman of China • Our company volunteers accompanied children receiving aid and parent caretaker representatives in the “Beijing Trip” activity. Mobile Charity Foundation 26 China Mobile “Heart Caring Campaign” According to the Ministry of Health, approximately 150,000 children were born with congenital heart disease in China every year. Only about 60,000 of these children were able to receive timely care, while the remainder, due to factors such as family poverty and poor local medical expertise, were not able to receive such care. Currently, aid for impoverished More Satisfied Stakeholders children with congenital heart disease faces two major problems. The first is the lack of a screening system large numbers of children suffering from the disease are unable to receive a timely diagnosis, missing the precious opportunity for treatment. The second is high surgery fees. Normal surgery costs for congenital heart disease are tens of thousands of yuan, or even Our employee volunteer drew a picture with a over 100,000 yuan, which is very difficult for poor families to afford. hospitalised child aid recipient In August 2011, we united with stakeholders to start the “China Mobile Heart Caring Campaign” in the Neimenggu Autonomous Region. The China Mobile Charity Foundation donated 11 million yuan to purchase a mobile screening car, began to offer free congenital heart disease screening, and aimed to bear the entire cost of surgeries for 350-400 impoverished children with the disease. In August 2012, the project expanded to the provinces of Henan and Liaoning where we donated 19.50 million yuan, and we planned to assist 600-660 children in 2012-2013. The project has now been ongoing for over a year, and in Neimenggu, our mobile screening Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities car has traveled 25,000 kilometers, provided free screening for 10,821 children in 38 banner counties, and completed surgeries for 377 children. In Henan and Liaoning provinces, our Our volunteers accompanied children aided by the mobile screening car has carried out free screening for 1,726 children suspected of having the “Heart Caring Campaign” on a one-day tour of Beijing disease, and has initially confirmed diagnoses for 628 impoverished children. We are in the midst of arranging for these children to receive in-hospital surgery and care, with surgeries already completed for 216 children. In contrast to similar projects, our China Mobile “Heart Caring Campaign” has three major distinguishing characteristics. The first is the use of mobile medical treatment technology, which has enabled three-in-one screening: mobile screening, data transmission, and remote consultation. The second is China Mobile’s funding to bear all surgery fees. The third is the combination of project aid and volunteer service, with company and project partner volunteers accumulating over 1,000 hours in volunteer time thus far. In 2012, the UN Global Compact selected this Campaign as a “China’s Best Practice” case. In Guangxi, we donated telecommunications equipment to a school for left-behind children Other Exemplary Projects Every year China Mobile’s provincial subsidiaries launch projects to aid local disadvantaged “Love on Tian Mountain” Joint groups, with local needs taken into consideration. Development Programme In Hubei, we launched the large-scale “Hubei Province’s Care Campaign for 10,000 LeftWe actively respond to the needs of Behind Children” activity. The activity collected 10,000 wishes from left-behind children, the Ministry of Civil Affairs, for example enlisted 1,000 Care Homes from society, donated 100 Care School Buses, and collected 10 through our participation in the “Love Care Promises, enabling the left-behind children to receive the society’s care. on Tian Mountain” joint development In Jilin, together with the Changchun City Children’s Welfare Hospital, we established the “Big programme, through which we have Hand Holding Small Hands, My Heart Warming a Child’s Heart” project, which focuses on the donated 2.75 million yuan. In 2012, psychological health of orphans and disabled children. Over 8,000 yuan of goods have been we successfully built the “China Mobile donated to the project. Internet School for the Elderly” (Day-time Caring Center for Community Elderly), In Shanghai, we worked with the City’s Charity Foundation to implement the “Light Up the SOS Children Village, and the “China Field of Vision” project to help citizens suffering from eyesight issues. Every year the project Mobile Love Electronic Reading Room” enables over 50 elderly citizens to undergo cataract surgery. Since the project’s inception, 100 for four minority middle schools in remote senior citizens in districts such as Fengxian and Jing'an have received assistance. They are once locations. Our initiatives positively affected again able to see the light of hope. 2012 Sustainability Report the lives of over 9,000 elderly citizens and the 3,809 students of remote schools. 27 Supporting Education Development Education is of fundamental importance to the fulfillment of China’s Aid for Impoverished Students long-term goals. Promoting the development of education is one of our main focuses in charity commitment. Our company has donated funds, provided part-time work More Satisfied Stakeholders opportunities, and utilised other methods to provide economic aid to “Blue Dream” Educational Aid Plan impoverished students to support them in their efforts to complete their studies. For the last seven years, our company has worked with the Ministry of Education to jointly implement the “China Mobile Central and In Shaanxi, our “Care 100” Study Aid Activity has been carried out Western Regions Impoverished District Rural Primary and Middle for seven years, during which it has raised over 12 million yuan and School Education Aid Project”, which aims to improve the conditions provided aid to 3,532 poor university students. In 2012 alone the of primary and middle schools in impoverished districts in China’s project’s donations exceeded 2 million yuan, with 516 fresh university central and western regions. As of the end of 2012, the project students each receiving over 4,000 yuan in funds. had set up 1,694 China Mobile Libraries and 674 multi-media classrooms in 23 provinces in these regions. In addition, the project Supporting Employment has implemented innovative measures such as “shadow training” and informationalised long distance training methods to train 48,205 In 2012, we demonstrated our unique business characteristics principals of primary and middle schools. and platform effectiveness by providing employment guidance to university students and business start-up support. Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities The project’s annual review reported that principals who participated in the on-site training shared their thoughts, ideas, system and In Jiangsu, we held the “12580 University Student Job Seeking/ methods in school management through dialogues, lectures, Business Start Up Competition”, which convened and selected interviews, school-based teaching research, and other activities. outstanding business start-up teams formed by university students From this basis, they diagnosed problems in school management, around the province. The initiative also provided critical support such discussed ”hot” problems in education, shared school management as dedicated training, internships, and start-up funding. experiences, and learned from each other, yielding significant results. In Ningxia, by embracing university-enterprise collaboration through After receiving shadow training, 91% of participating headmasters the concepts of ‘collaborating to operate schools, educate people, felt they now had techniques to resolve bottlenecks and other issues obtain employment and achieve development”, we have formed encountered during the development of their schools, while 78% of deep and extensive collaborations with universities in various participating principals felt their educational management and teaching ways. By donating telecommunication facilities to local universities, guidance abilities had improved. constructing a base for students to gain practical experience, and From 2012-2015, together with the Ministry of Education, we will other initiatives, we are enabling university students to improve their jointly implement a nation-wide training programme to improve vocational skills and technological expertise. the information technology abilities of primary and middle school teachers. The programme aims to train 200,000 primary and middle school information technology teachers, to achieve the goal of at “M-Zone Job Hunting Platform” Promotes University least one information technology teacher per school in the Midwest Students’ Employment and countryside. In addition, the programme will provide dedicated In December 2012, China Mobile and the Central Committee of the special training to 2,000 primary and middle school teachers. The Communist Youth League officially released the “12582 M-Zone Job project completed the development of teaching materials and online Hunting Platform”. This platform compiles recruitment information courses for these teachers in 2012. from the entire nation’s campuses and provides targeted information and employment guidance services from regions around the country Standing by 10 years of Love for Liang Mountain for fresh university graduates. Graduates can use the internet, multimedia text messages, voice hotlines, and other methods to Sichuan Province's Liang Mountain, where is Yi Minority obtain free information, including topics such as job searching, Autonomous Prefecture, includes 10 national, one provincial, and is employment advice, internship, and campus recruitment alerts, a prefectural-ranked impoverished counties. The state of education allowing them to experience the new informationalised job-seeking in the prefecture has been poor. Since 2001, China Mobile has experience that combines “Pre-employment Training + Job Search + used aid funding to help extremely impoverished local high school Employment Advice”. Before the platform was released, it was test and university students complete their studies, and to set up Hope run in the Chongqing region and achieved significant results. Over Schools and libraries, contributing to Liangshan's educational cause. 250,000 pieces of recruitment information were distributed and a From 2001 until the present, we primarily utilised employee large number of renowned domestic and international companies China Mobile Limited donations to invest over 260,000 yuan into this effort, including participated in online selection interviews, creating a communication educational equipment worth over 70,000 yuan. We also donated channel for graduates and employers. more than 1,000 pieces of clothing and 5-truck loads of daily use articles, 700 books, and 500 stationery sets, assisting a total of 45 high school students and 105 students admitted by high-ranked universities. 28 Advocating Volunteer Service “When I was young, my mother told me something I could not forget for A responsible China Mobile needs responsible China ‘Mobilers’. Our company whole-heartedly the rest of my life, which was, ‘To advocates responsible culture, encourages provincial subsidiaries to set up employee volunteer make a fire, you need a stoke hole, to organisations, and carries out one-paid-volunteer-day policy to encourage employees to take More Satisfied Stakeholders be a good person, you need to have part in volunteering activities. In 2012, the number of employee-volunteers has reached over a sincere “heart”.’ My contributions to 90,000, with over 330,000 hours of volunteering services provided. impoverished students are my way of In Shanghai, we set up a 500 employee-volunteers team, split into 23 branch teams. paying back to society. I don’t care about eating or drinking well, I also don’t care In Fujian, 45 of our Sanming branch company volunteers donated blood on June 14, 2012, about enjoying material things, and I the 9th World Blood Donation Day. 3 of these volunteers also donated bone marrow. certainly won’t give my children a lot of money; I just want to do all I can to help In Guangdong, in cooperation with Junior Achievement (JA), one of the world’s largest those who are in need. If my hard work non-profit educational institutions, we launched the “China Mobile Volunteer Campus could change even one person’s life, I Commercial Education Plan” to help youths prepare for employment. 42 China Mobile will feel the greatest joy in my life!” volunteers participated in this project, which covered five high-ranked universities and four renowned middle schools in Guangzhou, benefiting over 570 students. --He Shuangquan, China Mobile 2012 Employee Philanthropy Star Shared Development Creates Harmonious Communities A Volunteer for 15 Years, Giving to Society Mr. He Shuangquan, the project administrator of the Suqian Branch of Jiangsu Mobile, was born in a peasant family. Keeping “honesty and kindness” in his mind, since he began working in 1997 and as a volunteer of Suqian Red Cross and the Cancer Patients Recovery Association, he has donated a total of over 100,000 yuan to help the vulnerable. In recognition of his efforts, he was honored as the Volunteer of Cancer Rehabilitation Society of Friends of the United Nations and In Jiangsu, the volunteers helped elderly people with Advanced Worker of Suqian Red Cross. no families cut their nails Benefited by China Mobile’s advocacy of volunteering services and supported by his family, He Shuangquan has inspired many people. In his mind, everyone will encounter difficulties and eventually need help as well. Giving a helping hand to those in need will light the world. Establishing a City's Volunteer Society As the General Secretary of I Love Rizhao Volunteers Club, Mr. Wang Dapeng devotes himself to the promotion of volunteering services in Rizhao. With his strong leadership, the club adheres to the spirit of dedication, love, mutual aid and harmony , and launched numerous activities focusing on social services, environmental protection, In Anhui, our volunteers delivered books for lefthealthcare, education, and urban civilisation. The Club’s 12,000 volunteers behind children have become a beautiful scenery of Rizhao. At the same time, with support from China Mobile, Mr. Wang led club members to improve volunteer management through informationalised activity management. The club published “I Love Rizhao” magazines, newspapers and brochures to promote the volunteering spirit, set up a volunteer hotline “18806330633”, and kicked off Meeting on Saturday activities to encourage the public to join. In 2011, the club was recognised as a Shandong Famous Service Brand, making it the first volunteering organisation to receive this award. In Guizhou, volunteers launched City and Countryside 2012 Sustainability Report Children Hand In Hand activities 29 Creating A Sustainable Environment Building a civilised ecological environment system is crucial to the long-term development of mankind. Faced with the challenges of tightening resources constraints, severe environmental pollution and a degraded eco-system, we understand that we must incorporate the 570 million More Satisfied Stakeholders philosophy of green technology, recycling and low carbon-use into our operations and strictly control our environmental impact. At the same time, we must do our best to leverage As of the end of 2012, the cumulative our influence and technological advantages to lead our industry in green technology, push investments of our Green Action Plan forward changes in the social economic development and individual lifestyles, and contribute reached 570 million yuan, contributing to the development of a resource-efficient and environmentally-friendly society. to energy conservation and emissions reduction. Optimising Environmental Management Systems Since 2007, we have implemented an overarching Green Action Plan which focuses on energy conservation and emissions reduction to improve our performance in environmental Launching Third Party Energy management, energy conservation and emissions reduction from the perspective of our company, supply chain and the society. Auditing Corrections and Our current Green Action Plan organisational structure consists of a headquarters-based Improvement Creating A Sustainable Environment leadership team, a dedicated office responsible for daily tasks and coordination, a provincialWe continued our energy auditing project based leadership team, and specific personnel overseeing routine work. in 2012 in our Guangdong, Jilin and Sichuan subsidiaries. Building on earlier In accordance with requirements set by ISO 50001 and GB/T 23331 Energy Management audits, we identified 11 improvements in System, we use the Plan-Do-Check-Action cycle to continuously improve our management four areas based on energy management system, with energy management as the core focus. procedures. We circulated and implemented the audit correction advice in our provincial subsidiaries to lower our energy consumption. Main Tasks in 2012 for Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction • Formulated the 2013-2015 Energy Conservation and Emissions Reduction Plan, identifying our ideology and goals for Formulating Reduction Plan and the next three years and introducing our measures to progress; Investment Plan • Formulated our specific investment plan for 2013; • Updated and released energy conservation technology catalogues and guidelines; • Promoted the implementation of base station energy conservation designing requirements for specific scenarios; Promoting Mature Energy Saving • Expanded smart carrier frequency technology and other mature technologies; Measures • Expanded the utilisation of natural cooling sources and increased ambient temperature of base stations; • Completed energy saving modifications to equipment rooms and other facilities; • Promoted equipment energy saving ranking standards: actively promoted the use of energy saving rankings and green packaging in the centralised procurement of core equipment as well as the use of energy saving labels; Refining and Implementing Energy • Formulated the China Mobile Energy Efficiency Assessment Management Methods, updating and optimising the Saving Standards assessment standards for office buildings, equipment rooms and base stations; • Formulated the green-star ranking standards for various facilities and completed energy saving assessments for 24,000 facilities, of which 83% achieved the ‘green-star’ ranking; • Conducted post-assessments of base station smart ventilation and equipment room air circulation in our Hunan, Strengthening the Post-assessment Jiangsu and Heilongjiang subsidiaries, and explored the post-assessment method of energy savings and rectified its of Energy Savings effectiveness; Appraising Energy Saving and • Within our KPI system, we formulated the 2012 energy conservation and emissions reduction appraisal method which Emissions Reduction adopts 17 performance indicators to assess our provincial subsidiaries’ progress in this area; China Mobile Limited Exploring Third Party Contract • Finished the Contract Energy Management pilot projects to rectify application, and actively conducted the Golden Sun Energy Management Demontration Project to promote the application of new energy sources in cooperation with external expertise. 30 Managing Environmental Impact The application of smart electricity saving frequency accounts for 76% of all frequencies; Our environmental impact results from the following three areas: A net addition of 22,000 Thin Clients; More Satisfied Stakeholders Our Network: The consumption of energy and resources in the A net addition of 39,000 base stations without any course of operations of our base stations, equipment rooms and equipment room; other network facilities, including electricity and fuel consumption Over 100,000 base stations installed with natural cooling for equipment and power generators, particularly power equipment; consumption; 97,000 base stations rennovated with exterior protected Our Services: The consumption of energy and resources structure; in providing customer services, such as the consumption of Over 170,000 air conditioners altered with comprehensive electricity, paper and SIM cards, among others; energy saving improvements; Our Offices: The consumption of energy and resources during 330,000 set of switches incorporated with dedicated ‘sleep’ the normal course of our office operations, including business functions; trip-related consumption and the consumption of electricity, 44,000 high efficiency switches applied in base stations. paper, water and other resources. Note: Thin Clients refers to a small sized industrial-specific PC with embedded specialised processors and a simplified operating system, which We have always applied high standards in managing our has lower power consumption and higher security levels. environmental impact. We do our best to improve our environmental Creating A Sustainable Environment performance with respect to green networks, green offices and green services. (See pages 50-51 for details on our 2012 Key Environmental Performance). In Gansu, we have 600 base stations in Baiyin City utilising solar energy. We estimate the total power generated will reach 58.27 Green Network million kilowatt hours. These base stations have already passed the national inspection of the Golden Sun project. In 2012, we continued to promote the applications of our energy conservation and emissions reduction measures and enhanced the In Liaoning, we developed a smart passive ventilation system to energy efficiency of our existing and newly-built communication naturally cool down base stations, which helped to achieve an facilities. Through our technological innovations, our energy average saving of over 50% power and more than 10,000 yuan in consumption per carrier frequency decreased in 2012 by 5.7% and power cost for each base station every year, and further reduced our energy consumption per unit of telecommunications traffic ecological impacts in environmentally vulnerable regions. decreased by 14.6% over last year. In equipment retirement process, we have strictly conformed Based on the concept of equipment lifecycle management, we with requirements for equipment de-installation, applying innocuous developed a green network with full circle management of our treatment carried out by qualified recycling companies, which reduced equipment encompassing procurement, facility construction, network electricity consumption and equipment room usage and comprehensively operation and equipment retirement. lowered our environmental impact. In 2012, we engaged dedicated specialist channels to re-collect approximately 130 million Ah of In new equipment procurement, we worked with major batteries, achieving 100% recycling rate. equipment suppliers, fully implementing equipment energy saving ranking standards to further decrease the energy and resource consumption per unit of equipment. In 2012, in our centralised procurement of GSM wireless and core network equipment such as TD-SCDMA wireless network equipment, we actively promoted Forging a Green Value Chain, Building a Model for energy saving rankings and green packaging with energy saving Products Recycling Management labels. In order to achieve a green value chain and manage our products in In the construction of facilities, we designed our base stations full lives, we have, in accordance with the unique features of each in strict accordance with the requirements for specific scenes and type of products and the different treatments required for proper adopted corresponding energy saving technologies to improve the recycling, developed plans for the recycling of five different types of overall energy efficiency of our network facilities. We also actively waste products such as batteries, cables, feeders, cards, and servers. promoted the joint construction and sharing of networks to improve In addition, we have developed a set of standards and specifications the proportion of joint facilities in new base station construction. In for the product recycling process and cooperated with recycling 2012, we completed the construction of 17,000 joint base stations 2012 Sustainability Report companies to recycle different types of products. We also established and shared over 6,000 base stations with other operators. an assessment structure to conduct comprehensive evaluations of recycling companies and incorporated the assessment results into In network operations, we optimised energy saving management standards that we will use during next year’s recycling bidding processes in network operations and maintenance to lower its process. environmental impact, starting from key areas such as main equipment, base station air conditioning, power systems and new energy applications. 31 Green Services In the course of our business processes and marketing, we have actively advocated e-channel to reduce resource consumption in traditional methods. 78% We have set up paperless sales processes in our sales outlets in 19 subsidiaries such as in In 2012, 78% of our business was More Satisfied Stakeholders Shanxi, Heilongjiang, Jilin, Sichuan, Guangdong, Guangxi, Hainan, Zhejiang and Guizhou, conducted through e-channels. which use optimised systems to electronically carry out a series of functions such as electronic identification, signatures, stamps, e-invoice generating and audit, resulting in a 75% reduction of paper documents. In 2012, we promoted green billing services through our 139 Mailbox, covering 180 million customers per month, resulting in over 27,000 tonnes of paper saved. We have continued to use multiple methods to promote the recycling of SIM cards. All of our card base are fully made of environmentally-friendly materials, and methods such as remote writing and “air” writing of SIM cards, as well as electronic card issuance, are being used to improve SIM card utilization and reduce printing. At the same time, by the end of 2012, we have placed our Green Boxes in 14,000 sales outlets, through which we recycled more than 240,000 mobile phones and batteries. All of In Anhui, we launched partition cooling systems in our these efforts effectively decreased pollution. base stations Creating A Sustainable Environment In Hebei, we launched energy conservation and emission reduction activites in all of our sales outlets. We implemented three main activites, specifically: 1.The public display of self-made promotion posters in sales outlets, together with “green” message boards for suggestions Establishing a Green, Energy and advice; 2.The establishment of the Green Boxes. People who deposited their used mobile Efficient School phones in the Green Box for recycling will be awarded with a gift; 3.The establishment of China Mobile Management School has each Wednesday as ‘Low-carbon Experience Day’ to encourage employees to go to work by worked tirelessly to develop a green, public transports, bicycles or walking, and also turn off air conditioners as appropriate. energy efficient university. With the construction of an informationalised Green Offices system as its focus, the University took In order to manage the environmental impact of our operational offices and processes, in used paper documents, such as test 2012, we made further advances in strengthening daily energy conservation management. papers, satisfaction surveys, and approval To do this, we expanded the use of informationalised office measures and the construction of slips, among others, and incorporated energy conservation technology as well as green architecture. these documents into its Training Meeting Comprehensive Management System, We strengthened daily energy conservation management in our operational offices and resulting in a paperless, low carbon office. strictly implemented national regulations in office energy conservation for air conditioners, heating, and other electric appliance use; We have implemented multiple measures We drafted the China Mobile Employee Office Energy Conservation Principles, which in the School to improve energy highlight and stress the importance of resource consumption reduction measures such conservation, optimise comprehensive as the conservation of water, reduction of electricity consumption by turning off lights, resource use, and lower energy reduction of paper consumption by double sided printing and copying, and other low consumption, for example lowering the carbon work habits and behaviour; energy consumption levels of central air We pushed for the informationalisation of our offices, with all approved processes conditioning through the fine tuning of circulated online, reducing our use of paper. We have also used videoconferences to operating modes; reducing electricity greatly reduce employee business travel, thus reducing the amount of real resources consumption through frequency consumed; conversion control for winter heating; We have increased the use of energy and environment conservation technology during protecting geothermal wells, creatively construction and have actively promoted energy conservation architecture and green construction principles, thus decreasing office energy consumption at its roots. developing innovative water recycling uses; maximising the use of energy In Jiangsu, our backup telephone traffic communication building has made great use of conserving lights; and making regional solar-generated power, with an annual capacity of 10,000 KWh. In addition, our interior improvements in energy conservation. partition walls were constructed with recyclable industrial materials; these two methods combined have brought about the comprehensive benefits of green architecture such as By the end of 2012, the University had China Mobile Limited conservation of energy, space, water, and material. This was our first project approved as a lowered its consumption of electricity “Green Construction Model Project” by the China Ministry of Construction. by 172,000 kWh, cold water by 6,600 tonnes, hot water by 2,500 tonnes, In Tianjin, the design of the Tianjin Mobile Airport Multi-Purpose Building embodies gasoline by 7,500 liters, and diesel oil numerous green development and low carbon construction planning and design ideas, by 3,500 liters, all in comparison to last including energy saving design, technology, and construction materials; environmentally year, resulting in outstanding energy friendly decorations; green lighting and the use of natural light; and the scientific use of conservation and emissions reduction. water, including rain water recycling. On September 18, 2012, the project was awarded the US Green Building Council’s LEED-NC (Pioneer Award for Energy and Environmental Design) Silver rating. 32 Leading Society in Environmental Protection Advocating Industry Green Developments Raising Public Awareness We have actively promoted environmental cooperation in the industry The participation and support of the general public is a key More Satisfied Stakeholders and developed green industrial standards, pushing forward green prerequisite for successful energy conservation and emissions initiatives. reduction. To help achieve this, in 2012 we launched an energy conservation awareness activity themed “You and I Together Can Promoting Green Standards: We have worked closely with our industrial partners to comprehensively update equipment energy Change the World”. Our provincial subsidiaries held a variety conservation ranking standards and promote the formulation of of environmental protection activities which were designed in industry ranking standards; accordance with local conditions. Expanding Green Packaging: In cooperation with eight In Fujian, we launched the “Blue Handkerchief” activity in equipment manufacturers, we joined the Ministry of Industry and universities to spread our beliefs in environmental protection and to Information Technology’s “Using Alternative Packaging Wood inspire more people to actively take part in environmental protection. for Mechanical and Electrical Products” pilot project to jointly Almost 40,000 university students have joined this activity since its promote the use of “green packaging” for communications products. Since 2011, we have saved 91,000 cubic meters of inception two years ago. wood through this effort, saving 46,000 cubic meters of wood in 2012 alone; In Guangxi, in cooperation with the government authorities in Transportation, Water Conservation, and Environmental Protection International Cooperation: We took part in the Green Touch Creating A Sustainable Environment 2012 Conference, during which we held a special exhibition to and local cities along the Xijiang River, we launched the Youth showcase our experience in energy conservation and emissions Protects Xijiang the Mother River activity, to encourage the youth reduction. organisations along the Xijiang River to communicate and work together more closely. Led by our company volunteers, over We also participated in events such as the Integration of Information 1,000 youths from Guangxi, Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macao Technology and Industrialisation Fair, the 3rd Communications participated in this initiative. Industry Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Conference, the 2012 Green ICT Development Forum, the 2012 Green Communications Conference, and the 6th Internet Conference, during which we delivered themed lectures and shared our Green Boxes – Youth Education on Environmental experience to the audience. Protection Aiding Environmental Management and Since 2007, we have organised Green Boxes Environmental Protection activities in over 1,700 primary and middle schools in Supervision Shanghai’s 17 districts, involving 1 million youths and 200,000 families. In 2012, we actively used the Internet of Things technologies In past six years, the Green Boxes activity has recycled over 90,000 items to introduce new concepts in environmental supervision and of electronic waste, such as mobile phone batteries, and over 400,000 management. regular batteries. The project has also held dozens of environmental protection exhibitions and almost 100 educational talks, all helping to In Beijing, in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Affairs, we plant a green lifestyle into people's hearts. developed the National Disaster Management System and its associated flow information management systems, covering natural disaster reports, natural disaster annual reports and others. Thus far, this system covers the entire Civil Affairs Departments at the country level, as well as all villages and towns in the provinces of Hebei, Hubei, Jiangxi, Guangdong and Jiangsu. In addition, we also disseminate disaster and relief-related information issued by the Ministry of Civil Affairs through the Natural Disaster Mobile Paper which we have published around 200 issues through 2012. In Hebei, we developed a mobile environmental enforcement system which sends real-time videos of pollutant to the Environmental Protection Bureau’s Mobile enforcement system, and simultaneously sends text messages to the Bureau staff with information on indicators which have exceeded their emissions limit. This helps 2012 Sustainability Report environmental supervision and correction, and effectively mitigates the difficulties associated with onsite evidence collection, insufficient evidence from inspections, and unefficient enforcement and In Guizhou, we carried out activities under the Energy Conservation Awareness supervision. Week theme In Shaanxi, we worked with the Yan’an City Environmental Protection Bureau to provide automatic hydrologic statistics collection for reservoirs in 13 counties and regions. 33 AN INFORMATION-ENHANCED FUTURE An Information-enhanced Future 442 According to the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology’s statistics, by the end of 2012 there were over 1.1 billion mobile phone users in China, which had a national mobile phone penetration rate of 82.6%, and China’s mobile In 2012 China Mobile filed over 900 patent internet customers reached 760 million. The world is entering applications in China, with 442 cases the mobile internet era. approved. The Mobile Internet, Internet of Things, Cloud Computing 336 and smart devices have revolutionised information exchange modes, from the traditional mode of person to person, to people and things, and even among things, thus eliminating conventional time and space restrictions. Through mobile As of the end of 2012, China Mobile phones, people can visit webpages, search and position, social constructed 336 Wireless Cities, enabling network and purchase anytime, anywhere. Mobile phones more people to enjoy the benefits of have transformed from a simple voice communication tool informationalisation. into a personal hub connecting one with the world, bringing previously unimaginable changes to our daily lives. Facing this time of critical transformation, we are leveraging our “Mobile Changes Life” vision to strengthen our innovation capabilities; actively construct infrastructure 111,107 for the future; optimise our organisational functions; and As of the end of 2012, China Mobile’s expand our global business footprint. We are also providing “Village Connected Project” covered a total various informationalised applications and solutions of 111,107 remote villages, effectively while simultaneously accelerating the pace of our own narrowing the urban-rural digital divide. transformation; and using widespread urban-rural networks and diverse informalisation applications to show the beautiful future offered by a Mobile life --bringing the future closer to the present. 43 million As of the end of 2012, customers of China Mobile’s Rural Information Service have reached 43 million. Informationalisation is changing the traditional development methods of rural residents, villages, and agriculture. China Mobile Limited Innovation and Transformation················································································35 A Rich Wireless Experience·······················································································37 Sharing the Benefits of Informationalisation Between Urban and Rural Areas····44 34 Innovation and Transformation The ICT industry is currently undergoing major changes. Technology is being updated rapidly, new services are continuously introduced, and new formats are increasingly integrated. For service operators, this requires the An Information-enhanced Future transformation and upgrading of traditional infrastructure facilities, service development modes, and operational mechanisms to meet the challenges of this era. In addition, as the state-owned telecommunications operator, China Mobile has the responsibility to play a leadership role in the industry, catalyse industry innovation and growth, and create new possibilities for future industry development. Innovation Capacity for the Future In 2012, we actively promoted research and development reforms, issued Guidance on Scientific and Technological Innovation of China Mobile”, clarified the innovation-driven strategy at the China Platform of Internet of Things Mobile Technology Innovation Conference, established the Science Call Centre Logistic Centre and Technology Innovative System that embodies the principles IDC/Cloud Computing of “Science and Technology Centralised Management, MarketOriented Research & Development, Standardised Management New Infrastructure Facilities Processes, Professional Layout of Research & Development, Pragmatic Innovation and Transformation Achievement, Informationalised Measures”. In 2012, China Mobile capitalised on research and development in Our establishment of infrastructure facilities for the future is currently key fields such as next-generation communication technology, open at the initial preparation phase, and has already achieved the platform, and cloud platforms to achieve the following innovations: following exceptional advances: Next-generation Communication Technology: completed TD-LTE Development: completed a seven-city technology research on 9 key technological issues related to advanced TDexperiment, implemented the expansion of our experimental LTE development and developed a series of resolution plans, and network in 15 cities, and constructed the pre-commercial network multiple technological improvement projects, paving the path for in Hangzhou, Guangzhou, and Shenzhen. The China Mobilefurther TD-LTE development, and applied for over 200 LTE-related established Global TD-LTE Initiative (GTI) has already expanded patents in 2012; to 95 members, increasing the number of global commercial Open Platform: conducting further research on the open networks to 14. In cooperation with international operators, we platform. We are the first company to provide open mobile have also pushed forward TD-LTE terminal product development, application billing and always-online push features to promote established global roaming capacity and led global LTE TDD/FDD the development of the Mobile Market and Wireless City; integrated development; Cloud Platforms: completed the high-level design of China IDC Construction: plan to organise and build a nationwide IDC Mobile cloud computing, extended research and development of installation that includes government and corporate hosting “big clouds” and its applications, led the formulation of national services, internet content access, and a range of public services. standards for cloud storage and services, and set up China Cloud As of the publication of this report, we have built seven tierComputing Technology and Industry Alliance Open Laboratory. one IDC equipment buildings in Beijing, Shanghai, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Sichuan, Zhejiang, and Chongqing; In 2012, we submitted 991 standardised documents to international Internet of Things Platform Construction: completed communication organisations such as the Third Generation construction of the Internet of Things business operations Partnership Planning (3GPP) and the International Telecommunication management platform for our entire network and gateway in Union (ITU), of which 665 were approved. In 2012, we also led Chongqing in 2012. In addition, we constructed an Internet of the formulation of 25 industry standards, and participated in the Things PBOSS at our Southern Base, enabling management and completion of 39 industry standards. Meanwhile, we have made a service control for Internet of Things terminals; series of scientific and technological breakthroughs, a total of 14 Call Center Construction: constructed national, centralised accomplishments were made at the provincial or ministerial levels and calling centers in Luoyang, Henan province and Huai’an, Jiangsu province, with 20,000 seats planned for each center. By 2018, above. The Research on TD-SCDMA Key Engineering Technology and a total of five major call centers will have been completed in, Industrialisation of our parent company received the first prize of the forming a nationwide network; National Scientific and Technological Progress Award in 2012, which Logistics Center Construction: Our logistics center system is the first time we received this award since its inception. is comprised of regional and provincial warehouses. We have finished the construction of three regional logistics centers in Tianjin, Chongqing, and Shannxi, with two more centers in Infrastructure for the Future 2012 Sustainability Report Jiangsu and Guangdong still under construction. Together they will form a five-region logistics center system which will cover the In order to fulfill new challenges and opportunities associated with entire nation in the future. the mobile internet revolution, we have adopted “Constructing Smart Pipelines, Building Open Platforms, Creating Featured Business, Providing User-Friendly Interfaces” as our mobile internet strategy. A key part of this strategy is the development of futureoriented infrastructure equipment and core competence through the coordinated development of GSM, TD-SCDMA, WLAN and TDLTE networks, the promotion of wireless broadband infrastructure development. 35 Organisational Reform for the Future In 2012, we strongly pushed for the organisation reform. With the guidances including centralised management, professional operation, market-oriented, flat organisation and standardised process, we achieved significant progress. An Information-enhanced Future Launching a Comprehensive Management Upgrade In 2012 China Mobile launched a comprehensive management upgrade which emphasised structure standardisation and process development. It is expected that this initiative will enable our management standards to match leading international industry standards within the next two to three years. We have set up a management upgrade task force comprised of key leaders. The task force will focus on 16 management fields, including investment decision-making processes, comprehensive budgets, comprehensive risk, and social responsibility. The entire Group is being mobilised to implement this activity. In 2012, over 150,000 person-times of training was organised across our entire Group. Over 10,000 reviews of organisation processes and mechanisms were completed, leading to an identification of over 3,500 issues, for which we have formulated detailed plans to be implemented in 2013. Our Progress Towards Professional Operations Innovation and Transformation December 2010 April 2011 June 2011 November 2011 March 2012 July 2012 October 2012 China Mobile M2M China Mobile Group China Mobile Communications China Mbile International China Mobile Group China Mobile China Mobile Company Limited Corporation Government and Company Limited Device Company Limited Finance Company Limited Information Security Centre E-Commerce Company Limited Enterprise Service Company International Business Layout We have rapidly expanded our international network and platform, establishing our international backbone network base. for the Future As of the end of 2012, China Mobile has 427G international transmission bandwidth, an increase of 394% in comparison to our bandwidth in 2010; In line with our motto of “Mutual Sharing of Strengths, Joint Value We have acquired equipment buildings to fulfill our expansion Creation”, we have proactively sought to identify foreign investment needs in Hong Kong, Los Angeles, and London, among other opportunities that meet our strategic development needs and are locations, laying a foundation for the provision of IDC and other actively expanding into the foreign mobile communications market. services; (See page 52 for related statistics on our responsibility abroad.) Our international services primary platform and service management systems are all online, which makes our operational In December 2010, we established China Mobile Group International efficiency to reach first-class international level; Company Limited in Hong Kong, to operate our international We have developed and provided competitive international service business in a professional and cooperative manner and transform products, effectively reduced international roaming fees, and the previously disconnected service models, thus effectively creating established transnational company and operator customer service, an end-to-end management model. We aim to become the leading thus successfully expanding our international sources of revenue; international service operator for the Asia Pacific region within the We have significantly increased the performance of our next three to five years. international Internet quality indicators, with China Mobile’s international internet global ranking rising from below no.1,600 to its current level of no. 57. China Mobile Limited 57 Constructing a Global Network Center, Improving International Internet Quality In August 2012, China Mobile laid the foundation for our Global In 2012, the quality of China Mobile’s international internet has Network Center in Tseung Kwan O, Hong Kong. We have invested improved significantly, and the global ranking of China Mobile’s about 1 billion Hong Kong Dollars. Upon its completion, it will international internet moved up to no. 57 from below no. become China Mobile's Global Network Business Management 1,600. Center and serve as our network integration hub and data center. This will provide us access to connect to the international Internet network. 36 A Rich Wireless Experience The development of Information and Communication Technology has ushered in a new future for mankind: integrated multiple broadband wireless communication networks form the An Information-enhanced Future physical basis of barrier-free communication; modern platform technologies, such as cloud computing, create high efficiency low cost information platforms; ICT applications and large numbers of smart terminals enable ICT applications to integrate into people’s daily lives and various industries. Since 2010, China Mobile has been constructing a Wireless City covering the nation, to provide residents with one-stop local life information services, as well as to governments and corporate customers with applications for municipal management and industry application services. As of the end of 2012, our Wireless City has covered 336 cities across China, with a total of 70 million customers using city web portals to log into the Wireless City and enjoy tens of thousands of Wireless City applications. A Rich Wireless Experience Ubiquitous wireless coverage + Rich wireless experiences pos S At home Study Healthcare Travel Working Consumption Convenient residence Security Prompt rescue Convenient traffic Transform working Convenient payment 2012 Sustainability Report Community security Informationalised response Green transportation approach Safe consumption Vulnerable group education Healthcare resources Safe travel Optimise working assistance Culture promotion via sharing efficiency multimedia Convenient services 37 At Home On sweltering summer days, can I turn on my home’s air conditioning while I am on my way back home from work? An Information-enhanced Future I need to go on a business trip, but I am worried my old mother may suddenly fall ill. If this happens, is it possible for me to help her to obtain aid in time? By utilising mobile internet and Internet of Things technology, China Mobile aims to fulfill residents’ real-life needs by providing a wide variety of information services. China Mobile's “Easy Home In Guangdong, we promoted the community “Police Services eShop” application, which Access” Service provides almost 200 community services such as online immigration applications and status “Easy Home Access” is a new monitoring, traffic violation inquiries, vehicle license number selection, online police reports, informationalised product rooted in and community housing rent inquiries, enabling residents to enjoy convenient services at TD-SCDMA wireless communication home. At present, we have built “Police Services eShop” for over 80 communities, almost half technology and the Internet of Things. of which have achieved “zero crime report”. This product builds upon the foundation A Rich Wireless Experience provided by our current TD wireless In Gansu, we introduced “Smart eCommunity” which integrates services such as Lanzhou device, and uses wireless sensor based City’s public transportation cards, Mobile Wallet, company card management, and other equipment to compile and process a functions. This service also provides residential entrance and parking lot management through multitude of environmental information, video surveillance at the entrances of residential communities, fences, and parking garages, making it easy for users to access realamong others. Video surveillance by mobile phones, meets the safety and management needs time surveillance and management. “Easy of housing communities. Home Access” enables the optimisation of With China entering the aging society, the problems associated with elderly home care in lifestyles and living environments through communities and social services for senior citizens are growing more prominent everyday. features such as security warnings, China Mobile has targeted these problems in developing elderly-focused assistance and home electronics remote control, video senior-care informationalised application services, providing a comforting level of guarantee surveillance, and WiFi internet, thus and security for our senior citizens. fulfilling the modern needs of customers for smart home monitoring. In September In Anhui, we have developed an information system for senior citizens who live at home, 2012, we released “Easy Home Access” integrating the development of a community elderly care information emergency calling platform for commercial use nationwide. with a community elderly care service center and a community care service platform. This enables the delivery of services for the elderly that include emergency calls, home family visits, life care, On May 17, 2012, World Telecommunications health recovery, and bed-side nursing, fulfilling the home care needs of senior citizens. Day, in cooperation with air conditioner manufacturers and dealerships, we In Heilongjiang, we have developed a social security wireless fingerprint identification system led the promotion of the “Easy Home that allows the elderly to independently complete identification checks from any location Access” Internet of Things air conditioner with mobile reception. This service also provides functions such as social insurance payment in Chongqing, which allows customers, viewing, social insurance account change notifications, social insurance authentication regardless of their location, to use text reminders, and other functions such as government policy publication and locating. messages, the internet and WAP to control their air conditioner. For example, during In Shanghai, we promoted a “Safe Travel” service, which tailor-made a watch-like device hot days, an air conditioner can be turned that can be worn by senior citizens, and allows senior citizens’ families to know where they on remotely by sending the Internet of are in real time. Other features include silent police alerts, electronic fences, silent audio Things air conditioner a simple ‘Turn On’ monitoring, and fast speed dialling, which all enable the safety of the elderly outside of their text message 30 minutes before one arrives homes. home. The air conditioner will automatically “Sense of Security Card” turn on upon message receipt. If an elderly person gets lost or experiences an accident, the ability to provide real-time information to his or her children or caretakers is crucial. China Mobile's “Sense of Security China Mobile Limited Card” service provides an exemplary solution to this situation. Many empty-nesters and widowed elderly live in Shanghai's Jingan District's “Sense of Security Card” promotional zone. Mr. Wang is one such person. Mr. Wang suffers from Alzheimer's disease, and often gets lost. Although the community's PSB police force provides Mr. Wang with exceptional care and assistance, there are still many problems he is unable to resolve on his own. After the release of the Sense of Security Card , Mr. Wang's family began to use the service immediately. After several days of use, Mr. Wang's son expressed his high level of satisfaction with the service, saying “No matter where he is, all we have to do is use the 'Sense of Security Card' service, and we can immediately locate him. I feel much more at ease at work now, and I do not need to worry about him getting lost anymore.” In Shanghai, we patiently explained the use of safety watches to the elderly 38 Study How can I know if my children have arrived at school safely after they have left home? An Information-enhanced Future Can my visually impaired family member use a mobile phone to listen to audio books? In order to support the improvement of education quality and informationalisation management, China Mobile has built a highly efficient system for education informationalisation management National Educational Resource and educational resource sharing. In addition, we have continuously developed education Public Service Platform informationalisation applications, satisfying needs in many areas. Development In Hunan, we built a school bus informationalisation management system based on Internet On December 28, 2012, the National of Things technology. This system includes features such as attendance checks when Educational Resource Public Service students get on and off a bus, safe text messages, family phones, parent card identification, Platform, which was co-developed by student attendance real time statistics, lost children alerts, voice message reports, bus stop the Ministry of Education and China A Rich Wireless Experience management, GPS positioning, route information, and notifications if a school bus exceeds Mobile, was officially opened for use. The the speed limit. These combined measures enable effective monitoring of school bus safety. Platform utilises education resources to In Jilin, we launched an education informationalisation project, a three-in-one educational serve as guidance and leverages internet network consisting of educational informationalised equipment rooms and educational resources, all under the principle of informationalised application platform construction, a computer network, and a management mutual cooperative study. The Platform network. After almost a year since the project’s inception, our fiber-optics have been installed will accelerate innovation in education, in 81 schools and the entire county Educational Bureau, forming a video surveillance system, achieving the sharing of resources for with an average of 50 surveillance spots in each school. This has greatly supported safety students and creating a high quality management, meeting the needs of 972,000 parents in their use of the Jilin Education and education databank, thus pushing forward Teaching Website. informationalisation in education. China Mobile has also delivered innovative products and services such as the Mobile Paper, Mobile Reading, Mobile TV, Mobile Animation, and Wireless Music, to promote culture. In 2012, we began to integrate our Mobile Paper and Mobile Reading services by promoting the Mobile Paper Mobile Animation lets “Poetic to Mobile Reading customers, resulting in a more diverse Mobile Paper customer base. Mobile Reading specially promoted a new product, the audio book, to meet the needs of special groups China” grow such as children, the elderly, and people with disabilities, allowing visually impaired persons to To promote our traditional culture, China Mobile enjoy the pleasure of books anywhere, any time. held the first “Poetic China” traditional poem competition in conjunction with the Guangming By the end of 2012, Mobile Reading has formed partnerships with 215 outstanding content Daily Press and CCTV. partners and catalogued over 342,000 official digital books, including picture books, magazines, cartoons, and audio books, covering over 92.5% of the best-sellers list in all One of the highlights of this first competition genres. was the combination of Mobile Animation with ancient poetry. Our Mobile Animation Special Anime-Ancient Poetry Center went online on December 10, 2012, and exhibited numerous 63.81million “Poetic China” ink painting-animation pieces of work. Through Mobile Animation, China Mobile China Mobile invests significant efforts has the opportunity of combining multiple to improve the informationalisation types of communication concepts, using visual symbols as a new form of of education in China. By the end 2012 Sustainability Report communication to integrate traditional of 2012, the number of “Campus poetry with modern science and technology, Information Service” customers In Gansu, the primary school students realised homeas a vivid expression of poetic beauty. reached a total of 63.81 million. school interaction through the “Campus Information Service” In our integration of traditional ink painting with modern anime, we specifically selected the use of healthy and active themes to showcase the richness of China's traditional poetry and also enable the poetry to better match the public interest, to ultimately generate the public creative enthusiasm. 39 Healthcare My child is suddenly sick, and I can only ask for half a day off. Can I use my mobile phone to make an appointment at the hospital? An Information-enhanced Future Medical specialists are so far away. Can they still provide on-site guidance for my father’s surgery? China Mobile has used the integration of the nation’s urban medical resources to improve the 11million hospital procedures and create a series of informationalisation services focused on medical treatment and healthcare, providing ‘by-your-side’ mobile services that are accessible to urban residents anywhere, anytime. We cooperated with the Ministry of Health to develop a Total Web Medical Treatment Appointment Platform. Customers call 12580-6 to make an appointment, reducing waiting The 12580 Medical Appointment Service times from an average of 2.5 hours to just 30 minutes. The platform has been used to has been utilised 11 million times in manage 7.7 million appointment slots at over 900 tertiary hospitals around China, and 2012. receives almost 800,000 inquiries per month with about 120,000 appointments made per A Rich Wireless Experience month. In Jiangsu, we have promoted a family health follow-up system, which uses functions such as wireless treatment equipment, physician workload management, position locating, and appointment management, to transform the traditional work mode of physicians. In Shanxi, we started the “Health Manager” information system pilot project, in which we integrated mobile internet technology and community health services to allow residents to view their health records, receive health reminders from community physicians, and carry out information searches and appointment services with their mobile phones. Community medical organisations can also use the system to check patients’ conditions and conduct follow up services to improve treatment effectiveness. In Hunan, customers successfully registered for medical In Fujian, we have promoted a health aid service, which enables the scheduling of medical appointments using mobile services appointments and includes features such as a latest complete medicine catalogues, medical record checks, medicine information guidelines , pharmaceutical factory or dealer information, netizen quotes and user reviews, and searches for nearby pharmacies, hospitals and doctors. This service provides users a convenient experience. During the “golden treatment period” of emergency medical care, the coordination of lifesaving care provided by both pre-hospital caregivers and hospitals is an urgent issue that still needs to be managed by emergency care services at present. In Beijing, we have partnered with the Peking Union Medical College Hospital, the People’s Hospital, and the 999 Emergency Center to create a comprehensive, 3D emergency medical information coordination platform that incorporates emergency command centers, In Beijing, Smart Mobile Health services have been ambulances, medical personnel and treatment centers. This system can methodologically widely used assign patients to specific care centers, enabling doctors to prepare in advance, thus lowering disability and fatality rates and improving treatment results for patients in critical condition. At the same time, mobile communication technology has also transformed the traditional medical care model, by delivering remote care to more patients by sharing medical expert resources, thus improving the uneven distribution of medical resources, lowering treatment costs, and increasing the rate of timely treatment. In Jiangsu, we worked with hospitals within the province to establish the “Coronary Heart China Mobile Limited Disease Distance Medical Treatment System”. We used the Internet of Things, high definition imaging and high speed wireless office technology to enable specialists in other locations view on-site data and provide medical advice from remote locations. We also developed the “Digital Medicine Supervision” system. Supervising personnel use the “Digital Medicine Supervision” system to achieve core functions such as mobile supervision, illegal drug checks, system reports, position information, and video surveillance. This provides a detailed understanding of raw material supply, production management processes, ingredient usage, product inspection standards, and customer tracing, to enable medicine tracing management. 40 Travel The car I just bought is parked on the side of the road. What if it gets stolen? An Information-enhanced Future This is my first time travelling to this city. How can I find nearby public transportation routes? The “Internet of Vehicles” is a hot topic around the world, and possesses significant meaning The World’s First 4G Network in encouraging the development of smart transportation, improving car travel safety and for High Speed Rail on the decreasing carbon emissions. In 2012, we put forth an “Internet of Vehicles--Worry-Free Car Travel” smart terminal. This terminal integrates “Internet of Vehicles” technologies such Shanghai-Hangzhou High Speed as RFID (electronic labels), GPS (global positioning system), GIS (geographic information Rail Jiaxing Segment system), and LBS (mobile base station positioning), and uses network car platforms to carry out functions such as identification of car owners, motion detection, anti-theft reporting to In December 2012, China Mobile police, and terminal management. completed 4G network trial coverage for the Jiaxing segment of the ShanghaiIn Shanghai, we promoted our transportation video information service. With this service, A Rich Wireless Experience Hangzhou high speed rail line, in effect city residents can use a map to see the distribution of transportation surveillance cameras establishing the world's first 4G network in the area, from which residents can also check real-time car flow and traffic as broadcast for high speed trains. by fixed surveillance cameras. At present this service utilises 43 surveillance cameras in the Constructing a wireless network for highprimary roads of Shanghai’s Putuo and Pudong New Districts. speed moving environments, such as the In Guangdong, we have provided 10086 text message reminders, 12580 telephone service Shanghai-Hangzhou train with an average advice and Wireless City car owner high speed channels to provide travel advice for residents speed of 300 kilometers/hour, has long on the road. The channel currently covers road conditions on 73 highways throughout the been a problem in mobile communication province. During the golden week period of the 2012 National Day Holiday we provided 7.8 network coverage. million car owners with highway road condition information. Our terminals received 1.10 Using technological advances, we have million clicks and received positive feedback from the society. been able to realise high speed data We also launched a smart bus dispatch and management system for public bus download services for high speed trains, transportation. By leveraging dynamic positioning technology, wireless communications and and on-site trials have shown that data digital map display, we have established real-time monitoring of vehicle position, movement service speeds can reach 15M per second, and maintenance, as well as intelligent scheduling of the bus network. which enables high quality digital movies to be downloaded successfully in only a In Zhejiang, we launched a “Smart City, Wireless Public Transportation” application, which few minutes. The convenient experience uses advanced network technology to integrate station, route, positioning, and real-time of enjoying mobile broadband internet at traffic information. In addition to providing public transport station and route information, high speeds will be universally accessible users can also features such as map positioning and optimal route planning to find the best in the near future. public transport line, and information on nearby stations. At present, this application covers 122 public transport routes in Ningbo’s city area. In Fujian, we cooperated with the Fujian Provincial Transportation Management Bureau to provide the “Mobile Bus Ticket” service. Residents can use 12580, WAP, mobile phone customer terminals, 24 hour automated service, and other channels to quickly and easily buy tickets, avoiding the inconvenience of visiting the bus station to buy tickets during busy periods. This provides citizens with a low carbon, environmentally friendly, green road for travelling. For logistics and transport, we have leveraged positioning service platforms in our “Smart Logistics” service, which combines “smart” technology that brings together vehicle resources and the supply of goods, a text messaging information platform, a vehicle and goods tracking platform, and an online payment platform, to provide fast, accurate, and cost-effective service 2012 Sustainability Report in delivery vehicle identification. This helps to integrate the entire process of goods delivery, In Zhejiang, we officially launched the Smart City, from supplier to customers, optimising logistics. Wireless Public Transportation application In Shandong, we built Shandong Province’s largest county-level public transportation information platform. This platform has installed global satellite positioning systems for all of Shouguang City’s public transportation vehicles, taxis, passenger vehicles and hazardous product transport vehicles, and has also increased functions such as electronic display screens, electronic voice stations, and voice-controlled vehicles to form a transportation dispatch control system which can control 16,000 motor vehicles simultaneously. In addition, we have set up a logistics information resource sharing platform using the information system as its core, allowing for the reduction of logistics links and the lowering of transport costs. 41 Work Is there a way for me to check the approval progress for government administrative affairs on my own? An Information-enhanced Future Can I check the state of progress at construction sites in other provinces without actually having to take a business trip to physically visit these sites? Can I find out real-time information on the operations of heat source equipment, and confirm that residents’ homes are warm enough? In order to ease the management of government affairs and administration and to promote Installing “Smart Eyes” for Heating the goal of more transparent, public government affairs, China Mobile has synthesised the Companies needs of government departments to develop government informationalisation applications. These serve to strongly support the transparency of government affairs, the ‘electronisation’ In order to improve the quality of of processes involved in government affairs, beneficial and mutual communication between informationalisation in the urban heat supply the government and the people, and the informationalisation of government management, system, and to resolve problems such as thus serving as a great aid in achieving “one-stop” government service. outdated monitoring methods and unequal distribution of heating, China Mobile has In Guizhou, we constructed a “Traceable, Consultable, Superviseable, and Ratable” developed a fully automated heat exchange A Rich Wireless Experience comprehensive supervisory system for our network. This system uses electronic supervision to monitoring system that carries out real-time strengthen the ability of the government in monitoring and supervision. From August 2011 monitoring, distance analysis, and automatic until July 2012, the City Government Affairs Center used the Government Affairs Approval control of the heating supply network's Electronic Monitoring System to process over 88,000 different applications which required temperature, pressure, flow, and switching approval or other forms of service, for which the completion rate was 99.44%. values in Neimenggu. This system thus In Shanxi, we developed a “Population Information Report Platform”, which conducts allows 24 hour smart monitoring of the heat real-time monitoring of the entire province’s demographics. This allows real time statistical supply network. information on the population to be compiled, allowing dynamic population management to This system can regulate the secondbe carried out through population comparisons and assessments. After this service went into network , which consists of pipes operation, report timeliness was raised from 74% under the previous system to 97%, and connecting heat exchange stations and data accuracy increased from 70% to 98%, successfully raising work efficiency and quality in consumers, by restoring heat to water the collection of demographic information. in the network upon its arrival from the Promoting a comprehensive integration and simultaneous development of informationalisation first-network , which consists of pipes and industrialisation is an important strategic direction of China’s current economic connecting heat generation plants and development. We are continuously strengthening our cooperation with other industrial heat exchange stations. This allows manufacturing companies, and are developing closely integrated, informationalised plans for heating to be supplied according to need production management processes in industries associated with ours, effectively helping these and results in an even heat supply for the industries to adjust their structures, thus increasing their level of informationalisation. whole network, reduces waste, and lowers the system's overall energy consumption In Anhui, we have used informationalisation to carry out “smart” supervision and and environmental impact. The automated management of safe construction. This allows supervision to be conducted using construction heat exchange system's first 20 stations site real-time data collection and monitoring for aspects such as construction environment have been put into use by Neimenggu's and foundation. Such monitoring increases the ability of companies to supervise their Ulanqab (pinyin: Wulanchabu) City's Jining construction sites remotely, and increases the speed with which companies can rectify on-site Heating Company. construction problems. In Gansu, we have used Internet of Things technology to construct a data calculation collection platform for the Jiuquan Iron and Steel Corporation. The platform uses technology such as a GPRS wireless network, data lines and industry text messaging to deliver features such as remote wireless data collection, management and text messaging alerts for the Jiuquan Steel Factory. Collected data includes consumption levels of electricity, water, steam, and natural gas. China Mobile Limited In Shaanxi, we promoted the Police Information Services to improve social security 42 Consumption I forgot to bring my wallet. Can I pay the money through my mobile phone? POS An Information-enhanced Future I am sick and don't want to go outside today. Can I stay at home and pay electric bill? S Can I instantly find out if the beef I bought at the supermarket was properly butchered and processed? China Mobile continuously strengthens our cooperation with financial institutions, providing Creating a New Chapter in convenient and fast payment options for consumers. Our mobile payment service has been Mobile Payment welcomed by the customers since it was commercialised in May 2010. The service has received the AsianChina Financial Service Excellence Award” from the Asian Banker, and the On June 21, 2012, our parent company China Mobile Shanghai Pudong Development Bank United Card has won the “Best China signed the Mobile Payment Ser vice Retail Payment Product” prize. Cooperative Framework with China UnionPay. We will use our strengths within China Mobile has promoted a food product safety informationalisation application in many our respective business fields to begin a provinces, which includes functions such as food product record entry, food safety inspections, A Rich Wireless Experience partnership in the mobile payment sector. and consumer complaint reports. This comprehensively covers information regarding food Both companies will actively initiate payment product dealers, food product sourcing information, and food product quality information. products and applications for mobile phone The application achieves the goals of controlling wholesaler sources, tracing retail terminals, users. In the near future, mobile phone users inquiring supervision responsibility, and enabling public supervision, and thus has the potential will be able to swipe their mobile phone to play an important role in improving food product safety. In terms of procuring food to conduct payment on POS machines product sources, over 2 billion livestock around the nation have been entered into a livestock equipped with the “Quick Pass, No-Contact procurement system, utilising over 150,000 card-scanning terminals. Necessary” label, and will also be able to use their touch phone screens to complete In Hubei, we promoted a food procurement system which covers all food wholesalers. This credit card payment, fee payments, online system records food information in detail, including batch number, producer, inspection certificate, purchasing, and other remote payment. quality guarantee period and supplier business permits, thus ensuring consumers' safety. In Guizhou, in cooperation with the China Construction Bank's Guizhou Branch and China UnionPay's Guizhou Branch Company, we have promoted the Mobile Shanghai Wireless City Creates an Easy Life UnionPay Dragon Card . The product Since we signed the ‘Smart City’ Joint Development Framework Agreement with the Shanghai integrates a smart SIM card and bank card City government in 2011, we have made great efforts to push forward the construction of our account, and includes functions such as Wireless City, with efforts centering around areas such as strong governance, industry, and mobile phone communication, on-site ‘nocitizen support. Through these efforts we have created almost 100 mobile informationalised contact necessary’ payment and remote applications for use in ten areas including public services, public transportation, and medical payment, attendance checking, and treatment, thus providing a brand-new and convenient lifestyle for Shanghai residents. remote surveillance monitoring, among others. We worked with the Shanghai Pudong Development Bank to jointly promote Financial IC card services, providing a quick, easy, and safe payment experience for customers; We cooperated with the Expo Shanghai Group to provide mobile phone ticket purchasing services for residents; Working with LOTUS, we promoted a series of applications in multiple brand information releases, membership, and reward points management; We united with the Shanghai Fufeitong Company to provide numerous channels for easy electronic statement checking and efficient payment. In addition, China Mobile and the Shanghai government authorities created online inquiry functions for five types of statements water, electricity, heating, cable TV, and mobile communication. Citizens can also use their current location to make inquiries into nearby 2012 Sustainability Report facilities, such as those providing public services, hospitals and banks, with the service already covering 1.2 million locations. 43 Sharing the Benefits of Informationalisation between Urban and Rural areas 10.34 billion An Information-enhanced Future According to the statistics of the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, as of the We have sent a total of 10.34 billion end of 2012, telephone service has reached 100% of administrative villages and 95.1% pieces of information through Rural of natural villages with over 20 households. In rural China, up to 90% of the residents have owned mobile phones, and 40% have owned home computers, and the percentage Information Network. of rural residents using the internet for information collection has reached over 40% in 2012. These statistics show that along with the gradual spread of communication services and the narrowing of the urban-rural digital divide, we have reached a point where our company is not satisfied with merely providing communication facilities with wide coverage for remote rural areas, but more importantly we must also continuously develop innovative rural informationalised applications and services. These initiatives will allow rural informationalisation to truly transform and generate tangible benefits that support the development of residents, agriculture and rural areas as a whole. Narrowing the digital divide has always been a strategic, key issue for China Mobile in fulfilling our responsibilities to society. For many years we have worked hard to utilise our WLAN Wireless Broadband company’s footprint to deliver technological advantages on a massive scale; build wideProvides a Path for Information Sharing the Benefits of Informationalisation between Urban and Rural areas spread basic information communication facilities; innovate our informationalised services Development in Rural Areas and plans; use information communication technology to “teach people to fish”; help rural residents in remote areas increase their income; and help agriculture transform and support On April 7, 2012, WLAN Wireless rural development. We have been pushing forward the benefits of shared urban-rural Broadband service commenced in informationalisation and are making significant contributions to the development of a new Linghai City’s Majia Village in Liaoning countryside. Province, changing the lives of the village residents. Going online has now become Three Networks for a New Countryside an irreplaceable element of villager Ma Guiyou’s daily family life. In the past, Mr. We have actively developed and optimised rural communication, information, and distribution Ma could only worry if he had crop or land networks to form Three Networks for a New Countryside. Through this initiative we have problems, but he is now able to obtain improved the accessibility of information technology in rural areas, thus helping rural residents solutions online. Previously villagers were to enjoy “available, affordable, and credible” services. (See page 50 for more statistics related also limited to playing chess or watching to narrowing the digital divide.) traditional “er’renzhuan” performances, but now computers are the most popular Basic Telecommunications Network: Since 2004, China Mobile has actively supported form of entertainment. The elderly our parent company‘s participation in the “Village Connected Project“. By 2012 we had villagers say, “Now that we have internet helped a total of 10,633 remote natural villages, to gain access to mobile phone service, access, we can access livestock feed which represents over 85% of this market sector. We also helped increase the percentage prices and food prices without leaving our of natural villages with over 20 households with phone service from 94.7% at the homes. If we have difficult questions, we beginning of this year to its current level of 95.1%, and introduced broadband service to can go online to find immediate answers. 7,182 administrative villages; Computers have truly become a good aid Rural Information Network: Since 2006, we have built and operated a rural information in helping us prosper.” network platform, built a national rural information data sharing base, developed and promoted the “12582 Rural Information Service” platform application and offered numerous sub-applications such as the “Everything Easy”, “Rural Job Search”, “Agricultural Meteorological Service”, “Rural Information Package”, “Easy Trading”, and “Easy Government Administration” applications. These applications cover multiple facets of life, from crop cultivation and animal husbandry, to farm production supply and distribution and rural government administration. The applications also form the nation’s current largest New Countryside information portal. As of the end of 2012, we have processed over 63 million pieces of rural information. Customers of our Rural Information Service have reached 43 million, sending out 10.34 billion pieces of rural information, with an average volume of nearly 57,000 calls per day to our hotline; China Mobile Limited Rural Distribution Network: We have constructed about 700,000 rural sales outlets, which allow village customers to receive service without the need to leave their villages. We have also provided services in multiple languages and formats for ethnic minority In Gansu, we invited animal husbandry experts to groups in remote ethnic minority areas, ensuring that information communication services deliver technical training for farmers reach as many people as possible. 44 Increasing Rural Resident Income 50 million The continuous and rapid increase of farmer revenue is essential for China to achieve ruralurban integration. We leverage information technology to help the promotion of agricultural commodities and the creation of employment opportunities for farmers. An Information-enhanced Future Our 12582 “Rural Job Search” Hotline has served users 50 million person-times. Identifying Agricultural Product Distribution Channels Due to the inadequate market information and poor distribution system, it’s very hard to find the match between buyers and sellers’ requirements, which create a bottleneck to improve farmers’ income and rural economy development. Our QR Code Technology Helps China Mobile has used the 12582 “Rural Information Service” hotline to provide rural residents, businesses, and product distributors and retailers with the registration of agricultural Agriculture and subsidiary agricultural product information, price inquiries, market trends, and supply The “Pinghe Honey Pomelo” has been and demand matching. This helps users to obtain the latest market information and complete awarded as a “China Famous Trademark”. business transactions without leaving their homes. As of the end of 2012, our 12582 hotline However, in recent years some fake had been dialled a total of 61,000 times, serving 36,800 users. Surveys showed that 67% of “Pinghe Honey Pomelos” have appeared customers felt the service to be useful. on the market. At the height of these ‘forgeries’ in 2008, growers of authentic “Rural Job Search” for Migrant Workers Sharing the Benefits of Informationalisation between Urban and Rural areas Pinghe Honey Pomelos suffered heavy According to the National Bureau of Statistics, in 2012, China had 263 million rural migrant losses, and the sales price for authentic workers. Due to the unequal distribution of job recruitment information, large corporations Pinghe Honey Pomelos fell from 2.5 yuan have had trouble finding workers, leading to labour shortages. However, millions of migrant to 1.7 yuan per catty. To protect the workers have also complained about difficulties in finding employment. China Mobile’s “Rural ‘Pinghe Honey Pomelo’ brand, in 2009 the Job Search” application was developed to address this situation, by using multiple services Honey Pomelo Association partnered with and channels to build a platform that matches corporation’s recruitment demands with China Mobile to label honey pomelos with migrant workers employment needs. security labels incorporating a QR code sourcing system, allowing consumers to Our 12582 “Rural Job Search” officially commenced in 2010, and since then has grown from use their mobile phones to scan the QR voice service to a centralised 12582 Informationalisation Service Platform that incorporates code and receive immediate confirmation voice hotlines, text/multimedia messages, and a website to effectively expand the available of the authenticity of the honey pomelo. channels of employment information for migrant workers. In addition to providing national One farmer, Wang Min (pseudonym), employment services for rural migrant workers, “Rural Job Search” has also expanded to from Xiaoxi Village in Pinghe County, include services such as migrant worker rights protection, vocational improvement, among stated: “In 2008 my orchard’s revenue was others. These services help rural residents resolve the difficult problems they face in working less than 100,000 yuan, but after China in cities, and enable a faster and easier integration into city life. As of the end of 2012, 12582 Mobile's QR code had been used in my 40 “Rural Job Search” has covered China’s 31 provinces, exceeded 6.06 million customers, mu orchard plot since 2010, my annual and provided 50 million person-times of employment information, thus demonstrating its revenue has reached over 300,000 yuan effectiveness in rural worker employment, training, and business start-up. every year. With this code, consumers trust In addition, we united with the China Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security the product’s quality and safety, and there to introduce the “Spring Breeze Action” initiative. During the 2010-2012 Spring Festivals has been a great increase in the number (Chinese New Year), “Rural Job Search” cooperated with “Spring Breeze Action” to provide of customers.” free employment information for migrant workers returning to the city from their homes; this China Mobile's QR coding technology is service has accumulatively sent over 840 million free pieces of employment information. now used in the labeling of a large group of specialty items, in addition to honeys pomelos, such as the Aksu ‘Candy Red Traditional Migrant Worker Employment Model Fuji’ Apples, Anxi Tieguanyin tea, and Personal Experienced Yixing King Hairy Crabs. The code serves Weakness: Connections fellow-villager as a guarantee of the quality of these introduction Limited information and most of which is local; interview Go on duty Comparatively low reliability of Information; “Golden Signpost” specialty items, which Cost for travel, accommodation. Onsite hiring Recruitment fair are popularly sold in both domestic and 2012 Sustainability Report foreign markets. New Migrant Worker Employment Model with 12582 Advantages: Easy access to information through mobile phone; 12582 interview Go on duty Nationwide and abundant information; Information is reviewed and reliable; Can be accessed from home, free and cost-effective. 45 Transforming Agriculture Increasing the pace of development of modern agriculture is a key use of remote controls in the scientific management of fish ponds element in the construction of a new countryside. The use of modern has brought greater convenience to fish farmers. information communication technology, especially the Internet An Information-enhanced Future of Things, will fundamentally change the traditional agricultural Internet of Things Drip Irrigation production models of subsistence agriculture, excessive grain “Internet of Things Smart Drip Irrigation” is implemented in production and excessive reliance on manual labour. China Mobile accordance with the unique cultivation requirements of different has developed 37 agricultural Internet of Things applications in 9 crops using wireless automatic irrigation and fertilisation, and a categories, which allows advanced technology to truly be experienced remote monitoring system, which together enable effective crop in the countryside. cultivation management. Greenhouse Manager The majority of the Xinjiang Autonomous Region suffers from drought or partial drought conditions, with relatively low levels of Shandong Province is one of our nation’s most important agricultural precipitation, placing large constraints on agricultural production. In provinces and one of the nation’s biggest vegetable producing Shihezi City, Xinjiang, although drip irrigation technology had already areas. The large-scale production of vegetables here faces problems been used in the past, most of the previous work relied on manual such as uneven crop quality, low labour expertise, and the farmers’ management. In 2011, China Mobile installed a free “Internet of over-reliance on experience (rather than technology) in vegetable Things Smart Drip Irrigation System”. Computers at the Control production. Center are connected to smart irrigation field sensors, which send Sharing the Benefits of Informationalsation between Urban and Rural areas China Mobile has used the Internet of Things to develop a information to this center for expert analysis. Text messages are then “Greenhouse Manager” smart agricultural management system sent to managing personnel at individual farms. This technology in Shandong Province. “Greenhouse Manager” uses real-time enables savings of approximately 100-150 m3 of water/mu of land, monitoring, remote control and remote problem-identification, to and increases in production of 100-150 kilograms/ mu of land. carry out 24 hour real-time monitoring of environmental conditions As of the end of 2012, China Mobile has implemented Internet and growth factors in greenhouses such as soil, temperature, of Things irrigation on 210,000 mu of land in Xinjiang, bringing humidity, and wind speed. Farmers can make use of mobile terminals impressive benefits in terms of reduced manpower cost, water use, to remotely conduct functions such as automatic greenhouse and an increased productivity. shutters or screens, and automatic irrigation. Farmers can also use “Greenhouse Manager” video cameras to take pictures of diseased crops and use the mobile network to upload these to the system. The system’s agricultural experts can carry out long-distance diagnosis Internet of Things Serves China's Big Granary using these pictures and subsequently send the appropriate advice We have introduced a series of Internet of Things applications in to farmers. Over 1,500 greenhouses in Shandong Province have Heilongjiang, an agricultural province, such as smart greenhouses, installed “Greenhouse Manager” and it is estimated that by the end smart irrigation of paddy fields, monitoring of crop growth of 2013, over 20,000 vegetable greenhouses in Shandong Province environment, in combination with our positioning service, to will have installed “Greenhouse Manager”. form systems such as automated agricultural regulation systems The “Greenhouse Manager” has changed the traditional agricultural and automatic GPS navigation systems that coordinate numerous models of relying on experience and feeling to conduct farming amounts of mechanised agricultural work. At present, our Internet operations, and has achieved accurate, smart cultivation of of Things crop applications have been put into use in areas such agricultural crops, helping crop production to increase by 25-35%, as farm field plowing, rice paddy irrigation, advanced disease and saving about 40% in manpower costs. pest control and protection, weather monitoring and forecasts, agricultural product sourcing, vehicle positioning, and water pump Smart Aquaculture control, setting an important foundation for the development of a new model of agriculture. Zhejiang Province’s South Tai Lake’s Agricultural Demonstration Base was one of the first 76 Exemplary Agriculture Demonstration Bases approved by the National Ministry of Agriculture. The base has over 200 greenhouses and over 1,500 fish ponds. In the past, fish farmers had to monitor fish ponds 24/7, continuously paying attention to pond temperature, illumination/sunlight, humidity, and oxygenation levels. China Mobile commenced Internet of Things testing in cooperation with this base since April 2012, helping the China Mobile Limited base implement ‘smart aquaculture’. Currently, with the help of Internet of Things technology, fish farmers can use their mobile phones to gauge the conditions of their ponds, through sensors that collect data on fish pond temperature, pH and dissolved oxygen levels. This data can be uploaded wirelessly to the system’s central platform for analysis, with notifications sent to fish farmers enabling them to carry out any necessary management. Aquaculture farmers can also use the Internet of Things, at any time and place, to conduct video surveillance of fish ponds, and can take pictures or videos that can be played or reviewed at a later time. The QR codes helps farmers better manage farming 46 Developing the Countryside The development of a modern countryside entails certain key of autonomous prefectures, counties, towns, and villages, thus priorities, inclusive of consistent focus on the development of providing important safety measures for “left-behind families” and nationwide equipment infrastructure and rural social development, residents. An Information-enhanced Future further promotion of rural development and poverty alleviation, and holistic improvement of rural production levels and living conditions. Rural Healthcare Through information technology, China Mobile is making tangible In order to help the nation’s New Rural Cooperative Medical contributions in the improvement of village governance, community System serve rural residents, China Mobile has continued to push security and healthcare. forward the construction of a New Rural Cooperative Medical Information System, which integrates multiple types of information Rural Governance communication technology to help rural residents in quick and China Mobile has used the 12582 Rural Information Service to timely submission of real-time medical claim reports and subsidies promote our “Easy Governance” service to help grassroots-level receipt. Our System also helps government bureaus supervise medical governments in functions such as government administration, treatment and healthcare, conduct real-time monitoring of funds, information dissemination and public service, effectively saving assure that the policy is used as intended to help rural residents, thus administrative costs and improving the effectiveness of rural reducing economic hardship caused by illness and other health issues. management. In Guizhou, we have been developing a New Rural Cooperative Medical Services information system since 2009, and by the end of Sharing the Benefits of Informationalsation between Urban and Rural areas Supporting Development and Building a Harmonious 2012, the system will cover over 11,000 medical organisations in Countryside Together 77 districts. Every month over 1.5 million people use this system to obtain subsidies, with total monthly subsidy disbursement reaching In Sichuan, China Mobile has partnered with the Sichuan Provincial approximately 300 million yuan, truly realising the goal of real-time Government and the Xinhua News Agency's Sichuan Branch to subsidy provision for rural residents. run the New Rural Pass platform. The platform uses mobile phone text and multimedia messages to send information related to the In Jiangxi, we have built a “Provincial Management Center as the New Countryside, such as information regarding policy, technology, Core, County Data Center as the Foundation” localised new rural market, labour, fire prevention and other hazards, to our many users, medical cooperative application system for the local government’s creating an information super highway for residents, cadres and medical treatment and healthcare department. We supported the organisations in rural areas. As of the end of July 2012, the New optimisation of mobile records and more than two million users have Rural Pass service has been operating in 12 cities, including Bazhong, used their mobile phones to participate in this programme through Mianyang, and Meishan, and has sent out 783 million messages. over 3,200 access points in 31 districts and counties. We have also This service has played a significant role in enabling the creation set up a “Rural Resident Compensation Fund” of over 30 million of new rural society management and promotion of governance yuan to pay for new rural cooperative insurance premiums for over 1 transparency by grassroots governments. million rural residents. In addition, we have built remote medical treatment information systems in Henan, Tianjin, Neimenggu, and Shanxi, helping residents, Rural Safety especially those in remote countryside locations, obtain remote diagnostic services thus helping reduce the unequal distribution of Along with the continuous increase in the speed of urbanisation and medical care. the existence of large numbers of young rural residents who enter cities to work and start businesses, there has been an increase in Mobile Informationalisation Assists the Development “left-behind families” (rural families where both mother and father are working in the city, leaving their children and aged parents at of Urban and Rural Emergency Medical Care home), and problems occur every day regarding the safety of leftIn order to meet the sudden, life-threatening emergency medical behind families. China Mobile has united with the local government needs of rural residents living in remote mountain areas, China in Hubei Province’s Enshi City to promote the “Ten Household Mobile has started an urban and rural emergency medical care all-inUnited Defense” platform, which combines modern communication one project using Guangxi’s Liuzhou as its pilot project. This project networks and residential communication terminals to effectively integrates a city, county, and town multi-level command platform handle emergencies encountered by rural left-behind families. with ‘level three’ hospitals, forming an all-in-one information platform. When an emergency occurs, this platform can be used The Ten Household United Defense platform uses mobile and 2012 Sustainability Report to ensure an emergency vehicle is deployed within three minutes land phones to group ten persons living near one another, or and also provides remote emergency instructions. Life monitors in “neighbours”, into one unit. If one of the unit members encounters emergency vehicles collects and transmits real-time information an urgent problem, he or she can dial the emergency number “995” on patients’ vital signs, helping medical experts conduct remote (which sounds similar to “Help Me” in Mandarin), and the system diagnosis. Since this platform officially went online in January 2011, will automatically send voice and text messages to notify the other branch centers received 9,669 emergency calls and transported 8,308 nine unit members, as well as the police. This creates an emergency patients to hospitals in 2011 alone. This project currently covers over system among members of the public as well as the police, providing 2 million people, thus helping to unite and share city and countryside timely and reliable safety protection. Since the introduction of the medical resources, gaining precious time critical for saving lives. Ten Household United Defense Platform, the theft rate in Enshi City villages has fallen by 45-80%. The “Ten Household United Defense” platform has created a safety protection system consisting 47 STAKEHOLDER COMMENTARY Strategic Responsibilities Inspire Sustainable Development Stakeholder Commentary 2012 was a very challenging year for Chinese companies. As a result of international and domestic economic conditions, the majority of companies experienced tremendous pressure to generate profit. The simultaneous needs of a company to maintain the fulfillment of social responsibilities, guarantee healthy growth rates, and achieve social harmony and environmental targets, have proven to be practical problems faced by all. As one of only three state-owned CSR models established by SASAC, China Mobile is an exemplary reflection of how it is possible for a company to the perfect relationship between corporate social responsibility and healthy corporate development. In 2012, China Mobile was included in the Dow Jones Sustainablity World Index for the fifth consecutive year, and listed by Hang Seng Sustainability Index for three years. China Mobile was also included by Fortune magazine in its 2012 World’s Most Admired Companies List, ranked Peng Huagang as one of the top ten companies in the Asia-Pacific region, and also received the “Sustainability Excellence Award” from the Chamber Director, Research Bureau of Hong Kong Listed Companies. All these honors are not only State-owned Assets Supervision and a recognition for the good performance of our corporate social Administration Commission of the responsibility work, but also a result of the steady and continuous State Council of China improvement in our responsibility management system. Since 2006, China Mobile has been devoted to the implementation also experienced challenges throughout its development, such as of social responsibility in accordance with international standards. corruption and low quality information. However, as we can observe As the first telecommunications company to publish a social from this report, China Mobile has proven that it has the ability to responsibility report in China, it began with a focus on continuous manage these difficult problems, trace the roots within the company and systematic corporate performance information disclosure. Under itself, improve relevant management systems and procedures, and the leadership of the company’s Chairman, China Mobile established actively invite supervision and participation from stakeholders, which the Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Committee, thus has been leading to increasingly positive results. clarifying and setting in place both the organisational structure and Social responsibility is not just an accessory. On the contrary, it long-term system needed for the company to be socially responsible. is the corner stone of any company’s development. A company China Mobile also initiated the China Mobile Charity Foundation, can achieve sustainable, healthy development only by integrating clearly developed its charity strategy including the scope of key areas social responsibility within every step of its development. It is and issues, and actively shared the company’s growth values with the our hope that China Mobile continues to adhere to sustainable broader society. d e v e l o p m e n t p r i n c i p l e s i n t h e f u t u re , i m p l e m e n t i n g t h e China Mobile explicitly set the goal of implementing a “sustainable harmonious development strategy for state-owned companies development” strategy during the twentieth Five-Year, integrating while fostering its own vision as a corporate model of social the company’s strategy development into the national social responsibility, and simultaneously inspiring more Chinese companies development programs, and aligning its social development efforts to implement higher standards of social responsibility, thus with core competencies. From the Wireless City to “Three-Nets” contributing to our society’s prosperity and progress together. benefiting “Three Rural Issues”, China Mobile endeavours to utilise its telecommunication technology expertise to make positive contributions to key social development topics. These include economic development, community livelihood improvement, cultural exchange, and environmental protection, among others. Our China Mobile Limited objective with these programs is integrate responsible products and services into continuous, standardised philanthropy investment, and to integrate the company’s business development with stakeholder interests, which will ultimately generate abundant shared values. March 2013 It is also equally important to remember that sustainable development is a process which entails problem-identification and issue-rectification. As with other companies, China Mobile has 48 LOOKING FORWARD Key Issues Achievements in 2012 Looking forward of 2013 Looking Forward Finished sustainability capacity assessment and improvement Provincial companies will deliver benchmarking and improvement of provincial companies, launch special management of 5 CSR topics, optimises management process. Sustainability Capability optimisation of 5 CSR topics. Improvement Continued to deliver stakeholder communications through Further improve stakeholder regular communication policy and CEO Mailbox, Official Microblog, Customer Day, etc. process. Conducted centralised sourcing auditing and accountability Continuously improve risk assessment and focusing on the reviewing; 28 provincial companies finished the cooperation corporate level operation risk identification and control. management risk auditing. Corporate Governance Optimised legal risk system and integrate them into operation Improve the legal risk management system and make sure it and Compliance and legal management. covers all sectors and process. Launched 3+1 policy and clarified 143 items at headquarter All subsidiaries and facilitations will release tailor-made 3+1 policy level. and start implementation. Established SP information database and a blacklist of poor Continue to optimise and standardise partner information credit rating SPs, allowing us to manage them effectively management through entire network. through the entire network. Responsible Supply Chain Released a series of management mechanisms including Improve and standardise supply chain management. We will Procurement Implementation Methods, Bidding conduct on-site supply chain management evaluation of 31 Implementation Methods, Logistics Management Methods, provincial companies. and Inventory and Warehouse Management Methods. In 2012, our TD-SCDMA network quality was further Continue to improve network quality and ensure the call drop improved, the call drop rate was only 0.29%, representing an rate is below 1%. improvement of 31% over last year. In 2012, our roaming billing accuracy reached 99.99%. Focus on the complaints about billing accuracy and minimise errors, make sure the billing error rate is below 1/10,000. Significantly brought down roaming fees for USA, Sweden, Launch new roaming fees including 1/2/3 yuan respectively Ubiquitous and Caring Indonesia, the Philippines, and Austria. for overseas, Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan. We will expand Service roaming package per day coverage, and add WLAN International roaming services. Kicked off countrywide information security training and Strengthen the third party monitoring, effectively investigate customer raised employee awareness about information security. information leakage problems. Actively launched 20 initiatives to improve customer services, Continue to carry out Excellence in Serving the People achieved the lowest complaint rate per million customers. programme and further improve customer satisfaction. Fostering Employee Conducted group wide safety inspections and better Improve EHS policy system and release the revised China Mobile Satisfaction through managed safe production risks. Safety Performance Management Regulation. Mutual Growth Fully considered the local needs and effectively and better Continue to implement 2013 aid funding for Xizang, Qinghai managed the aid funding for Xizang, Qinghai and other and other poverty alleviation projects. Shared Development with poverty alleviation projects. Harmonious Communities As far as now “Heart Caring Campaign” has provided free Provide surgeries for totally 400-440 children, 200-220 for Henan congenital heart disease screening for 12,547 children, and and Liaoning respectively, and 200 children in Neimonggu. completed surgeries for 593 children. We d e c re a s e d e l e c t r i c i t y c o n s u m p t i o n p e r u n i t o f Promote mature energy saving technology and continue to telecommunication traffic by 14.6% compared with 2011. reduce energy consumption. Creating a Sustainable Environment Launched Spreading Conservation Awareness Week in China Keep raising public awareness about energy saving and to advocate energy saving. environmental protection. China Mobile’s international transmission bandwidth and Provide high-quality of internet visiting experiences for our international internet global ranking rose significantly. customers. Established China Mobile M2M Company Limited. Achieve specialised operation of Internet of Things company. 2012 Sustainability Report Implemented expansion experimental TD-LTE network in Continue to move TD-LTE scale experimental network ahead and An Information-enhanced 15 cities, helping to increase the number of global TD-LTE accelerate the maturality of TD-LTE industry. Future commercial networks to 14. Wireless City has already covered 336 cities across China, Develop and promote Wireless City application with focusing on cumulative customers reached 70 million in 2012. city management, healthcare and community services. Exceed annual target of Phones/internet in Village Connected Continue to implement the Phones in Every Villages and Internet Project. As the end of 2012, customers in China Mobile’s in Administrative Villages, provide creative and tailor-made rural Rural Information Service reached 43 million; the Rural information applications. Information Network sent 10.34 billion agricultural messages. 49 2012 SUSTAINBIALITY PERFORMANCE SUMMARY By reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1), we set out our key sustainability performance in 2012 as follows: 2012 Sustainbiality Performance Summary Economy Environment Economic Values Created and Shared Energy and Resources We create and share economic values with stakeholders through daily business We pay a great deal of attention to climate change, make great efforts to operations. reduce our energy consumption and continually improve energy efficiency. In 2012, energy consumption per unit of telecommunications traffic decreased Indicators 2010 2011 2012 by 14.6% when compared to last year. By the end of 2012, our cumulative Operating revenue (billion yuan) 485.2 528.0 560.4 investment on Green Action Plan reached 570 million yuan. Tax paid (billion yuan) 39.0 40.6 41.9 Energy Consumption Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Market Performance Total electricity consumption (100GWhs) 119.4 129.3 143.0 We abide by labour laws and regulations, and the salary level of our employees Natural gas consumption (million cubic meters) 5.5 6.4 8.5 is higher than the local minimum wage. LPG consumption (100 tonnes) 6.7 5.0 5.7 Coal gas consumption (million cubic meters) 1.0 2.1 1.5 Indirect Economic Impact Coal consumption (10,000 tonnes) 4.5 2.5 2.2 Narrowing Digital Divide Gasoline consumption (million liters) 133.8 139.8 131.3 We actively participated in the Village Connected Project to provide Diesel fuel consumption (million liters) 23.0 27.0 22.1 communication and information services for rural areas and helped to narrow digital divide. Purchased heating costs (million yuan) 139.82 137.03 133.45 Energy consumption per unit of Indicators 2010 2011 2012 275 245 209 telecommunications traffic (kWh/10,000MB) Cumulative number of remote villages covered 87,291 100,474 111,107 via Village Connected Project Network Infrastructure Joint Construction and Cumulative number of administrative villages provide with broadband connection via Village 4,031 11,213 Sharing Connected Project Joint Construction Rate (%) Sharing Rate (%) Number of sales channels in rural areas Indicators 58.0 69.0 69.5 2012 2012 (10,000) Towers 68% 81% Number of Rural Information Service users 5,687 3,130 4,300 (10,000) Pole lines 41% 82% Number of rural information sent via the Rural Base stations 58% 81% 7 42.4 103.4 Information Network (100 milliion) Transmission lines 47% 81% Pipeline 58% 85% Informationalisation of National Economy Indoor distribution 46% 79% We continuously innovate on personal and industry information applications, and help improve the level of informationalisation of the entire society through ICT solutions. Using Alternative Energy Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Number of Campus Information Service Alternative energy base stations total 7,795 8,970 9,699 44.41 52.32 63.81 customers (million) Solar energy 6,279 7,057 7,627 Number of M2M (machine to machine) 7.21 12.18 19.94 terminals (million) Wind energy 308 435 600 Solar and wind 1,069 1,316 1,366 Promoting Inclusive Society Others 139 162 106 On the one hand, we strive for promoting telecommunications services popularisation and providing impartial and affordable information services for Reducing Resource Usage the whole society; on the other hand, we cooperate with relevant departments, develop applications for facilitating society management, help reduce cost of Indicators 2010 2011 2012 social services through ICT solutions and improve society operation efficiency. Number of SIM cards reused (10,000 pieces) 67 72 50 China Mobile Limited Green Operations Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of businesses conducted through 54 76 78 e-channels (%) 50 Green Office Diversity and Equal Opportunities Indicators 2011 2012 Employee Gender Composition Number of person-times visiting the Integrated 2.2 2.0 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Information Network (10,000 person-times) 2012 Sustainbiality Performance Summary Percentage of female employees (%) 41.03 40.53 40.08 Average number of calls made daily (10,000 calls) 5.2 4.3 Percentage of female employees at the senior 17.30 17.43 17.92 management level (%) Average duration of calls per day (10,000 minutes) 43.4 60 Note 1: Senior management refers to anyone at a vice president level or above Average number of instant messages sent per day at provincial subsidiaries and anyone at general manager level or above at 7.2 6.7 (10,000 messages) headquarters. Note 2: Due to changes in indicators, adjustments have been made to historical Water data. We actively use reclaimed water in our operations (based on circumstances), Ethnic Proportion improve our employee awareness of water conservation and save water. Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total Total amount of water used (million tonnes) 33.95 28.72 30.23 6.01 6.56 6.33 employees (%) Age Structure Waste Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of employees under 30 years old (%) 30.94 28.92 25.52 Discarded lead acid batteries (10,000Ahs) 12,585 9,780 12,808 Proportion of employees between 30-50 years old (%) 62.90 64.69 67.34 Lead acid batteries recycled through Proportion of employees above 50 years old (%) 6.16 6.39 7.14 10,444 9,588 12,808 professional channels (10,000Ahs) Lead acid batteries reused (10,000Ahs) 2,665 3,058 2,659 Employee Turnover Cumulative number of mobile phones and 6.74 8.51 8.75 accessories recycled (million) Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Number of resigned employees 3,533 3,196 2,873 Number of employment contracts terminated 114 61 76 Biodiversity We actively protect ecological environment and strictly comply with the relevant rules when constructing base stations in ecological reserve zones to Healthy and safety protect biodiversity. In accordance with the relevant requirements of laws and regulations, we formulated and implemented the China Mobile Safe Production and Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Protection Management Method combining with communication engineering Number of base stations in ecological reserve construction practice, and effective against safety risks by strict supervision and 4,833 7,781 8,726 zones irregular inspection system. In 2012, there were no work-related accidents in construction work Group-wide. Reducing Carbon Emissions Education and Training Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Employee Training time CO2 emission (million tonnes) 11.76 12.68 13.92 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 *Note: According to the data for the conversion of energy published by the Average training time per employee (hours) 59.0 57.4 59.1 Chinese government, the conversion factor for carbon dioxide is adjusted as Average training time per senior follows: electricity, 0.943; gasoline, 2.3; diesel fuel, 2.63; natural gas, 0.559; 58.3 56.8 58.5 management (hours) LPG, 1.49; coal, 2.66; and coal gas, 9.5. According to the adjusted factor, we have amended the historical data. Average training time per mid-level 61.8 60.2 62.0 management (hours) Transportation Average training time per ordinary employee (hours) 56.5 55.1 56.7 We encourage using video conferences to reduce business trips. Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Persons Trained Video conferences use at Group level (times) 754 850 988 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Number of persons trained (10,000 person89.8 97.5 98.3 times) 2012 Sustainability Report Labour Practice and Decent Work Number of senior management trained (person-times) 239 421 438 Number of mid-level management trained Promoting Employment and (person-times) 8,195 8,901 9,306 Entrepreneurship Number of general employees trained (10,000 person-times) 88.9 96.6 97.3 Our development contributed to the generation of over 2.4 million job Percentage of employees attending diploma opportunities in 2012. At the same time, the Mobile Market’s Youth Business 5.16 5.32 5.24 courses (%) Start-up Plan has involved over 2,000 institutions of higher learning across the nation in the three years since its beginning, and as of the end of 2012, this activity has gathered over 1.7 million young developers who have collectively created over 1.09 million entrepreneurial products, and provided over 11 million yuan in start-up support funds. Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Total number of employees 164,336 175,336 182,487 51 Human Rights Network Quality and Reliability We support the United Nations global compact ten principles, and respect 2012 Sustainbiality Performance Summary internationally recognised human rights. Indicators 2011 2012 We strictly abide by the labour rules and regulations, enter into labour The successful connection rate of GSM network (%) 99.26 99.26 contracts with workers, and pay social insurance premiums in full amount The successful connection rate of 3G network (%) 98.99 98.90 for employees. By the end of 2012, 100% of our employees have signed the group contract, and 100% of the employees have joined the labour union. The call drop rate of GSM network (%) 0.70 0.48 The call drop rate of 3G network (%) 0.42 0.29 Society Note: The successful connection rate is test data; the call drop rate is annual average data derived from the network management system. According to new statistical criteria, we have amended the historical data. Community We urge and initiate employees to participate in volunteer services. In 2012, we have enrolled over 90,000 employee-volunteers, and the hours of volunteer Customer Satisfaction services have exceeded 330,000. Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Emergency Support Complaint rate per million customers (cases) 52.1 40.2 31.2 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Total number of emergency support (times) 5,413 4,671 5,167 Consumers’ Interests Protection We continually strengthen employee information security awareness. In 2012, Major political or economic events support we provide about 17,000 person times employee trainings related to customer 4,744 4,028 4,218 (times) information security and privacy protection. Significant natural disasters support (times) 437 223 706 Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Large-scale accidents or catastrophic events 75 224 205 Number of reported spam messages handled support (times) 684 562 344 (10,000 times) Public health incidents support (times) 91 48 8 Public safety incidents support (times) 66 148 30 Emergency support vehicles deployed (times) 21,324 9,636 6,860 Emergency support systems installed (times) 124,268 43,527 47,544 “Going-Out” performance Persons involved in emergency support 354,822 320,866 330,515 (person-times) Localisation of Employees Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Social Welfare Composition of Local employees, Hong Kong 99.4 99.8 97.0 company (%) Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Composition of Local employees, International Cumulative number of sponsored children 88.3 82.5 Company Limited (%) orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme poverty 12,229 15,749 15,749 (persons) Cumulative Number of children in poverty who suffered from congenital heart disease 202 593 Social Welfare assisted (persons) In 2012, the Hong Kong Company helped the Hong Kong Society for the Cumulative number of China Mobile Libraries Protection of Children promote Kids Artwalk roaming the Earth “Source” 1,360 1,510 1,694 exhibition activity; supported the “Shouqing Family” social enterprise by built purchasing “Love Sock Packages” which were sent to families in need at Cumulative number of multimedia classrooms Christmas; held blood drives in cooperation with the Hong Kong Red Cross; 350 500 674 built held the “Oxfam Rice Charity Sale” activity in cooperation with Oxfam Hong Cumulative number of principals of primary Kong; and held “Chest Food Day” and “Community Chest’s Love Teeth Day” and middle schools trained in central and 25,600 37,952 48,205 activities in cooperation with the Community Chest of Hong Kong. At the end western regions (persons) of 2012, the Hong Kong Company was recognised as a “Caring Company” for the 10th consecutive year by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service. Products Providing Diversified Services China Mobile Limited Indicators 2010 2011 2012 Number of customers (million) 584 649 710 Number of countries and regions covered by 237 237 237 GSM roaming service Number of countries and regions covered by 186 187 188 GPRS roaming service 52 ABOUT THIS REPORT This is China Mobile Limited’s seventh sustainability report, covering our activities between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012. This report has been published in both English and Chinese. You can visit www.chinamobileltd.com to download or view our report. About This Report Reporting Reference Report Scope We try to ensure our report disclosure satisfies nonUnless otherwise stated, all cases and data contained in this report financial information disclosure standards, and embodies the are derived from China Mobile Limited and its operating subsidiaries. telecommunication industry characters and China Mobile context. (See page 3 for information about our subsidiaries.) Our 2012 report refers to the guidelines as below: The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Ten Principles; Data Collection The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) and the GRI Telecommunications Sector Data and case studies included in the 2012 Report were collected Supplement; primarily through: ISO 26000; China Mobile’s internal data collection system and statistics Guideline for Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting reports; issued by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited; and Quarterly provincial CSR best practices reports; Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide (CASS-CSR 2.0) issued by China Mobile 2012 CSR Practices Competition; the China Academy of Social Sciences. Quantitative and qualitive questionnaires developed based on the reporting framework. Content Selection We followed the GRI principles of “materiality, stakeholder Currency inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness” and took the Unless otherwise specified, all monetary figures shown in this report following steps to define report content: are expressed in Renminbi (yuan). Peer companies best practice benchmarking: we conducted a benchmark of 11 leading companies on sustainability management and report disclosure, and developed industry topics Report Assurance and best practices; In 2012, we engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs International standard benchmarking: we analysed the DJSI, Limited Company to provide an independent assurance report for ISO 26000 and the GRI G4 draft, to better understand global sustainability issue trends, and requirements for information the first time. The detailed report can be seen on pages 54-55. You disclosure; can also refer to our 2012 Annual Report for the audited financial Policy and public expectation research: we scanned statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 government policies, industry development plans and public and other details of our financial performance and operating results. expectations, to define major social issues and stakeholder The 2012 Annual Report is available on the Company’s website, www. expectations; chinamobileltd.com. Third party investigations of sustainability: in 2012 China Mobile conducted a third party sustainability survey which covered government, pulic audience, media, employee and value chain partners, through which we gained valuable input on stakeholder perceptions of China Mobile; 2011 China Mobile Sustainability Report review panel: we invited stakeholder representatives to participate in a report review panel and obtained their comments on our 2011 Sustainability Report and their expectations for our 2012 Sustainability Report. Based on the reporting approach decribed above, and focusing on the future for both China Mobile and stakeholders, the 2012 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainabilty Report highlights our sustainability efforts, including: Sustainability Strategy and Management (pages 4-9); A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile (pages 10-15); More Satisfied Stakeholders (pages 16-33); An Information-enhanced Future (pages 34-47); 2012 Sustainability Performance Summary (pages 50-52). 53 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT Independent Assurance Report To the Directors of China Mobile Limited, Coal consumption Gasoline consumption We have been engaged by the Directors of China Mobile Limited Diesel fuel consumption (the “Company”) to perform a limited assurance engagement on the selected key performance information as at 31 December 2012 and The number of alternative energy base stations for the year then ended as defined below in the 2012 Sustainability Percentage of businesses conducted through e-channels Report (“the Sustainability Report”). CO2 emissions Directors’ Responsibilities Social Indicators The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the selected key performance information in accordance with Percentage of female employees the basis as set out in the Sustainability Report’s Preparation Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees Principles, the definitions of the key performance information in the Total number of persons trained Sustainability Report (the “basis of reporting”). This responsibility includes designing, implementing and maintaining internal control Total number of emergency support relevant to the preparation and presentation of the selected key Emergency support vehicles deployed performance information; and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Emergency support systems installed Persons involved in emergency support Practitioner’s Responsibilities The addition of children orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme poverty sponsored during 2012 Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the selected key performance information in the Sustainability Report based on our The addition of children in poverty who suffered from congenital work performed. We report our conclusion solely to you, as a body, heart disease assisted during 2012 in accordance with our agreed terms of engagement and for no The addition of principals of rural primary and middle schools other purpose. We do not assume responsibility towards or accept trained during 2012 liability to any other person for the contents of this report. Number of reported spam messages handled We conducted our work on the selected key performance In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering information in accordance with the International Standard on procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance Assurance Engagements 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other Than engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. This Standard reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures selected depend requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and on the practitioner’s judgment, including the assessment of the perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance as risks of material non-compliance of the selected key performance to whether any matters have come to our attention that causes us information in accordance with the basis of reporting. to believe that the selected key performance information as at 31 December 2012 and for the year then ended in the Sustainability Report is not prepared in all material respects in accordance with the Approach, Scope and Limitation of Work basis of reporting. Within the scope of our work, we performed the following The selected key performance indicators of the Company within the procedures at the Headquarters in Beijing, and the Guangdong and 2012 Sustainability Report that is covered by this report is as follows: Anhui subsidiaries: (i) Interviews with management and personnel in the Departments Economic Indicators involved in providing information for inclusion in the Sustainability Report in relation to the selected key performance The addition of remote villages covered via Village Connected information; Project during 2012 (ii) Analytical procedure; China Mobile Limited The addition of administrative villages with broadband (iii) Examination, on a test basis, of documentary evidence relating connection via Village Connected Project during 2012 to the selected key performance information on which we The number of sales channels in rural areas report; The number of Rural Information Service users (iv) Recalculation; and (v) Other procedures deemed necessary Environmental Indicators Our work is limited to the selected key performance information as of 31 December 2012 and for the year then ended in the Sustainability Total electricity consumption Report. We have not performed any procedures over other data included in the Sustainability Report for 2012, nor have we Natural gas consumption performed any procedures on data of or prior to 2011. In addition, LPG consumption our work performed is not for the purpose of expressing an opinion 54 on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal controls. Coal gas consumption Conclusion Diesel fuel consumption: all the diesel fuel consumed during production, operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. Independent Assurance Report Based on the limited assurance work which we have performed, The number of alternative energy base stations: total number of nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the alternative energy base stations powered by wind, light, water and selected key performance information as at 31 December 2012 and fuel cell. for the year the ended has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the basis of reporting. The percentage of businesses conducted through e-channels: through e-channels, users actively initiate and change the services or the status of relationship in the BOSS system (after the modification in the early 2011, the service here does not include recharge). PricewaterhouseCoopers Zhong Tian CPAs Limited Company CO2 emissions: CO2 emissions calculated based on the official CO2 Shanghai, China coefficient (including electricity, natural gas, LPG, coal gas, coal, 20 March 2013 gasoline, diesel fuel) released by the national statistics. Social Indicators Appendix: The Basis of Reporting The percentage of female employees: the percentage of female employees across the whole Group. Economic Indicators Ethnic minorities as a percentage of total employees: Ethnic The addition of remote villages covered via Village Connected minorities as a percentage of total employees across the whole Project during 2012: the addition of administrative villages and Group. natural villages that covered by mobile phone services through Village Total number of persons trained: the training includes off-the-job Connected Project during 2012, and the information disclosure is training, Communist Party training, Cadres selecting study, overseas based on the statistics in the annual report of Ministry of Industry training and all the other types of trainings. The total number is and Information Technology. gathered from every provincial subsidiary. The addition of administrative villages with broadband Total number of emergency support: in a local network, when connection via Village Connected Project during 2012: the there is an emergency caused by nature or human beings, which addition of administrative villages provided with broadband leads to an increasing telecommunication demand (natural disaster, connection through Village Connected Project during 2012, and the important holidays and conference), the number of emergency information disclosure is based on the statistics in the annual report support by activated emergency support employees and other mobile of Ministry of Industry and Information Technology. telecommunication resources. The number of sales channels in rural areas: the number of sales Emergency support vehicles deployed: during a stage of the outlets and channels owned by China Mobile and the third-party in disaster, the total accumulative number of emergency support villages and towns. vehicles deployed in a periodical emergency support activity. The number of Rural Information Service users: the total number Emergency support systems installed: the accumulative total of both 12582 multimedia and text message users and 12582 hotline number of emergency support systems installed in a periodical services users. emergency support activity. Persons involved in emergency support: the accumulative total Environmental Indicators number of persons involved in emergency support in a periodical Total electricity consumption: all the electricity consumed during emergency support activity. business operation by 31 provincial subsidiaries, including office The addition of children orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme building, base station, telecommunication equipment room, support poverty sponsored during 2012: refers to the addition of children system occupancy and channel occupancy. orphaned by AIDS or living in extreme poverty who are sponsored by “China Warm 121 project”, and the statistics is gained from our Natural gas consumption: all the gas consumed during production, annual report. operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. The addition of children in poverty who suffered from 2012 Sustainability Report LPG consumption: all the LPG consumed during production, congenital heart disease assisted during 2012: refers to the operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. addition of the impoverished children who are suffered from the Coal gas consumption: all the coal gas consumed during congenital heart disease, conducted the operation and has already production, operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. been rehabilitated by the sponsor of China Mobile “Heart Caring Campaign”, and the statistics is gained from the annual report. Coal consumption: all the coal consumed during production, The addition of principals of rural primary and middle schools operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. trained during 2012: refers to the addition of the principals of Gasoline consumption: all the gasoline consumed during Midwest primary and middle schools, who are joined the training production, operation and management by 31 provincial subsidiaries. sponsored by the “China Mobile Education Aid Project”, and the statistics is gained from the annual report. The number of reported spam messages handled: the consumers complaint reports relative with spam messages recorded by the 55 system. FEEDBACK Dear Reader: Thank you for taking the time to read our 2012 Sustainability Report. There are inevitably some flaws and omissions in this report, and we very much welcome your comments and suggestions. Feedback Thank you, China Mobile 2012 Sustainability Report Team March 2013 Name Phone Number Email Company Report Feedback* Readability Objectivity Logic Completeness Opening Section A Healthier and More Stable China Mobile More Satisfied Stakeholders An Informationenhanced Future Ending Section Overall Comments * Please rate each item from 1 to 5, with 1 being the lowest score and 5 being the highest. You are welcome to send this form to China Mobile 2012 Sustainability Report Team via email at CR@chinamobile. com, or via fax at +86-10-52686167. We value your feedback and suggestions and ensure that your information will not be accessed by any third party. China Mobile Limited 56 Report Disclosure Indexes GRI (G3.1) Index Relevance Page Index Relevance Page Strategy and Analysis EC8 High 37-47, 50 1.1 High 1 EC9 High 50 1.2 High 1, 5 Social Responsibility Indicators Organisational Profile LA1 High 22, 51 2.1 High 3 LA2 High 51 2.2 High 3 LA3 High 22-24 2.3 High 3 LA4 Medium 2.4 High 56 LA5 High 2.5 High 3 LA6 High 2.6 High 3 LA7 High 22, 51 2.7 High 3 LA8 High 22, 25-29, 51 2.8 High 3,11 LA9 High 22 2.9 High 3 LA10 High 23, 51-52 2.10 High 3 LA11 High 23 Report Parameters LA12 High 23, 52 3.1 High 53 LA13 High 22, 51 3.2 High 53 LA14 High 22 3.3 High 53 LA15 Not Applicable 3.4 High 56 HR1 Not Applicable 3.5 High 6, 53 HR2 Not Applicable 3.6 High 53 HR3 Not Applicable 3.7 High 53 HR4 High 22, 51 3.8 High 53 HR5 Not Applicable 3.9 High 53 HR6 High 15, 52 3.10 High 53 HR7 High 15 3.11 Medium 53 HR8 Not Applicable 3.12 High 57-62 HR9 High 22 3.13 Medium 54-55 HR10 High Corporate Governance HR11 High 4.1 High 11 SO1 High 25-29 4.2 High 11 SO2 High 11-13 4.3 High 11 SO3 High 11-13 4.4 High 8-9, 11, 22 SO4 High 11-13 4.5 High 11, 52 SO5 High 35 4.6 High 11 SO6 Not Applicable 4.7 High SO7 High 4.8 High 5 SO8 High 4.9 High 7 17-18, 44-47, SO9 High 4.10 High 11, 52 50, 52 4.11 High 12 17-18, 44-47, SO10 High 4.12 High Back Cover 50, 52 33, 35, Back PR1 High 18-20 4.13 High Cover PR2 Low 4.14 High 8-9 PR3 Medium 2012 Sustainability Report 4.15 High 8-9 PR4 High 4.16 High 8-9 PR5 High 4.17 High 8-9, 16-33 PR6 High 18-20 Economic Responsibility Indicators PR7 High EC1 High 10-11, 50 PR8 High 20 EC2 High 1 PR9 High EC3 High 14 Environmental Responsibility Indicators EC4 Not Applicable EN1 Low 50-51 EC5 High 23 EN2 Medium 50-51 EC6 High 14-15 EN3 High 50-51 EC7 Medium 52 EN4 High 50-51 57 GRI Telecom Suector Supplement Index Relevance Page Index Relevance Page EN5 High 30-32 Internal Operations EN6 Low 30-32 IO1 High 35, 44, 50 EN7 Low 30-33 IO2 High 21 EN8 Medium IO3 High 22 EN9 Low IO4 High 18 EN10 Low 51 IO5 High 18 EN11 Low 51 IO6 Not Applicable EN12 High IO7 High 18 EN13 Low IO8 High 50 EN14 Low Providing Access EN15 Low PA1 High 44 EN16 High 51 PA2 High 21 EN17 High 51 PA3 High 17-18, 44 EN18 High 30-33 PA4 High 52 EN19 Low PA5 High 19, 21 EN20 Low PA6 High 17-18 EN21 Low PA7 High 19-21 EN22 High 51 PA8 High 18 EN23 Low PA9 High 18 EN24 Low PA10 High 19 EN25 Low PA11 High 19-21 EN26 High 30-33 Technology Applications EN27 Low 30-33, 51 TA1 High 32 EN28 High TA2 High 32-33 EN29 Low 30-33 TA3 High 32 EN30 High 30 TA4 High 32-33 TA5 High 35 The UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles NO. Index Page Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 22-24 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 22-24 Labour Standards Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Principle 3 22 bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labour. 15, 22-23 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. 15, 22-23 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 15, 22-23 2012 Sustainability Report Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 30-33 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 30-33 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 30-33, 37-47 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 13 58 ISO 26000 Report Disclosure Indexes Core Issues Index Page Organisation Governance 1. Due diligence 11-12 2. Human rights risk situations 12, 15 3. Avoidance of complicity 13 4. Resolving grievances 13 Human Rights 5. Discrimination and vulnerable groups 22 6. Civil and political rights 22 7. Economic, social and cultural rights 23-24 8. Fundamental principles and rights at work 22-23 1. Employment and employment relationships 22 2. Conditions of work and social protection 22 Labour Practices 3. Social dialogue 22 4. Health and safety at work 22 5. Human development and training in the workplace 23 1. Prevention of pollution 30-33 2. Sustainable resource use 30-33 Environment 3. Climate change mitigation and adaptation 30-33 4. Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural homes 31 1. Anti-corruption 13 2. Responsible political involvement Fair Operating Practice 3. Fair competition 14, 50 4. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 14-15 5. Respect for property rights 14-15 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 15, 19 2. Protecting consumers’ health and safety 18 3. Sustainable consumption 32 Consumer Issues 4. Consumer service, support and compliant and dispute resolution 18, 21 5. Consumer data protection and privacy 20 6. Access to essential services 17, 44 7. Education and awareness 21, 32 1. Community involvement 25 2. Education and culture 28 3. Employment creation and skills development 14, 28 Community Involvement and 4. Technology development and access 11, 14-15, 37-47 Development 5. Wealth and income creation 14-15, 26 6. Health 27 7. Social investment 30-33 2012 Sustainability Report 59 Environmental, Social and Governance Reporting Guide of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited Core Issues Index Page A. Workplace Quality A1.1 Total workforce by employment type, age group and geographical region. 51 Report Disclosure Indexes A1 Working conditions A1.2 Employee turnover rate by age group and geographical region. 51 A2.1 Number and rate of work-related fatalities. 51 A2 Health and safety A2.2 Lost days due to work injury. 51 A2.3 Description of occupational health and safety measuresadopted, how they are implemented and 22 monitored. A3.1 The percentage of employees trained by employee category (e.g. senior management, middle A3 Development and 51-52 management, etc.). training A3.2 The average training hours completed per employee by employee category. 51-52 A4.1 Description of measures to review employment practices to avoid child and forced labour. 22 A4 Labour standards A4.2 Description of steps taken to eliminate such practices when discovered. 22 B. Environmental Protection B1.1 The types of emissions and respective emissions data. 51 B1.2 Greenhouse gas emissions in total (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production 51 volume, per facility). B1.3 Total hazardous wasteproduced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of production 50-51 volume, per facility). B1 Emissions B1.4 Total non-hazardous waste produced (in tonnes) and where appropriate, intensity (e.g. per unit of 50-51 production volume, per facility). B1.5 Description of measures to mitigate emissions and results achieved. 30-33 B1.6 Description of how hazardous and non-hazardous wastes are handled, reduction initiatives and results 30-33 achieved. B2.1 Direct and/or indirect energy consumption by type (e.g. electricity, gas or oil) in total (kwh in ‘000s) and 50 intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). B2.2 Water consumption in total and intensity (e.g. per unit of production volume, per facility). 51 B2 Use of resources B2.3 Description of energy use efficiency initiatives and results achieved. 30-33 B2.4 Description of whether there is any issue in sourcing water that is fit for purpose, water efficiency initiatives and results achieved. B2.5 Total packaging material used for finished products (in tonnes), and if applicable, with reference to per unit produced. B3 The environment B3.1 Description of the significant impacts of activities on the environment and natural resources and the actions 30-33 and natural resources taken to manage them. C. Operating Practices C1.1 Number of suppliers by geographical region. 10 C1 Supply chain C1.2 Description of practices relating to engaging suppliers, number of suppliers where the practices are being management 14-15 implemented, how they are implemented and monitored. C2.1 Percentage of total products sold or shipped subject to recalls for safety and health reasons. C2.2 Number of products and service related complaints received and how they are dealt with. 19-21 C2 Product C2.3 Description of practices relating to observing and protecting intellectual property rights. 35 responsibility C2.4 Description of quality assurance process and recall procedures. 17-20 C2.5 Description of consumer data protection and privacy policies, how they are implemented and monitored. 20 C3.1 Number of concluded legal cases regarding corrupt practices brought against the issuer or its employees during the 13 C3 Anti-corruption reporting period and the outcomes of the cases. C3.2 Description of preventive measuresand whistle-blowing procedures, how they are implemented and monitored. 13 D. Community Involvement China Mobile Limited D1 Community D1.1 Focus areas of contribution (e.g. education, environmental concerns, labour needs, health, culture, sport). 25-29 investment D1.2 Resources contributed (e.g. money or time) to the focus area. 25-29 60 Chinese CSR Report Preparation Guide for Telecommunication Services Industry (CASS-CSR2.0) NO. Index Page NO. Index Page P. Report Foreword M1.2 Business growth 11, 50, 52 P1.1 Reliablity assurance of report 54-55 M1.3 Profitability 11, 50, 52 P1.2 Organizational scope of the report 53 M1.4 Safety 11-13 P1.3 Time scope of the report 53 Negative information on shareholder M1.5 13 P1.4 Number of CSR reports 53 responsibility P1.5 Release cycle of the report 53 M2.1 Customer relationshipmanagement system 17-21 P1.6 Explanation of the report data 53 Mechanisms that support product and service M2.2 19-21 P1.7 Standards referred to in the report 53 innovation Liaison and contact to answer questions on the Policies and steps to ensure the tariff P1.8 53 M2.3 19 report and other content-related questions transparency P1.9 How to obtain the report and further reading 56 M2.4 Legal advertising 19 Announcement of the company’s understanding Client education about the product and services P2.1 1 M2.5 19-21 and strategy of CSR information General summary of the achievement and M2.6 Customer satisfaction surveys 19 P2.2 1 disadvantages of CSR activities M2.7 Customer satisfaction P3.1 CSR model 5 Mechanisms for customer complaines M2.8 21 Company name, ownership, and location of management P4.1 3 headquarters M2.9 Actively cope with customers’ complaints 21 P4.2 Major products and services 3 M2.10 Customer complaints resolving rate 21 P4.3 Areas of operation and organizational structure 3 M2.11 Customer information protection 20 P4.4 Company size 3 elecommunication services for vulnerable groups M2.12 21 P4.5 Corporate governance structure 11 including disabled, old people, children P4.6 Board structure 11 M2.13 Product and services for low-income population 19, 21 Comparison table of social responsibility M2.14 Policy and step for communication security 20 P5.1 49 performance M2.15 Network coverage 17 P5.2 Table of key performance data 50-52 M2.16 Policy and steps for telecommunication quality 17-18 3, 25, 26, M2.17 Call completion ratio 52 P5.3 Awards received during the reporting period 35 M2.18 Lost calls ratio 52 G. Responsibility Management Promote telecommunication development in the M2.19 44 G1.1 CSR concept 5 rural and remote area G1.2 Core CSR issues 6 M2.20 Network coverage in the rural and remote area 50 G1.3 CSR planning 6 M2.21 Call completion ratio in rural area 50 G2.1 CSR core leadership team 7 M2.22 Lost calls ratio in rural area 50 G2.2 CSR organizational structure 7 M2.23 Polices and steps for spam management 20 G2.3 CSR management system 7 M2.24 R&D investment 35 G2.4 CSR training 7 M2.25 Number and ratio of research staff G3.1 Promote a responsible working style 7 M2.26 Number of newly added patents 35 G3.2 Promote CSR to subsidiary companies 7 M2.27 Sales of new products Encourage partners along the supply chain to M2.28 Negative information on customer responsibility 19-20 G3.3 14-15 fullfill their CSR Evaluation and investigation of social M3.1 15 G4.1 Establish CSR indicator system 7 responsibility along the supply chain Conduct performance evaluation according to M3.2 Strategy sharing mechanisms and platforms 14 G4.2 7 the CSR indicators M3.3 Responsible procurement system and/or policy 14-15 G4.3 Selection of CSR best practice 7, 9 M3.4 Ratio of responsible procurement 14-15 Stakeholders’ expectations of the company and M3.5 Ethical operation 14-15 G5.1 8-9 company’s response measures M3.6 Fair competition 14-15 G5.2 Internal CSR communication mechanisms 8-9 M3.7 Credible operation and fair competition training 14-15 Senior executive participation in internal CSR M3.8 Credit evaluation rating G5.3 8-9 communication and discussions M3.9 Contract fulfillment rate China Mobile Limited G5.4 External CSR communication mechanisms 8-9 M3.10 Negative information on partner responsibility 14-15 Senior executives participation in CSR S. Social Performance G5.5 8-9 communication and discussions S1.1 Legal compliance system 11-13 G6.1 Conduct CSR research 7, 18 Measures that ensure abiding to the law and S1.2 11-13 G6.2 Cooperate with with academia on CSR 18 compliance Participate in the development of national and S1.3 Training on abiding to the law and compliance 11-13 G6.3 7 international CSR standards Negative information on major violations of the S1.4 11-13 M. Market Performance law, and non-compliance issues M1.1 Investor relationship management system 11 S1.5 Respond to national policies 11-13, 31 61 NO. Index Page NO. Index Page S1.6 Total tax payment 11, 50 S3.9 Amount of donations S1.7 Negative information on tax evasion Policy and measures to support volunteer S3.10 29 Policy or measures to ensure employment or to activities S1.8 14, 28 promote employment S3.11 Data of employee volunteers activities 52 Number of employees recruited during reporting Advocate healthy communication culture and S1.9 51 S3.12 20 period well manage harmful, fraud information S2.1 Abide by national labour laws and regulations 22 S3.13 Philanthropy overseas 52 Rate of labour contracts signed/coverage of Negative information on community S2.2 22 S3.14 collective contract responsibility S2.3 Rate of social insurance coverage 22 E. Environmental Performance Rate of employees who are members of trade E1.1 Enviornment protection awareness education 30-33 S2.4 22 unions E1.2 Environmental protection training and education 32 S2.5 Prohibit forced labor 22 E1.3 Environmentalal protection training performance 30-33 Protect employees’ personal information and E1.4 Green procurement 31, 33 S2.6 privacy E1.5 Environmental protection charity 33 S2.7 Mechanisms and measures to ensure decent work 22-24 Research, development and application of E1.6 31-33 Social dialogue mechanisms and collective environmental technology equipment S2.8 22 bargaining mechanisms E1.7 Protect bio-diversity 31 Protection of part-time staff, temporary workers Protection of natural habitats, wildlife S2.9 14-15 and subcontractor employees’ rights E1.8 corridors, wetlands, forests, agricultural land in 31 S2.10 Provide competitive remuneration to employees 23 engineering construction phase S2.11 Days of annual paid-leave Negative information on environment E1.9 S2.12 Fair employment system 22 responsibility S2.13 Staff payment based on the type of contract 23 Policies and measures for using renewable E2.1 30-33 S2.14 Salary ratio of male to female employees 51 energy S2.15 Ratio of female executives 51 E2.2 Circular economy policies / measures 30-33 Employment rate of the disabled or number of Policies, and measures used for office electricity S2.16 51 E2.3 32 disabled employees saving S2.17 Mechanisms to prevent occupational diseases 22 E2.4 Amount and ratio of office electricity saving 32 S2.18 Training on occupational health and safety 22 Policies, and measures used for office water E2.5 32 S2.19 Number of cases of occupational diseases 51 saving Mechanism/measures for employees’ mental E2.6 Amount and ratio of office water saving 32 S2.20 24 health Policies, and measures used for office paper E2.7 32 S2.21 Coverage of physical check and health certificate 24 saving S2.22 Employee training mechanism 23 E2.8 Amount and ratio of office paper saving 32 S2.23 Employee training performance 23 E2.9 Energy saved due to fewer business trips 32 S2.24 Employee career development path 23 E2.10 Energy saving building and sales networks 32 Participatory management and transparency of Steps and impact of basestation joint S2.25 22 E2.11 31 factory affairs construction and sharing Channels through which employees’ opinions or E3.1 Actively contribute to fighting climate change 30-33 S2.26 8-9, 22 suggestions are elivered to senior executives Emission and reduction of Greenhouse Gases E3.2 51 S2.27 Money spent on employees with difficulties 24 (GHG) Provide care to groups with special needs (e.g., Policies and measures used for office waste S2.28 24 E3.3 31-32 pregnant women, etc.) management S2.29 Ensure work-life balance 24 E3.4 Total volume of office waste 51 S2.30 Employee satisfaction rate Policies, measures used for office residue E3.5 31-32 S2.31 Employee turnover rate 51 management S2.32 Negative information on employee responsibility E3.6 Total volume of office residue 51 Assess the impact of business operation on local A. Report Afterword China Mobile Limited S3.1 25-29 community A1 utlook: planning of company’s CSR activities 49 Support the education and study of community Report evaluation: CSR experts or industry S3.2 28 members (especially A2 experts, stakeholders or remarks by professional 48 S3.3 Local policy on employees 52 organizations S3.4 Ratio of local employees 52 References and index: application of S3.5 Local procurement policy 14-15 A3 disclosed indicators required by this 57-62 S3.6 Ratio of local procurement 14 guideline S3.7 Donation policy or mechanism 25 Readers’ feedback: readers’ suggestion form A4 56 S3.8 Corporate charity fund/charity 25 and channels for readers’ suggestions 62 China Mobile Limited Registered Address: 60/F, The Center, 99 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong Website for Report Download: www.chinamobileltd.com All copyrights reserved. No reproduction by any means is allowed without acknowledgement. This report is printed on environmentally friendly, totally chlorine-free paper
