COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Name of the participating company/organization: „EVN Croatia Plin d.o.o” State: Croatia Sector: Energy Reported period: January 2012 – December 2012 EVN Croatia Plin d.o.o. Josipa Marohnića 1 10000 Zagreb Croatia 1 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Statement in support of the Global Compact by Mr. Werner Casagrande and Mr. Gottfried Reisenauer members of the Management Board of EVN Croatia EVN Croatia Plin d.o.o has been a member of the UN Global Compact since January 2011. The company is part of the large family of EVN AG a leading Austrian company with headquarters in the largest Austrian federal province Lower Austria. EVN Croatia is a company with socially responsible behaviour to the society. EVN’s long-term existence requires our excellence, competence and reliability to ensure satisfaction for our customers and partners. This ensures our sustainable success and motivates us to be a leading company by contributing to promote values and positive corporate culture. EVN Croatia completely shares and supports the 10 principles of Global Compact on human rights, labour standards, environment and anticorruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and daily business duties. The company makes necessary efforts to develop the aims of the Global Compact and bring to the initiative all its employees, partners and suppliers. Corporate Social Responsibility of EVN Croatia aims to achieve social, economic and environmental practices that exceed regulatory requirements and which are implemented in dialogue with all stakeholders. The company implements policies aimed at care for the employees and taking commitment to the problems related to ecology and community in which the company operates. We share the concept of sustainable management and strive to simultaneously observing the technological, economic, environmental and social aspects. Priority in our work is balancing the interests of all stakeholders, transparency and openness to dialogue. In the spirit of high responsibility associated with our work, we set ambitious standards of conduct working with advanced highly efficient technologies, responsible attitude towards the environment, commitment to society and human resource development. Werner Casagrande Gottfried Reisenauer Member of the Management Board Member of the Management Board of „EVN Croatia Plin d.o.o.” of „EVN Croatia Plin d.o.o.” 2 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Mission of EVN Croatia We create value through high profitability and by assuming corporate social responsibility, thus ensuring the long-term success of our company. On this basis, we offer our customers high quality services, our shareholders sustainable financial development, and our employees attractive working conditions. We are building and operating gas distribution network in three Dalmatian counties Zadar, Šibenik and Split and the satisfaction of the customer is our ultimate goal. In order to satisfy customer’s expectations we set the highest quality standards – in our products as in our service. Sustainable performance in gas distribution and gas supply requires excellent know-how, high efficiency, most modern infrastructure and constant willingness in innovations. Vision of EVN Croatia As an energy services provider, we fulfil the daily needs of our customers. Through our reliable and high quality services, we sustainably contribute to their quality of life. Our values For our business and the management of the group demanding principles for high commitment to our daily tasks are valid. For us the most diligent pursuit of ethical principles and all legal requirements is inherent. We support the concept of sustainable management of the enterprise and thus strive for a harmonious observance of economic, environmental and social perspectives. It is our policy to adequately balance the desires of all stakeholders in the company. The economic responsibility of securing the long-term existence of our Group demands outstanding performance on our part. A high level of competence and reliability ensure the satisfaction of our customers and business partners. In turn, they represent the basis for our sustained corporate success. We fulfil our responsibility to the environment in particular by endeavouring to optimally economise the natural resources entrusted to us, minimise waste gas emissions and promote the use of renewable energy sources. Ongoing innovations and increased efficiency decisively contribute towards achieving these goals. We take social responsibility in different ways. The commitment we demonstrate to ensuring the wellbeing of our employees by fair and attractive salary levels, as well as our maintenance of a positive corporate culture featuring openness, loyalty and mutual respect, are as important as our emphasis on serving people and achieving an appropriate positioning within the framework of a society shaped by a diverse range of influences. This approach encompasses a high level of transparency and the willingness to engage in an ongoing dialogue, both inand outside the company. 3 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in detail Companies are part of the society in which they operate. As such they also bear responsibility for it. In short, this is the idea on which the term “CSR” (corporate social responsibility) is based. CSR focuses on three areas: society, ecology and economy – or more simply speaking, on people, the environment and business. These areas are called “dimensions”. Companies should pursue activities in such a manner enabling them to take into account the needs of people, the environment and business – but do so above and beyond legal requirements. Every business activity should evaluate and optimise its impact on these areas. For EVN Croatia, this means, for example:  Responsibility in all aspects of business  incorporating customer and employee relations  society investment  human rights and  environmental efforts. Moreover, we define CSR as a central strategic model of the company that is incorporated in the core business. We see our challenge to be reliably fulfilling the daily needs of our customers and contributing to their quality of life. Responsibility to future generations is important for us. Together with our stakeholders we have compiled those issues which currently embody the biggest opportunities and risks for EVN Croatia Plin. From this we developed 8 areas of action presented in the “EVN Croatia Materiality Matrix”: EVN Croatia Materiality Matrix 4 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS 1. The area of action “security of supply” stands for network quality and procurement, an increase in energy saving – all taking sustainability issues into account . 2. The area of action “responsible employer” represents the creation and safeguarding of jobs, responsible human resources development, training and further education, occupational health and safety, open communications, a work-family balance and workforce diversity as well as equality of opportunity. 3. The area of action “corruption prevention” means the prevention of corruption on the basis of preventive and control measures designed to avoid situations from arising in which employees face conflicts of interest and loyalty in their work. 4. The area of action “environmental protection” shall ensure biodiversity, landscape and water protection. 5. The area of action “stakeholder dialogue” comprises our proactive dialogue with and our openness towards the concerns of our interest and stakeholder groups. 6. The area of “corporate culture” is based on our corporate values, standards and attitudes. 7. The area of action “societal responsibility” stands for support of culture and history as well as the educational programs and social events. 8. The area of action ”attractive energy source” combines the actions of EVN Croatia to secure its customers attractiveness of the energy and persistent competitiveness in order to provide to customers quality and price optimized goods and services. The UN Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption are as follows: Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses Labour standards Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 5 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Environment Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake many national and international initiatives, to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Support of anti-corruption initiatives and transparency policy As an internationally operating energy and environmental services company, the EVN group has a farreaching role model function both on its domestic market and abroad. In order to safeguard the good reputation and business success of EVN Croatia, we attach the greatest importance to the integrity and the law-abiding behaviour of all our employees. Initiatives of EVN Croatia Cooperation with technical schools EVN Croatia implemented initiatives for cooperation with technical schools in Zadar, Šibenik and Split on the licensed area of the company. The objectives are establishment of cooperation between the schools and the company in various areas, implementation of joint activities and finding more overlaps between technical support and business. Joint work is envisaged on various projects or joint initiatives in the sphere of economy, gas supply and heating energy, energy efficiency, etc. On 08/07/2010 EVN Croatia and the Technical School Zadar signed a long-term cooperation contract with the following topics:  EVN Croatia provides short-term support through experts, material and financial support of prequalification programme for water and heating workers to gas installers.  Long-term support is linked to a three-year programme for gas installers by means of two scholarships for first grade students, providing of working experience during holidays, visit to EVN construction sites, support in visual materials and exchange of expert experiences. EVN Croatia signed similar cooperation contracts with the Technical School of Šibenik on 26/05/2011 and on 11/11/2011 with the Technical school of Split. 6 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS The areas of cooperation between EVN Croatia and the technical schools provide specific practical activities that will be useful for the professional development of the students:  familiarize students with the investment and repair projects of EVN Croatia in the field of gas and heating energy  practical exercises for students of different specialties in interesting and current topics  practical training for engineering  visits to technical facilities and administrative buildings of EVN Croatia and EVN in Austria  exchange of experience and know-how between the schools and the energy company. Donation “Rehabilitation centre for handicapped people and children” On 21/12/2010 EVN Croatia Plin donated gifts and money for Christmas to more than 100 handicapped children and adults of Rehabilitation centre in Sveti Filip i Jakov. Representatives of EVN Croatia also announced a long term sponsorship. Initiative “Environmental day in Zadar” On 24/03/2012 EVN Croatia participated on the Environmental day of Zadar. EVN Croatia representatives offered its potential customers lots of energy advices: house connections, comparison of different energy sources, energy efficiency, and environmental friendly aspects of natural gas. Initiative “Fire brigade in Zadar” On 16/02/2012 representatives of EVN Croatia held a presentation in the premises of the Public Fire Brigade Zadar for their members. They talked about specific attributes of natural gas in comparison to liquid gas, while the main topic of the presentation was training of the intervention squad for emergency situation procedures, including intervention and safety measures. This way, EVN representatives transferred to Zadar fire-fighters the experiences of their Austrian colleagues. Other topics included the gasification project (completed construction works in Zadar), future plans of gas grid construction (construction phases), construction and appearance of household connection and cost comparison between natural gas and other energy-generating products. EVN Croatia has already set up its customer on-call service for gas which is available 24 hours a day and this valuable cooperation was established with the objective of determining the appropriate procedure of intervention in the occasion of a possible gas leak or fire and in order to ensure gas supply safety. Sponsoring “Zadar Basketball club and Swimming club” In February 2012 EVN Croatia signed a sponsoring contract with the Basketball club Zadar and in December 2012 one with the Swimming club Zadar. The aim of these two sponsorships is to support health care of young people and to help to stay actively in sports. 7 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Sponsoring “Zadar County days” Every year from April to May the County of Zadar organises “County days” which are supported by EVN Croatia in three different activities:  Bike riding from Zadar to Nin  Orientation walking for adults  Orientation walking for children In this way EVN wants to integrate CSR activities in daily activities. High labour standards EVN Croatia orients its activity in accordance with the following guidelines:  UN Universal declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,  Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational Enterprises and social policy, issued by the International Labour Organisation (ILO)  ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work  The Guidelines of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development for multinational enterprises EVN Croatia follows provisions and rules from the Collective agreement for construction activities and. EVN Croatia offers its employees additional health insurance The company provides its employees an additional program for health insurance that provides a package of medical services for prevention and treatment of illnesses. EVN Croatia provides professional trainings to its employees Courses and workshops cover all company activities. Training significantly improves the efficiency of employees in actual work and increases the safety performance of their duties. As part of the trainings for service improvement workshops on project management, teamwork and more are provided. Language courses and financial support for further academic education complete the company’s support in professional education of installers. Initiative “Environmental day in Zadar” On 24/03/2012 EVN Croatia participated on the Environmental day of Zadar. EVN Croatia representatives offered its potential customers lots of energy advices: house connections, comparison of different energy sources, energy efficiency, and environmental friendly aspects of natural gas. 8 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS Energy Efficiency consultation on Saso fair EVN participated on the 17th Saso fair in Split. In the time period from 24/10 till 28/10/2012 we offered our potential customers lots of energy advice on house connections, comparison of different energy sources, energy efficiency, and environmental friendly aspects of natural gas. EVN representatives informed the visitors about the construction of the gas distribution grid in Dalmatia and the advantages of natural gas. They participated also in round table discussions. EVN Croatia considers itself to be responsible both to society and to the environment. In the construction and operation of facilities the company aims to use the most modern and environmentally friendly technologies. Project for the introduction of waste management In all customers energy centres waste generated during the maintenance of the gas distribution grid of the company and classified according to the regulations, is separately collected and transmitted for subsequent lawful treatment. Initiative „Separate waste collection in the offices” While implementing its environmental policy aimed at conservation of resources and the environment, EVN Croatia launched an initiative for separate collection of waste in the offices.  The first stage of the initiative is separate paper collection  The second stage of the initiative is separate collection of packaging  The third stage is separation of bio-waste Social responsibility clause of the EVN Group EVN Croatia has implemented a social responsibility clause, which applies to all companies from the EVN Group and binds all suppliers and subcontractors with the implementation of the following basic concepts and principles: 1. Recognition of human rights. Our contractors and subcontractors are expected to recognize and uphold the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights and to ensure that they are not involved in violations of human rights. 2. No child labour or forced labour. During the manufacture of their products and provision of their services, our contractors and subcontractors undertake not to use or tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour or other involuntary labour as set out in the Conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). 3. No discrimination or harassment in the workplace. Each employee shall be treated with respect and dignity. No employee shall be physically, mentally, sexually or verbally harassed, abused or discriminated because of his or her sex, race, religion, age, origins, handicap, sexual orientation or political or ideological views. 9 COMMUNICATION REPORT ON THE PROGRESS 4. Safety and health in the workplace. Our contractors and their subcontractors must ensure that safety and health are guaranteed for their employees in the workplace while observing any applicable laws and regulations. Free access to drinking water, sanitary facilities, appropriate fire prevention equipment, lighting, ventilation and – if necessary – suitable personal protective equipment must be provided. Employees shall be trained in the correct use of protective equipment and in general safety rules. 5. Labour and social security laws. Our contractors and their subcontractors undertake to comply with the labour and social security laws that apply in each country when implementing contracts. 6. Transparency as regards working hours and remuneration. Working hours shall be in line with applicable laws. The persons employed by our contractors and subcontractors shall receive employment contracts in which working hours and remuneration have been laid down. 7. Protection of the environment. We expect our contractors and their subcontractors to comply with all applicable laws and regulations on the protection of the environment when carrying out their entrepreneurial activities and to pay proper attention to economic, ecological and social aspects when rendering their services/deliveries and thus not lose sight of the importance of sustainable development. 8. Reduction in the use of resources, waste and emissions. The continuous improvement in the efficiency of the use of resources is an important part of management and running a business. Our contractors and their subcontractors shall minimize waste of any sort, including discharges and emissions into the air, water and ground. 9. High ethical standards. We expect our contractors and their subcontractors to attach a high degree of importance to business ethics, to abide by prevailing national laws (in particular labour, competition, anti-trust and consumer laws) and to refrain from engaging or participating in corruption, bribery, deceit or blackmail. 10. Transparent business relationships. Our contractors and their subcontractors shall abstain from offering, requesting, granting or accepting any gifts, payments or other comparable advantages or gratuities that might induce someone to violate his or her duties. 11. Right of assembly and strike. The persons employed by our contractors and their subcontractors should be granted the right to participate in assemblies and strikes in accordance with the laws of the country where they work without having to fear any possible consequences. 10
