CSR Report 2012/2013 ©Brian Hodes Visit csrr.adecco.com Contents 3 The Adecco Group 4 Key figures 6 Message from the Corporate Governance Committee Chair and the CEO 8 Our business & CSR 13 Our CSR strategy 18 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension 21 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension 43 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension 46 Our sustainability performance and goals 48 External acknowledgements on our sustainability performance 50 GRI Standard Disclosures: Profile 69 GRI Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators 77 Further reading 81 Glossary 83 CSR Governance and contacts 85 Imprint CSR Report 2012/2013 2 The Adecco Group We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of all concerned. As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions – a business that has a positive impact on millions of people every day – we are conscious of our global role. Helping people to better work, better life is our common purpose and the way in which we contribute to society. CSR Report 2012/2013 3 32,000~ 700,000~ 100,000+ 5,400~ full-time equivalent associates on clients BRANCHES in over 60 employees 1 assignment daily 2 every day 2 countries & territories 1 1 Year-end 2012 2 Average 2012 Key figures Labour market facts & trends 46 million people 75 million young As an industry, gain access to people unemployed we have made a work every worldwide pledge to up-skill year through Main trends in the global labour 65 million people agency work market The industry confederation is 1. Continued high unemployment – strengthening that role and we collecThe role of our industry – from the above all youth unemployment tively made 5 pledges in May 2012 to Ciett Economic Report 2013 2. Skills and geographical mismatch – build better labour markets and proProviding employment for millions millions of jobs do not get filled • 12.4 million agency workers were vide work opportunities and hope to 3. Greater need for flexibility – for millions of people every day: employed daily in 2011 companies to remain competitive • Support 280 million people in their • On a yearly basis, 46 million people 4. Fewer jobs for lower skilled workers job life gain access to work through agency • Help 75 million young people enter work • The USA employs the largest number the labour market of agency workers with 12.9 million After one year, • Up-skill 65 million people, giving them more work choices people gaining employment through agency work each year our industry has • Create 18 million more jobs • Serve 13 million companies with the • Europe employs 10.4 million people in agency work each year given 11.6 million right talents to succeed 1 Whatever their skills levels people more work • 77% of agency workers have at best finished their secondary education choices through Giving younger generations the up-skilling AFTER ONE YEAR, chance to step onto the career ladder • On average, 57% of agency workers OUR INDUSTRY Where are we after one year – in Europe are under 30 years of age well on the way to work! CREATED 3.1 MILLION • Supported 46 million people in their job life NEW JOBS • Helped 12 million young people How our industry creates employment • Up-skilled 11.6 million • Two thirds of organisations would • Created 3.1 million new jobs not have created jobs without • Served 4.5 million companies 1 access to agency work • Agency work provides a stepping stone from unemployment into work • A high percentage of agency workers remain in employment after 1 year’s experience 1 1 Source. Ciett Press Release May 2013. CSR Report 2012/2013 4 Adecco 32,000~ 700,000~ 100,000+ 5,400~ full-time equivalent associates on clients BRANCHES in over 60 1 Year-end 2012 employees 1 assignment daily 2 every day 2 countries & territories 1 2 Average 2012 Across the Globe Across the business world – HR solutions and services TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT STAFFING SERVICES HR PROCESS MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS General Staffing Professional Staffing Business Process Career Transition & Talent Outsourcing Solutions Development Services · Office · Information Technology · Managed Services · Outplacement · Industrial · Engineering & Technical Programmes (MSP) · Leadership Development · Finance & Legal · Recruitment Process · Career Development · Medical & Science Outsourcing (RPO) · Change Management · Vendor Management Solutions System (VMS) · Training  · Consulting With a focus always Across borders – The top on people – better work host country list better life Through our Candidate International Mobility programme, Adecco helped more than 2,500 people find new employment • Coaching, career guidance, new skills across borders in 2012 improving employability • Consecutive assignments – variety of experiences to upgrade skills sets 616 Norway 100 Sweden • International mobility 244 Canada 126 The Netherlands 50 238 Switzerland Ireland 200 USA 72 Belgium 245 110 France United Arab Emirates CSR Report 2012/2013 5 The current youth unemployment situation is economically and morally unacceptable. Work is a basic need. It gives people dignity and a sense of purpose and belonging. Dear Stakeholder, The Adecco Way to Work – Work is a basic need. It gives people dignity and a sense of purpose and belonging. Helping people to better work – and our contribution hence better life – is our common goal. It is the way in which we contribute to society every day. Adecco provides people The social and economic contribution of the Adecco Group with a stepping stone into employment. We ensure that over and our 32,000 employees to the world of work have never 700,000 associates worldwide have the best possible jobs on been of greater value. Our day-to-day activities – as well as a daily basis. We help them succeed and grow through trainglobal and local programmes, outlined in this report – enable ing, coaching and recognition of their achievements through or improve the way to work for hundreds of thousands of peonew assignments or a permanent job. Moreover, we use our ple. We help people of all backgrounds find their way to work expertise to shape the industry agenda and introduce innova– those starting out on their careers and experienced profestive workforce solutions in order to broaden work opportunisionals, people with diverse ethnic backgrounds, levels and ties for millions of people. types of skills and ambitions. Better work, better life is what we know about. As the global industry leader, we feel it is our In the midst of this challenging environment, more practical responsibility to improve the world of work for everybody. action is needed. And that is what we did: we took action. In the fifth year after the outbreak of the global crisis, unemOn April 30, the street day marked the beginning of the Adecco ployment has reached record highs, leaving an accumulated Way to Work™. In more than 50 countries, our employees total of 197 million people without a job in 2012. Young people were out in the streets, at schools and universities offering remain particularly affected by the crisis. Currently, 75 million career advice, guidance and free training workshops to help young people are unemployed globally. At the same time, youngsters in their search for jobs. In total, over 10,000 emthere are worldwide talent shortages. This indicates skill and ployees hit the streets attending some of the 1,000 street day occupational mismatches between education and training activities. Over 2,000 branches held open days. We also ofsystems and the dire needs of companies striving to grow and fered 9 young people a once-in-a-lifetime experience to travel looking for the right talents in a technologically enabled, globthe world in search of their dream job. The purpose was to al economy. demonstrate that life and job experiences go hand in hand. These are structural issues, with no quick fix. As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions, we believe the current youth unemployment situation is economically and morally unacceptable. CSR Report 2012/2013 6 Through this and many other initiatives, we encourage each and every one of our employees to bring to life our company’s values of team spirit, customer focus, responsibility and entrepreneurship. We are extremely proud and grateful for the depth of engagement of our employees not just with our economic goals but also with our social contribution every day. And we sincerely thank all of our other stakeholders, above all our clients, associates, and shareholders for their support and confidence in the Adecco Group. Our report gives you an insight into our world of work and how we implement our mission of 'better work, better life' on a daily basis. Patrick De Maeseneire Wanda Rapaczynski Chief Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors, Chairwoman, Corporate Governance Committee CSR Report 2012/2013 7 We feel it is our responsibility to help people to better work, better life by creating opportunities in the labour market for all. Our business & CSR How CSR relates to our business Better work better life In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, CSR is Colleagues Associates/ part of our business strategy, overseen by the Corporate Ý Þ Candidates Governance Committee and the CEO and is the designated Better work, responsibility of management throughout our business operbetter life ations. Clients ß à Public Space CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of Directors As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions, Adecco believes work is a basic human need. Our responsibility is to Corporate Governance Committee bring to life the principle of 'better work better life' amongst all our stakeholders. Better work, better life is our job. Every day Executive Committee Experts Groups we help many companies to succeed by bringing together work teams with skills and attitudes that best match their CEO Adecco Group Head Group needs. Every day, we ensure that around 700,000 associates Communications worldwide have the best possible jobs. We help our employees and associates to succeed and grow by training, coaching We participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, and recognition of their achievements. In effect, they choose the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the FTS4Good Index Series. to work with us. And we also submit our Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global Compact and apply the Global Better work, better life is what we care about when Adecco Reporting Initiative GRI Guidelines. teams worldwide volunteer their time and expertise in their communities to help bring disadvantaged people into employment. Work is the foundation of personal and family life, corporate and organizational success, social stability and economic development. Choice in the domain of work supports people to develop and apply their talents and it gives a purpose to peoples’ lives by building a sense of inclusion in society. CSR Report 2012/2013 8 Our values & leadership principles •  e build lasting relationships with our clients and W associates Our four core values – team spirit, customer focus, responsi• We create value for our clients bility and entrepreneurship – are at the very heart of how we • We provide them with the best talent on time operate. They are shared and brought to life by all our em• We help them to be competitive through flexibility ployees around the globe and reflect how we do business. • We partner with our associates in their career deOur four core values are in line with our promise to deliver velopment 'better work better life' for our stakeholders. • We find them the best jobs to fit with their personal and professional life Values & Leadership Principles • We advise them in their career progression and support their learning. • W  ork is a basic need and a basic right: by finding Better work people the right job, we provide them and their better life family with an income, status and a future • We promote diversity, equality and inclusivity in Our core values the workforce • We lead by example, we act with integrity and respect • We volunteer personal time and contribute to our communities. Our leadership principles • We take ownership and stand by our own results •  e act upon opportunities W • We learn fast from success and failure. We inspire others and continuously seek innovative solutions. Leadership Principles Values • P  eople who have values and make decisions, who • W  e share clients and associates across branches, establish priorities, who can analyse and solve business units and countries problems and who answer questions concretely • We share ideas and best practises and appropriately without letting their ‘sense of • We help our colleagues to grow personally and self‘ cloud their answers. professionally • We work hard and play hard; we have fun in what • P  eople who know how to reach out to other peowe do. ple‘s hearts, who are able to make the most of others, appreciating and respecting them, and are able to focus the energies of their co-workers and colleagues on a common objective. •  eople who love their work and are willing to go P the extra mile. CSR Report 2012/2013 9 Adecco’s contribution to people, Agency work provides needed opportunity for young people 1 enterprises and the economy at large % of young workers (<25 years) in 2009 60 Economies 40 20 ADECCO GROUP s nd nd m ly ce en nd y an la iu Ita an ed la la er lg Fr Po rm er itz Be Sw Ge th Sw Ne Enterprises Individuals TAW2 Employed population How HR services benefit Enhancing occupational and geographic mobility We have a deep knowledge of labour markets in the over 60 countries the labour market and territories worldwide where we operate. While there are barriers to mobility, such as language or cultural differences, Lifelong employment for everyone, adapted to personal, fameconomically difficult conditions and resulting high (youth) unily, generational and geographical needs and abilities is the employment will, we believe, further increase mobility of talent. aim of our industry. HR services companies help people find a For individuals, we offer legally recognised and regulated work permanent, fixed-term or temporary job as well as enhancing opportunities, facilitate on-the-job training and enhance occutheir employability through career counselling, education and pational and geographic mobility. While numbers are still low, continuous training. trends are emerging in worker mobility across Europe. During 2012, we supported workers from Poland, the UK, Ireland, PorA stepping stone into employment HR services companies tugal and Romania to find new employment abroad. In total, are a stepping stone for the unemployed and young people to more than 2,570 associates found jobs across borders thanks (re-) enter the job market. According to the Eurociett study to our International Candidate Mobility programme. In Canada, “Adapting to Change” 1, 35% of temporary workers in Europe a similar programme successfully addresses the skills gap and are below the age of 25 and use temporary work as their first has been in place for several years. opportunity to gain work experience. On average 37% of all temporary workers are officially registered as unemployed Supporting properly regulated employment services Our before finding a temporary job. Twelve months after having services and knowledge around work bring us into construcfinished work on a temporary basis, only 15% of temporary tive dialogue with governments, labour organisations and workers are registered as unemployed again. related bodies such as the UN, the ILO, the EU and national staffing federations, amongst others. To maximise the benefits Providing a variety of services to diverse industries The specof HR services in delivering greater labour market efficiency, trum of the HR solutions and services we offer is vast, as is the relevant regulation should balance flexibility with security, for diversity of our client base. It encompasses industry sectors both workers and businesses. Adecco is supportive of intersuch as Office, Industrial, Information Technology, Engineering national instruments that provide guidelines to properly regu& Technical, Finance & Legal, Medical & Science, Business late private employment services, such as the ILO Convention Process Outsourcing Solutions and Career Transition & Talent 181 at global and the EU Agency Work Directive at European Development Services. level. The convention was adopted in 1997 and recognises the role HR services companies play in a well-functioning labour Meeting the needs We maintain a constant dialogue with market and emphasizes the protection of the workers using clients and workers as well as with societal, governmental and their services. Adecco, Eurociett and the national associations business stakeholders to create more and better work opporcontinue to advocate for the correct implementation of the EU tunities for individuals worldwide. Economies, enterprises and Agency Work Directive, focusing on the appropriate regulation individuals all have to face seasonal, cyclical and structural and lifting of unjustified restrictions. Adecco is actively involved market changes and as a labour market intermediary, we help in the Directive’s review process, which is being conducted by them to adapt and react to these challenges. the European Commission and which will lead to a report in December 2013. 1 ”Adapting to Change How private employment services facilitate adaptation to change, better labour markets and decent work”. A report by the Boston Consulting Group BCG and Ciett. 2 Temporary Agency Work CSR Report 2012/2013 10 Adecco is conscious of the environmental impact our operations can have and the difference we are able to make to our own performance also by supporting clients with their GHG 2 reduction goals. Therefore, in 2010 we started to collect data on our CO2 emissions in our 10 largest markets including the global headquarters. In 2011, the reporting was stepped up to 12 countries covering 86% of the Adecco Group in terms of revenue, which has led to a much improved database and resulting information. Through benchmarking with similar industries, a company-wide emission reduction target was defined in 2012 of 12% by 2022. Materiality – choosing our sustainability priorities Our stakeholders’ concerns Work is a key part of life and contributes to a well-functioning society. The labour market influences and is influenced by individuals, small businesses, global corporations, investors, and society at large. Their concerns in the CSR ambit co-shape our agenda. Our main stakeholder groups and their major concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Our main stakeholder groups Concerns Our employees Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic back• Work as a basic need grounds, ages and abilities • Work generates income, is a basis for independence • Work as opportunity, as a pathway into a personal future • Work as social value, which creates and fosters relationships Our clients Small and large, global and local, private and •  Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive public employers from all industry sectors ability and growth • Top talents for top jobs • The right person at the right time • Flexibility in the ever evolving markets Our investors Individual and institutional investors, • Profitability and return on investment analysts and stock market index providers • Sustainable growth • Corporate Governance • Risks and opportunities Socially and environmentally responsible investments The concerns we learn • Society at large from stakeholder diaCommunities, governments and related bodies, media, • Employment rates logue help us prioritise research institutes, etc. • Work as social integration for vulnerable groups • Undeclared work as a burden for social costs our CSR core subjects • Decent work conditions and issues. 2 Green House Gas. CSR Report 2012/2013 11 Choosing our sustainability priorities To define our priorities, we assessed the generic CSR core subjects as provided by ISO 26000 (i.e. human rights, labour practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement) against our stakeholders’ concerns as well as against the nature of our HR services business, the scope of our company and our sphere of influence. This resulted in the following materiality matrix, from which we derived our six strategic focus areas (page 16). Our strategy reflects how CSR relates to our business and mirrors our core competencies, strengths and operational abilities, as well as supports how we can make a difference in the world of work. Materiality matrix (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) High Environment Community involvement Human rights • Resource use • Labour integration • Discrimination & • Climate change • Job creation vulnerable groups • Income creation • Fundamental rights at work Labour practices • Human development • Health & safety Stakeholder concern • Decent work ­conditions Fair operating practices • Fair competition • Anti-corruption Consumer issues (HR services do not relate to consumers How we prioritise the ISO but to employees and 26000 core subjects and corporate clients) issues related to our Significance & relevance for Adecco Group business and the conLow High cerns of our stakeholders. CSR Report 2012/2013 12 By identifying our critical ESE issues we get to understand what matters most: our six strategic focus areas Our CSR strategy The three dimensions of CSR Identifying, mitigating and managing risks is part of our culture. Furthermore, our risk management process is used to In 2012, we further developed our CSR strategy, aligning it with identify business opportunities, to improve our performance our core business, in response to global trends in our industry towards employees as well as services for clients and associand to the requests and feedback we receive from our emates and to increase the value of the Adecco Group with the ployees, associates/candidates and our clients. general public. All countries perform risk assessments on a regular basis and report their results to Group Management. Corporate Social Responsibility is the responsibility of comRisks identified at country and corporate level are treated as panies towards the three dimension of sustainability which opportunities for improvement. culminates in a “triple bottom line”: We are dedicated to earning the trust and loyalty of our employees, associates, clients, shareholders and the comm1. Economic unities in which we operate, by performing our work in ac2. Social cordance with our Code of Conduct which is anchored in our 3. Environmental Core Values and in our Leadership Principles. It sets forth the standards and expectations that we must fulfil in our work It is all about how we manage our impact on the economy, and the way we do business, aiming at high standards with social affairs and the environment. The goal is to integrate regards to ethical and legal conduct. The main areas of focus economic, social and environmental targets into our corporate include: employment, business practices, finance and transactivities in a way that fulfils the requirements of each of the parency and information technology. three dimensions without compromising on any one of them. For Adecco, this means the following: Customer satisfaction, as a result of our services rendered, is key. Our core competences include providing flexible workEconomic dimension: Our Corporate Governance disclosure force solutions and matching clients’ needs with the right canreflects the requirements of the Directive on Information Relatdidates. In an environment of cyclical and seasonal changes ing to Corporate Governance, issued by the SIX Swiss Exin demand, we help our clients to adapt their workforce needs change 1. Adecco’s principles take into account the recommenaccordingly and provide people with diverse work experiences dations set out in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for and educational background with employment. In the econCorporate Governance 2. omy at large, more customisation and made-to-order strategies impact the production cycle and reduce the predictability of our clients’ business development. To keep our associates’ satisfaction high, we offer interesting jobs and conditions through consecutive assignments, attractive wages and training modules that improve their skills and qualifications. 1 As amended on October 29, 2008. 2 As amended on September 6, 2007. CSR Report 2012/2013 13 Ensuring transparent and ethical practices, the Supply Chain • Universal Declaration of Human Rights has become increasingly important in recent years. In 2012, • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at we issued a Code of Conduct and questionnaire for our major work suppliers to ensure that our supply chain adheres to the high• ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multiest ethical principles. national Enterprises and Social Policy • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social dimension: Through the yearly release of our dedicated Communication on Progress (CoP), which is published on our Human & Labour Rights practices are fundamental for website and submitted to the UN Global Compact, we report Adecco’s successful business operations with employees, on the processes and tools used to identify and prioritise critiassociates and candidates as well as client companies and cal social issues within our business and CSR strategies. We its supply chain. apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Framework as it helps us to measure and report transTo strengthen our role as the industry leader, it is our priority parently and with accountability on our CSR performance. The to assist our employees in achieving their full individual potenmateriality matrix according to ISO 26000 provides guidance tial. Talent Management has been a critical component of the on how we can operate in a socially responsible way looking HR strategy within the Adecco Group for many years, through at issues related to our business and the concerns of our a collaborative effort between the Group initiatives and the stakeholders. In addition, we respond to and are measured by local programmes in the countries where we operate. Our RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) review, ultimate goal is to attract and retain the best talent and to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Investor and Supplier Modensure that our leaders can continue to deliver on the overall ules, and the FTS4Good Index Series. Adecco Group strategy. The four components of the Adecco As a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum and parGroup Talent Management framework are: identification of ticipant in their regional events around the globe, we support high potentials, development, performance management, and the Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world finally, succession planning. For our candidates and associby creating greater choice in the domain of work and by unates, the acquisition and ongoing development of vocational locking potential in individuals, enterprises and society in genand transferable skills is a passport to employment, income eral. and a sustainable career in a changing economic and labour market environment. Public and private employment services Adecco adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human play an important role in developing and delivering training Rights. In November 2003, the Adecco Group became the first and re-skilling programmes. company in its industry to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In November 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to consolidate the industry’s global social dialogue to achieve fair conditions for the temporary agency work industry. These two public endorsements are due to the fact that Adecco Group acknowledges adherence to the: CSR Report 2012/2013 14 Three Dimensions of CSR Economic cy ien ffic ic E Eco -Ef om fici on Better work, en -Ec better life cy cio So Social Environmental Socio-Ecologic Efficiency Economic Social Environmental · Business Excellence · Training & Development · Environmental conscious behaviour · Governance & Compliance · Human & Labour Rights · Reducing consumption · Risk Management & mitigation · Integration · Lowering CO2 emissions · Customer satisfaction · Diversity & Equal Opportunities · Supporting clients with their environ· Supply Chain management · Health & Safety mental targets Much of our day-to-day work involves integrating people into Environmental dimension: As the global leader in HR serthe workforce: from unemployment to work; from education vices, we are conscious of the environmental impact our opto work; from job to job; from temporary to permanent emerations can have and the difference we are able to make by ployment. Agency work creates jobs that would not otherwise acting responsibly. Since 2010, we have introduced processes exist, enhancing companies’ competitiveness and workers’ and tools to identify and prioritise critical environmental issues employability. Through select global and local projects and within our business operations as part of our increased focus our three Foundations in France, Italy and Spain, we make on improving our environmental performance. In order to sure that people at risk of exclusion because of disabilities, evaluate and reduce our carbon footprint in a consistent and age, ethnicity, gender or long-term unemployment get addistructured manner, we have been measuring and reporting on tional support to achieve ’better work, better life’ and have an environmental commitments in the Adecco Group’s CSR Report active role in society. and CoP as well as through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones SusThe Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and tainability Indices. The measurement of our CO2 emissions is diseases and furthers health, safety and well-being in the centralised thanks to the ‘myclimate’ database which helps us workplace through special training and measures for employbreak down our environmental impact into Scope 1, 2 and 3 ees and associates. We conduct risk assessments of workemissions. We have replaced our environmental policy with places in order to provide health and safety training to our more comprehensive environmental guidelines which outline associates who are exposed to certain hazards when entering to all stakeholders where the priorities lie in considering the new and unfamiliar workplaces. We instruct our employees impact our daily operations have. Our country organisations in about how to improve their workstation by using the right Spain, Norway and Sweden are currently ISO 14001 certified. equipment properly. The Adecco Group strives to meet all statututory health and safety obligations. In addition, we encourage our employees and associates through global and local initiatives to engage in sports activities which enhance their physical and mental well-being. CSR Report 2012/2013 15 ”I think that each year our colleagues better understand the philosophy of this worldwide initiative. In addition, we all feel grateful because in 2010 we benefited from Win4Youth being able to support the Chilean ’Romanos XII‘ Foundation. That’s why for 2012, we have decided to incorporate Win4Youth as a permanent activity of our company, with positive results.” Thibault Vautier, Country Manager Adecco Chile Our six strategic focus areas Team, Training & Development: Currently, around 7 million jobs don’t get filled despite high unemployment rates espeCSR needs to reflect our business values, while addressing cially in European countries such as Greece, Spain, Italy, social, environmental and economic challenges. On this basis, France but also in the US, Australia and Japan. This is to a we have defined the following six strategic focus areas with large extent due to a mismatch between available jobs and the greatest value and impact for our company and society in skills. Young people are most affected. Too often, their educathe current labour market environment. tion and training does not match the requirements of the business world. Adecco and its industry can contribute to solving this issue through unlocking people‘s potential by retraining and upgrade workers' skills. HR services companies help people enhancing their employability through career counselling, education and continuous training. Integration: Every company’s workforce needs people with a diverse skill set and from all backgrounds in terms of disabilities, age, ethnicity or gender. Integrating people into the Our six strategic focus areas workforce through agency work is a central part of our business. Jobs offer people work experience and an income. Consecutive assignments provide people with diverse work expeEnvironmental Responsibility riences and enhance their adaptability to different roles and teams. In many cases, they are a stepping stone to a permanent position for individuals who otherwise could become Diversity & Equal marginalised. The Adecco Group and its Foundations – often Opportunities in partnership with various organisations – are involved in a range of international, national and local programmes to help these groups at risk of exclusion. More employers are recognising the need to create and promote an inclusive workplace Inclusive Business & Integration in order to maximise productivity, attract new talent and inWorkforce Human Rights crease employee commitment. Diversity and equal opportunities: Retention is one of six strategic priorities for the Adecco Group. Our employees and Team, Training & Health & associates are the most important reason for our success. As Development Safety a company, operating in over 60 countries, we see that diverse teams are able to come up with a wider range of solutions to business problems. Our approach to diversity and equal opportunities and our open company culture help the Adecco Group to attract, motivate and retain talented employees and associates. An example of what our diverse teams CSR Report 2012/2013 16 can accomplish is, in our role as recruitment partner of the The Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights define London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, when Adecco what companies and governments should do to avoid and UK & Ireland recruited 8,300 people as permanent and temaddress possible negative human rights impacts by business. porary employees for the Games. Adecco was given the task In October 2011, the European Commission published a new and succeeded in recruiting the most diverse workforce for policy on CSR for the period 2011–2014 in order to create conOlympic Games ever. Adecco shared LOCOG’s 3 vision for a ditions favourable to sustainable growth, responsible business highly talented, committed, and diverse workforce, developing behaviour and durable employment generation in the medium a unique tracking software that would measure the six and long term. As a result, in June 2013, the European Comstreams of diversity (age, ethnicity, faith, gender, disability and mission issued Sector Guides on Implementing the UN Guidsexual orientation) in every department. ing Principles on Business and Human Rights for three business sectors including a guide for the Employment and Health & Safety: Our employees and associates are our most Recruitment Agencies’ sector. Through the multi-stakeholder valued asset. We are committed to the Health & Safety of our consultation, including Ciett and its members, the content of employees and the associates working with our clients. Our the guide is balanced and reflects the real issues faced by our industry is unique. We do not directly control the workplace of industry. Adecco has published guidelines on Human Rights our associates. Therefore, we must properly select, train, and which reflect the size and maturity of our company. They were equip our associates before assigning them to a job. It is of released in August 2013 to provide guidance and raise awareutmost importance to ensure that our clients adhere to the ness. highest safety standards so that our associates have a safe and healthy workplace with adequate supervision. In order to Environmental responsibility: As the world’s leading provider ensure a fair basis for comparison of our safety performance of HR solutions and a Fortune Global 500 company, we are towards our associates among our country organisations, we conscious of the impact of our operations on the environment look at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), and of the difference we can make by acting responsibly. rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the Therefore, in 2010 we started to collect the data on our CO2 fact that our involvement in the various business sectors – and emissions in our 11 largest markets including the global headthus various risk potentials – varies significantly from country quarters, stepping the reporting up to 12 countries in 2011. This to country. will help us to assess and reduce emissions and makes us an environmental-conscious partner for clients. By benchmarking Business & Human Rights: In recent years, Human Rights with similar industries, we defined a company-wide emission have become an increasingly important aspect to businesses reduction target in 2012 of 12% within the next ten years. Envirand within corporate social responsibility. On 16 June 2011, the onmental-conscious management and subsequent monitorUN Human Rights Council endorsed the ”Guiding Principles on ing and reduction are specifically carried out in the following Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations main areas of our operations: ’Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework” proposed by UN Special Representative John Ruggie which rest on three pillars: 1. Electricity: electrical energy consumption 2. Mobility: company car and air mileage 1. The state duty to protect against human rights abuses by 3. Office supply: mainly paper and toner consumption/ third parties, including business recycling 2. The corporate responsibility to respect Human Rights 4. Office equipment: computers and monitors bought and re3. G reater access by victims to effective remedy, both judicial placed. and non-judicial. By improving our environmental performance, we will save costs due to the lower consumption of resources which will benefit the company’s overall performance as well as our clients’ performance through the services they receive from us. 3 London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games. CSR Report 2012/2013 17 Transforming strategy into concrete actions Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension Global programmes and initiatives Supplier Guidelines In July 2012, we published our Supplier Code of Conduct as well as a supplier questionnaire. They are Excellence Awards In 2012, Adecco Group Excellence Awards distributed to our major suppliers in order to ensure they adwere presented to ten winning teams recognised for the outhere to the highest standards. The Code of Conduct describes standing results they achieved living our four core values of the expectations of the Adecco Group towards its suppliers, team spirit, customer focus, responsibility and entrepreneurvendors, contractors or any other organisation with whom ship. The Lee Hecht Harrison team won the overall Excellence Adecco conducts business. The employees of the Adecco Award for their outstanding performance while Adecco New Group perform their business activities with the highest level Zealand were recognised for their retention rate, one of of integrity and compliance within the laws and regulations of Adecco’s strategic priorities. The 2012 awards included the first the markets Adecco operates in which reflects our expectaService Excellence Award which was presented to an employtions towards our suppliers. We recognise the variety of legal ee who attended our internal Service Excellence Course and and cultural environments, in which its suppliers operate in, best demonstrated how its learnings can be put into practice. therefore his Supplier Code of Conduct should be understood Other winners included Adecco Latin America, Adecco Belas a framework of minimum requirements, which are applicgium, one of our international sales teams, the FESCO Adecco able in the vast majority of situations. joint venture in China and two of our specialty brands, Soliant and Modis US. Risk Management The risk management process is embedded into the Company’s strategic and organisational context. The process is focused on managing risks as well as identifying opportunities. Adecco’s risk management process covers the significant risks for the company including financial, operational, and strategic risks. Adecco’s Risk Management Steering Committee supports the countries when identifying risks and has defined 15 overarching risk categories, which can have a significant impact on Adecco’s results and reputation. The defined risk categories are divided into externally and internally driven risks. Our risk management activities consist of risk identification, risk assessment, risk response, and risk monitoring. Adecco New Zealand’ s Country Manager (2nd left) with the Chairman of the BoD, the Global CEO, CFO and the Chief HR Officer. CSR Report 2012/2013 18 Completed online training on Compliance & Ethics (% of all employees requested to complete the respective module) 100 Understanding the Code of Conduct 1 Business Ethics: An Introduction 80 Conflicts of Interest 60 Information Security Use of Information Technology 40 Bribery & Corruption 2, regional breakdown 20 in chart below Global Health & Safety 2 2012 2011 Global Competition 2 1 New Code of Conduct and training module introduced in 2011, therefore completion rate 2012 lower than 2011. 2  New training module: not rolled out in all countries, yet. NB: As a consequence of the average employee turnover, the training completion rate of 100% can never be achieved. ACE training & reporting The Adecco Compliance & Ethics Bribery & corruption prevention Companies like Adecco do(ACE) training is our eight-module online training programme ing business globally are under increased pressure to improve for employees on the following topics: their anti-corruption and bribery compliance programmes in Code of Conduct; Business Ethics; Bribery & Corruption prevention; order to prevent and detect potentially improper payments Global Health & Safety; Resolving Conflicts of Interest; Global that put the company at risk. Adecco’s bribery & corruption Competition; IT security and e-mail. It prepares our employees prevention programme has been developed to ensure the to handle ethical and legal issues which they may encounter Group’s compliance with applicable legislation while remainin their day-to-day work. All employees are required to coming flexible to business needs and cultural differences. Fundaplete six of the mentioned training modules. The module on mental to the programme is the ‘tone from the top’ by which Global Competition is specifically targeted to Sales professionbusiness leaders are expected to provide visible and explicit als and the Health & Safety module to branch managers. support and commitment to the programme. Employees and The Adecco Compliance & Ethics (ACE) Reporting Tools are acting on Adecco’s behalf may not provide anything of value designed to assist employees, associates and other staketo either government officials or private parties to obtain or holders in reporting actual or potential violations of the law or retain business or a business advantage. Similarly, employees Adecco Group policies, procedures or of the Code of Conduct. may not request or accept bribes or other improper financial Any stakeholder may report to the Board of Directors allegaadvantages. The Group Policy on bribery & corruption preventions of fraud and violations of the law, the Group policies, the tion has been approved by the Adecco Board of Directors. The procedures or ethical standards of conduct by the Adecco bribery & corruption programme includes a policy, risk-asGroup or any of its employees or agents. sessment, education and training, due diligence procedures, and audit-testing processes. ACE Reporting Allocation of reported issues 2012 (in %) Completed online training on bribery & corruption (% of all employees in focus in 2012) Employment practices Internal workplace conduct 100 Western Europe Other (i.e. accounting & financial Eastern Europe irregularities or violations, 80 North America competitive issues, conflicts of Latin America 60 interest, customer-site incidents, Japan fraud, health & safety, internal 40 Asia-Pacific 1 operations, misuses of internal 20 India systems, document retention, regulatory noncompliance, etc.) 1 N  ot rolled out yet in Australia, Vietnam, New Caledonia, South Korea. CSR Report 2012/2013 19 Customer Satisfaction The Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS) Adecco Spain’s Professional Schools For its associates in was implemented across the Adecco Group in July 2008 to General Staffing (Office & Industrial), Adecco Spain has intromeasure client, candidate and associate satisfaction as a way duced the Professional Schools to increase associates’ knowto anticipate potential business risks. It aims to provide the ledge and motivation. There are four levels with three training Adecco Group leadership team with strategic insights on cusmodules at each level. On completing the four modules, the tomer needs and wants and our competitive positioning in the associate receives a certificate demonstrating improved skills market to capitalise on our strengths, address our shortfalls and know-how which qualify him or her for higher qualified and shape our service delivery. The GSS is also a major source jobs. The result is that associates who go through the Profesof information for the preparation and roll-out of global strasional Schools programme show a higher degree of satisfactegic initiatives (e.g. Global Market Segmentation Programme; tion, increase the number of consecutive assignments, almost Global Branding Project). After the implementation of strategic never fail a trial period nor are dismissed by a client. As a reinitiatives, the GSS methodology is a key element to measure sult, they stay substantially longer with Adecco compared to the success and impact of global actions from an external associates who have not had this training opportunity. perspective as well as to derive concrete actions ensuring a continuous improvement cycle across the globe. In 2012, the Adecco Groupe France a Best-in-Class supplier At the reprogramme fielded in total more than 150 surveys across 20 quest of its clients, in 2009 Adecco Groupe France began countries covering 21 of our major brands. working with EcoVadis, a French company offering its services to procurement teams, in order to implement sustainable supSelect country initiatives and programmes ply chain management practices. Since then, EcoVadis has carried out its annual external evaluation of Adecco Groupe Adecco Belgium’s ‘Adletes‘ Programme The ‘Adletes‘ ProFrance’s CSR performance. The evaluation looks at the followgramme has been introduced to enhance associate satisfacing areas: environment, human resources, business ethics tion and motivation. It provides associates, i.e. Adecco Beland ethical procurement. gium’s “Adletes” with coaching which improves their For the second consecutive year, the assessment of 2011/2012 capabilities to get into better jobs and it improves candidates’ shows the commitment Adecco Groupe France has made to motivation and attitudes because they know that Adecco stay a top company and supplier for its clients, ranking bestcares about them. The coaching includes five steps: candiin-class in its industry sector. dates go through an attitude scan and get feedback. Thereafter, a coaching map is laid out, preparing them for their first Adecco India – Anti-Corruption workshop on India As part interview with the client. Candidates are closely followed by of our strategic partnership with the World Economic Forum, Adecco to build their confidence for the encounter with the Adecco India attended an Anti-Corruption Workshop on India client company. The next steps include the hiring and then the organised by the World Economic Forum, in collaboration with retention process for continuous assignments checking on the the OECD, the United Nations Office on Drugs & Crime “Adletes” satisfaction. Adecco involves their clients in the “Ad(UNODC), Transparency International and the United Nations letes” project, making them an important part of it. By the end Global Compact. The legal and regulatory framework for adof 2012, about 7% of Adecco Belgium’s candidates became dressing the problem of corruption in India is well developed. “Adletes” which significantly improved every stakeholder’s However, lack of enforcement is often cited as a major impedexperience. iment to promoting real change, especially in the business environment. The workshop provided a unique opportunity for participants to engage with peers from around the world and across industries – in a non-attribution working environment – to address anti-corruption challenges of mutual interest and to exchange views on the most important steps that business, government and civil society can take together to promote an action-oriented anti-corruption agenda. Read more CSR Report 2012/2013 20 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension Our global figurehead programmes Marc Herremans, a two-time Belgian Champion in triathlon over an Olympic distance and 6th at the Ironman of Hawaii, was the godfather of Win4Youth 2012 and an inspiration for everybody. In 2002, a cycling accident during training left Marc paralysed. Despite becoming paraplegic, Marc never gave up on his dream of winning the Ironman of Hawaii. Remarkably, only three months after the accident Marc began training for the Ironman Championship as a wheelchair athlete. In 2002, he was named sports personality of the year by the Belgian press. He earned the nickname ”Mad Max” due to his determination and unwillingness to give up. Marc participated in the Ironman of Hawaii Win4Youth in 2002, only ten months after his accident. He not only made After the enthusiastic response to our first two initiatives (W4Y his dream come true, but he also aimed to help others by set2010, W4Y 2011), we found an exciting new challenge to again ting up a foundation: ‘To Walk Again‘. The mission of ‘To Walk raise money for four foundations and live our core values acAgain‘ is to give all people with a physical disability the right to tively. In 2012, we joined together – this time by combining two practise sports in an accessible setting with professional supersports we already know well, running and cycling, and adding vision so that they can benefit from the physical, social and one more: swimming. mental effects of sports. In total, more than 30,000 employees participated in over In 2012, Win4Youth also went live on social media: 10,000 events in 60 countries, swimming, cycling and running Like & follow us a total of 1,109,122 kilometres, way beyond our target of one Watch the video from the Highlight event in Barcelona million kilometres. This gave rise to an Adecco Group donation of USD 360,000 to four youth foundations in China, Morocco, New Zealand and Belgium. Each foundation helps disadvantaged young people acquire the skills they need to become independent and proud adults. The Win4Youth 2012 initiative culminated in the Garmin Barcelona Triathlon in Spain where 72 Adecco employees from 36 countries crossed the finish line. Adecco Group‘s CEO proudly welcomes the Garmin Triathlon finishers. “Mad Max“ Marc Herremans, the Win4Youth 2012 godfather inspiring Adecco. CSR Report 2012/2013 21 Çagrı Toksoy, Adecco Turkey’s Win4Youth ambassador “ These activities are binding us all together as colleagues and also give us huge motivation and encouragement to undertake new activities. Now I look forward to be part of the Win4Youth team in Barcelona representing Turkey. It will be a great inspiring and shiny day and become an unforgettable memory for all of us”. Global engagement Win4Youth Win4Youth activities in 60 countries Win4Youth sports performance Nr. of events, clients and employees involved Kilometres run, swum, cycled 35,000 1,750,000 30,000 1,500,000 25,000 1,250,000 20,000 1,000,000 15,000 750,000 10,000 500,000 5,000 250,000 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Events Clients Employees Triathlon Cycling Running Select Win4Youth country initiatives: Colleagues from the Andean Pact countries meet in ColomOlympic training for Win4Youth in Romania 50 colleagues bia On the occasion of the annual convention of Adecco coland clients in Romania got some expert advice before setting leagues from the Andean Pact countries in February 2012, the off on a Win4Youth run in the city of Timisoara. They invited ‘Adecco University’ gave them an ideal chance to practice all former Olympic track and field multiple gold medalist, Gabri3three Win4Youth sports. Over 360 colleagues from Colombia, ela Szabo to join. She put them through their paces during a Ecuador, Peru and Venezuela put on their sports gear, chose warm-up session and then gave some valuable training in their favourite triathlon discipline and recorded these results: correct running styles. The advice certainly worked as the swimming 10 kilometres, walking 186.5 kilometres and cycling group ran a total of 250 km for Win4Youth at the University 429 kilometres. sports base. FESCO Adecco in China mobilises clients In Shanghai on 2 June, the FESCO Adecco Win4Youth 2012 event took place with 82 people completing 430 kilometres running around the beautiful Century Park: 79 of the participants were customers from major companies. The Garmin Triathlon participant from FESCO Adecco kicked off the event as one of the 72 Win4Youth 2012 ambassadors. Olympian Gabriela Szabo provides tips and tricks to Adecco employees. Adecco UK – London to Paris to meet Adecco colleagues in the French capital To kick-start the UK’s Win4Youth 2012 iniFESCO Adecco and clients join together to clock up kilometres for Win4Youth. tiative, they needed a challenge worthy of such a great cause. So it was decided that ten courageous UK Adecco colleagues would cycle from London to Paris in 24 hours. They departed the London HQ at 7.15 pm on Friday 18 May. The welcome that Adecco France put on for their colleagues from the UK was truly spectacular. The result of the challenge: 10 colleagues, 4,200 kilometres, 35,000 meters of elevation gain and a lot of money raised for Win4Youth. CSR Report 2012/2013 23 The Adecco Way to Work™ programme Youth unemployment figures show the dramatic lack of jobs throughout Europe, in the US and some parts of Asia Pacific. Recent figures for Europe are critically high at 23.5% – with peaks of 55.7% in Spain and 58.4% in Greece. That means over 5.6 million people under the age of 25 are jobless in Europe. According to International Labour Organization (ILO) estimates, over 75 million young people worldwide are currently looking for work. Furthermore, recent Adecco research suggests that 54% of unemployed young people want more support and help in their efforts to find a job. Adecco decided to act by giving a helping hand and making its expertise available to young job seekers and school leavers. The Adecco Way to Work™ programme is our way of giving young people a helping hand. It’s all about helping them unlock their potential and giving Adecco Tunisia’s Street Day counselling with young job seekers. them a fresh perspective. experiences go hand in hand and to create optimism for toOn April 30, 2013, Adecco employees in over 50 countries day’s young job seekers. The nine winners are now spending went out in the streets, or visited schools and universities oftheir summer ’job-trotting’, trying various jobs in several differfering career guidance and free training workshops to help ent countries. They are blogging about their experiences as youngsters improve their employability. In total, over 10,000 they go. employees hit the streets attending some of the 1,000 street Main programme website day activities and over 2,000 branches held open days. In Watch the programme videos total, we reached more than half a million people and held over 20,000 coaching sessions. The Adecco Way to Work™ Adecco Group Spain’s REDvolución The cornerstone of the website provides job seekers with various resources to help in Adecco Way to Work™ programme was laid by Adecco Spain their applications. with the “REDvolución” on October 27, 2011. The day was called a REDvolución in recognition of the need for change. It The Adecco Way to Work™ is here to stay. We want the prowas made possible by the highly committed Adecco branch gramme to be a reference point, a one-stop-shop for youngnetwork in Spain, which coloured the streets red at 300 “hot sters looking for tips and tricks on how to prepare their CV, spots” around the country. how to perform best at interviews and much more. We also launched a contest providing a once-in-a-lifetime experience Watch the REDvolución video for nine young people to travel the world in discovery of their dream job. Our purpose was to demonstrate that life and job Adecco Spain’s REDvolución initiative in 2011. Adecco Poland’s employees consult people during the Street Day in Warsaw. CSR Report 2012/2013 24 Patrick De Maeseneire, CEO Adecco Group “ I‘m happy that we made a contribution to a young generation that is struggling to find work.” The Way to Work™ ‘Work Experience Contest‘ Their journeys to several countries and experiences of a variety of jobs have been shared on the Adecco Way to Work™ website and via social media, day by day, job by job. The nine winners submitted application videos showing their communication skills, career passion, creative merit, relevance and originality. We hope their experiences will inspire other young people across the globe. Read more Amber Cole, New Zealand Tolotra Ramarovahoaka, France “From a city of 70,000 and a country “This trip will give me the chance to of a mere 4 million, to whole cities of soak up all these professional and double that, I am ready to make my cultural experiences so that I can mark on the world and take the prove myself and really start to build Adecco Work Experience by storm!” my future...” Watch Amber’s application video Watch Tolotra’s application video Masaki Hamaguchi, Japan Federico Sattanino, Italy “This is exactly what I dream of. I am “I believe Adecco’s Work Experience eager to learn new things and share Contest will allow me to move towards my experience. I want to show everymy goal to produce my own craft beer, body how wonderful working around while picking up some awesome exthe world can be!” periences on the way ... and at the Watch Masaki’s application video same time draw attention to my generation by showing how creative and modifiable we are.” Watch Federico’s application video Imane Krirat, Germany “I’m getting the chance to travel and work in different countries and I’m Rocheleh Ziffer, Australia really looking forward to making life“The opportunities that this competitime experiences and meeting many tion holds are incredible and I am very different people.“ grateful to Adecco for granting me this Watch Imane’s application video chance ... I am always changing my Read Imane’s blog mind as to what I want to do ... or where I want my life to be headed. I am hoping that after this competition, I will be able to gain some sort of direction.” Watch Rocheleh’s application video CSR Report 2012/2013 26 ”Our approach to inclusion is about doing a wide range of ordinary things for extraordinary people, for the good of the economy and society.” Patrick De Maeseneire CEO, Adecco Group International Olympic Committee (IOC) & International Paralympic Committee (IPC) Athlete Career Programmes While life as an elite athlete and life in the business world may seem like polar opposites, there are actually many transferable skills acquired by athletes during their sporting careers that can prove to be invaluable in a professional capacity, such as the ability to perform under pressure, dedication, selfmotivation and time management. Making the transition from a sports career into the job market can be a difficult process, which is why the International Olympic Committee and the International Paralympic Committee Athlete Career Programmes (ACP) are proving to be such a vital resource for Olympians and Paralympians with one eye on the future. Since 2005 and 2007 respectively, the IOC and IPC in cooperation with the Adecco Group have been providing educational, Adecco Group CEO Patrick De Maeseneire and IOC President Jacques Rogge after signing the agreement for the IOC ACP in July 2012. life skills, career development and job placement expertise to help elite athletes successfully transition into the workforce. “A sporting life is not eternal and you have to be prepared for Since the programmes started, more than 10,000 elite athletes the fact that you will have to find a job, you will have to reintefrom over 100 countries have been supported by the Prograte into social life“. grammes. So while elite athletes may reach the finish line in IOC President Jacques Rogge their sporting careers, the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programmes ensure that they have new arenas in which to achieve their best. A further 8-year commitment to elite athletes In the 2012 Olympic year, the IOC and the IPC both extended their commitment to the Athlete Career Programme by each signing a further 8-year contract with the Adecco Group in July and September 2012 respectively. Press release IOC ACP Press release IPC ACP Adecco Group CEO Patrick De Maeseneire and IPC President Sir Philip Craven after signing the 8-year contract for the IPC ACP in September during the London 2012 Paralympic Games. “London 2012 is a continuous legacy. We must drop the word disabled and make ability and accessibility the main topics.” IPC President Sir Philip Craven CSR Report 2012/2013 27 Franck Perque, French Track cyclist “I have learned a lot and really progressed both with my writing and verbal skills to prepare for interviews. In this way, my consultant and I were able to target companies and focus on opportunities that really corresponded to my profile.” “People do not define me as a former athlete or Paralympian anymore. I have become part of the mainstream workforce. This is what inclusion is all about, being accepted and playing a part.“ Florence Gravellier, Paralympian and responsible for the ‘Disability & Skills‘ programme, Adecco Groupe France IPC Academy Inclusion Summit On the wave of the Paralympic Games, a catalyst for societal change toward people with an impairment, the IPC Academy and the Adecco Group organised the IPC Academy Inclusion Summit in London. Taking place during London 2012, Government representatives and interested stakeholders from around the world discussed how to take forward key learnings from the London 2012 Games – ranging from recruiting a diverse workforce to creating accessible venues and facilities, to how this can and needs to be replicated in workplaces and society at large. IOC & IPC Athlete Career Programme development Nr. of Athletes 2500 2000 1500 1000 500 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Winter Summer Winter Summer Florence Gravellier, former wheelchair tennis player and two-time bronze Olympic Olympic Olympic Olympic medalist at the Beijing 2008 Paralympic Games, Adecco Groupe France Year Year Year Year employee and Win4Youth godmother 2013. Outreach Adecco Countries CSR Report 2012/2013 29 “I have been accepted into the International British School Programme which is great news for me and my family! The ACP outreach session I attended has taught me the pointers which I was able to use in my application interviews through Skype.“ Jethro Chua, Elite swimmer, Philippines Outreach Most athletes are introduced to the programme through their National Olympic or Paralympic Committees (NOC or NPC). More than 35 NOCs and NPCs have been cooperating with Adecco since the programmes were launched in their countries to deliver a local programme. Working to provide global coverage, Adecco is working with the IOC, NOCs, the IPC and NPCs around the world to deliver career development workshops beyond where Adecco has offices. In 2012, we reached out to 599 athletes by providing training workshops including the following countries: Philippines, Zambia, Mali, the Cook Islands, El Salvador, Guatemala, Aruba, Cyprus and Malta. Strengthening the Olympic Movement’s commitA group of athletes trained during an Outreach activity in the Philippines. ment to athletes, the IOC in cooperation with Adecco also delivered career development introduction workshops to over 250 young athletes and volunteers during the 1st Winter Youth Olympic Games in Innsbruck in January 2012 with a focus on time management and the importance of balancing sport and education. Website Adecco ACP Website IOC ACP Website IPC ACP Watch the latest video on retired Olympic athlete Mechelle Lewis Freeman CSR Report 2012/2013 30 “Being able to work in a corporate environment gave me a chance to experience new things. Having the support from my colleagues gives me more connections and a better drive to do my best in the work and sports environment.“ Allison Jones, Paralympic medalist in cycling and alpine skiing, Recruiter Strategic Sourcing, Adecco Group North America Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Switzerland and the Swiss Olympic Team Album For London 2012, Swiss Olympic and Adecco Switzerland created an online Swiss Olympic Team Album. This unique initiative made it possible for people to engage with the Olympic Games and the athletes participating and at the same time raised awareness of the Swiss Olympic ACP. Adecco contributed to the Team Album by conducting exclusive interviews and videos with some of the athletes who joined the Swiss Olympic ACP and competed in London. Read and watch the athlete interviews: German and French. Canoeist Mike Kurt portrayed in the Swiss Olympic Team Album. Adecco Italy enriched by Paralympic colleague Florinda Trombetta Adaptive Rower Florinda Trombetta attended the ACP in Italy to find out what she wanted to do professionally and how she could combine it with her next sports challenge which was to qualify with her team for London 2012. After a few sessions with her Adecco ACP coach, Adecco Training was convinced that Florinda would not only be part of the 2012 Paralympic Games but also a great team colleague, and they offered her a position in their HR department. Through her experience as a high-performance athlete, she and her coach were involved in a special workshop offered to an Italian company and 18 members of their staff. It was all learning about how to be competitive, acting as a team and the exParalympic rower Florinda Trombetta and her team fighting for a medal at change of know-how and best practice as well as problem the 2012 Paralympic Games in London. solving – all core competencies of elite athletes. “Sport in general and adaptive rowing are based on clear rules, on respect for one’s team-mates and opponents and on efforts to achieve demanding goals. All these aspects are also present in my professional life today.” Florinda Trombetta, Paralympian, Assistant Milano Training Centre, Adecco Italy CSR Report 2012/2013 31 Employee satisfaction Great Place To Work® scores 2011/12 and 2012/13 100 80 60 40 20 lia m k ar nd ce o cc AG ly pa n s nd ay n ai en nd UK A US ra iu la an Ita rw Sp ed la st lg nm Fin Fr de IS Ja la No er Au Be De y, y, D er Sw itz A an th Sw an Ne rm rm Ge Ge Adecco countries Adecco countries 2011/12 2012/13 The Team GB and Adecco UK & Ireland – exploring off the Our global programmes and initiapitch opportunities The Team GB athletes experienced an unforgettable year in 2012 as the host nation to the Olympic & tives in the strategic focus areas Paralympic Games that generated global enthusiasm and inspired a generation. For many athletes, the limelight of an Olympic or Paralympic Games can prove challenging and the Team, Training & Development transition back to a more normal day-to-day athlete’s life or a future career after retirement can be rather difficult. To provide Global programmes and initiatives support and advice during this transition period, the British Olympic Association (BOA) and the British Paralympic AssociaAdecco is a Great Place to Work Every year since 2004, we tion, backed by Adecco UK & Ireland, the DKH Legacy Trust have been conducting the Great Place to Work survey. The and the English Institute of Sport organised the first Athletes survey has now been adopted by over one third of our country Career Fair in January 2013. Attended by over 150 athletes, organisations and brands which includes over 80% of our emincluding many Olympic and Paralympic medalists as well as ployees in 26 countries and all of our major brands such as renowned companies such as EDF, Lloyds, Deloitte, British Gas Beeline, LHH and Pontoon. Our goal is to be recognised as an and Red Bull amongst others, the event aimed to show athemployer of choice, not just in our own industry, but amongst letes the value that their sporting career can bring to their sucother world-leading companies. The Great Place to Work Trust cess off the field of play and the variety of transferrable skills Index© is an employee survey tool that measures the level of they have acquired. trust, pride and camaraderie within workplaces. The overall result for the Group improved by 6% in 2012 compared to 2011. The greatest improvement was seen in the dimensions ‘respect and fairness‘ in 2013. DIS AG in Germany ranked fourth on the European Best Workplaces list. In addition, Adecco Netherlands, Adecco Sweden, Tuja Germany and Atrias Germany were on the Best Workplaces lists in their respective countries. Office Angels, Adecco, Spring and Roevin were on the Sunday Times ’Best Companies to Work For’ list in the UK. In 2013, Denmark, Belgium, Germany (DIS), Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and UK (Adecco and Office The first Team GB Athletes Career Fair with Olympians and Paralympians in January 2013, following the Olympic and Paralympic Games 2012. CSR Report 2012/2013 32 Training hours per Employee Training investments per Employee in EUR Adecco top 10 countries and Adecco major countries‘ average Adecco top 10 countries and Adecco major countries‘ average (2012) (2012) 50 1,000 40 800 30 600 20 400 10 200 lia m k ar nd y an ly Ita ay n ai en nd m ar k nd ce y an nd s ay n ai en nd ra iu la rw Sp ed la iu la an rw Sp ed la st lg nm Fin rm No er lg nm Fin Fr rm la No er Au Be De Ge Sw itz Be De Ge er Sw itz Sw th Sw Ne Hours/FTE Investment/FTE Average Average Angels) all made it to the Best Workplaces lists in the respec• MBA Highlights Programme broadens knowledge of a tive countries (see page 51). One of the reason for this good range of topics such as Strategy, Corporate Finance and Inperformance is our open company culture which is firmly novation with an overall theme of value creation. based on our Group values and leadership principles. Service & sales courses Associates trained • Service Excellence Course (SEC) is specifically designed for Nr. of individuals in select countries our branch managers, who have a major impact on our customers. The participants work through a series of disItaly cussions, activities and experiences to learn how to adapt a 40,000 France common customer service framework to the key interac30,000 USA tions they have with their customers. So far, employees in 20,000 Europe, North America and Australia attended the SEC and it will be launched in South America, India, Japan and Asia 10,000 during 2013. The impact of the course is seen and felt, not only by our employees – 1,400 colleagues have been through the programme from commencement in October The Adecco Academy Since 2011, the Adecco Academy has 2011 – but also by our candidates, associates and clients been running the Group’s global development programmes which clearly demonstrates its importance for the developspanning multiple levels. The programmes are organised ment of successful stakeholder relationships. under two pillars: leadership and service & sales. • Value Focused Selling (VFS) is a workshop which goes beyond basic sales techniques and delivers a tried-and-tested approach focused on consultative selling methodologies. The course teaches effective ways to engage clients in order to understand what is important to them and how to customise solutions to those wants and needs. • High Intensity Training (HIT) is a programme that teaches Our Leadership Programmes the basics of sales, recruiting, order maintenance and opThrough our leadership programmes, in cooperation with two erational efficiencies. The programme discusses global best of the best business schools in the world, INSEAD in France practices and works through techniques to adapt them loand IMD in Switzerland, more than 820 of Adecco’s managers cally. Learning techniques include large group discussion, have been trained to improve their leadership skills. role play and culturally adapted small group discussions. • The Senior Leadership Programme takes senior leaders through a series of experiential activities, individual and group reflection as well as group work. Participants practice and hone their leadership skills in a team context. • I3 Leadership Development Programme delivers cuttingedge theory and experiences to best equip Adecco leaders to live the values of the Group and grow throughout their careers. CSR Report 2012/2013 33 Retention rate 2008– 2012 in % 74/70/75/75/76 73/66/80/81/81 64/64/73/70/74 68/65/67/62/62 90 FY 2008 70 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 50 FY 2012 Group Europe North Rest of world America Global English – enhancing communication amongst graduates have the possibility to bond with peers and euro employees With our presence in over 60 countries and territoengineering management and employees during leisure and ries, being able to communicate and understand each other sports activities. When they join CAMPUS, graduates are guaracross countries is key. Therefore, we offer our employees the anteed full time employment once the programme ends. All Global English e-learning tool with a focus on business English costs for CAMPUS are borne by euro engineering, as a future using the web, mobile devices, and social enterprise tools. investment in highly skilled employees. Currently twelve Adecco countries have colleagues registered Watch the video with Global English. Select country programmes and initiatives DIS AG Germany a truly great place to work DIS is committed to trustworthiness between employer and employees as well as to an open company culture and great camaraderie. In 2013, DIS was again awarded for being amongst Germany’s top employers. The company was placed first in 2011 and 2012. And in 2013 for the ninth consecutive year, DIS AG was amongst Germany’s top employers in our industry. Germany Best Place to Work list 2013 Adecco Groupe France’s commitment to training for associates Founded in 2011, our online ’expert university’ offers our associates specialised in technical and managerial positions specific online training to enhance their skills. They are guided by our consultants on their choice of the various modules based on their specialisation and know-how. This empowers each associate participating in the expert university to take charge of their own careers. CAMPUS – euro engineering’s programme for future engineers and technicians With the euro engineering CAMPUS university, graduates from engineering and technical science all over Germany are prepared for their transition into the labour market. In addition to acquiring know-how through seminars, training on the job, company visits and assessments, DIS AG Germany’s management is celebrating their second place in the 2013 Great Place to Work survey. CSR Report 2012/2013 34 Human & Labour Rights Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining: Situation of our Associates in %, worldwide Global programmes and initiatives Associates in ’free’ or ’mostly free’ European Commission E&RA 1 Sector Guide on Business & countries 1 95% Human Rights In December 2011, IHRB 2 and Shift 3 were seAssociates covered by Collective Labour lected by the European Commission (Directorate-General for Agreements: 41% Enterprise and Industry) to develop sector-specific guidance on Associates in ’partly free’ countries 1 3% the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, as set out Associates in ’repressive’ countries 1: 2% in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Associates in ’very repressive’ countries 1: The development of sector-specific human rights guidance is no operations in such countries one of the deliverables of the European Commission’s policy on corporate social responsibility, adopted in October 2011. Further 1 Regarding level of workers’ rights: Rating by Freedomhouse (www.freedomhouse.org) to a public consultation, the services of the European Commission decided that guidance would be developed for employment and recruitment agencies (E&RA), information and comThe European Network Against Racism (ENAR) The Adecco munications technologies (ICT) companies, and oil and gas Group has been a member of the ENAR Expert Group on ‘Procompanies. The development of this Guide involved extensive moting Equality in Employment’ since 2007. This pioneering research and multi-stakeholder consultation. Ciett, the World initiative brings together businesses committed to diversity Staffing Association, was involved in the drafting process from and inclusion (Adecco Group, IBM, L’Oréal and Sodexo) with the beginning with a mandate on the Advisory Board. Adecco non-governmental anti-racist organisations. Together, we has actively supported and contributed to the various drafting work on developing new ways to ensure the full participation and consultation phases. The final guidelines were published in of ethnic minorities in the labour market. In 2010, the Expert June 2013. Group published a strategic report recommending a clear Download the E&RA Sector Guide policy and best practices for EU institutions, member states, the private sector and social partners. Adecco Human & Labour Rights Guidelines Working with Read more over 32,000 employees, 700,000 associates on daily assignFourth ENAR Equal@work meeting Report ments with more than 100,000 clients in over 60 countries, requires a strong focus on Human and Labour Rights. In 2013, we First annual United Nations Forum on Business and Human published our Guidelines on Human & Labour Rights which also Rights Adecco attended the first United Nations Forum on Busiaddress adherence of our clients and suppliers. Adecco upness and Human Rights in Geneva between December 3 and 5, holds the principle that the inherent dignity and the equal and 2012. Around 1,000 participants from more than 80 countries inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the took part in the two-day event, making it the largest global foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world as set gathering on business and human rights to date. A key outforth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The responcome of the Forum was that Human Rights can no longer be sibility to respect Human & Labour Rights is a global standard considered a CSR topic “only” but have become relevant to of expected conduct for all business enterprises wherever they business. Dealing with Human Rights in a corporate environoperate, even beyond national laws and conventions. Our comment has shifted from an ideological to a technical issue, and pany aims to implement the United Nations ’Protect, Respect companies need to ’re-engineer’ their internal mechanisms to and Remedy’ framework which was endorsed by the United introduce the Guiding Principles into their operations. The Nations Human Rights Council on 16 June, 2011. Adecco recogForum was chaired by John Ruggie, former Special-Representanises that the Guiding Principles provide an authoritative global tive of the Secretary-General on the issue of Human Rights and standard for preventing and addressing the risk of adverse transnational corporations and other business enterprises. impacts on human rights linked to business activity. Watch select forum sessions Adecco’s Guidelines on Business & Human Rights 1 Employment & Recruitment Agency. 2 Institute for Human Rights and Business. 3 Shift is an independent, non-profit center for business and human rights practice. CSR Report 2012/2013 35 Age distribution amongst Adecco Group employees in % (select countries) 100 51y+ 41 –50y 80 31 – 40y 60 20 – 30y 40 20 Z nd n ai nd s m y an A nd n en ay /N la iu US la pa ed rw lia er Sp la lg rm Fin Ja ra itz er Be Ge Sw No st Sw th Au Ne Select country programmes and initiatives subject of anti-discrimination which is mandatory for all employees. The 13 modules provide practical and legal support Adecco Colombia & Human Rights Adecco Colombia is enon non-discrimination and give employees advice on how to gaged in a multi-stakeholder initiative resulting from the Free react in potentially discriminatory situations. Trade Agreement between the Columbian and the Swiss Government. Various companies, the Swiss and the Columbian Governments and the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para la paz’ Diversity & Equal Opportunities signed the ‘compromiso ético’, focusing on the respect of Human Rights. Since the beginning of 2012, regular meetings Global programmes and initiatives have taken place, focusing on explaining the concept and importance of International Humanitarian Law and the ‘Guías World Economic Forum – Adecco contributes in its role as Colombia’ on Human Rights and International Humanitarian Strategic Partner In January 2013, the Adecco Group took Law, led by the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para la paz’. The ‘Guías part in the World Economic Forum in Davos for the second Colombia’ share the purpose of defining, promoting and time since becoming a Strategic Partner in December 2011. adopting clear patterns and standards pertaining to Human The goal of the Forum is to improve the state of the world Rights and International Humanitarian Law for business opwhich is why youth unemployment, structural reform and erations in complex scenarios like contemporary Colombia. Europe’s lack of competitiveness were high on the agenda of On an industry level, within ACOSET 4, Adecco has been cothe Annual Meeting. Adecco was represented by the Chairdriving two initiatives under the Human Rights umbrella: man of the Board, the CEO and several Executive Committee • The focus on Health and Safety at work, with the objective members. As Strategic Partner, Adecco is also involved in a of Adecco Colombia to reach the target of zero accidents series of regional meetings including the ones on Latin Ameriwith employees and associates ca, Africa, the Middle East and North Africa, East Asia, the • The potential support of collective bargaining and freedom Annual Meeting of New Champions in China, and the meeting of association measures, as the workers representation in India where our local leaders are further involved to colandscape is poor in Columbia. shape the agenda on job creation. Interview with Adecco Group CEO Adecco Groupe France – long-standing commitment to fight discrimination Discriminatory practices in the labour market People with disabilities amongst Adecco Group employees are a reality and need to be addressed actively. Adecco % of headcount (select countries) Groupe France began to raise awareness around this topic in 6 2001 with the creation of the ’Pôle de lutte contre les discriminations’ putting in place tools, awareness training and audits 5 of business services. In addition, Adecco France and Adia also 4 participated in the European project EQUAL Latitude between 2001 and 2006, developing concrete action plans with regards 3 to discrimination and signed the French Diversity Charter to2 gether with major multinationals in 2004. Since 2010, Adecco 1 Groupe France has been using an e-learning training on the m nd an y n ai ce ly Ita pa n UK 4 Columbian Temporary Work Industry Association. iu lg la er rm Sp an Fr Ja Be itz Ge Sw CSR Report 2012/2013 36 Gender distribution in 2012 in % The Candidate International Mobility Programme 2012 77/23 37/63 47/53 35/65 100 The main profiles of our international candidates 80 60 26 % 40 15 % 13 % 10 20 9 % % 8% Senior Branch All All managers managers managers employees Trade Construction Production / Industry Healthcare IT specialists Engineers Male Female Client International Mobility CIM – re-launched successfully European Employment Forum & Youth Employability Awards in 2012 The European Employment Forum was held in Brussels from In 2012, thanks to the re-launch of Adecco's Candidate InterNovember 27-28, 2012. The two-day event, also supported by national Mobility programme, almost 2,600 international canEurociett, focused on creating jobs for growth. As a sponsor, didates found a job opportunity abroad. Countries such as Adecco was represented by the regional head of Adecco UK Norway, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Switzerland, and & Ireland who took part in a panel discussion on the next Canada were among the top host countries. Poland, The Philsteps for skills, mobility and flexicurity in Europe. Adecco ippines, France, UK and India were among the top source Group’s International Mobility Director participated on a panel countries. The profiles of the international candidates were with a focus on how to bridge the skills gap for youth in trade workers, construction, production and industry workers, Europe. In addition, Adecco led a focus group on how elite healthcare staff, IT specialists and engineers. Two clients of athletes contribute to the success of companies after their life Adecco UAE required a large number of experienced engiin sports which featured the country manager of Adecco Belneers. In fact, the United Arab Emirates are facing a booming gium, the Global Director of the Athletes Career Programme economy and qualified resources are limited. The Engineering and a former elite athlete who is now employed by Adecco division of Adecco India stepped in to find local engineers who Belgium. were then interviewed and screened in various Indian cities. During the Forum, Adecco presented an award to the NGO 120 Indian engineers are now working in the Middle East reAIESEC International for their efforts in the category ’Enabling gion, and local clients are asking for additional people. Youth Mobility’. The award was sponsored by Adecco as a member of the European Alliance on Skills for Employability of which Microsoft and Accenture, amongst others, are also members. The main goal of the European Alliance on Skills for Employability is to help better co-ordinate industry and community investments, services and other offerings, dialogue and engagement with NGOs and public authorities. Read more The AISEC International represenative receives the ’Enabling Youth Mobility’ Award from Adecco’s International Mobility Director. CSR Report 2012/2013 37 Adecco UK & Ireland – the recruitment services provided for London 2012 The Olympic and The Challenge How we did it Outplacement Paralympic Games 2,500 Legacy Staff Dedicated team and off-site team in London are outplacement services for permanent staff continually being provided throughout 2012 only going to be a Managing over Pre-employment Adecco on-site team 218,000 Number of people screening of all success if the right staff We provide: 95 people with the applications right skills make it happen. This is 3,800 4 May 2009 Training Workshop Unique technology Social networking applications what Adecco is Permanent staff January 2012 responsible for. Activation 4,500 Roles recruited We are the people behind the people Games staff (during the Games) Athlete Career Programme at London 2012. 10,000 athletes worldwide The UK was the 98% Director of Head of Flags transitioned from first country within Paralympic their sporting 2012 the Adecco Group Integration career into the to sign the ACP Services (Board role) workplace with agreement with its roles sourced by our help National Paralympic Outplacement Systems design and Adecco Group Adecco is proud to have been at the heart Association services throughout implementation including of the success of London 2012. Without 2012 the London 2012 Job site the skilled and experienced people we recruited there would be no London 2012. Adecco not only worked in partnership with Adecco recruited people with the widest London 2012 to find the best people but Diversity & Inclusion Head of Roles Marketing, Legal, Finance, HR, range of often unique skills at every sourced the great majority of people from Badminton Technology Security, Catering, Free on-line Workshops and one-to-one Athlete Career Fair for London and its communities. Administration level all the way to Board level courses to coaching for athletes after retiring Olympic and 3%Diversity & Inclusion athletes the Games Paralympic athletes in 6% 10% January 2013 By working closely with the senior team at LOCOG Adecco has demonstrated that Disability Diversity & Inclusion is one of the key priorities for LOCOG and the CEO wanted hiring a diverse and inclusive workforce to ensure they were achieving their commitments Jobs for the Games is not about achieving targets but about 18%-29% 31% having the best, most innovative and 1 2 3 Ethnicity capable workforce possible; one able to • Job board to help London 2012 sponsors and contractors source put on one of the largest, most complex, candidates as well as helping local people find jobs 48% 46%• Will remain as a resource for people to find work after the games deadline driven projects the world has seen and one that uniquely reflects Gender (female) 54% Unique software developed to track Two programmes developed to reach Ethnicity (BAME*): *Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic the people and capabilities of London. diversity through disabled candidates: <30 20%-30% 40% all stages of Unlocking Britain’s Potential Adecco takes from the project unique experience, a series of practical tools to Age recruitment by: help its existing and future clients better BAME* Talent Pool Adecco organised a conference to look at 4 key areas essential for Britain to engage with its local communities, >50 10%-15% 13% Guaranteed interview scheme 22% compete more effectively in the global market workplace attracting and sourcing unique talent and above all delivering skills and teams Age Departments to help organisation be the best in their 11% respective markets. Target LGBT* 5% 5%-7% *Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Achieved Monthly Disabled Talent Pool Before After Education Employee Technology Diversity Transexual scheme scheme Engagement official supporter adecco.co.uk Select country programmes and initiatives prises at country level and to develop and implement policies to advance women in business and management. Adecco London 2012 – Adecco UK & Ireland recruited the most Asia has the highest number of woman executives with seven diverse workforce Adecco, the official recruitment services country managers out of ten countries. The sessions were provider of the Olympic and Paralympic Games in London, facilitated by ILO employer specialists of the Decent Work successfully met the challenge of providing the people and Teams from New Delhi and Bangkok. talent needed to make London 2012 arguably the most memRead more orable Olympic Games in decades. To hire the 8,300 people, Related research both permanent staff and people for the time of the Games, who had exactly the right skill sets, Adecco UK & Ireland proAdecco Staffing US again named a top company for divercessed 218,000 applications. Sharing the vision of the London sity and inclusion Adecco has been named one of Uptown Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Professional Magazine’s top 40 companies for diversity and (LOCOG) to realize the most diverse and inclusive Games ever, inclusion. The awarded companies were chosen based upon Adecco developed unique recruitment software which tracks a number of criteria, including persons of colour and women streams of diversity such as age, ethnicity, faith, gender, sexuon the Board of Directors and a noteworthy representation of al orientation and disability. For candidates with disabilities, diverse individuals in senior-level management. Diversity and Adecco devised a number of programmes to assist the reinclusion has been a priority for Adecco North America for the cruitment process, including a guaranteed interview scheme past years. With Adecco Staffing employing more than 3,000 and creating a talent pool of disabled people, not only for people and putting over 100,000 job seekers to work each LOCOG but also other sponsors and suppliers of London 2012 week, diversity and inclusion are two elements that must be a and beyond. As a result, people with disabilities made up part of the corporate DNA. Adecco understands the impor10 per cent of London 2012’s workforce. tance of a strong and diverse workplace – all backgrounds Watch the video must be included in order to continue to be a successful organisation. At Adecco North America, a division helps client ILO’s Women in Business and Management Asia Pacific companies with ’diversity solutions’ in recruitment, training, Regional Workshop Our regional director of Thailand and development and communications. The scope of diversity is Vietnam participated in the ILO APAC Regional Workshop on not just race, gender and all of the ethnic categories but it’s Women in Business & Management to bring her expertise on everything from hierarchy in the company to educational company initiatives which help advance women in business backgrounds, titles and tenure. And the inclusion piece is how and management. Together with 14 participants representing companies manage their diversity successfully. national employers’ organisations and Chambers of ComRead more merce from 11 countries across Asia and Pacific, she contribFind out about Adecco NA’s specific programmes uted to the strategy and discussions of this global effort. The aim was to expedite the closing of the gender gap through strengthening employers’ organisations, to support enterCSR Report 2012/2013 38 People with disabilities integrated into the labour market Information on number of individuals 14,000 Other business units 12,000 Adecco Belgium 10,000 Adecco Italy & Adecco Foundation Italy 8,000 Adecco Spain & 6,000 Adecco Foundation Spain 4,000 Adecco France 2,000 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Integration The Golden Workers project – building Global programme and initiatives a roadmap for ICT 2012 was designated by the Adecco’s involvement with the Global ILO Business and European Commission as the ‘European Year for Active Ageing Disability Network People with disabilities make up around and Solidarity between Generations’. The objective of the 15% of the world’s population. This amounts to over 1 billion of Golden Workers project was to help mature workers gain IT people, making them the largest minority group. As an emskills needed for employment. Through the Adecco Foundation ployer of over 10,000 people with disabilities per year, we Spain and the Adecco Group, we were part of the Golden bring considerable experience to the Global ILO Business and Workers Consortium and specifically contributed to the evaluDisability Network through our membership and role on the ation of results, workshop organisation and participation, exSteering Committee. The Network is comprised of representaperts consultation, study dissemination and media approach. tives from multinational enterprises, employers’ organisations Over a period of 15 months between October 2011 and Deand business networks, and selected non-governmental and cember 2012, the Golden Workers team developed relevant disabled peoples’ organisations. It assists companies with the insights into the future of ICT and ageing at work. Social trends inclusion of people with disabilities into the workforce and in Europe all point out the relevance of mature people at work, fosters the development of a workforce culture that is respectand information and communication technology (ICT) is reful and inclusive; promoting the hiring, retention and professhaping every industry. The intersection of ICT and mature sional development of people with disabilities. By 2015, the ILO workers is therefore a crucial element in adapting work enviGlobal Business and Disability Network strives to be recogronments to the future. Socio-economic trends converge into a nised by international organisations, multinational enterprises larger percentage of ageing people remaining and/or re-joinand employers’ organisations as the global reference network ing the workforce. The policy recommendations of this report to address disability in the workplace. include the two aspects of mature workers that have been the ILO Business & Disability Website focus of Golden Workers: organisational policies for ageing at Watch the video work and ICT. On November 21, 2012, during the closing event of the ‘EuroCharitable donations from Win4Youth pean Year of Active Ageing‘ in Spain, the Golden Workers ProDonations (in EUR) and integration initiatives 2010-2012 ject received the ‘Workplaces for all Ages‘ Award from the Spanish Ministry of Health and the Institute of Seniors and 400,000 Social Services (Imserso). Download the Golden Workers report 300,000 200,000 100,000 2010 2011 2012 CSR Report 2012/2013 39 Non-commercial/charitable labour integration Nr. of supported individuals at risk of social exclusion Other groups at risk of exclusion 2,500 Women with family responsibilities 2,000 Mature (45+) job seekers 1,500 1,000 500 Placed 1 Placed 2 Trained 1 Trained 2 1 Adecco Foundation Spain 2 Résaux Adecco Inser­tion, France Our charitable foundations Adecco Group and its three ma• Annual donation by Adecco Group Italy: EUR 350,000; other jor foundations in France, Spain and Italy – often in partnercompanies: EUR 10,000 ship with respected organisations – are involved in a range of • Foundation Budget: EUR 380,000 international, national and local programmes to help groups • Beneficiaries: 480 through the Adecco Foundation activities ‘at risk’ of exclusion from the workforce because of disability, Adecco Fondazione website age, ethnicity or gender. Our Adecco foundations are funded by contributions from Adecco and other companies and orAdecco Foundation Spain, created in 1999 ganisations committed to supporting our integration efforts. • Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to ensure their integration into the workforce. Providing serAdecco Foundation France, created in 2002 vices to companies with regards to their implementation of • Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to CSR programmes and action plans as well as policies, with ensure their integration into the workforce. the goal to enhance diversity within their workforce. • Activities: Developing social partnerships with various non• Activities: the foundation runs several partnerships and iniprofit organisations in three fields: education, career orientiatives. During 2012 employment was made possible for tation and professional integration. In 2012, 31 non-profit 2,490 disabled people, over 222 single mothers, about 488 organisations were supported and 290 Adecco employees people aged over 45, including 141 people at risk of excluvolunteered time to participate in local solidarity initiatives. sion. The Foundation also runs the French Athlete Career Pro• Employees (FTEs): 94 (volunteers: 3,347) gramme helping elite, Olympic and Paralympic athletes • Annual donation by Adecco Group Spain: EUR 190,960 with their transition into the labour market. • Budget Foundation 2012: EUR 10,404,866 • Employees (FTEs): 4.2 (290 volunteers) • Investments in PP/Community Partnerships: EUR 1,348,457 • Annual donation by Adecco Groupe France: EUR 500,000. • Beneficiaries: 13,712 through the Adecco Foundation activ• Foundation Budget: EUR 750,000 (EUR 500,000 in donation, ities EUR 250,000 in training tax) Adecco Fundación website • Community investment: 3,148 hours • Beneficiaries: 8,390 through the Adecco Foundation activSelect country programmes and initiatives ities Adecco Groupe France Fondation website Adecco Groupe France celebrates the 25th anniversary of its ’Disability & Skills’ programme The ’Handicap & CompétencAdecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001 es’ or ’Disability & Skills’ programme published a report on its • Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to 25-years engagement for people with disabilities in France. ensure their integration into the workforce. Through this programme, Adecco Group France demonstrates • Activities: the foundation runs several partnerships and inithat employees with disabilities can clearly fulfill businesses’ tiatives to integrate people with disabilities, single women needs. In 2011, 5,756 people have worked through temporary with family responsibilities, long-term unemployed, people assignments with 6,600 companies. Agency work has beover 40, elite Olympic and Paralympic athletes. come a recognised stepping-stone for people with disabilities • Employees: 7 into full-time employment. Read more Access the ‘Handicap & Compétences’ report CSR Report 2012/2013 40 Adecco Groupe France and the ’Chef programme’ for unemployed youngsters Youth unemployment is on the rise but at the same time 50,000 open positions in the French hospitality and catering industry don’t get filled. In partnership with the French ministry of Education and Thierry Marx, one of the most extraordinary and unusual French Chefs as well as the founder of the CSR programme ’Cuisine mode d’emploi’, the Adecco Groupe France is providing unemployed young people with a one-year Chef apprenticeship which leads to a recognised diploma. Adecco is not only responsible for the sourcing, assessment and selection process of the future apprentices but also engages with companies who employ the future Chefs after their one-year apprenticeship. Read more Health & Safety Ability School Day programme: Luis Miguel Redondo, paralympic athlete, plays wheelchair basketball with a team of students at a schoolyard in Spain. Global programme and initiatives Adecco Fundación Spain’s Ability School Day programme A safe and healthy working environment for associates Removing stereoptypes is crucial to foster integration. That is The Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and why the Adecco Foundation in Spain developed an awareness diseases in the workplace. Recognising the risks, our associraising programme called Ability School Day conducted in ates are exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar workcooperation with EADS 5. It works with the adults of tomorrow places, the Adecco Group meets all statutory health and safeto create a more democratic and diverse labour market. The ty obligations. In order to ensure a fair basis for comparison of main idea is to teach attitudes of tolerance from an early age our safety performance among our country organisations, we by bringing professional athletes with disabilities to primary look at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), schools in Spain. Through sport and sharing life experiences, rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the the athletes convey the message that a disability is not necesfact that our involvement in the various business sectors – and sarily an obstacle in life, instilling a sense of integration in the thus various risk potentials – varies significantly from country next generation. In 2012, more than 5,000 schoolchildren parto country. ticipated in the project. Our standard measures are based on five cornerstones: Read more Watch the video 1. Health and safety coordinators and committees 2. Risk assessment in the workplace with regular follow-ups Adecco Germany’s Join4Job programme In September 2012, 3. Employee testing, training and induction a pilot coaching programme was started in cooperation with a 4. Medical checks In accordance with local regulations German high school in Düsseldorf. 15 students participated 5. P  ersonal protection equipment provided by Adecco or client with the support of an external facilitator. The goal of the procompanies. gramme is to share Adecco‘s experience and know-how of the labour market with young people close to making their Employee Global ACE Training on Health & Safety In 2012, first steps into employment. And it actively involves Adecco 86% of all required global employees successfully completed employees as mentors to these young people, becoming an the online Global Health & Safety ACE training module on involved counsellor on various professional profiles and work-related hazards and illnesses. The training emphasizes through the job application process. the importance of safety training and accident and incident reporting. Users also learn about ways to increase safety in the workplace and how to implement healthy workplace behaviours by giving advice on ergonomics, and how people interact with workplace tools, equipment and their working environment. 5 European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company CSR Report 2012/2013 41 Development of accident frequency rates 2007–2012 in France, our largest market (25% of Adecco Group), rebased to 1 as of 2007 1.10 1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: first implementations expanded to industry and roll out of version 2.0 in construction sector transport sectors (Adia) (Adecco Groupe France) Health&Safety Plan 2010-2014 Implementation Supporting employee health and well-being In most counAdecco Group France – 2,634 accidents fewer in 500 tries, we have health and safety guidelines for employees and branches S@ve compétence is an online tool to evaluate the offer psychological hotlines or even direct access to a psycholknow-how of associates with regards to safety issues in a ogist. We also provide our employees – if their job allows – working environment. The test looks at how risks are evaluwith the necessary IT tools to work from home or any other ated as well as the behavior and technical knowledge of the place, helping them to fulfill their daily tasks in the best and associates. After the assessment, the associate is debriefed most productive way possible. In many countries, we grant by a consultant, who highlights good and bad practice. The paternity leave and offer childcare assistance through agentool has helped to reduce accidents significantly: in 2012, cies or cooperate with local day-care facilities in order to keep Adecco Group France recorded 2,634 fewer accidents – a women in the workforce. Through our Win4Youth project, we great achievement. also engage our employees to join in sports events during and after working hours. This contributes to enhanced camaAdecco Luxembourg with OHSAS 18001 6 certification Folraderie, team spirit and well-being across departments and lowing the introduction of a health and safety system for emhierarchies. In many countries there are one or two yearly ployees and associates, the OHSAS 18001 certification was the events for our employees to celebrate as a team and enjoy next achievement on the basis of an audit in June 2010. This themselves in an informal setting. enabled the company to improve its health and safety processes and thus reduce the accident frequency rate by 20% in Select country programmes and initiatives 2011. Adecco North America has employee health and safety on top of their list A ‘company field safety, loss prevention and claims manual’, issued by the risk department supports all employees in North America in their daily operations. It includes guidance on safety responsibilities, OHSA6 and Adecco responsibilities, employee safety orientation, hazard recognition and control, personal protective equipment procedures and hazard communication procedures, client screening safety principles and claims management amongst others. 6 International occupational health and safety management system. CSR Report 2012/2013 42 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension Global programmes and initiatives With our business activities as a service provider, our action points include: Making a difference through CO2 emission reduction Since • decreasing our use of electricity and fossil energy 2010, environmental conscious management, subsequent • decreasing the amount of CO2 emissions through the remonitoring and reduction is carried out in the areas of: duction of air miles flown • increasing the number of environmentally friendly cars in 1. Electrical energy consumption our fleets or decreasing car usage 2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown • decreasing the amount of paper used and increasing the 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption use of electronic documents 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced • increasing the proportion of environmentally friendly paper where paper is needed in our 11 largest markets (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, • encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Spain, UK & Ireland, • encouraging the use and recycling of other recyclable prodUS) including the joint global & Adecco Switzerland headquaructs such as toners, cardboard, PET containers ters. These countries represent over 86% of our business op• encouraging our Business Units to incorporate environmenerations in terms of revenues. In the past two years, we have tal considerations into the procurement of goods and sermade the following steps: vices. 1. Identified our Carbon Footprint in 12 major countries includThe Adecco Group expects that improving its environmental ing global HQ performance will impact the following: 2. Used the data for all stakeholder enquiries 3. Started reducing our CO2 emission through targeted 1. Our CO2 footprint on the environment projects 2. Financial performance 4. Communicated about it accordingly to all stakeholders. 3. Being a credible company for investors and analysts 4. Being a trustworthy partner and employer to our clients, In addition, in 2012, the Adecco Group set an emission reducassociates/candidates and employees tion target of 12% by 2022 and we expect to reach this goal through concrete action points. For the measurement and calNewly issued Environmental Guidelines Together with this culation of our data according to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, report, we have also published Environmental Guidelines we use a customised platform called “myclimate”. which build on and replace our 2007 Environmental Policy. We are conscious of the impact of our operations on the environment and of the difference we can make by acting responsibly. Our environmental commitments and progress are reported annually in the Adecco Group’s CSR Report and CoP as well as through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. View our Environmental Guidelines CSR Report 2012/2013 43 Activity related CO2e intensity (average metric tonnes) 14 per million EUR revenues 12 per FTE 10 8 6 4 2 2010 2011 2012 The decrease of our reported CO2e emissions results from the following actions: the targeted CO2 reduction initiatives on country level and the increased quality of our data basis. Global performance indicators Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) Total emissions extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (100% FTEs) metric tonnes CO2e (CO2 equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 51,562 81,423 85,683 47% 16% 15% Electricity 2 (indirect) 64,524 62,609 70,663 31% 28% 25% Electricity 3 (indirect) 17,710 27,275 30,615 31% 28% 25% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 12,686 45,989 46,631 47% 16% 15% Air travel 3 (indirect) 12,908 7,372 6,407 39% 28% 10% Paper 3 (indirect) 1,193 2,368 2,458 42% 34% 18% Toner 3 (indirect) 297 596 642 42% 34% 18% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 2,694 2,497 2,446 100% 100% 100% More details on emissions and measurement methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project assessment: www.cdproject.net. Our materials and water consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Material Paper (office supply, does not include printed 994 metric 1,845 metric 1,898 metric matter) tonnes tonnes tonnes 42% 34% 12% Toner (calculated from paper consumption) 100 kg 185 kg 189 kg 42% 34% 12% Water (from public water supply) 427,320 m3 n.a. n.a. 9% 0% 0% Our electricity and vehicle petrol consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 138,182 MWh 145,081 MWh 160,014 MWh 31% 28% 25% Green electricity (from 100% renewable sources) 3,275 MWh n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Vehicle petrol 21,502,000 litres n.a. n.a. 35% 0% 0% CSR Report 2012/2013 44 Data basis for emission calculation (% of total Group FTE) 40 Scope 1 + 3: Business cars mileage Scope 1 + 3: Business cars’ effective 30 petrol consumption Scope 2 + 3: Electricity consumption 20 Scope 3: Airmiles travelled 10 2010 2011 2012 We managed to increase the data basis (i.e. actually measured environmental activity data), from which we extrapolate on Group level and calculate the CO2 emissions.In 2010 and 2011, we had to calculate our business cars‘ emissions based on the measured mileages (data basis ca. 15%) and an assumed petrol consumption per kilometre. In 2012, we based our calculations additionally on measured petrol consumption (data basis: 35% of our car fleet), which not only raised the respective data basis up to 47% but also represents figures of much higher quality. Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Groupe France – Operation ’Spring Up’ and ’Covoiturage’ In 2012, Adecco in France introduced ’Spring Up’, an operation which collected 65 tons of IT and electronic material which was either damaged or no longer used. Adecco worked with a company who employs people at risk of exclusion to collect the material. Following the collection process, the material was delivered to an international association ‘Close the Gap’ where it was recycled for use in developing countries. Read more in their CSR Report 2011/2012 Every day, Adecco Groupe France makes contact with thousands of candidates and clients all over France which requires a lot of travelling, much of it by car. To minimise their emissions, Adecco Groupe France has put in place a service called ’Covoiturage’ or car-pooling for its employees. The dedicated website gives employees the chance to share cars and find potential passengers. In addition, whenever possible, Adecco encourages its employees to use public transport and is replacing its car fleet with models with a CO2 figure of less than 200g. Read more Adecco Brazil is saving trees Using paper in daily operations can have a major environmental and economic impact. Adecco Brazil has calculated that its headquarters uses the equivalent of 54 trees per year. The goal has been set to reduce paper consumption from 9 boxes or 90,000 sheets per month to 7 boxes or 70,000 sheets which would account for a 22% reduction on a yearly basis. Norway Sweden and Spain all are ISO 14001 certified So far, Adecco in Norway, Sweden and Spain have been ISO 14001 certified. The ISO 14000 family addresses various aspects of environmental management and provides practical tools for companies and organisations looking to identify and control their environmental impact and constantly improve their environmental performance. CSR Report 2012/2013 45 Measuring our CSR performance through KPIs and targets Our sustainability performance and goals In order for us to steadily improve our business and CSR perwork, better life” amongst all our stakeholders and make us a formance and identify shortfalls, we have introduced clear responsible player in our industry and beyond. Outlined below KPIs for the various areas in the Economic, Social and Environare the areas of measurement and the respective KPIs as well mental dimension. This will support our goal to of “better as the current status of performance. 1 Dimension Area KPIs Status Economic Corporate Governance • Board Structure • Non-executive Chairman • Responsibilities & Committees • Transparency • Diversity • Board Effectiveness • Transparency Senior Remuneration • Median compensation Risk & Crisis Management • Responsibility • Risk mapping • Risk Response Strategy Codes of Conduct / Compliance / • Focus Corruption & Bribery • Systems/procedures • Policies • Coverage • Reporting & breaches Customer Relationship Mgmt. • Satisfaction measurement • Feedback process • Market Segmentation Supply Chain Mgmt. • Supplier segmentation (tier 1, 2 and high-risk) • Risk management process • Risk management measures • Supplier Standards, Policy, CoC • Capacity building/joint initiatives • Leveraging opportunities Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR Report 2012/2013 46 Dimension Area KPIs Status Social Social Reporting • CoP/CSR Report • Materiality framework Diversity & Equal Opportunities • Measuring diversity internally • Measuring diversity with associates • Partnerships • Training employees Integration • Integration of mature, young, disabled, athletes, women with family responsibilities into labour market • PPP and community initiatives • Company partnerships • Community hours by employees • Financial investment Human and Labour Rights • Global/local initiatives and commitments • Employee training discrimination • Coverage Freedom of Associaton/collective bargaining • Strike days employees/associates • Code of Conduct/ACE training • Reporting & breaches • Human & Labour Rights guidelines • Forums/events participation Health & Safety • Accident Frequency Rate associates • Nr. of accidents associates • Occupational fatalities associates • Absenteeism employees • Health and well-being initiatives employees • Health & safety traininig • Health & safety policy • Psychological hotline Environmental Environmental Reporting • Coverage • Public reporting on performance • Results from assessments (DJSI, CDP, other) Environmental Policy/ • Environmental Guidelines Mgmt. System • Certification (ex. ISO 14000) Eco-efficiency • Measuring Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions in centralised system • Reduction targets Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR Report 2012/2013 47 External acknowledgements on our sustainability performance Adecco added to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). Other ratings we have received: In 2012, the DJSI, in cooperation with Sustainable Asset Management (SAM), recognised the Adecco Group as one of the Enhanced rating in the Carbon Disclose Project (CDP): sustainability leaders in the Industrial Goods and Services Adecco’s efforts in measuring and reporting its greenhouse sector. Adecco was benchmarked against almost 1,500 of the gas emissions were acknowldegded in CDP’s evaluations largest companies worldwide. The assessment consists of an 2012: Adecco improved its disclosure score to 62 and was in-depth analysis of the companies’ performance across ecoplaced in performance category Band E. nomic, environmental and social criteria such as corporate governance, environmental risks and stakeholder relations. 1 BILANZ magazine CSR rating 2013 – Adecco scores high: The business magazine ‘BILANZ‘ in cooperation with Inrate, an The Adecco Group is included in the following sustainable independent sustainability rating agency based in Switzerinvestment indices, which select constituents by assessing land, rated 30 companies of the Swiss Market Index (SMI) and environmental, social and governance criteria (further inforSwiss Leadership Index (SLI) comparing them against 1,800 mation at http://www.sustainable-investment.org/). international companies from the same sector. As a basis for • DJSI World the rating, 100 criteria were defined and the ratings went from www.sustainability-indexes.com -6 to (least) to +6 (best). Adecco reached grade +5 and B+ • DJSI Europe and came in the top 5. www.sustainability-indexes.com • FTSE4GOOD Global Index .DJSI Assessment – Results Adecco Group www.ftse.com/ftse4good Scorecards 2009–2012 • FTSE4GOOD Europe Index www.ftse.com/ftse4good 100 • ECPI Ethical Index Global 80 www.e-cpartners.com • ECPI Ethical Index Euro 60 www.e-cpartners.com 40 • ESI Excellence Europe www.ethibel.org 20 • DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland 2009 2010 2011 2012 www.sarasin.ch • Pictet-Ethos Swiss Sustainable Equities Fund Best company on a global basis within industry group www.pictetfunds.com Industry average on a global basis • Natixis Impact Europe Equities Fund Adecco www.am.natixis.com/ • Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity www.vontobel.com 1 Source: Press release from Adecco CSR Report 2012/2013 48 CSR Report 2012/2013 49 GRI* Standard Disclosures: Profile 51 Organisational profile 52 Report parameters 53 Governance, commitments, and engagement 57 Stakeholder engagement 58 Economic indicators 63 Environmental indicators 65 Labour practices 67 Human Rights 68 Society 68 Product responsibility 69 GRI Content Indices: Performance Indicators * The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is explained in the Glossary under “GRI”, page 82. CSR Report 2012/2013 50 This section provides the GRI standard disclosures which are 2.10 Awards received not covered in the main part of this Report nor in the Annual The Great Place to Work® survey 2012/2013 The Great Place Report 2012 yet. The reference numbers in the following secto Work® Institute helps organisations to create cultures where tion are those used in the GRI Guidelines. For a complete overtrust flourishes. This is done via independent, anonymous view and the GRI checked level B certificate, please see the surveys – the results of which are provided to companies to GRI Content Index on pages 62–75. help them improve the workplace based on real employee feedback. This is the largest survey of workplace practices worldwide. Organisational profile DIS AG, Germany, is ranked 2nd on ‘Germany’s 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Best Employer 2013’ list (in the category 501 regarding size, structure and ownership –2,000 employees). September 2011: Adecco Group successfully completed its acquisition of US-based Drake Beam Morin, Inc. Combining Adecco’s Lee Hecht Harrison business with Drake Beam DIS AG, Germany, is ranked 4th amongst ‘Europe’s Best EmMorin, Inc. not only creates the world’s leading career transiployer 2013’ (in the category Large Workplaces), out of 1,500 tion and talent development services provider, it also considcompeting employers in its category. erably expands Lee Hecht Harrison’s existing geographic footprint, enhancing services for its clients internationally. Adecco Adecco Sweden reached 4th place on the 2013 list of the ‘Best acquired Drake Beam Morin, Inc. for an enterprise value of Large Companies’, a marked improvement from rank 7, in EUR 149 million. 2012. January 2012: Adecco Group acquired VSN Inc., a leading Adecco Netherlands moved from 17th place in 2012 to rank 11 provider of professional staffing services in Japan. VSN Inc. in 2013 amongst the best ‘Large and Multinational Compadoubles the exposure to professional staffing of Adecco in nies’ to work for. Japan and reinforces Adecco’s strong position in this attractive structural growth market. Under the terms of the acquisition Adecco Denmark reached 28th place on the list of the ‘Best agreement, the enterprise value of VSN Inc. amounts to EUR Workplaces’ in Denmark 2012. 90 million 1. Adecco Belgium reached 7th place on the 2013 list of the ‘Best April 2012: Adecco Group announced the appointment of Organisations’ with more than 500 employees. Robert P. Crouch as the new Regional Head of North America and a member of the Adecco Group Executive Committee. He Adecco Norway reached 10th place on the 2013 list of the ‘Best replaced Tig Gilliam who left the Adecco Group. Robert P. Large Companies’. Crouch took over his new operational responsibilities as of May 1, 2012. TUJA, Germany in 2011 and 2012 made it to the Great Place to Work® ‘Top 100 list’ in Germany. Adecco Luxembourg participated for the first time in the 2012/2013 cycle. They reached rank 8 as first HR services provider ever, on the list of the ‘Best Companies to work for’ in Luxembourg. Adecco UK reached rank 28 amongst the ‘Best Workplaces’ for the first time in the United Kingdom. 1 Spot exchange rate: 101.36 YEN/EUR. CSR Report 2012/2013 51 Further awards received: In addition to these ratings, Adecco Report parameters Group subsidiaries received various acknowledgements (see pages 48–49) and further awards for their socially responsible 3.5 Process for defining report content practice and achievements, such as: In addition to the following all core and additional performance indicators published in version G3.1 of the GRI Guidelines, we focus on areas which are relevant to our stakehold• Adecco Germany received the Gold award as ‘Career’s ers and material for our HR services business, as presented in Best Recruiters 2012/13’ in the category ‘Personnel serthe charts on pages 11 and 12. vices’ and was ranked 36th amongst all assessed companies across all sectors in Germany. Adecco scored high with 3.6–3.7 Boundaries of the report and specific limitations on regards to online recruitment’ with 71 out of 80 points. the scope of the report • Office Angels UK was named the ‘Best large recruitment This CSR Report has been compiled following the G3.1 GRI consultancy, at the first ‘s1 jobs Recruitment Awards’ Guidelines. In line with the Adecco Group’s core business, this • Adecco Spain obtained the ‘Madrid Excelente’ quality report focuses on economic, social-economic and environcertification from the City Council of Madrid. mental performance indicators. Where possible, we provide • Adecco USA was featured in the Winter 2012–2013 issue of information and data for the whole Adecco Group. Where re‘Uptown Professional magazine’ and named one of the Top quired, we indicate the coverage of the data presented. 40 Companies for Diversity and Inclusion amongst hundreds of companies and organisations across the United 3.8 Comparability from period to period States. More details are provided on page 36 of this Report. There were no fundamental changes in our business that • Adecco Canada was amongst the Achiever’s ‘50 Most Enwould significantly affect the comparability of the data with gaged Workplaces’ in Canada. The panel of judges evaluour previous CSR Reports. Where appropriate, we comment on ated each applicant based on the following eight elements data presented in previous reporting periods. of employee engagement: Communication, Leadership, Culture, Rewards & Recognition, Professional & Personal 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calcuGrowth, Accountability & Performance, Vision & Values and lations Corporate Social Responsibility. Data for the report were collected from the Adecco Group’s • Adecco Canada’s President and Country Manager was country organisations, and consolidated and checked at named one of ‘Canada’s Top 100 Most Powerful Women Group level. Economic data have been copied from the aufor 2012’. This annual award presented by the Women’s dited Annual Reports 2011 and 2012. In the event of any diverExecutive Network and recognises the top 100 women gence, the figures published in the Annual Report prevail. achievers and leaders in Canada’s private, public and not-for-profit sectors. Winners are selected based on their strategic vision and leadership, their organisation’s financial performance, and their commitment to the community. • Adecco North America was honoured with the Best Indirect Services Award as part of Celestica Inc.’s 2012 ‘Total Cost of Ownership’ (TCOOTM) Supplier Awards.’ Celestica’s awards programme recognises top performers from their global network of over 3,000 suppliers. Winners are selected based on their ability to provide the best TCOO performance to Celestica and its customers by demonstrating excellence in quality, delivery, technology, service, pricing and flexibility. CSR Report 2012/2013 52 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of inforAdecco Group Compliance & Ethics (ACE) reporting mation The Adecco Compliance & Ethics (ACE) Reporting Tools are There were no developments within our business that would designed to assist employees, associates and other stakerequire any restatement of information provided in our pre­ holders in reporting actual or potential violations of the law or vious CSR Reports. Adecco Group policies, procedures or of the Code of Conduct. Any stakeholder may report to the Board of Directors allega3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the meastions of fraud and violations of the law, the Group policies, urement methods the procedures or ethical standards of conduct by the Adecco In our environmental reporting, greenhouse gas emission Group or any of its employees or agents. calculations improved for to the following three reasons: 1. Our data basis increased substantially. 2. We managed Calls and written correspondence made to the Company or to to collect more precise activity data, in particular regarding its Board of Directors via the respective hotline numbers or adour business cars: For 2012, the data basis of 47% has been dress will be received 24 hours a day, seven days a week, by split: 12.54% (activity data: ‘km driven’) and 34.6% (‘activity a third-party service provider on the Adecco Group’s behalf. data’: actual petrol consumption). This is much more accurate In accordance with instructions issued by the Corporate Govcompared to 2011 where we had a data basis of 16.15% (only ernance Committee and the Audit Committee of the Adecco activity data: ‘km driven’). 3. For 2012, we applied updated Group’s Board of Directors, related to accounting, internal conemission factors for scope 2 and 3 emissions from electricity. trols, auditing matters, corporate governance, safety, health or This led to a 9% higher Scope 2 result (on average per kWh). environmental issues, or any other significant legal or ethical The updated factors for Scope 3 emissions led on average issues relating to the Adecco Group, will be dealt with by the to a 38% lower result (per kWh) compared to 2010 and 2011. Group Compliance Office. This, unless they are of trivial nature More details are provided in the environmental reporting secor otherwise not related to the aforementioned topics. Where tion, pages 43–45. deemed appropriate, such reports will be forwarded directly to the intended member of the Board of Directors. There are no other significant changes from the previous years in terms of measurement methods used. 4.7 Process for determining the expertise required of Board members The Nomination & Compensation Committee (“NCC”) assists Governance, commitments, the Board of Directors in establishing principles for the selection of candidates for election or re-election to the Board of and engagement Directors, including candidates for committees of the Board of Directors, and giving recommendations on compensation of 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to prothe members of the Board of Directors. vide recommendations to the Board of Directors The shareholders’ rights are published in the Annual Report 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing 2012, pages 155–156. Adecco S.A.’s Investor Relations Departmanagement of sustainable performance ment publishes its contact details and relevant publications, The Corporate Governance Committee (“CGC”) has the prisuch as quarterly, half-year and full-year results. There is also mary responsibility to assist the Board of Directors in carrying an opportunity to request information and make contact on out its responsibilities as they relate to Corporate Governance the Investor Relations section of our website (www.adecco. principles. The CGC is charged with developing and recomcom). This allows for all shareholders to approach Adecco S.A. mending appropriate Corporate Governance principles and whenever necessary. The Group Communications Department independence rules to the Company, including principles and is the main point of contact for all other stakeholders (see also measures on Corporate Responsibility as well as reviewing 4.16, page 69). and reassessing such principles and rules to ensure that they remain relevant and in line with legal and stock exchange requirements. Recommendations as to best practice are also reviewed to ensure compliance. Further instruments see Annual Report 2012, page 150, point 3.6). CSR Report 2012/2013 53 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Principal memberships at country level: approach or principle is addressed The risk management process at the Adecco Group has The Adecco country organisations are generally members of strategic and organisational dimensions. Besides monitorthe local chambers of commerce as well as of our industry ing, analysing and mitigating risks, the aim is also to identify associ­ations such as the national confederations of private opportunities. This makes it obvious that the precautionary employment agencies, etc. Further significant memberships approach (which indicates that lack of scientific certainty is no are listed on the following pages. reason to postpone action to handle potential risks) is inherent to Adecco Group’s risk and opportunities management. Further information, see Annual Report 2012, p. 108, Note 18. 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations Principal memberships and affiliations on corporate level: • Ciett and Eurociett The Adecco Group is a member of Ciett, Eurociett and Ciett&LA, respectively the International, European and Latin America Confederations of Private Employment Agencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the common interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 national federations from EU and EFTA and seven of the largest staffing companies worldwide: www.ciett.org • ILO Global Business & Disability Network The Adecco Group is a founding member of the orginial Business & Disability network (founded in December 2004) by European companies to improve access for disabled people to the labour market. In 2012, the Network was formally established, and it continues to sharing business cases and experiences on disability management among the Network members: www. businessanddisability.org (see page 39 of this reports). • ENAR European Network Against Racism, the European platform NGO federation of national NGOs against ethnic and religious discrimination, a representative for the European Institutions: http://www.enar-eu.org/. • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) As a responding company to the Carbon Disclosure Project, Adecco discloses its greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies on a yearly basis via the CDP’s investor and supplier module. This data is collected on behalf of institutional investors, purchasing organisations and government bodies. More info: www.cdproject.net. • World Economic Forum Strategic Partner The Strategic Partners community comprises a select group of 100 leading global companies selected for their alignment with the Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world. • economiesuisse The Adecco Group is member of the Swiss Business Federation, the largest umbrella organisation representing the Swiss economy. Its mission is to create an optimal economic environment for Swiss business. CSR Report 2012/2013 54 Adecco Group France • Association Française des Managers de la Diversité (AFMD) French Diversity Managers Association to promote diversity management to line managers, 100 members (Adecco Group France’s CSR Director holds the presidency). • IMS Entreprendre A club of over 200 of France’s top companies committed to improving their impact on society (Adecco Group France is represented on the Board of Directors). • Observatoire de la Responsabilité Sociétale des Entreprises (ORSE) A French network designed to study and promote socially responsible investment (SRI), corporate social responsibility and issues related to sustainable development. • The French Réseau Adecco Insertion are members of the Conseil National des Entreprises d’Insertion, a federation of enterprises working on labour integration for low-skilled and unemployed people. • Club Etre A national network of enterprises for disabled people. • Osons! Entreprises et Handicap A corporate club on disability and inclusion in the workforce. • Club Handicap & Compétences A corporate initiative on disability and inclusion initiatied by Adecco France’s Espace Emploi Handicap & Compétences. • Forum français des amis du Global Compact The national organisation of the Global Compact in France. • FACE (Fondation Agir Contre les Exclusions) A network of enterprises, institutional actors and pressure groups, aiming to prevent and fight exclusion. • Charte de la Diversité (Diversity Charter) A charter signed by enterprises showing their commitment to fight discrimination at work and the goal to reflect the diversity of the French population in the labour market. • Charte de la Parentalité A charter to promote parenthood at work. • Pas@Pas A web-based portal to promote diversity in the supply chain by promoting companies with a focus on Employment and Inclusion. • Charte de l’apprentissage A charter signed by enterprises which aim to promote professional integration of young people into the labour market by using a specific work contract between a company and a student. The students spend half the time working for the company and the other half learning at school. • Le Réseau (Réseau National des Entreprises pour l’Egalité des Chances dans l’Education Nationale), a professional network to promote equality in education. Adecco Germany • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (Future contract for temporary employment) is an initiative by the leading staffing companies in Germany. Its goal is to develop and implement innovative employment concepts. • BSW (Bundesverband Solarwirtschaft): the German Solarbusiness Association (BSW-Solar) represents the interests of 650 companies in the solar industry. The organisation acts as a consultant and intermediary between politics, business and consumers. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg, is Germany’s largest association of small and medium-sized aerospace companies. The members represent a wide spectrum, ranging from development companies, manufacturers and maintenance companies, to aerospace-oriented service companies. Training schools, universities and universities of applied sciences complete the membership. A total of 14,000 staff – about 15% of all personnel employed in the German aviation and space industries – work for Hanse-Aerospace members. DIS AG Germany • Supporting Partner of brotZeit e.V., an association with a focus on children from difficult socio-economic backgrounds. • Zukunftsvertrag Zeitarbeit (see above under Adecco Germany). TUJA Germany • Supporting partner of roterkeil.net, an association fighting sexual abuse of children. • Hanse-Aerospace e.V., Hamburg (see above under Adecco Germany). Adecco Italy • Global Compact Italian Network The local network of the UN Global Compact. • HR Community Academy A network of HR managers and executives. • ADAPT A non-profit organisation to promote studies and research in the field of labour law and industrial relations from an international and comparative perspective. Adecco Netherlands • Syntens A platform for growing entrepreneurs. • JINC A non-profit organisation which helps young people get in contact with businesses. • Avance One of the largest further education colleges in the Netherlands. • MVO Nederland A knowledge and network organisation which encourages companies to be socially responsible. • STOOF helps flextime workers to develop through education. Via STOOF, Adecco is also involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven foundation, which is campaigning to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands. CSR Report 2012/2013 55 Ajilon Netherlands • The Nederlandse Biotechnologische Vereniging, an association for professionals who work in the Life Sciences industry. • SDO Stichting Deeltijd Opleidingen • And many further education organisations. Adecco Norway • Global Compact Nordic Network The local network of the UN Global Compact. Adecco Poland • Polish HR Forum Initiative of leading companies from the employment agencies sector, operating to promote the highest ethical standards, develop the employment agencies sector in Poland, and influence trade unions, authorities and government administrative bodies. Adecco Spain & Adecco Foundation • Club de Excelencia en Sostenibilidad A business association formed by a group of major companies with the commitment to sustainable growth within the economic, social and environmental dimension. • UN Global Compact Spain The local network of the UN Global Compact Network where Adecco Spain is co-founder. • Fundación Másfamilia A foundation with a focus on the development of better protection and an enhanced quality of life for families. • AEF The Spanish Association of Foundations is a private association of public interest, which brings together foundations from all geographical areas and disciplines with the goal of enhancing the influence of Foundations in Spain. • CEOE The Spanish Confederation of Employers’ Organisations A Spanish institution that represents the Spanish business community. It includes state-owned and private companies in all sectors. It’s a member of BusinessEurope. • Seres Foundation A non-profit organisation which fosters and promotes strategic business actions that contribute to the overall improvement of social issues with a focus on disadvantaged groups. • Ability Club A network which has the goal to enhance and share best practice which have been identified through the Telefónica Ability Awards. Adecco Switzerland • Avenir Suisse An independent think-tank for economic and social issues. • Pro duale Berufsbildung Schweiz An independent association promoting the dual education system in Switzerland. Office Angels UK • Employers’ Forum on Disability An employers’ organisation focused on the issue of disability in the workplace. • Race for Opportunity Committed to improving employment opportunities for ethnic minorties across the UK. It is the only race diversity campaign that has access to and influence over the leaders of the UK’s best-known organisations. • Opportunity Now An organisation for employers who are committed to creating an inclusive workplace for women. Opportunity Now empowers employers to accelerate change for women in the workplace because it makes good business sense. • Employers’ Forum on Belief An independent employers’ network developed by employers themselves to share good practice on religion, belief and non-belief in order to make the most of their diverse workforce. • Employers’ Forum on Age An independent network of companies who recognise the need to attract and retain valuable employees whatever their age. • Stonewall’s Diversity Champions programme, Britain’s good practice forum in which employers can work with Stonewall, and each other on sexual orientation issues. Adecco USA • National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC) This organisation provides a direct link between corporate America and minority-owned businesses. • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) This WBENC is the largest third-party certifier of businesses owned, controlled, and operated by women in the United States. • National Business Disability Council (NBDC) The NBDC is the leading resource for employers seeking to integrate people with disabilities into the workplace and companies seeking to reach them in the consumer marketplace. • Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) Its mission is to provide opportunities and support to people with physical disabilities so they can pursue active lifestyles through physical fitness and competitive athletics. • Wounded Warrior Project (WWP) A foundation that provides programmes and services to severely injured service members during the time between active duty and transition to civilian life. CSR Report 2012/2013 56 Adecco USA • ‘Welcome Back Warriors’ A programme helping soldiers returning from the battle field to integrate into the labour market through job and support services fairs. • National Urban League A non-partisan civil rights organisation that advocates on behalf of African Americans and against racial discrimination in the United States. • Abilities, Inc. at the Viscardi Center This organisation prepares adolescents and adults with all types of disabilities (cognitive, physical, learning, developmental) and levels of experience for entry or re-entry into the workforce by assisting them in securing pre-employment services as well as employment. • Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) This national non-profit organisation made up of parents, families, friends, and straight allies uniting with lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people is committed to advancing equality through its mission of support, education and advocacy. • World Diversity Leadership Summit (WDLS) The yearly event explores local, state, and national best practices on how to foster diversity, spur innovation, and experience growth in the workplace. Stakeholder engagement The Group Investor Relations & Communications Departments maintain contact with the financial community and the 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation media through the Annual Report, the CSR Report, quarterly presentations and webcasts/calls on the company results, • Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS), see page 19. roadshows, interviews and participation at investor conferenc• Internationally centralised employees survey: es. They provide transparent and consistent information and The Great Place to Work® Trust Index, see pages 32, 34 and interactive communication through the adecco.com website 51 (GRI 2.10). to enhance understanding of Adecco’s business as well as to explain implied risks and opportunities. The Group Communications and Investor Relations Departments stand as a point of contact for stakeholders. These Society at large is very much affected by the dynamics and include the press, investors and analysts, our employees, the development of the labour market, which at the same time candidates and associates, work councils, unions and the is the Adecco Group’s field of business. The Group therefore ILO, companies, governments, NGOs and society at large. The considers society at large as a very important stakeholder main channels of information include the Annual Report, the group for dialogue, and aims to contribute to a positive deCSR Report, regular press releases (available on www.adecco. velopment of the labour market through corporate research, com), e-mails, the AGM as well as webcasts. community engagement and partnerships. These include: General stakeholder consultation is mostly handled by the • Industry research about staffing and agency work, pubbusiness units at country level. Such consultations mainly adlished by Ciett. Adecco is a founding member of the Interdress our candidates and associates, clients and employees, national Confederation of Private Employment Agencies. be it through self-completion questionnaires or interviews • Global knowledge about labour market trends, published (mostly for associates and employees), or regular feedback by the World Economic Forum. Adecco Group is a Strategic processes (mostly concerning clients). Partner of the World Economic Forum since 2011. • Regional and local surveys and research conducted or co-issued by Adecco and local partners such as the Adecco Swiss Job Market Index at the University of Zurich, the monthly Adecco Job Creation Index in UK and the ‘DIS AG Fachkräftekompass’. CSR Report 2012/2013 57 Economic indicators In accordance to the ILO report ‘Working towards sustainable development: opportunities for decent work and social incluEC1 Economic key data sion in a green economy’, the transformation to a greener economy could generate 15 to 60 million additional jobs Overall economic key data, see pages 2–3; and Adecco globally over the next two decades and lift tens of millions of Group Annual Report 2012, pages 45–47. workers out of poverty. We expect climate change mitigation to lead to new profiles both in developed countries and in Adecco donations for philanthropic purposes: emerging markets. For the time being, we have a workgroup in place comprised of sales specialists who are monitoring Purpose Donations by Adecco Reference and exchanging best practices with regards to the sustainin 2012 able energy sector, its job profiles, trends and needs. More details about risks and opportunities related to climate Adecco Foundation France EUR 500,000 page 40 change are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project asAdecco Foundation Italy EUR 350,000 page 40 sessment: www.cdproject.net. Adecco Foundation Spain EUR 190,960 page 40 Adecco Foundation Germany EUR 50,000 EC4 Significant financial assistance Adecco USA, various Community Partnerships EUR 80,000 received from government Win4Youth The Adecco Group does not receive any material financial Helping Young People Succeed USD 360,000 page 39 subsidies for its business from governments. However, some of our social contributions at local level are subsidised (in total, ca. EUR 7.25 million, mainly through our main foundations (see EC2 on this page). These include labour integration projects and joint programmes with governmental organiMain investments in philanthropic activities: sations. These subsidies do not contribute to our business operations, but support our efforts in helping disadvantaged Activities/programmes Investments/budgets Reference and unemployed people re-/integrate into the labour market. in 2012 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage Adecco Foundation France* EUR 750,000 page 40 compared to local minimum wage Adecco Foundation Italy* EUR 380,000 page 40 Adecco Group is a decentralised, global enterprise, with Adecco Foundation Spain* EUR 10.4 million page 40 some 5,400 branches in more than 60 countries, managing Adecco Foundation Germany EUR 50,000 over 700,000 associates at any given time in all professions Adecco USA, various Community Partnerships EUR 80,000 and business sectors. We have for the time being decided Win4Youth not to report in relation to this GRI economic performance Helping Young People Succeed USD 360,000 page 39 indicator, but may consider to do so at a later date. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on lo* Co-funded by external sources, such as subsidies/taxes in France, Spain, Italy, and cally based suppliers at significant locations of operation third-party donations (Italy, Spain). The procurement of goods, materials and services is usually not directly related to our products and services but rather to our business operations. We have global supplier agreeEC2 Financial implications of climate change ments for some goods and services but most suppliers are The efforts to address climate change represent business chosen by our country organisations. op­portunities for us. Currently, Adecco’s supplier diversity efforts are focused in Due to climate change and increased focus on alternative the US and Canada through the engagement of minority and energy, this has become an important topic for our industry women owned businesses in the procurement process. The also in terms of the creation of new job profiles. Through vast majority of our spend with diverse suppliers is through renewable energy from alternative sources such as wind staffing partners proactively engaged as subcontractors. In energy, solar energy and biomass, green technology, new 2012, approximately 125 of the over 400 suppliers we work job profiles and client needs are emerging. with were validated diverse suppliers with a total spend that exceeded USD 530 million up from USD 224 million in 2010. CSR Report 2012/2013 58 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community The procedures for hiring senior managers are generally carried out at country level with local talents. Generally, our management and senior management in our country organisations are hired from the respective countries or are recruited from within the existing Adecco Group talent pool. EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit The following table provides an overview of partnerships and joint programmes at country level for public benefit: Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Group European Network Against Racism (ENAR) Expert Group on employment with multi stakeholders: European institutions, NGOs, National Authorities Against Discrimination, Trade Unions and corporations (Adecco Group, IBM, L’Oréal, Sodexo) ILO Global Business & Disability network Dialogue Group on disability inclusion within corporations, initiated at EU level by Adecco and partner companies in 2004. In 2012, the Network was formally established, and it continues to share business cases and experiences on disability management among the Network members. • International Olympic Committee Training and labour integration of elite athletes • International Paralympic Committee Training and labour integration of elite athletes Adecco Belgium • Network For Training Entrepreneurship NFTE Belgium Adecco is a ‘Golden Partner’ of NFTE. Teaching entrepreneurship to low-income youth, helping them to become economically indendent members of society. • Close The Gap, An international not-for-profit organisation with Adecco assists with IT equipment supplies. All our computers a focus on improving local knowledge and putting local talent and PC-screens are given to Close The Gap. The donations to work by offering cost-efficient IT solutions to projects in amounts to about 700 pieces every year. developing countries • Attitude & Coaching program in Belgium with Marc Herremans The aim of this program is especially for young people, just as our godfather. graduated or long unemployed to help them in a quicker and more efficient way to a employment. Adecco Canada • Skills for Change (SfC), Canadian non-profit agency • Learning and training opportunities for immigrants and refugees Adecco Group France, Adecco • European Network Against Racism (ENAR) (see above under Adecco Group) • ILO Global Business & Disability Network (see above under Adecco Group) • European Association of Service Providers for People with EASPD is the European Association of Service Providers for peoDisabilities (EASPD) ple with disabilities and represents over 10,000 social service provider organisations across Europe and Disability. CSR Report 2012/2013 59 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Agefiph, Association for Disabled Workers’ Integration Labour integration programme for disabled and u ­ nemployed people • Direction for Integration & Citizenship (Ministry of Internal Programmes for people at risk of exclusion such as migrants, ­Affairs) and National Agency for Social Cohesion and Equality minorities, etc. • Réseau Adecco Insertion (Adecco’s subsidiary for labour Labour integration programme for low-skilled, unemployed integration through temporary work, in partnership with people Groupe Idées) • Pôle emploi (French national public job centre) Labour programme for long-term unemployed people • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs ‘Projet Jeunes Destination Emploi’: Integration of young unem• Conseil National des Missions Locales (CNML, a national ployed people from socially disadvantaged communities into the office specifically for young unemployed people with social labour market. difficulties): national agreement • Pôle emploi (French national public job centre) More details on CSR-related partnerships in France are provided in the French ‘rapport de responsabilité sociale et environnementale (RSE)‘ Adecco Italy and Adecco Foundation • Public Employee Services, regional and local communities Labour integration programmes for throughout the country • People with disabilities • Long-term unemployed • Private associations and foundations throughout the country • People over 40 • Single mothers • Athletes • Università degli Studi di Padova • Research and publications on labour market developments, in • Istituto Boselli di Torino particular concerning socially disadvantaged people. • Istituti Tecnici e Professionali di Padova • Preparing students for labour market entry • Università degli Studi di Milano • Università degli Studi di Torino More details on CSR-related partnerships in Italy are provided in the ‘Bilancio Sociale 2011/2012‘ of the Adecco Foundation Italy. Adecco Netherlands • JINC (business-financed association to support ­literacy of Adecco organises practical interview courses at high schools in young people with difficult socio-economic backgrounds) Amsterdam-West for underprivileged youth. Each year, about 1,000 students attend the courses. • Foundation ‘Lezen en Schrijven‘ Adecco is involved in the Lezen en Schrijven project of the Stichting Lezen & Schrijven foundation, which is campaigning to reduce illiteracy in the Netherlands. • Project Frisse Start Adecco is involved in a sports project for unemployed people to help them reintegrate into the labour market. • Public authorities of Almere Programme ‘Duurzaam werken aan werk‘ – a business initiative with the government in Almere to reduce unemployment. • KNVB Talentteam Adecco collaborates with the KNVB to provide traineeships for candidates in soccer associations. CSR Report 2012/2013 60 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme Adecco Poland • Education First, world leader in the organisation of foreign “Global Intern 2012” competition. Adecco Poland is HR partner of this language courses project. The main prize is a three-month internship in three independently selected cities around the world, in which EF has its own language schools. • Autocreation Foundation A programme to support long-term unemployed of various social backgrounds (youth, 50+, women 35+, migrants). • European Management Assistants in Poland Advisory & training project to help office workers (assistants, office managers, receptionists) find employment. • TEB Education Training programme for students after secondary school enhancing successful job search, preparation of applications and interviews. • State College of Shorthand and Foreign Languages Labour integration programme for college graduates. • Amnesty International in Poland Cooperation in the recruitment of people for Amnesty International information activities. Adecco Spain and Adecco Foundation • Ministry for Work and Social Affairs Labour integration programmes for • Public Employee Services, regional and local communities • (long-term) unemployed people throughout the country • disabled people • Private associations and foundations throughout the country • people over 45 • single mothers • athletes and ex-athletes • También Foundation Labour integration programmes for people with disabilities • Deporte y Desafio Foundation • La Caixa Foundation • Down’s Syndrome Foundation • 120 further local foundations and associations • FEFN, Spanish Federation of large families Online training for the mothers of large families • Foundation Másfamilia Focus on the development of better protection and an enhanced quality of life for families • University of Lérida Development of software to better accommodate the needs of • University of Castilla La Mancha people with disabilities in the workplace • Polytechnic University of Madrid A complete list of partnerships is provided in the Spanish Adecco Foundation’s ‘Memoria 2012’ CSR Report 2012/2013 61 Partner organisation(s) Short description of project or programme • Club de Excelencia en Sostenibilidad Business association of large companies committed to sustainable growth within the economic, social and environmental dimensions. • Universities of Barcelona, Cádiz, Huelva, Sevilla, Programmes to improve the employability of students with disabilities. Internacional de Catalunya Miguel Hernández de Elche • Gresol Foundation, a recognised platform for analysing Adecco Foundation sponsors the category social commitments of the and exchanging socio-economic opinions Gaudí Gresol awards to recognise companies in Catalunya. • European Commission DG Employment, Social Affairs Partnership on the European Day of People With Disabilities. and Equal Opportunities • UN Global Compact Association Spain Local network on CSR issues, including annual Communication on Progress (CoP) • Crecer+ The programme offers employment and training opportunities to young people and encompasses five countries in Latin America and Spain. It is done in cooperation with Endesa. Adecco Switzerland • ORIF – Intégration et formation professionelle Collaboration with 30 Adecco branches. The project supports the integration of people in difficult situations (eg. accident, disability, illness) into the labour market. • University of Zurich, Institute of Sociology Issuing and publishing the quarterly Adecco Swiss Job Market Index ASJMI, www.stellenmarktmonitor.ch Badenoch & Clark UK • Disability Symbol – Positive about disabled people Support for disabled people looking for jobs by connecting them with companies experienced in hiring, retaining and developing the abilities of disabled staff. Adecco UK • Paralympics GB The official charity partner to Adecco UK & Ireland, encouraging branches, clients and associates to follow, support and cheer on local Paralympic athletes beyond sports. • Great Ormond Street Hospital A wide variety of local fund-raising activities across the UK to support • Help for Heroes the charity of the Great Ormond Street Hospital in London and Help for Heroes which supports wounded military personnel. Adecco USA • Military Spouse Employment Partnership The Military Spouse Programme is a targeted recruitment and employment solution for military spouses and employers. • Employer Partnership of the Armed Forces Hero 2 Hired: an initiative to recruit, train and put skilled Reservists to work while on inactive duty with the Army. • US Chamber of Commerce Hiring Our Heroes, an initiative to help veterans, transitioning service members, and military spouses find meaningful employment. • NBDC – National Business and Disability Council Enhancing the workplace and opportunities for disabled workers. • Viscardi Center/Abilities, Inc. • Just One Break, Inc. • Work Without Limits – Adults and Children with Learning Disabilities • National Urban League An organisation that seeks to empower minorities and women in the areas of employment, health and education. • Parents and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) Labour integration support for Lesbian, Gay, Bi-sexual, Transgender • Human Rights Campaign (LGBT) • SAGEWorks • And about 50 further partner organisations supporting the integration of people from minority groups into the workforce. CSR Report 2012/2013 62 Environmental indicators (see also pages 43–45) Since 2010, environmental conscious management, subsequent monitoring and reduction is carried out in the areas of: 1. Electrical energy consumption 2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced in our 11 largest markets (Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Spain, UK & Ireland, US) including the joint global & Adecco Switzerland headquarters.These countries represent over 86% of our business operations in terms of revenues. In addition, in 2012, the Adecco Group set an emission reduction target of 12% by 2022 and we expect to reach this goal through concrete action points. For the measurement and calculation of our data according to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, we use a customised platform called “myclimate”. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume The main materials we use for our office-based business are common office supply materials. Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Material Paper (office supply, does not include printed 994 metric 1,845 metric 1,898 metric matter) tonnes tonnes tonnes 42% 34% 12% Toner (calculated from paper consumption) 100 kg 185 kg 189 kg 42% 34% 12% EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Our electricity and vehicle petrol consumption 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 138,182 MWh 145,081 MWh 160,014 MWh 31% 28% 25% Green electricity (from 100% renewable sources) 3,275 MWh n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. Vehicle petrol 21,502,000 litres n.a. n.a. 35% 0% 0% EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Withdrawal by source Water (from public water supply) 427,320 m3 n.a. n.a. 9% 0% 0% CSR Report 2012/2013 63 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions The table below gives an overview of some of our scope 1 and 2 emissions, based on the ‘The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’. More details on the methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project response 2013, which is available at: www.cdproject.net Total emissions extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (100% FTEs) metric tonnes CO2e (CO2 equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 51,562 81,423 85,683 47% 16% 15% Electricity 2 (indirect) 64,524 62,609 70,663 31% 28% 25% EN17 Total other indirect greenhouse gas emissions The table below gives an overview of some of our scope 3 emissions, based on the ‘The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’. More details on the methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project response 2013, which is available at: www.cdproject.net Total emissions extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source Scope (100% FTEs) metric tonnes CO2e (CO2 equivalent) 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Electricity 3 (indirect) 17,710 27,275 30,615 31% 28% 25% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 12,686 45,989 46,631 47% 16% 15% Air travel 3 (indirect) 12,908 7,372 6,407 39% 28% 10% Paper 3 (indirect) 1,193 2,368 2,458 42% 34% 18% Toner 3 (indirect) 297 596 642 42% 34% 18% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 2,694 2,497 2,446 100% 100% 100% CSR Report 2012/2013 64 Labour practices In November 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a MemoranLA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not dum of Understanding (MoU) which set the foundation of the provided to temporary or part-time employees sectoral social dialogue for agency workers to achieve fair Legally provided benefits (such as contributions to health care, conditions for the TAW industry and the 12.4 million temporary disability, maternity, education, holidays and retirement) vary agency workers on assignment daily around the world. The from country to country as do local laws and regulations. We agreement is global in scope with mutual commitments to – adhere to at least the minimum requirements of local laws for amongst others – respect the freedom of association and the associates. right to collective bargaining as guaranteed by the International Labour Organization ILO. Some benefits for employees may depend on position and number of years served. For associates, we offer talent develFurthermore, the following documents were signed between opment services, including training, coaching and counselling, Eurociett and UNI-Europa (the European level), since the MoU: to enable all our associates to reach their professional goals and potential. • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on the Sectoral Social Dialogue on Agency Work, signed in 2000 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective • Eurociett/Uni-Europa: joint Declaration within the framework ­bargaining agreements of the Flexicurity debate as launched and defined by the EU In the Temporary Agency Work (TAW) industry, a multitude of Commission, signed in 2007 Collective Bargaining Agreements (CLAs) stipulate the frame• Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on the Directive on work relationship and functioning of workers and companies working conditions for temporary agency workers, signed rights and responsibilities. There are great differences in in 2008 the coverage of employees by CLAs per country, depend• Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Declaration on Training for Teming on national legislation. The countries with the highest porary Agency Workers: joint actions developed by sectoral percentage of employees covered by CLAs are countries with social partners play a key role in facilitating skills upgradmature labour legislation, mostly in Europe. However, signifiing, signed in 2009 cant differences are also to be found within Europe. We can • Eurociett/UNI-Europa: joint Recommendation on ‘Temporary identify three different types of CLAs: Company CLAs (signed Agency Work facilitating transitions in the labour market’, between user companies and their employees), TAW Industry highlighting our efforts and role in the various phases of CLAs (signed between the HR Services’ National Association transitions our workers go through, signed in December and Industry Trade Unions) and Employer Association CLAs 2012. signed on behalf of the HR Services Industry with National Sectoral Trade Unions. Due to the number of countries (and national labour legislation frameworks), Adecco operates in, and the variety of CLAs (according to Country, Industry, Sector and Customer) it has engaged in, the Adecco Group has only approximate records of the percentage of employees covered by CLAs. For the percentages, please refer to chart “Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining” on page 35. CSR Report 2012/2013 65 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee, ­changes by employee category We meet all applicable laws, regulations, and standards Training for employees and associates is a top priority for the where we do business. The Adecco Group employees receive Adecco Group. We have introduced KPIs for measuring traininformation on operational changes through their representaing investments with employees and associates. An overview tives on the national works councils or enterprise committees, on training investments for employees and associates is with notice periods varying according to the agreement at provided on pages 32–34 (strategic focus area ‘Team, training national level. In line with EU regulations, the Adecco Group & development’). has been following the minimum notice period regarding operational changes stipulated in the PACE Agreement (until LA13 Composition of governance bodies 2011) for Countries of the European Economic Area and SwitDetails on the composition of the Board of Directors and the zerland. As of 2012, Adecco engaged in the process of setting Executive Committee are provided in the Annual Report 2012, up the Adecco European Works Council, in line with the recast pages 142–154. Directive of the European Works Councils, which will regulate Nr. of the minimum notice period regarding operational changes Governance bodies 2012 Male Female nationalities once the new Agreement is signed. Board of Directors (total 8 members) 7 1 6 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal Executive Committee (total 12 members) 12 0 7 joint management-worker health and safety committees Adecco Group does not run any formal joint managementworker health and safety committees. At corporate and More details on gender distribution: see chart on page 37 national level, issues of health and safety are a key focus for and in the Adecco Group Annual Report 2012, p. 142–145 and Adecco and measures are in place, adhering to the high151–154. est standards (see strategic focus areas ‘Health & Safety’, pages 41–42). Due to the number of countries, Adecco operLA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee ates in and the variety of regulations regarding health and category safety issues, the Adecco Group has no record to date of Adecco Group provides equal employment opportunities to the percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint all employees and candidates, regardless of race, gender, management-worker health and safety committees. religion or any other discriminatory category. This also applies to compensating any employees and associates fairly for their LA8 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases work. There are appropriate measures in place to meet work-re lated needs for training and prevention – e.g. for associates in LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental the health care industry – depending on local conditions and leave, by gender requirements. Education, training, counselling, prevention, For the time being, we can report against this indicator for the and risk-control programmes to assist employees regarding Adecco Group Headquarter and Adecco Switzerland 2012: serious diseases are addressed as needed to protect our 100% return to work after parental leave of female employees. employees and associates. No male employees took parental leave in 2012. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Adecco Group has not signed a formal agreement covering health and safety topics with any trade union. At corporate and national level, issues on health and safety are addressed by Adecco and necessary measures are taken to guarantee that the highest standards are adhered to. Due to the number of coutnries, Adecco operates in, the variety of law and regulations and the wide range of agreements with trade unions regarding the handling of health and safety issues, in many countries the Adecco Group has to date no consolidated overveiw of the health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. CSR Report 2012/2013 66 Human rights HR6–HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour (HR6) and forced or compulsory HR1 Significant investment agreements labour (HR7) – and measures taken that include Human Rights In most countries and territories where the Adecco Group Our Code of Conduct, which covers aspects of Human Rights, operates, Human Rights are embedded and respected in is applicable to our whole business and all our country organboth national law and general business practices. According isations. We have a joint venture (set up in 2010) in Shanghai to relevant ILO studies*, the risk exposure to child and forced with FESCO, one of the leading HR service companies in China. labour occurs mainly in Latin America and the Asian Pacific Under the terms of the joint venture, FESCO and Adecco hold area. These regions represent about 25% of Adecco Group’s 51% and 49% of the equity, respectively. All employees from business. The Adecco Group has issued Human Rights GuideFESCO Adecco have been requested to complete the Adecco lines and contributed to the European Commission E&RA SecCompliance & Business Ethics online training including the tor Guide on Business & Human Rights (see page 35). Further modules on the Code of Conduct and Bribery & Corruption as information is also provided in the Adecco Code of Conduct. well as the other six modules (see page 19). * ILO Global child labour developments: Measuring trends from 2004 to 2008; ILO Minimum Estimate of Forced Labour in the World. HR2 Screening of suppliers on Human Rights In July 2012, we issued a supplier Code of Conduct with a HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have separate supplier questionnaire in order to ensure that our been subject to ­human rights reviews and/or impact assuppliers apply the highest standards in the areas of: sessments In most countries and territories where the Adecco Group op• Child labour, forced and bonded labour erates in, Human Rights are embedded and respected in both • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining national law and general business practices. However, a few Agreements subsidiaries are operating in some defined ‘countries of con• Discrimination cern for Human Rights’ by EIRIS. The current list of 28 countries • Health and Safety is based on the Freedom House list (see www.freedomhouse. • Compensation org), amended according to further information, including the • Corruption/bribery annual reports from Human Rights Watch and Amnesty Inter• Environment and Climate national. This list (FTSE4Good inclusion criteria, p. 6) contains three countries where the Adecco Group operates: China, HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures, Colombia and Vietnam. Our operations in these countries concerning aspects of human rights represent about 2.5% of the Adecco Group’s employees and All our employees must do an online training course on our associates. In 2012, a Human Rights risk checklist, specifically Code of Conduct, and on business ethics (see page 19). focusing on the labour-related Human Rights, was shared with the Country Managers of the above mentioned countries HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination including Russia. No significant Human Rights risks were and actions taken identified. We are not aware of any allegations against Adecco regarding discrimination in 2012. We do not report the number of internally witnessed, reported and mitigated incidents of discrimination, because such numbers may be misleading due to materiality. However, calls and written correspondence via our Ethics & Compliance website made to the Board of Directors via the phone numbers or address provided can be received 24 hours a day, seven days a week by a third-party service provider with whom Adecco has contracted to receive such messages on Adecco’s behalf. In addition to alleged cases of discrimination and harassment on global level, country operations have additional systems in place to address any allegations/incidents. CSR Report 2012/2013 67 Society Product responsibility SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local comPR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of munity engagement, impact assessments, and developservices are assessed for improvement ment programmes Both our staffing process with our clients and our job placeMore than 90%* of our operations run local community enment processes with our candidates/associates foresee gagement programmes, usually public-private partnerships specific health and safety measures and assessments as on training and labour market integration for disadvantaged described on pages 40–41. people. See overview of selected operations and programmes under EC8. PR3–PR4 Required product and service information * Reference basis: total Adecco Group revenues. The essential product and service information with regards to HR services is set forth in the respective recruitment, staffing, placement and employment agreements. These comply with SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption respective local laws and regulations. The company’s risk management process is led by the global To date, the Adecco Group is not aware of any significant Risk Management Steering Committee and seeks to identify, incidents of non-compliance concerning our HR services informitigate and manage risks with the support of global risk comation. ordinators on a regular basis. In December 2012, our Bribery & Corruption Policy was published and distributed in all our PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy country organisations and an ACE training module on Bribery and losses of customer data & Corruption was launched (see page 19). We are not aware of any substantial breaches of clients’ privacy or losses of our associates’ and/or candidates’ data SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public in 2012. policy development and lobbying We count governments among our most important stakeholders. Accordingly, we are a member of Ciett and Eurociett, the Confederations of Private Employment Agencies, and an authoritative voice representing the interests of agency work businesses. SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions We are not aware of any substantial political contributions during the reporting period. According to our Bribery & Corruption Policy and our Code of Conduct, no political contributions are permitted in order to secure political or commercial influence. Political contributions have to be documented in writing and may only be made against written receipt. SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes We are not aware of any substantial legal actions against Adecco for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly practices in 2012. In July 2013, the French competition authority commenced an investigation of Adecco and certain of its competitors in France with regards to alleged violations of French competition law. Adecco is fully cooperating with the authority. CSR Report 2012/2013 68 GRI Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) Content guidance Reporting on country level For further examples of Adecco Group’s CSR engagement at country level, please refer to the GRI Reporting Framework is intended to serve as a generally respective country websites (provided on www.adecco.com). accepted framework for reporting on an organisation’s economic, We would like to highlight the first CSR Report of Adecco environmental, and social performance. It is designed for use by Groupe France which was published in April 2013 following organisations of any size, sector, or location. The Global Reportthe law known as ‘Grenelle II’, voted by French Parliament ing Initiative provides a valuable perspective on the sustainon 29 June 2010 and promulgated on 12 July 2010 which newability status and performance of the Adecco Group. The curly defined public reporting on sustainable development for rent CSR Report aligns with the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative corporations in France. guidelines and declares a GRI application level B – checked and confirmed by the GRI – according to the GRI application level grid below and the certificate on page 76. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) The various programmes and initiatives featured in this report give an insight into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to the UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI Content Index on the following pages. Application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement G3 Profile 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B Disclosures 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8; 3.10–3.12 3.9; 3.13 4.1–4.4; 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13; 4.16–4.17 Not required Management Approach Management Approach G3 Management Disclosures for each Disclosed for each Approach ­Disclosures Indicator Category Indicator Category Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Respond on each core G3 Performance of 10 Performance of 20 Performance G3 and Sector SuppleIndicators & Sector ­Supplement ­ Indicators, including at Indicators, at least one ment* Indicator with due Performance least one from each of: from each of: Economic, regard to the Materiality ­Indicators Economic, Social, and En­vironmental, Human Principle by either: Environmental. Rights, Labour, Society, a) reporting on the Product Responsibility. Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. * Sector supplement in final version CSR Report 2012/2013 69 Legend EC GRI core indicator Reported EC GRI additional indicator Partly reported Not reported, see reference AR12 Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2012 ­provided for reason of omission Code UNGC Description Reference Principles or short answer Strategy and analysis 1.1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 6–7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 4–5; 10–12; risks and opportunties: AR12, 34–35, 108 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. (Holding) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5; AR12, 12–15 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR12, 19; 42 (>point 1.2) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland 2.5 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates Over 60 countries; AR12, 129 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR12, 136–138 2.7 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and AR12, 23–27 types of customers 2.8 Scale of the Adecco Group 3, 5; AR12, 45–47 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 51 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 51–52 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2012 (some important developments in 2013 are also mentioned) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Communication on Progress 2011, published in July 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report 83-84 3.5 Process for defining report content 52 (charts: 11, 12) 3.6 Boundary of the report 52 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 52 3.8 Comparability from period to period 52 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 52 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information 53 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measurement methods 53 3.12 GRI Content Index 69–76 3.13 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been assured externally. Our Annual Report is assured externally. AR12, 130–131. CSR Report 2012/2013 70 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including major committees AR12, 142–155; CSR Governance: 8 4.2 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no executive functions 4.3 Board members: number, gender, independence, (non-)executive functions AR12, 142–145 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 53; AR12, 155–156 to the Board of Directors 4.5 Elements of the compensation programme 2012 for the Executive Committee AR12, 162–164 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts AR12, 146 (point 3.4) of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise 53; AR12, 149, point 3.4.3) of Board members 4.8 Internally developed charters and principles relevant to sustainable Values and Leadership Prin­performance ciples: 9. Code of Conduct 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing management of 52; AR12, 150 (point 3.6) ­sustainable performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance The Board of Directors discusses and assesses its own and its members’ performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 54 is addressed 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of 13–14 principles which the organisation endorses 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations 54–57 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation 57 4.17 Key topics and concerns 4; 10–17 Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC AR12, 16–19 EC1 Economic key data 4–5; AR12, 45–47 – Investments in philanthropic activities 40; 58 EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change 43; 45; 58 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligation AR12, 87–92 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 58 EC5 1 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Reason for omission: 57 wage EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers 58 EC7 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from 59 the local community EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit 21–41; 59–62 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 4; 10–12 CSR Report 2012/2013 71 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Environmental Performance Indicators (continued) DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN 43 EN1 8–9 Materials used by weight or volume 44 EN2 8–9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known EN3 8–9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 44 EN4 8–9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not known EN5 8–9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known EN6 8–9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 43–45 and services EN7 8–9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 43–45 EN8 8–9 Total water withdrawal by source 44 EN9 8–9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Adecco Group runs an HR EN10 8–9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used services business; its operations therefore do not have EN11 8–9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, a significant impact on any protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected water sources, protected areas areas, habitats and biodiEN12 8–9 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas versity. EN13 8–9 Habitats protected or restored EN14 8–9 Strategies, actions and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 8–9 Conservation list species affected by operations EN16 8–9 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 44 EN17 8–9 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 44 EN18 7–9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 43–45 EN19 8–9 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant EN20 8–9 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant EN21 8–9 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant EN22 8–9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant EN23 8–9 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant EN24 8–9 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed Adecco Group does not hazardous transport, import, export EN25 8–9 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water or treat any waste, and therefore no waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN26 7–9 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 43–45 EN27 8–9 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant EN28 8–9 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations Adecco Group is not aware of any incidents of or fines for non-compliance with any applicable international declaration, or national or local regulations associated with environmental issues in 2012 EN29 8–9 Significant environmental impacts of transportation See EN24 and EN25 CSR Report 2012/2013 72 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer EN30 7–9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Adecco Group currently does not have any specific environmental protection budgets. Social Performance Indicators: Labour Practices DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 13–17; AR12, 28–30 LA1 Total workforce 5; 36–37; AR12, 49 LA2 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover 34; AR12, 29; 49 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 65 or part-time employees LA4 1; 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 35; 65 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 65 LA6 1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – 65 worker health and safety committees LA7 1 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related fatalities 41–42 LA8 1 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases Reason for omission: 66 LA9 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Reason for omission: 66 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 33 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 32–34 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 60–100%, depending on development reviews employee categorisation LA13 1; 6 Composition of governance bodies 66; AR12, 142–155 LA14 1; 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason for omission: 66 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 66 Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 13–15; 17; 35–36 HR1 1–6 Significant investment agreements that include Human Rights 67 HR2 1–6 Screening of suppliers, contractors and other business partners 67 on human rights HR3 1–6 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects 67 of ­human rights HR4 1; 2; 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 67 HR5 1; 2; 3 Operations in which the rights for freedom of association and collective 35–36; 67 bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken HR6 1; 2; 5 Operations in which child labour is identified as significant risk – 67 and m ­ easures taken HR7 1; 2; 4 Operations in which forced labour is identified as significant risk – 67 and measures taken HR8 1; 2 Percentage of security personnel trained in Human Rights Adecco Group is not in need of specific security personnel to protect its offices. HR9 1; 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people See HR4 HR10 1; 2 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to 67 ­Human Rights reviews and/or impact assessments HR11 1; 2 Number of grievances related to Human Rights filed, addressed and We are not aware of any sub­resolved through formal grievance mechanisms stantial grievances related to Human Rights filed in 2012. CSR Report 2012/2013 73 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 14–16 (charts) • DMA on business ethics 13–14; 18–19 • DMA on community involvement 13–16; 21–32; 36-41 • DMA on compliance 18-19; AR12: 57, 146, 148 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 68 impact assessments, and development programmes SO2 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 68 SO3 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 19 and procedures SO4 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In 2012, no incidents of corruption were reported. Cf. 68 SO5 1–10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 10–12; 14–15; AR12: 8–9 lobbying SO6 10 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 68 related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly No such legal actions in 2012. ­practices and their outcomes In July 2013, the French competition authority commenced an investigation of Adecco and certain of its competitors in France with regards to alleged violations of French competition law. Adecco is fully cooperating with the authorities. (See Adecco PR) SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and In 2011, the Norwegian La­regulations bour Inspection Authority filed a petition against Adecco Health AS on working hours and overtime infringements. Further information can be found here and in AR12 51. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local In 2012, we are not aware of communities any Adecco Group oper­ations with significant negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Not applicable, see above ­negative impacts on local communities SO9. CSR Report 2012/2013 74 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR 10 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of services are 68 ­assessed for improvement PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety Adecco Group is not aware impacts of products and services of any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations in this context in 2012. PR3 8 Type of product and service information required and services subject to 68 such information requirements PR4 8 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and 68 service information PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys measuring 13; 20 customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and standards related to marketing Adecco Group adheres to communications laws and applicable standards related to marketing communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing Adecco Group is not aware ­communications of any relevant i­nfringements of the law in this context in 2012. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 68 losses of customer data PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning In the HR services industry, PR9 products and services comes up to SO8 (see above). CSR Report 2012/2013 75 CSR Report 2012/2013 76 Further reading Publications by the Adecco Group Adecco Fundación Spain: Annual Report/Memoria 2012 (Spanish, 2013) and other industry-related studies 2012 was a difficult year for Spain. The crisis hit the country and its people severely. Unemployment reached unprecedentFor further knowledge resources, please visit ed levels. Despite or exactly because of these circumstances, Adecco Group’s ’Industry Insights’ on: www.adecco.com the Adecco Fundación has intensified its commitment to help people on the edge of exclusion through training and employAdecco local insights ment. Their efforts and successes are reflected in the 2012 Annual Report. The Reality of Talent: Issue two: It’s time to manage age; Read more Adecco Australia (2012) Australia is facing a demographic upheaval. The ratio of the Rapport RSE 2011–2012, Adecco Groupe France number of working-age Australians to those aged 65+ will fall (French, 2013) from 5 to 1 in 2010 to 2.9 to 1 by 2050. By 2050, more than Adecco Groupe France published its first report on social and 1 in 5 Australians will be 65+ (versus less than 1 in 7 in 2010). environmental responsibility 2011–2012. This first CSR Report Australia is not alone. Adecco research indicates that in the exemplifies today’s realities, shows solutions that were put next decade, developed countries will see dramatic growth in into place and the Groupe’s engagement in the field of CSR. the size of the older population. Across Europe, for the first The report is structured along five major topics. time, people over 40 will be in the majority (in Italy and GerRead more many they will be 60% of the population). Likewise, in the next decade the number of workers in the United States in the 55+ 3rd Edition of the ‘Baromètre de la Fonction Développement group is projected to grow by 46.7%, nearly 5.5 times the Durable dans les entreprises du SBF 120’ (French, 2013) 8.5% growth projected for the labour force overall. Since 2007, the ‘Baromètre de la Fonction Développement Read more Durable dans les entreprises du SBF 120’ follows the development of roles in the area of sustainability within the largest Adecco Group Australia Temporary Labour Report (2013) French companies (members of the SBF 120). Its objective is to The Adecco Temporary Labour Report is the only report of its analyse the development of CSR job functions; i.e. profiles of kind in Australia to provide an expert review of current and CSR managers in leadership positions and how sustainability future labour trends, employer experiences and employee is anchored within the organisation. Since its launch, 76 CSR attitudes toward temporary employment. The report uses variDirectors have contributed with their vision on CSR roles and ous data sources, including the Australian Bureau of Statistics, profiles. Roy Morgan Research and the Economic and Market DevelopRead more ment Advisors (EMDA) as well as the Adecco Group Temporary Labour Employer and Temporary Labour Employee Surveys Bilan Handicap & Compétences 2011, Adecco Groupe conducted in October 2012. France (2013, French) Read more In 2012, Adecco celebrated its 25 years of engagement for people with disabilities and their integration into the labour Adecco Whitepaper: The Reality of Talent – Retention; market. This triggered the initiative to publish the Report on Adecco Australia (2013) the successful ‘Skills & Disability’ network that has grown over An overarching trend in employee/employer relations is the the past 25 years to become part of Adecco’s DNA. ability to drive individual choice. Employees expect to be able Read more to drive their career paths, their L&D strategy, even the way in which they are rewarded. While the employer can provide the systems, resources and processes, the employee must buy into it and then both parties must take accountability. It’s a new era employment contract. Read more CSR CoP 2012 77 Workforce compass (Fachkräftekompass), DIS AG Germany Adecco Staffing Mature Worker Survey; Adecco USA (2012) (2013, German) This survey explores hiring managers’ experiences and perThe lack of qualified workers has been a discussion point on ceptions of mature job candidates. It was conducted amongst economic and political agendas as well as in the media. And 501 hiring managers (those responsible for making hiring there are controversial opinions: while some experts claim decisions at their company, division, group or job) and fielded that there is a significant lack of well-educated people, others by Braun Research. don’t see it as a pressing issue. Read more Read more U.S. Job market perspectives 2013; Adecco USA Managing the modern workforce: Part 1: The workplace Over the past few years, employers have faced a multitude revolution; Adecco UK & Ireland (2013) of decisions and scenarios that they never expected to enOver the last four decades, the face of UK employment has counter. The recession forced hard choices – particularly with undergone radical change. From the decline of manufacturemployees – but confidence returned to many employers in ing, the dissolution of the job for life, and the birth of flexible 2012. While the job market is not fully back to pre-recession working practices, to increased mobility, technical advancelevels, employers have consistently shown signs of confidence ment, and the heightened presence of women and multi-genthroughout the past year – productivity is up, economic indicaerational workers. Employers face a serious set of challenges. tors are pointing in the right direction, and hiring is making a They must appeal to and cater for a multitude of conflicting comeback. And, with data showing that employers are feelneeds across different generations; continually reassess existing optimistic about 2013, we expect to see more growth and ing practices to meet demands for flexible working; and adstrengthened confidence. dress what their own role should be in helping to shape what Read more some business leaders have described as a failing education system. Way to Work Survey; Adecco USA (2013) Read more This survey explores hiring managers’ experiences and perceptions of young adult job candidates (ages 18–24) and their Swiss HR Barometer 2012 (in German) preparedness for today’s workforce. The telephone survey The Swiss Human Relations Barometer 2012 is the seventh was conducted amongst 500 hiring managers (those whose edition of a yearly study which looks at work relations, work duties include making hiring decisions in their organisation) conditions as well as work ethics and behaviour of employees across a range of industries. It was fielded by Braun Research in Switzerland. The developments over the past seven years Inc. are being exemplified and discussed. Read more Read more Adecco Swiss Job Market Index The Adecco Swiss Job Market Index (ASJMI) is the only combined job market index in Switzerland, providing information about the entire Swiss job market in all branches and across all regions. It is made up of the three sub-indices Company Websites, Job Portals and Media, which display job offers from all the major advertising channels. Read more CSR CoP 2012 78 Global insights The world at work: jobs, pay, and skills for 3.5 billion people; McKinsey Global Institute (2012) KPMG International Survey of Corporate Responsibility Over the past three decades, as developing economies indusReporting 2011 (2011) trialised and began to compete in world markets, a global Companies are increasingly realising that CR reporting is labour market started taking shape. As more than one billion about more than just being a good corporate citizen; it drives people entered the labour force, a massive movement from innovation and promotes learning, which helps companies “farm to factory” sharply accelerated growth of productivity grow their business and increase their organisation’s value. and per capita GDP in China and other traditionally rural naThis report represents the largest and most comprehensive tions, helping to bring hundreds of millions of people out of survey of CR reporting trends ever published. Thirty-four hunpoverty. To raise productivity, developed economies invested in dred companies representing the national leaders from 34 labour-saving technologies and tapped global sources of lowcountries around the world, including the largest 250 global cost labor. companies based on the Fortune Global 500 ranking, were Read more included in the research. Read more Ciett Economic Report (2013) Ciett has published its 2013 Annual Economic Report, based ILO Global Business and Disability Network; on figures available for 2011. This report is the sixth of its kind Annual Report 2012 (2013) to reveal the contribution of private employment services to 2012 represented a year of formally establishing the ILO Globlabour markets. The industry employs 12.4 million people on a al Business and Disability Network, and a strategic plan was daily basis, and provides jobs for 46 million people each year. put in place to focus on the development of specific tools to Read more support its network members. Its goal is to promote and address employment opportunities for people with disabilities World Economic Forum Global Risks Report (2013) and a more diverse workforce. The World Economic Forum’s Global Risks 2013 report is develRead more oped from an annual survey of over 1,000 experts from industry, government, academia and civil society who were asked Disability in the Workplace: Employers’ Organisations and to review a landscape of 50 global risks. Business Networks (Chinese, French, Spanish, 2011) Read more This report presents 12 contemporary case studies of employers’ organisations and business networks and their work ILO Global Employment Trends – Recovering from second around the issue of disability in the workplace. The profiles jobs dip (2013) highlight how representative organisations of business enThis Global Employment Trends report for 2013 is a special gage with their members to address disability by illustrating edition, warranted by the resurgence of the crisis in 2012. key practices and activities, providing information and tools on The year 2011 saw a tapering off of the recovery, followed by a disability and employment, influencing policy on employment dip in both economic growth and employment growth in 2012. and training of disabled people, providing career developUnemployment increased by a further 4 million over the ment opportunities and linking disabled job seekers with emcourse of 2012. ployers. Read more Read more Working towards sustainable development. Opportunities for decent work and social inclusion in a green economy; ILO (2012) This joint ILO/UNEP study shows that, if accompanied by the right policy mix, a green economy can also create more and better jobs, lift people out of poverty and promote social inclusion. It also demonstrates that employment and social inclusion must be an integral part of any sustainable development strategy. Read more CSR CoP 2012 79 ILO World of Work Report 2013 – Repairing the economic Employment & Recruitment Agencies Sector Guide on and social fabric (English, Spanish, French, 2013) Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and The labour market and income situation is uneven but can be Human Rights (2013) improved by consolidating the rebalancing process in emergHuman Rights are an increasingly important aspect of coring countries and finding the right balance between employporate social responsibility. The UN Guiding Principles on ment and macroeconomic goals in advanced economies. Business and Human Rights define what companies and Progress towards reducing economic and social inequalities governments should do to avoid and address possible negawould pave the way for a lasting recovery. tive human rights impacts by business. The guide, written by Read more the Institute for Human Rights and Business (IHRB) and Shift, is the outcome of an intensive multi-stakeholder process, and is Education to Employment – Designing a system that works; consistent with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and McKinsey Center for Government (2013) Human Rights. It takes particular account of the experience of Around the world, governments and businesses face a conunEU companies, but aims to be as globally applicable as posdrum: high levels of youth unemployment and a shortage of sible. The guide is not intended to be legally binding. job seekers with critical skills. How can a country successfully Read more move its young people from education to employment? What are the challenges? Which interventions work? How can these International Migration Outlook 2013; OECD (2013) be scaled up? These are the crucial questions. This publication analyses recent development in migration Read more movements and policies in OECD countries and some nonmember countries including migration of highly qualified and Enhancing company-investor communication – Insights from low qualified workers, temporary and permanent, as well as the ESG investor briefing project; Global Compact Lead & students. PRI (2013) Read more Companies communicate with investors on their sustainability – or environmental, social and governance (ESG) – strategies and performance through a diverse range of channels, including reports and other forms of written communication, investor calls, road shows, analyst meetings and social media. This report is a resource for companies looking to enhance their communications with investors, by sharing the experience and lessons learned so far through the ESG Investor Briefing Project. Read more Skills for Employment – Global public-private knowledge sharing platform website What works to bridge the world of education and training to the world of decent and productive work? This website shares the answers that governments, employers, workers and international organisations are finding to that question across the world. Read more CSR CoP 2012 80 Glossary Adecco Group Foundations The Adecco Group foundations economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is are not-for-profit organisations that directly or indirectly help backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is disadvantaged groups enter the labour market. The foundathe subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the tions focus on the needs of target groups, and build an imporGRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. tant basis for the Adecco Group’s social commitments. DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland The DAXglo­bAgeing workforce The next few decades will see substantial al Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss comdemographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce. panies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is This development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includbased on the 50 largest companies in terms of market caping businesses, workplaces, health and education systems, italisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the requiring active intervention by all concerned. Sarasin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry ratCandidate Any person interested in becoming an associate ing and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct or having a permanent placement. and indirect ecological and social effects. www.sarasin.ch Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Independent not-for-profit Diversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist organisation holding the largest database of primary corporbetween people. By managing diversity, we can take advanate climate change information in the world. tage of these differences and create a productive environment Carbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully utildioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. ised, and in which organisational goals are met. Ciett The International Confederation of Private Employment Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) The Dow Jones SusAgencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the comtainability World Index was launched in 1999 as the first global mon interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 sustainability benchmark. The DJSI family is offered cooperanational federations from EU and Efta and six of the largest tively by RobecoSAM Indices and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The staffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its family tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading members, which include Adecco Group, Olympia Flexgroup, companies in terms of economic, environmental and social Kelly Services, Manpower, Randstad, and USG People. criteria. The indices serve as benchmarks for investors who CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) An accounting value for greenhouse integrate sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a provide an effective engagement platform for companies who weight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). This is because want to adopt sustainable best practices. other GHGs may have a different global warming potential EIRIS A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisation from carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of all which conducts independent research into the environmental, greenhouse gases into one number for CO2-e. social, governance and ethical performance of companies. Code of Conduct A document referring to companies’ policy ESI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive statements that define ethical standards for and proper pracperspective on the financial performance of the world’s leadtices for individuals and the organisation. ing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional invesCoP Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a tors, asset managers, banks, and retail investors. Ethibel Suscommitment to comply with the Global Compact’s ten printainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as ciples, including them in their business strategy and their daythose whose performance is rated within the average for the to-day operations. At the same time, companies are required sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP), a public owned by Vigeo. www.ethibel.org disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing Ethical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital the ten principles, and in supporting broad UN development Partners’ ECPI Index Family. The development of the underlying goals. criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, sustainCorporate governance Corporate governance encompasses ability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaration of the full range of principles directed towards shareholders’ Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of acainterest, seeking a good balance between direction, control demic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and and transparency at the highest company level while mainenvironmental questions. www.e-cpartners.com taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). Agencies. See under ‘Ciett’. www.euro-ciett.org Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR or CSR) The definition Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond Living and Working Conditions is a European Union body. It merely conducting its business and adhering to legal guidewas set up to contribute to the planning and design of better lines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after living and working conditions in Europe. Eurofound’s core the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large business is both research and communicating the results of and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance, that research. www.eurofound.europa.eu CSR CoP 2012 81 Flexicurity The term refers to the combination of labour mareconomic and social well-being of people around the world. ket flexibility in a dynamic economy with security for workers. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) All forms of cooperation Flexicurity is a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour marbetween public authorities and the private sector. PPP is beket, combined with social security and an active labour market coming an increasingly important factor in the labour market policy with rights and obligations for the unemployed. owing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of com­ FTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of benchpanies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the mark and tradable indices for socially responsible investors. growing importance of career changes. The indices are used as a basis for regional and global index Ruggie Guidelines The United Nations Human Rights Council tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a endorsed a new set of Guiding Principles for Business and stock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index Human Rights designed to provide for the first time a global inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies standard preventing and addressing the risk of adverse imthat meet globally recognised and accepted, socially responpacts on human rights linked to business activity. The Guiding sible criteria as they evolve. www.ftse.com/ftse4good Principles are the product of six years of research led by ProGHG Greenhouse gases are those gases which trap the heat fessor Ruggie from Harvard University, on how States and in the atmosphere and thus cause global warming. The princibusinesses should implement the UN ‘Protect, Respect and pal greenhouse gases that enter the atmosphere because of Remedy’ Framework. human activities are: carbon SAM Investment boutique focused exclusively on Sustainabildioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (NO2) and various ity Investing since 1995. The firm’s offering comprises asset fluorinated gases. management, indexes and private equity. Global Compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New Scope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The conYork, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corpor­ cept of Scopes defines the boundaries between three different ate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct emisand inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encoursions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the generation age the adoption of its ‘Ten principles’ in business activities of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for own around the world, and to help achieve the UN’s human and consumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other than labour rights goals. www.unglobalcompact.org those covered in Scope 2. GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An independent institution Secondary suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which dedicated to developing and disseminating globally applicAdecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to able Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI seeks to a specific client, may use for staffing procurement. elevate sustainability reporting to the same level of rigour, Skill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are comparability, credibility and verifiability expected of financial insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the marketreporting, while serving the information needs of a broad place demands for employment at any price. range of stakeholders from civil society, government labour SRI Stands for socially responsible investment, an investment and the private business community. There are strong links strategy that takes into account a company’s ethical, social between the GRI and initiatives such as the United Nations and environmental performance as well as its financial perforGlobal Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Entermance. prises and many others. www.globalreporting.org Stakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who ILO The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the UN agency that brings together governments, employers and Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indir­ workers of its member states in common action to promote ectly affected by the Company and its actions. decent work throughout the world. www.ilo.org Sustainability The principle that we must meet the needs of ISO 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the the present without compromising the ability of future gener­ International Organisation for Standardisation. It aims to be ations to meet their own needs. Sustainability, corporate rea first step in helping all types of organisation in both the pubsponsibility and CSR are often synonymous. lic and private sectors to consider implementing ISO 26000 as UNI Global Union The global union for skills and services. It’s a way to achieve the benefits of operating in a socially the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world respon­sible manner. The guidance standard was published in with more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and 20 November 2010 and is voluntary in character. It does not inmillion affiliated members. www.uniglobalunion.org clude requirements and thus is not a certification standard. Key performance indicator (KPI) A parameter used to determine whether the desired input or outcome has been achieved. OECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is to promote policies that will improve the CSR CoP 2012 82 CSR Governance and contacts within the Adecco Group Board of Directors Rolf Dörig Chairman of the Board of Directors Andreas Jacobs Vice-Chairman, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee, Member Audit Committee Responsibilities at committee Andreas Jacobs Audit Committee Alexander Gut, Chairman David Prince Dominique-Jean Chertier Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee Thomas O’Neill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Alexander Gut Didier Lamouche Thomas O’Neill Corporate functions Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Dominik de Daniel Chief Financial Officer Stephan Howeg Head Group Communications & CSR Christian Vasino Chief HR Officer Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Hans Brütsch Head Compliance Reporting Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Adecco Group Global Diversity Business Council Ken Graham Canada Bruce Roch France Claudio Soldà Italy Lois Cooper North America David J. Maldonado Esq. Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba Spain Brian Jeal UK & Ireland Erika de la Barra Mexico Adecco CSR country contacts Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Anke Rinkes HR and Product Manager Disability Denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager and CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland Marko Pajula Sales & Marketing Director and CSR CSR CoP 2012 83 France Bruce Roch CSR Director, Adecco Groupe France & Adecco Groupe France Foundation Jean-François Connan Responsibility & Social Innovation, Adecco Groupe France Renaud Joubert Manager ‘Sport & Insertion’, Adecco Groupe France Foundation Iberia & LATAM Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba General Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM David Morales Communications Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Binny Pappachan Marketing & Communications Italy Claudio Soldà General Secretary Adecco Fondazione & Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Hirotaka Yamanami Corporate Planning and CSR Japan & Asia Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Reidun Brekke Regional Director & CSR North America Lois Cooper Vice President CSR & Inclusion Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Pauline Gebon Supplier Diversity Rachelle Chapman ‘Career Connections Programme’ Switzerland José M. San José Marketing Director and CSR Sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden Director Marketing and CSR UK & Ireland Brian Jeal Procurement Manager & CSR CSR CoP 2012 84 Imprint Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chéserex Contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sägereistrasse 10 CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 Group Communications & CSR T +41 44 878 87 87 Press.Office@adecco.com http://media.adecco.com sustainability@adecco.com http://csr.adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com www.adecco.com/csr/default.aspx Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg August 2013 CSR CoP 2012 85 adecco.com
