Building a sustainable tomorrow our journey in 2012 Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability Report 2012/2013 *A  verage number of employees at CCE and CCGB over a 12-month period. About this Report Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 1/24 CCE’s Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report 2012/2013 is comprised of a series of 24 factsheets. ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting boundaries This is Coca-Cola Enterprises’ (CCE’s) eighth annual Corporate and standards Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) Report. It replaces Unless otherwise indicated, the CCE’s 2011/2012 CRS Report as the company’s most recent CRS environmental and workplace data in this report covers all operations owned or disclosure and contains a full year of data from January 1, 2012 controlled (production, sales/distribution, to December 31, 2012 for our business operations covering eight combination sales/production facilities, Western European territories: Great Britain, France and Monaco, administrative offices and fleet) by Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden Coca-Cola Enterprises. Our workplace, and our offices in the United States. It also includes some community and carbon data includes our illustrative case studies and business activities from 2013. administrative offices in the United States. For news on CCE’s sustainability initiatives and further resources, Our carbon footprint is calculated see our website www.cokecce.com. in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol and we use an operational consolidation approach to determine organizational boundaries. For example, our carbon and energy data includes only the distribution impacts of beverages that we distribute but do not produce, such as Ocean Spray products. Data is consolidated from a number of sources, including our manufacturing facilities, fuel use information, estimated cold drinks equipment energy use, and analyzed centrally. Our baseline year is 2007 and our emissions are independent of any greenhouse gas trades. ABOUT THIS REPORT Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Under the Protocol, we measure our Materiality Material information – emissions in three ‘scopes’: Coca-Cola products are made by over where to find it 300 bottling companies worldwide on behalf CCE’s CRS programs are communicated Scope 1: the fuel we use for manufacturing, of The Coca-Cola Company, which creates in a variety of publications: our own fleet of trucks, vans and cars and and markets brands and trademarks and our process and fugitive emissions; This report: provides an overview of manufactures syrups and concentrates. CCE’s progress against our commitments Scope 2: the electricity we use at all Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) is one of the in 2012 and our ambitions for the future. our sites; licensed, independent bottling companies It includes information on our business, which purchases these items and produces Scope 3: the electricity used by our coolers our governance and management of CRS, and packages beverages to sell and and vending machines at our customers’ our stakeholders and the work we are distribute to retail and wholesale customers. premises, our business travel by rail and doing in each focus area. Our relationship with The Coca-Cola air and the fuel used by our third party Company influences the way we work, Online distributors. our spheres of responsibility and how we www.cokecce.com Further details of our emissions by scope determine our material issues. Our corporate website has a CRS section can be found on Factsheet 9. which includes further detail on some CCE developed a sustainability plan in 2011 The water use data in this report refers – ‘Deliver for today; inspire for tomorrow’. of our initiatives, our CRS commitments to production facilities, where we have Guided by a wide range of stakeholders, and targets, a full GRI Index and indices the greatest water use. All financial data this plan outlines commitments and targets showing our compliance with the United in this report is in US dollars, unless in seven areas deemed to be of the greatest Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water otherwise stated. materiality in our territories: Energy and Mandate, progress updates, details of Climate Change, Sustainable Packaging awards and events, our governance This report has been verified by Two structure and corporate CRS policies. and Recycling, Water Stewardship, Product Tomorrows (see Factsheet 24) and is Portfolio, Active Healthy Living, Community Country reports: Each of CCE’s territories aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative and Workplace. We measure progress produces a Coca-Cola system report in (GRI) G3 Guidelines, self-assessed at level against these targets by a set of Key conjunction with The Coca-Cola Company, B+. The report also serves as our Performance Indicators (KPIs) derived giving local examples of how CCE’s CRS Communication on Progress (COP) for the from pre-existing metrics where possible. commitments are being brought to life United Nations Global Compact and the We continue to develop these KPIs and in our communities. These reports can Water Stewardship Factsheet 15 serves as ways to measure against them over time. be found online at each of the following our COP-Water, part of our endorsement of Each of the 24 factsheets in this report websites: the UNGC CEO Water Mandate. focuses on an aspect of our commitments and a full data review of progress against Great Britain: our sustainability plan is on Factsheet 23. www.cokecce.co.uk France: www.coca-cola-rse.fr Belgium and Luxembourg: A Strong Partnership www.cocacolabelgium.be The Netherlands: www.coca-colanederland.nl Norway: Customer Consumer www.cceansvar.no Focus Focus Sweden: www.cceansvar.se 13,000 employees 146,200 employees The Coca-Cola Company: provides many sources of Coca-Cola system 8 countries in sustainability information. In particular, its Western Europe Over 200 website, www.thecoca-colacompany.com, Long-term countries contains corporate codes and policies Production/ Sustainable worldwide which inform CCE’s own approach to CRS. Distribution Its 2011/2012 Sustainability Report, Growth Brand Ownership www.coca-colacompany.com/ Marketplace sustainabilityreport, contains a summary Execution Product of the global Coca-Cola system Development and sustainability work. Community and Innovation For further information please contact Customer Brand crs@cokecce.com. Marketing Brand Marketing and Advertising CEO Statement Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 2/24 and Highlights John Brock (right) and Hubert Patricot (left) plant a tree at our Dongen Plant in the Netherlands during CCE’s CRS in Action week in October 2012. Interview with John Brock environment. Across Western Europe, the work in 2013 to find innovative solutions and Hubert Patricot issue of obesity is critical and we want to and drive value beyond the economic Q. CCE launched its sustainability be part of the solution. We are working to contribution we already make in our plan in September 2011. What educate our consumers on our ingredients countries of operation. progress have you made against your and the calories in our products, and together with The Coca-Cola Company, Q. What benefits are you seeing from commitments and targets in 2012? your CRS activities? we launched an advertising campaign in A. John Brock: 2012 has been a year of early 2013 to encourage people to lead A. John Brock: These are challenging excellent progress for Corporate Responsibility active, balanced lives. We are also times but our commitment to CRS has and Sustainability – what we call CRS – at CCE. introducing reformulated, lower calorie, never been stronger because of the We have delivered an absolute reduction in versions of some of our products – such benefits it brings, including operational our operational carbon emissions, and we as Sprite – using the zero-calorie, natural cost savings, excellent customer service are on track to meet our 2020 target seven sweetener, stevia, and new packaging and employee engagement. The recognition years ahead of schedule (see Factsheet 9). options and sizes to help people manage we have received from a range of external We have also improved our water efficiency their calorie intake. organisations has encouraged us to do and were the first company to be awarded more and to go further. For the first time ever, the Carbon Trust Standard for Water in 2012. A. Hubert Patricot: We want to deliver CCE was included on the Carbon Disclosure Our facilities in Great Britain and France changes beyond our own business – in Project’s Leadership Index and we were continue to be the most water-efficient wider society – and are focused on finding listed for the fourth year running as the #1 Coca-Cola plants in the world. solutions to the issues we all face, from Food and Beverage company in Newsweek’s obesity to climate change. We don’t have A. Hubert Patricot: We have also inspired for Green Rankings. We are proud to be leading all the answers so collaborating with others tomorrow. CCE played a key role in creating our industry in CRS and look forward to is key. We need to find new ways of working the greenest Olympic Games in history continuing our journey with you. with our suppliers, NGOs, customers, in London. We used low-carbon biogas community groups and others, such as the trucks, encouraged consumers to recycle UN Global Compact and its CEO Water and offered unique opportunities for Mandate, to drive the thought leadership representatives from our communities which will be necessary on this journey. to take part. Our recycling activities were John Brock seen by over 11 million consumers and we A. John Brock: Innovation is also Chairman and CEO ensured that all the bottles collected in the fundamental. Having identified low recycling Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) recycling bins at the Olympic Games were rates as a problem in Great Britain and reprocessed at our recycling joint venture, France, in 2012, we launched our first ‘Continuum’ and back on the shelves in six innovation partnership to address the weeks – in time for the Paralympic Games. issues around recycling in the home and understand what prevents consumers from Q. What will you focus on in 2013 recycling. Working with the University of Hubert Patricot and beyond? Exeter in Great Britain and France, we want Executive Vice President A. John Brock: Our category faces to discover how we can encourage people and President, European Group challenging times within a tough economic to recycle more often. We will continue this Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. (CCE) CEO Statement and Highlights Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Our strategic priorities Key 2012 Achievements • Ranked first in the food and beverage Deliver for today industry in Newsweek’s 2012 Green On our commitments and targets Rankings, for the fourth consecutive year. • RobecoSAM Bronze Class and Sector Mover: Achieved score within the top 15 Our sustainability vision Lead the industry percent of the industry in the Dow Jones In Energy and Climate Change and Sustainability Index. We will deliver for today, growing Sustainable Packaging and Recycling • Ranked on the Carbon Disclosure Project a low-carbon, zero-waste business, Leadership Index for the first time. and inspire and lead change for a more sustainable tomorrow. Innovate for the future Energy and Climate Change Opportunities for innovation, collaboration • Reduced our operational carbon and partnership footprint by 6 percent since 2011. • Worked with suppliers to ensure that, by January 2013, 100 percent of new 1 2 coolers purchased will be HFC-free. Sustainable Packaging and Recycling • Achieved 25 percent recycled plastic in our plastic packaging across our markets by the end of 2012. • Launched Continuum, our joint venture with ECOPlastics and 3 reprocessed more than 15 million plastic bottles recycled at the Olympic Games in time for the Paralympic Games. • Announced a second recycling joint venture – Infineo – with Appe in France. • 32 million people saw our recycling messages during the year. Water Stewardship 1. An HFC-free cooler in place. • Achieved our lowest ever water use 2. Environment Minister, Lord Taylor of Holbeach, opens 4 ratio – the amount of water we use to Continuum, our joint venture with ECOPlastics. make one liter of product – of 1.4 liters 3. Our employees were able to take part in the London water/liter product. 2012 Olympic Torch Relay. • Launched our first replenishment 4. Bottle washer machine, Clamart, France. project with WWF-UK in Great Britain, 5. We are rolling out Sprite with stevia in Great Britain focused on improving water quality in in 2013. the rivers Nar and Cray. 6. Employee Safety Day, Paris. Product Portfolio 6 5 • Introduced Sprite reformulated with stevia in France, containing 30 percent fewer calories. This will be rolled out in Great Britain in 2013. Community and Active Healthy Living • Invested $3.9m in our community and active healthy living programs across our territories. Workplace • Developed a new diversity strategy and implemented an employee assistance program. Our Business Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 3/24 We operate 17 manufacturing plants in 8 countries across Western Europe. Where we operate Our business Serving 170 million people In 2012, we sold approximately 12 billion across eight countries in bottles and cans (approximately 600 million Western Europe, Coca-Cola physical cases) across our territories Enterprises (CCE) is one and generated approximately $8.1 billion in revenues and $928 million of of the world’s largest operating income. independent bottlers of Coca-Cola beverages. We are a public company incorporated We operate in Great and headquartered in the United States Britain, France, Monaco, and publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the NYSE Euronext Belgium, Luxembourg, in Paris under the symbol CCE. the Netherlands, Norway and Sweden. US Our products Headquarters, Atlanta, Georgia Coca-Cola Enterprises (CCE) manufactures Key and distributes some of the most popular CCE European beverage brands in the world. Headquarters Country head offices The foundation of our business is the world’s Bottling plants most popular non-alcoholic ready-to-drink brand portfolio, which includes the world’s Coca-Cola Enterprises Key Statistics 2012 most recognized brand, Coca-Cola, Water alongside Diet Coke, Coca-Cola light, Coke Carbon footprint use ratio Zero, Fanta and Sprite, as well as a growing Manufacturing (‘000s metric (liters to make Territory Employees1 sites tonnes CO2e) 1 liter product) range of water, juices and juice drinks, sports drinks, energy drinks and Belgium & Luxembourg 2,500 3 89 1.64 ready-to-drink teas. France2 2,900 5 109 1.27 One of our strategic business priorities is Great Britain 4,450 6 383 3 1.3 to be number one or a strong number two Netherlands 800 1 102 1.4 in each of these categories. The Coca-Cola Norway 1,350 1 22 2.1 4 Company is our primary strategic partner. While beverages owned by The Coca-Cola Sweden 850 1 16 1.85 Company and its affiliates represent more USA 150 0 5 n/a than 90 percent of our volume, we distribute TOTAL 13,000 17 726 1.4 several brands for other franchise partners, such as Capri Sun and Ocean Spray. 1. Rounded to nearest 50 employees. 2. Including Monaco. 3. Great Britain is our largest market and has carbon-intense electricity. 4. Norway’s water use ratio is higher because we have, until June 2013, used water to wash our refillable plastic bottles. Our Business Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 OUR MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION PROCESS Our business has environmental and social Our manufacturing and distribution process impacts across the life cycle of our products, Percentage from the sourcing and use of raw materials emissions Factsheet and ingredients, to the manufacturing of our Value chain process (estimated)1 number products, to their disposal. Our supply chain The goals we have set in our sustainability plan focus on reducing our impacts at each Ingredients: More than ninety percent of our products are made from concentrates supplied by our brand owners. The stage of our value chain and making a rest are finished products that we distribute. We purchase 17% 6 positive difference to the communities in sugar directly; our low-calorie sweeteners are already Suppliers and which we operate. We have focused for contained in the concentrates we buy. We also purchase Sustainability juices, mineral waters and carbon dioxide to make our Ingredients several years on measuring and reducing products and are working with our suppliers to reduce our operational impacts and the impacts we the carbon and water impacts of these raw materials. can control, such as emissions from our cold drinks equipment. We are now working to Packaging: Our packaging materials – aluminum, innovate, collaborate and partner with steel, PET plastic (virgin, recycled and plant-based), suppliers and customers to identify ways to corrugated cardboard and shrink wrap – come from a 48% 13 range of approved suppliers. We are working with these Sustainable reduce impacts across our value chain. suppliers and innovating within our own business to Packaging Packaging reduce the impacts of the packaging materials we put onto the marketplace. Our product portfolio as sold by volume Our business 10 Key Energy and Manufacturing: We use water and energy (gas and Renewable Regular sparkling 58% Energy drinks 2% electricity) in our manufacturing sites to produce our Energy soft drinks Sports and 1% beverages. We are focused on increasing our operational 15 Noand low-calorie 27% sparkling soft drinks functional waters efficiencies and minimizing our waste. As an employer of approximately 13,000 people, we provide jobs and Manufacturing 8% Water Stewardship Water 3% 100 percent juice 2% pay taxes in the countries and communities in which Ready-to-drink 1% 21 and 22 Juice drinks 7% teas and other we operate. Workplace Distribution: The distribution of our products uses fuel, Regular sparkling soft drinks e.g. so we are looking for new, low-carbon ways to get our 11 products to market. We are investigating new low-carbon Distribution 7% Distribution fuels, ways to optimize our distribution network and working with third-party hauliers to reduce our impacts. Cooling and selling our products: Refrigerating our products uses energy, so we are increasing the efficiency 12 Energy drinks, sports and functional waters, water, of our coolers on our customers’ premises. 20% Cold Drinks Equipment ready-to-drink teas e.g. Refrigeration The marketplace Product Portfolio: Our wide range of products reflects 17 Juice drinks e.g. Product the changing needs and demands of our consumers across our territories. We market our products in a Portfolio responsible way through on pack labeling as well as 18 other media. Responsible Marketing Recycling: Our empty packaging becomes waste unless it is collected for recycling, so we are working to increase 14 recycling rates across our territories, which in turn will Included in Recycling help us to generate more material which we can turn into packaging2 new bottles. Recycling Community and Active Healthy Living: Coca-Cola is a 20 local product, made by local people and we have strong Community links with our communities. We aim to make a positive difference wherever we manufacture and sell our 19 Noand low-calorie Active Healthy products and to engage our communities in active Living sparkling soft drinks e.g. healthy living programs. 100 percent juice e.g. 1. We have modelled emissions for ingredients and packaging using industry average conversion factors linked to our own procurement data for each raw material. This value chain footprint has not been audited by third party independent verifiers. 2. As a result of packaging carbon footprint methodologies. Our Stakeholders Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 4/24 Employees from CCE joined WWF-UK to visit the River Nar in Norfolk where we have launched together a water replenishment partnership. Introduction CASE STUDy Our sustainability plan is based on input from a wide range of Working with Ardagh Group stakeholders. This plan sets stretching, value chain-based goals CCE launched a new heat exchange which address some of the bigger issues that society as a whole pilot program with Ardagh Group in the faces. We know we cannot meet these goals alone and as a result, Netherlands. Ardagh’s plant is located continuing engagement and partnership with thought leaders, next to CCE’s Dongen facility. Residue NGOs, suppliers, customers and many others is fundamental to heat from Ardagh’s glass ovens will be our progress and to innovate for the future. captured and used to supply heat-driven processes in our Dongen manufacturing Our strategy operations. This venture could provide 30 percent of the total energy required We have mapped our stakeholders into key groups and continually by our Dongen plant and save up to review this landscape to ensure we understand their views and are 3,000 tonnes of carbon a year. able to communicate effectively and respond to their concerns on issues of interest. 2012 Key Stakeholder Engagement and Dialogue Stakeholder Frequency of engagement Key issues of interest CCE response Academics Ongoing membership of stakeholder networks Sustainability leadership; Active participation and sharing of ideas and networks best practice sharing Investors, Annual engagement with indices and ratings agencies Various Improved disclosure around supply chain impacts and water shareowners via profiles and questionnaires and analysts Media and Ongoing communication, requests for feedback Sustainability reporting, various Evolved, factsheet-based 2013 sustainability reporting approach Social Media on CCE activities Suppliers Ongoing CRS engagement as part of supplier management Carbon, environmental, social, labor Educational CRS events for suppliers planned for 2013 Annual supplier award and summit on CRS issues and supplier standards Customers Ongoing business-related engagement; Customer service, innovation, logistics, Joint CRS-related business plans with some key customers Annual customer satisfaction surveys sustainability, recycling Employees Ongoing; various two-way communication channels in place 2011 survey top 3 drivers of engagement: Improved leadership training and launch of CCE Academy to provide Annual ‘CRS in Action week’ CCE Leadership, CRS and Learning and function-based training programs Bi-annual employee engagement survey Development NGOs and Ongoing dialogue on specific issues; Health and well-being, recycling and ‘Innovate for the Future’ recycling project shaped with Collaboration Forum thought leaders Annual ‘Collaboration Forum’ event waste, innovation feedback Communities Ongoing engagement; Annual CRS in Action week of Environmental, employment, support Strong ongoing program of community giving, supporting local needs. community-based activities at CCE sites for local concerns Local input to water protection plans. OUR STAKEHOLDERS Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Top 2 Our most recent (2011) employee engagement $3.7bn spent with over 14,000 survey showed that CRS was one of the top 2 suppliers in 20121. >1m Key 2012 Partnerships We received the drivers of Bronze Class and engagement. Sector Mover awards in the RobecoSAM yearbook, customers, from on account of our high small independent scores in the Dow Jones retailers to large Sustainability Index international questionnaire. chains. Academics and sustainability Investors, shareowners Media and social media Suppliers networks and analysts We work closely with the academic We completed our seventh submission Our new website – www.cokecce.com – now In 2012, we spent $3.7 billion with over community to help us remain well-informed to the Carbon Disclosure project and are provides all the details of our sustainability 14,000 suppliers. Our suppliers are on thought leadership in sustainability. a member of the CDP Leadership Index. plan and is helping us to support and important stakeholders for us as we focus In particular, we have collaborated with We also made our first submission to the enhance our use of social media to connect on meeting our value chain sustainability Ashridge Business School and challenged CDP Water and our fourth application with stakeholders. Joe Franses, CCE’s commitments. We held our third Supplier their MBA students to develop innovative to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Sustainability Director, communicates our Sustainability Summit for our top 60 zero carbon distribution concepts. We joined We continue to be a member of the sustainability progress via @joefranses on suppliers to investigate new ways to work the European School of Management and FTSE4Good Index and were named the Twitter. We want to be transparent and open together to encourage innovation, Technology’s Sustainability Roundtable in number one beverage company for in our communications so we launched our collaboration and partnerships across our 2012, and participate in SustainAbility’s environmental, social and governance recycling innovation project (see Factsheet 7) value chain. We also received the results of Engaging Stakeholder’s network of peer performance by Goldman Sachs. CRS via a virtual panel discussion, broadcast our 2012 Carbon Challenge in which we companies. We are also a member of the forms a regular part of each presentation online to engage with a wide stakeholder asked 130 of our critical suppliers to provide EU Corporate Leaders Group on Climate we make to financial analysts. audience in real time. us with the data for their carbon emissions Change indicating our support for the EU attributable to their supply to CCE. We have to move to a low-carbon economy. evaluated their responses and segmented our suppliers based on carbon impact and performance. We are now working with these different categories of suppliers in different ways to encourage emissions reduction. For further information see Factsheet 6. FTSE4Good Communities Employees Customers Non-governmental organizations We have strong relationships with the Our employees are fundamental to We have over one million customers, ranging We are a signatory to the UN Global communities in which our bottling facilities achieving our sustainability goals and we from small independent retailers to large Compact and its CEO Water Mandate. are located and our operations provide aim to deliver an ongoing program of CRS international chains. Our strategic business We have also entered into a water jobs for 13,000 people across our communications to ensure that they know priority is to be their most valued supplier so replenishment partnership with the territories. We have a wide range of what we are aiming towards and how they we are constantly examining and improving World Wildlife Fund and we maintain community programs, and hold an annual can play a part. We hold a bi-annual our distribution methods, our customer a wide range of relationships with national ‘CRS in Action Week’ of outreach and employee engagement survey and results service processes and our internal operating NGOs such as those involved in active events. We are working to involve our in 2011 showed that CRS was one of the top 2 systems to ensure we are meeting their healthy living and packaging recovery communities in our decision making; drivers of employee engagement. We held needs. We set annual targets for customer (see Factsheets 19 and 14). for example, our next iterations of our our fifth ‘CRS in Action Week’, engaging in satisfaction and measure our performance Source Water Protection Plans will all community and environmentally focused using surveys such as those by the seek community input. activities from sporting challenges to Advantage Group, which assess suppliers clean-up events across all our countries on factors including category development, (see Factsheet 20). We are planning another customer service, innovation and logistics. week of action in 2013. In addition, we In 2012, we were rated the leading launched ‘Be Part of It’ – an educational consumer goods company in Great Britain, program which helps our employees to the Netherlands, and France, and the understand more about our products and number two supplier in Belgium. their ingredients so that they can answer questions from friends, family or customers about Coca-Cola. 1. Excluding concentrate spend. Governance Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 5/24 CCE’s CRS Board Committee ra l i. q ue Mo From l eft to r ig Vé roni ht: Andrea Sa ia ell and , Cur t We lling, Pho ebe Wood, Ca l Da rde n (Chair ma n), John Brock, Lau ra B r i g h t w INTRODUCTION our strategy CCE’s vision is to be the best beverage sales and customer service Our strategy is guided by the CRS company. Our Operating Framework is our roadmap to long-term, Committee of the Board of Directors, profitable growth and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability which meets five times a year to review progress against our sustainability plan (CRS) is a key component of this framework. targets and to discuss emerging CRS We’re committed to doing business responsibly. As a result, we issues. The Committee is chaired by Cal strive to maintain CRS leadership in the food and beverage industry Darden, former Senior Vice President, and to embed CRS into our everyday decision-making processes. US Operations, United Parcel Service, Inc. Our CRS Advisory Council is a Our CRS Governance structure cross-functional body of senior managers who chair steering groups for each CRS focus area, including a new steering group on CCE CRS Board Sustainable Agriculture, which we will add Committee in 2013. The CRS Advisory Council meets five times a year to review progress, discuss CRS Advisory Council challenges and identify the future direction and priorities for CRS at CCE. Reporting to the CRS Board Committee, the Council is chaired Environmental Steering Committee by Laura Brightwell, Senior Vice President of Public Affairs and Communications. Energy and Sustainable Water Product Active Workplace Supporting our CRS Advisory Council Climate Packaging Stewardship Portfolio Healthy is a network of CRS managers and an Change and Living and Recycling Community Environmental Stewardship team that manages quality, environment, safety and health across our operations. Members of this team also participate in the Global Internal CRS Network and Business Unit Leadership Coca-Cola Environment and Safety Council. RISK MANAGEMENT AND BUSINESS PLANNING Social and environmental risks are designated as strategic business risks and are assessed annually as part of our standard enterprise risk management processes. They are two of the 43 risks in our risk model and cover issues relating to global environmental challenges such as climate change, water scarcity, waste, pollution and Governance Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Operating Framework ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE At CCE, our culture of ethical behavior is guided by the RIGHT Way model of ethical Vision values – our actions, decisions and behavior Be the best beverage sales and customer service company must always demonstrate respect, integrity, ‘Best’ means: good judgment, honesty and trust. Our Being #1 or strong #2 in every category in which we compete global Code of Business Conduct is based Strategic priority: Grow value of existing brands and expand our Product Portfolio on these values and outlines the behavior CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND An effective relationship with Being our customers’ most valued supplier Strategic priority: Transform our go-to-market model to improve efficiency and effectiveness we expect of every employee. It identifies Establishing a winning and inclusive culture 12 guiding principles, such as promoting Strategic priority: Attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse workforce health and safety in the workplace, Drive consistent, long-term profitable growth complying with anti-corruption laws and upholding our environmental commitments. World-class capabilities SUSTAINABILITY IS OUR BUSINESS The Coca-Cola Company • Revenue growth management • Supply chain • Sales and customer service The Code is one of the ways we comply with the ten universal principles of the UN Global Executional excellence every day Compact which CCE signed in 2007. It is published on our website and intranet Values and we inform all new employees of the • Accountable • Customer focused • Team driven Code during their induction. The Code also forms the cornerstone of our Ethics and Compliance program and global health and wellbeing trends. Select environmental risks which are reviewed ensures we comply with the US Foreign other risks in the model include health annually by the CRS Committee. Risks that Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery and safety, the cost and availability of could materially affect our business and Act. To expand on the Code and our existing raw materials, procurement and supplier financial results are disclosed in the Form Anti-Corruption Policy, in 2012 we introduced management, ethics and compliance, 10-K in our company’s Annual Report and in a more detailed Gifts, Hospitality and governance, reputation, and business quarterly financial reporting. In addition, the Entertainment Policy that provides our interruption. The top 18 risks from the register development process for any major project, people with a clear framework around are allocated to specific board committees product or new investment takes account corporate entertainment. The policy includes and the members of the Executive Leadership of its impact on our CRS commitments and an easy-to-understand checklist and value Team (ELT) responsible for those committees. CRS is built into the business plan of each limits for gifts and hospitality. We also As the ELT member responsible for CRS, Laura business unit. We report progress against developed additional training around Brightwell is accountable for social and our sustainability plan annually. corporate entertainment, including specific training delivered to all CCE people attending “A key part of my role at CCE is to drive the London Olympics. Our Compliance Risk CCE operational structure Assessment Methodology forms the basis integrity and support people in making the right decisions. CCE’s Code of Business for providing any additional training as part CCE Board of Directors of our three-year Ethics and Compliance Chairman and CEO: John Brock Conduct (COBC) is the cornerstone of our ethics program. Our Code helps us to training curriculum. ensure that all our actions, decisions and For our Code of Business Conduct to be Executive Leadership Team (ELT) behaviors are based on Respect, Integrity, effective, employees must feel confident in Chief Executive Officer Good judgment, Honesty and Trust – raising concerns or questions without fear Executive VP and President, European Group working the RIGHT way. of retaliation. In 2012, we reviewed and Executive VP and Chief Financial Officer enhanced our Ethics and Compliance hotline SVP, General Counsel and Strategic Initiatives One of my main responsibilities was to for reporting suspected breaches of the SVP, Public Affairs and Communications deliver ‘The RIGHT Way training’ which Code. We introduced a single telephone SVP, Human Resources is a core part of The CCE Academy. number for all European countries, and SVP, Chief Information Officer This 30-minute online training session launched a new awareness-raising provides an overview of CCE’s Code of campaign across our business to remind Business Conduct guiding principles and people of their options if they have a Operating Leadership Team (OLT) related policies, with interactive real-life concern around our Code. Employees are Includes General Managers and support functions. situational examples. The aim of the encouraged to speak to their manager, Support functions are also represented throughout the business units. RIGHT Way training is to make our people to their Human Resources contact or to more aware of their role in protecting our call or email the Ethics and Compliance Company, reputation and brands, and office directly. All reported incidents are CCE business units how we can contribute to a stronger investigated and all activity is reported to the ethical culture. For CCE, ‘Doing the REAL Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Great Britain France1 thing the RIGHT Way’ is the only way to Serious breaches are discussed by ‘The work, regardless of our position and RIGHT Call’ Committee, a cross-functional Benelux Norway and responsibilities.” group of senior leaders. In 2012, we Sweden developed similar committees in each Supply Chain Maaike Burger, Associate Director, Ethics and Compliance geographical business unit to allow a closer 1. Includes Monaco. relationship with those employees most involved in any potential concern. Suppliers and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 6/24 Sustainability The majority of the sugar we use in our drinks comes from sugar beet. By 2020 we want all the sugar we use to be sustainable and are working towards establishing a set of sustainable criteria. INTRODUCTION OUR STRATEGY Our carbon and water footprinting has shown that most of Our strategy has three pillars: our people; the environmental impact of our products occurs outside of our procurement processes and our our business, in our value chain. As a result, the engagement suppliers themselves. We are working to: of our suppliers is essential to be successful in achieving our • train our procurement teams 2020 commitments. Over the past year we have developed a on sustainability; strategy to embed corporate responsibility and sustainability • ensure our processes support sustainable (CRS) into all our relationships with our suppliers. purchasing decisions; • encourage our suppliers to improve their own sustainability performance. We held our third Supplier Our People >$3.7bn Sustainability Summit for our top 60 suppliers We cannot embed sustainability into each supplier relationship unless our We spent more than to investigate ways procurement teams have a good $3.7 billion with to work together to 74% understanding of sustainability and what approximately encourage innovation throughout our this means for our purchasing decisions. 14,000 suppliers in 2012. value chain. As a result, we are developing a modular Of this, 74 percent was training toolkit to educate our procurement spent in our countries managers on CRS: of operation and • Module 1 – basic training on CCE’s CRS 86 percent within journey and commitments; the EU. • Module 2 – CCE’s expectations of suppliers Data summary and how to use our supplier scorecard; Progress • Module 3 – training based upon CRS Focus area Target KPIs By when 2010 2011 2012 issues related to specific commodities. Supplier collaboration Number of suppliers Ongoing n/a 129 130 We will roll this training out across the Work in partnership with our completing CCE’s suppliers to reduce carbon carbon challenge procurement function in 2013. Energy emissions across each stage and Climate Change of our value chain Our Processes We have been working to embed Value chain Number of projects/ Ongoing n/a 0 1 Work with partners to find partnerships sustainability criteria into all our procurement Water innovative ways to minimize established processes, from sourcing new suppliers to impacts throughout our Stewardship value chain tendering. We want to ensure that, as a minimum, our suppliers understand and Ingredients Sugar sourced Ongoing Work in progress to determine Work with our sugar from sustainable sustainability standard adhere to our own sustainability standards. suppliers to ensure that the sources (%) sugar we use is sustainable Suppliers and sustainability Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 We expect all our suppliers to adhere to our Our Suppliers • We continue to focus on driving carbon Supplier Guiding Principles (SGPs), a set of We have a robust Supplier Relationship reductions across our value chain, in order standards that includes health and safety, Management (SRM) process through which to help us meet our target to ‘reduce the human rights, labor, environment and our relationships with our key suppliers are carbon footprint of the drink in your hand business integrity. The Supplier Guiding managed and we build collaboration and by one third by 2020’. Using the results Principles communicate our values and management focus. We use a framework from the ‘Carbon Challenge’, which we expectations and emphasize the importance to evaluate each supplier’s performance launched in 2011, we have classified the of responsible workplace policies and based on: quality, cost and value, service, commodities and services we procure practices that comply, at a minimum, with and CRS. Each has equal weighting and based on whether they have low, applicable environmental laws and with suppliers receive scores which inform medium or high carbon impacts (see local labor laws and regulations. They improvement plans as required. Our annual table below). This new segmentation reflect the values we uphold in our own supplier awards are allocated based on helps us to prioritize our efforts as well policies, and we expect our direct suppliers these scores. as to customize our requirements for SRM to follow the spirit and intent of these suppliers. Therefore, our expectations The CRS score on the SRM scorecard comes guiding principles to ensure respect for vary from calculating company carbon from two main inputs; Ecovadis, an external all human rights. footprints as a minimum, to developing sustainability rating platform and each carbon reduction plans and sharing In 2012, 66.7 percent of our spend with supplier’s carbon performance. product carbon information for those suppliers was covered by contracts • We began our partnership with Ecovadis suppliers that have the highest carbon containing our SGPs. The Coca-Cola System in 2012 and they ask suppliers for data in impacts. carries out on-site audits of compliance to four areas: environmental, social, ethical If suppliers receive low SRM CRS scores these principles, particularly focused on and supply chain management and then and take no action to improve them, ingredients and packaging suppliers. These score suppliers accordingly. We use this this will have an impact on our future audits are recognised by AIM-PROGRESS – information to develop targeted risk relationship with them. Over time, as a global audit program designed to align reduction plans with our suppliers suppliers improve their performance, supplier audits, reduce duplication and audit when irregularities are suspected and our classifications and performance costs for suppliers. Coca-Cola Enterprises is implement action plans to help them expectations may change. a signatory of this forum so we recognize raise their scores. supplier audits completed on behalf of other signatory companies. “I was appointed in 2012 to develop CCE’s sustainable procurement strategy. My Areas of focus aim is to improve the CRS performance for suppliers Minimum CCE expectations by type of commodity/supplier of CCE’s key suppliers and thereby We have classified the Suppliers reduce our value chain carbon footprint. commodities and services Low Medium High During 2012, my focus has been on we procure in terms of their carbon impact carbon impact carbon impact formalizing our strategy, embedding carbon impact, and this commodities commodities commodities e.g. IT, buildings, e.g. sugar, can and sustainability into our procurement helps us to prioritize where professional glass, fleet, plastic processes and implementing a new we want our suppliers to services etc. logistics etc. (PET suppliers) focus. This is informing the Ecovadis Achieve score partnership with Ecovadis to assess our assessment >5 ● ● ● suppliers on a range of key sustainability approach we are taking to Carbon Measure issues beyond carbon.” different groups of suppliers challenge ● ● ● to help them measure and Reduce and Melanie Leroy, manage their carbon, as measure ● ● Senior Manager, Strategic Procurement, CCE Europe well as sharing information Share, reduce ● and measure with us. CASE STUDY Towards sustainable sugar The majority of the sugar we use in our drinks across Towards sustainable our territories comes from sugar beet. We have set a sugar sourcing in goal to work with our sugar suppliers to ensure that, Europe Water footprint sustainability by 2020, the sugar we use is sustainable. In 2012, assessment (WFSA) August 2011 The Coca-Cola Company worked with Schuttelar and Partners to assess the existing sustainability standards that are in place for sugar beet in North West Europe. As a result of the project we hope to identify the areas of best practice and move towards a common standard for sustainable sugar beet grown in Europe. S  ee more at — www.waterfootprint.org/Reports/Coca Cola-2011-WaterFootprintSustainabilityAssessment.pdf Innovate Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 7/24 for the Future CCE held a collaboration discussion on the topic of sustainable behavior change to launch its new project with the University of Exeter (see case study overleaf). Introduction PROCESS INNOVATION The third strategic priority in our sustainability plan is ‘Innovate We continually innovate within our own systems and processes to drive efficiency for the Future’. Our sustainability plan sets stretching targets in and effectiveness. For example, we have our environmental and social focus areas. To meet these by 2020, installed monitoring systems which save we will need to innovate in many different ways. As a responsible energy and water on our production lines business our stakeholders have high expectations of us to solve not and link to our SAP business systems. We only our own business challenges, but also the wider challenges encourage our employees to share their which threaten our society. ideas for innovations through employee recognition award schemes and we have OUR STRATEGY introduced new types of packaging such Our strategy focuses on key points in our value chain where we can as PlantBottle™ – our plastic bottle made partially from plants – across our territories. help answer the big questions that are crucial to our own business, and also to the future of the planet. THOUGHT LEADERSHIP We have determined three innovation areas where we believe We want to think in new ways about the we have the most to contribute: challenges we face. In 2011, we undertook work with the Carbon Trust, in which we • Process innovation – driving efficiencies in our business. examined the concept of ‘Personal Carbon • Thought leadership – developing solutions to new issues Allowances’ and how these could be and challenges. measured and implemented. In 2012, • Collaboration – working with suppliers and customers we focused on recycling and want to drive real leadership across our territories. to co-create new solutions to existing challenges. We want to encourage all those who drink Our nine key innovation questions our products to recycle more often. Our research shows that nearly half (47 percent) How can we of the carbon footprint of our products comes develop renewable from the packaging but that this can be What does How can the bottle energy in our communities? we achieve How do we How can we go beyond zero significantly reduced if that packaging is drive consumer of the future look like? How do zero-carbon distribution? behavior change waste in manufacturing? recycled. As a result, our first innovation on recycling? we improve How could How do focus is on step-changing recycling in our recycling we reach we achieve infrastructure zero-carbon zero-carbon markets. Only through raising recycling rates to increase Coca-Cola? cooling? recycling will we be able to ensure that we can reduce rates? the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand How can we achieve by a third by 2020. zero-carbon/ carbon-positive manufacturing? innovate for the future Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Our research also shows that over 70 percent Britain, or, as in France, they were used OUR INNOVATION FRAMEWORK of our packages are recycled in the home. predominantly by the textile industry, As a result, in 2012, we launched our first in both cases limiting the availability of thought leadership project on recycling food-grade recycled PET. In 2011, we formed behavior. The research will begin in 2013, a joint venture with ECO Plastics in Great society investigating how recycling is influenced by Britain to develop ‘Continuum’, now the the dynamics of the household (see case biggest plastic bottle reprocessing facility industry study below). in Western Europe. In 2013, we will continue to look at ways The output from this facility allowed us to in which we can begin to address our nine meet our goal of using 25 percent recycled key innovation questions. PET in all our plastic packaging by the end of 2012. As a result of this successful COLLABORATION collaboration, we launched a second plastics We know that we are unlikely to achieve reprocessing joint venture in France in our goals alone. To bring about new ways of 2012. This partnership, with our PET supplier, thinking and working, we will need to forge APPE, will also significantly increase the INNOVATION TO BENEFIT new partnerships up and down our value availability of recycled plastic in France OUR COMPANY, OUR chain, with suppliers and customers – and (see Factsheet 14). INDUSTRY AND SOCIETY beyond – with all NGOs, subject matter We are developing our framework We will continue to encourage collaboration experts and many others. around the concept of innovation that up and down our value chain. In 2012, we benefits our company, our industry and Our goal to step change plastics held our third Supplier Sustainability Summit society as a whole. While our business reprocessing in Great Britain and France has for our top 60 suppliers to generate further has already contributed technologies led us to develop new partnerships over the ideas on ways in which we can work and ways of working that benefit each past two years. Previously in these countries, together to drive change. In 2013, we plan of these three areas, we know there is little food-grade recycling infrastructure to expand this Summit to include a wider more we can do. existed, so most plastics were exported for range of stakeholders. reprocessing, as was the case in Great “I saw the opportunity to bring Case study In 2013, we will select 20 households across in-house the printing of graphics Great Britain and France for a detailed for our cold drinks equipment and ‘Recycle for the Future’ Project ethnographic study of how packaging devised a new digital printing Surveys of the populations in Great Britain materials flow through the home and the process, ‘Digiprint’. This gives and France indicate that most people said decisions that are made for them to be our customers the flexibility they recycle most of the time. However, disposed in the correct bin. This will help to customize the appearance recycling rates are lower than these claims to inform a second phase of interventions of their coolers and vending suggest – around 50 percent in both countries, to encourage people to recycle more. machines and has scope for use despite widespread availability of kerbside recycling programs, indicating a disconnect on other applications from brand between people’s perception and the reality “This is an extremely exciting project which labels to advertising materials. of their behavior. is energizing the team at the University So far, Digiprint has delivered of Exeter. It’s about being innovative with cost savings and environmental As a result, we have launched a research households to collaboratively come up benefits as it allows us to reuse project with the University of Exeter to with co-created, co-produced solutions existing materials. As a result it understand more about recycling behavior in for increasing recycling rates that actually will be rolled out across all of our the home – where we know most packaging relate to people’s everyday lives.” CCE cold drinks centers during is thrown away. We want to find out what is 2013 and 2014.” stopping people from recycling every time. Few Dr. Stewart Barr, Associate Professor of Geography, studies have looked in depth at the role of the University of Exeter. Marco Callaerts, Cooler Services, Londerzeel, Belgium household in environmental decision making yet recycling often tends to be a ‘household’based activity, and the research aims to unpack the dynamics of the household and understand how this influences at-home recycling behaviors. A Legacy Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 8/24 of Success Fiona Britten Fiona was one of sixty CCE employees chosen to run with the Olympic Torch as a result of their amazing contributions to society. Fiona was selected on account of her tireless fundraising for a wide range of charities. Introduction PROMOTING HEALTH AND WELLBEING The Coca-Cola Company’s sponsorship of the London 2012 Olympic As part of our commitment to helping people and Paralympic Games was an opportunity for CCE to play a part to lead active, healthy lives, we offered the in delivering the most sustainable Games ever. widest range of drinks provided at any Olympic or Paralympic Games – 19 products OUR OLYMPIC GAMES STRATEGY in all. Waters, juices and low/no-calorie options accounted for 73 percent of all the Sustainability was central to the London 2012 Games from the start. drinks we sold or gave away. Working with the London Organising Committee of the Olympic All our carbonated soft drinks, plus and Paralympic Games (LOCOG), The Coca-Cola Company began Powerade and GlacÉau Vitaminwater™, by identifying three priorities for ensuring a sustainable presence carried guideline daily amount (GDA) at the Games: information, helping consumers to make • Promoting health and wellness. informed choices. Branding at Olympic • Reducing our carbon emissions. venues reflected the focus on low/no-calorie options with menu boards displaying • Helping to deliver a zero-waste Games. GDA information. Using the success of its brands and its resources as a bottler, We also championed young people who CCE was heavily involved in meeting these commitments. had made a positive contribution to their local communities and environment. Through the ‘Future Flames’ program, 1,000 inspirational youngsters were given the 15.5m chance to carry the Olympic Flame in the Olympic Torch Relay. 100% bottles 1,000+ of our bottles recycled. Our sponsorship of the StreetGames charity helped to provide sporting opportunities to exceptional young were completely people given a young people from disadvantaged 8,000 recyclable. communities across the country. We also chance to carry the Olympic supported Special Olympics GB in bringing Torch. people with similar opportunities to people with 100% intellectual disabilities helped through intellectual disabilities. HFC-free cooling Special REDUCING OUR CARBON EMISSIONS equipment at Olympics GB. Before the Games, we used a low-carbon Olympic fleet of vehicles to support the Olympic venues. Torch Relay. As part of reducing our carbon emissions during the Games, every Coca-Cola cooler A Legacy of Success Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Thanks to our carbon Over their expected six-year 73% of drinks consumed were reduction initiatives, our emissions during the Olympics were 12 percent lifetime, the 14 biogas trucks introduced for the Olympics will cut CO2e emissions by our water, juice or low/ no-calorie brands. lower than they would have an estimated 1,800 tonnes. been otherwise. installed at an Olympic or Paralympic venue HELPING TO DELIVER A Olympic Games was back on a shelf before was HFC-free, energy efficient and used LED ZERO-WASTE GAMES the end of the Paralympic Games. lighting. These have now been re-installed in At all London 2012 venues, packaged To encourage visitors at the Games to customer premises, accelerating our Coca-Cola products were served in 100 recycle their empty packaging, we provided transition to HFC-free coolers across Europe. percent recyclable plastic bottles containing recycling bins around the Olympic Park 25 percent recycled content. In addition, Products were delivered to Olympic venues and devised fun ways to prompt people to Coca-Cola, Diet Coke and Coke Zero were from a new, low-carbon, ‘Voltaic’ warehouse use them. served in PlantBottle™ packaging containing equipped with photovoltaic roof panels to up to 22.5 percent plant-based material as As far as possible, we used recycled generate solar electricity, skylights covering well as 25 percent recycled PET plastic materials for our staff uniforms, Olympic 15 percent of the roof (against an industry (rPET) sourced from our own joint venture Park signage and licensed merchandise norm of 10 percent) to reduce the need for recycling factory in Lincolnshire. This use and arranged for these materials to be internal lighting, motion-sensor lighting to of recycled material helped us meet our recycled or reused after the Games. cut our electricity use, a ground source heat target of including 25 percent rPET in all pump to supply heating and cooling for the PET packaging by the end of 2012. offices and a rainwater harvesting system to reduce our water footprint. Every piece of clear PET plastic waste recycled at London 2012 was taken to During the Games, we used 14 biogas trucks Continuum Recycling – our plastics to make deliveries to our customers in the reprocessing facility – and turned into new London area. These are powered by bottles within six weeks. We could therefore methane from a landfill site in Surrey and communicate the message that a bottle each has a carbon footprint less than half served at the opening ceremony of the that of a typical diesel truck. “In 2011, I completed 515 hours of Our ‘Continuum’ Recycling facility processed more than 15 million voluntary first aid work for St John Ambulance – more than 6,000 hours PET bottles collected from the Games, avoiding 290 tonnes of since 2001. In recognition of my waste to landfill and saving an estimated 310 tonnes of carbon. volunteering commitment to this charity, I was one of a number of employees chosen by CCE to be an Olympic Torchbearer. On the 21st June, 2012, I carried the Olympic Flame in Flimby, Cumbria – a truly incredible experience, where I was cheered on by my family, friends and colleagues, and which has helped to make me even more passionate about volunteering in the future.” Jackie McCann, Manager-QESH, Systems, CCE, Uxbridge Our Carbon Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 9/24 Footprint me r s Custo umers o s n Estimated an d c g (1.3m CCE su carbon emissions Recyclin pp ic ton ly chain ti o n s m et r across our Ing r nes CO value chain. CCE opera nnes CO 2e) edie n 2 e es tim ric t o a t ion (726,000 met f r ig e r a t e d) 1 t s Pa n R e ckaging t r i bu t io Manufac turing Dis g2 in p ackagin ded I nc l u r i a l. ma te % CC 20% fo r e ac h ra w E va l u d a ta e nt g i e s. e c ha i n r e m ro c u t m e t h o d o l o e m i s s ion ur p s (e s t i m a t e d ) to o fo ot p r i n 17% 7% rs l i n ke d rb o n 48% f a c t o g i n g ca 8% rsion ka g e c o nve t o f pac a l y a ve r re s u i ndus tr 2 sa e r s. A i ng us i ng t ve r ifi 1 We have mode l ed e missions for ingredie nts a nd packag ep e n d e n pa r ty ind This va lue chain footprint has not be e n audited by third Our Commitment OUR OPERATIONAL We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third CARBON FOOTPRINT by delivering carbon reductions throughout our entire value chain. To support our goal to reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third, INTRODUCTION we have set a target to reduce the absolute carbon footprint of our business operations We have been working to calculate and reduce our operational carbon by 15 percent by 2020 from a 2007 baseline. emissions from manufacturing, distribution and refrigeration, since 2007 and have calculated this footprint to be at 726,000 tonnes. However, this Our business operations include our manufacturing processes, facilities, fleet, accounts for just over one third of our emissions across our value chain, offices, cold drinks equipment and our which we estimate to be just over 2 million tonnes. As a result, in 2011, business travel. We measure emissions from we set a wider, value chain-based goal to reduce the carbon footprint these activities across our entire business of our average product by one third by 2020. in eight Western European territories: Great Nearly 50 percent of the emissions across our value chain come from our Britain, France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the packaging materials. Of this, we estimate around 60 percent comes from Netherlands, Monaco, Norway and Sweden our cans and 20 percent from our plastic (PET) bottles. We are focused on and also for our offices in the United States. working with our suppliers to reduce these impacts over time. For more In 2012, using the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse information on how we are doing so please see Factsheets 6 (Suppliers Gas Protocol, we measured the carbon and Sustainability) and 13 (Sustainable Packaging). We are enhancing our footprint of our business operations at value chain data and aim to be able to report more accurately on these 726,000 metric tons of CO2e for the period wider impacts in coming years. Our operational data is robust and 1 January 2012 – 31 December 2012. This is audited by a third party and is reported within this factsheet. a reduction of 6 percent, or around 44,000 metric tons CO2e in comparison with 2011. OUR OPERATIONAL CARBON FOOTPRINT 2007-2012 BY EMISSION SOURCE1 We have also reduced our footprint by 128,000 metric tonnes CO2e, or 15 percent 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 from our 2007 baseline, meeting our Operations and Commercial sites 193,435 191,807 189,323 187,530 174,507 168,396 (tonnes CO2e) 15 percent reduction target. We will consider Cold Drinks Equipment 532,434 557,010 512,715 505,017 432,484 403,538 how to evolve this goal in the coming year (tonnes CO2e) and will seek stakeholder input during CCE Fleet 47,548 51,033 49,702 48,883 46,603 46,270 this process. (tonnes CO2e) 6% Third Party Distribution 74,002 85,592 94,377 94,794 106,934 99,002 (tonnes CO2e) Other (including business travel) 6,015 5,517 8,113 3,864 8,853 8,398 (tonnes CO2e) carbon reduction TOTAL (’000 tonnes CO2e) 853 891 854 840 769 726 in operations 1. P  lease note that because we use anaerobic waste water biogas at Wakefield, Great Britain, this generated emissions since 2011. of 158 metric tonnes of CO 2e in 2012. We do not include the associated CO 2 emissions under Scope 1 of our footprint in alignment with the WRI/WBCSD Protocol. Our Carbon Footprint Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 OUR EMISSIONS BY SCOPE ENHANCEMENTS • CO2 fugitive gasses: from measuring our Under the WRI/WBCSD Protocol, we divide We are enhancing our data collection opening and closing stock levels and our emissions into three ‘scopes’ except for processes all the time. In 2012, a new subtracting the quantity of CO2 in our CO2 emissions from biologically sequestered database was developed by our Cooler products and CO2 used in effluent waste carbon which is reported separately. Services team which has reduced manual water treatment. data entry and helped to improve its quality. • Cold drinks equipment: emissions are • Scope 1: Direct sources of emissions such We have also rolled out our data systems for derived from using average hourly energy as the fuel we use for manufacturing and our manufacturing sites to our cold drinks consumption rates and subtracting any our own fleet of trucks, vans and cars, our centers and distribution sites, making data CRS initiative savings over the reporting process and fugitive emissions. capture easier. time period. • Scope 2: Indirect sources of emissions such as the electricity we use at all our sites. SOURCES OF DATA AND • Transport fuel: based on actual liters CALCULATION METHODOLOGIES used or calculated based on kilometers • Scope 3: Emissions generated by third We use an operational control consolidation recorded. parties over which we have control, such as the electricity used in our coolers and approach to determine organizational • A small proportion of our manufacturing vending machines at our customers’ boundaries. Data is consolidated from carbon footprint relates to the supply of premises, our employee business travel a variety of sources, including our water, treatment of wastewater and waste by rail, air and road1, emissions relating manufacturing facilities, fuel use and management. These are calculated by to the supply of water and treatment of cold drinks equipment energy use, then using litre and kg data respectively. wastewater, emissions from waste to analyzed centrally. We used a variety of • Energy, fuel and fugitive gas raw data landfill and solid incinerated waste where methodologies to gather data and measure are all multiplied by emission factors or energy has been recovered, and the fuel each part of this footprint: Global Warming Potential Factors: used by our third party distributors. • Energy data: from metered sources, supplier Electricity (IEA 2010), non-Electrical (DEFRA invoices or estimated (e.g. our bottle 2012) and district heating from suppliers. We measure and seek to reduce our Scope 3 emissions (those that do not occur at the sorting facility in Norway is estimated Approximately 2 percent of our operational sites of our business operations but that based on its floor area in comparison to carbon footprint is based on estimated result from our business) because they are Norway’s main production site). emissions, for example, energy from significantly greater than our Scope 1 and 2 • Refrigerant gas losses: from contractors’ leased offices which are shared with (core) emissions. Our Scope 1 and 2 re-gassing invoices. other companies or indirect emissions emissions are independent of any from some third-party hauliers. greenhouse gas trades. Greenhouse Gasses (tonnes CO2e)2 “The Energy and Climate Change Steering Group is really proud of the leadership we Carbon Nitrous TOTAL Dioxide Oxide Methane Hydro(SCOPE) demonstrated this year across a wide range of (CO2) (N2O) (CH4) fluorocarbons (tonnes CO2e) % Footprint carbon reduction strategies. Through improved reporting and effective prioritization we made SCOPE 1. Direct emissions 123,129 414 94 763 124,399 17% (e.g. fuel) significant progress in reducing the carbon footprint of our core operations. This is reflected 2. Indirect emissions 89,882 0 0 0 89,882 12% (e.g. electricity) in the successful London 2012 low-carbon Olympics and industry recognition for our 3. Related third 510,115 1,166 41 0 511,323 70% party emissions sustainability leadership in both manufacturing (e.g. from cold drink and fleet management. In 2013, we will focus on equipment) collaborating with suppliers such as Ardagh to TOTAL (GHG) 723,126 1,581 134 763 725,604 100% further reduce our value chain carbon footprint.” Chris Childs Associate Director, Technical Solutions and Chair, Energy Use Energy and Climate Change Steering Group, CCE, Uxbridge We use a variety of sources of energy in our operations which all contribute to our carbon footprint. Our energy use in 2012 was as follows: CCE Energy Sources and Use – 2012 Direct energy consumption Total energy purchased and consumed Natural gas 161,788 by primary energy source by source (MWh) LPG 29,900 Light Fuel Oil 4,566 All Diesel and Petrol 189,390 Biofuel 1,575 Indirect energy consumption Total electricity purchased and used (MWh) 340,758 by primary source Total heat purchased and used (MWh) 20,747 Energy used in cold Energy used in cold drinks equipment (MWh) 1,543,347 drinks equipment 1. Road travel is GB and Norway only. 2. Please note we do not have PFCs or SF6 emissions. Energy and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 10/24 Renewable Energy We have installed renewables such as solar panels on several facilities including Edmonton in London (pictured) and have an on-going program of certification to the energy management standard ISO 50001, which we received at Chaudfontaine, in Belgium, in 2012. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand Around 70 percent of the carbon emissions by a third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our entire from our manufacturing and distribution value chain. sites come from electricity and gas. For our production operation our target is to halve the INTRODUCTION carbon emissions involved in producing a liter of product by 2020 by making our facilities We’ve set rigorous targets for reducing emissions across our value more efficient and investing in renewable chain and are determined to help secure a low-carbon future. energy. We continue to make our manufacturing more energy-efficient. ENERGY In 2012, we invested $26 million of capital expenditure in carbon In 2012, we used 9.45 percent less energy reduction projects. in our manufacturing operations than in our baseline year of 2007 – 522,804 megawatt Data summary Progress hours (MWh), down from 577,368 MWh. This has been achieved by improving our energy Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 management and deploying energy Manufacturing CO2e per liter of product 2020 30.781 27.76 25.37 25.50 efficient technologies. Manufacture every liter of manufactured product with 50 percent less carbon emissions. Energy management During the year we continued to extend Energy Use Ratio 2020 88.201 88.37 81.67 81.52 (KWH/liter) best practice in carbon management across Alternative Energy Energy sourced from 2020 Work in progress to determine the business. We’ve done so using three Source 35 percent of renewable/low-carbon calculation methodology different mechanisms – our own best-practice manufacturing energy sources (%)2 scorecard, CCE’s operational excellence from renewable/ low-carbon sources. program and The Coca-Cola Company’s ‘Top 10 Energy Saving Practices’ campaign 1. Does not include Norway and Sweden. 2. Including grid renewable energy. jointly run with WWF. This year six of CCE’s plants (Antwerp, Gent and Chaudfontaine in Belgium, Marseille and Toulouse in France and Dongen in the Netherlands) completed the ‘Top 10 Energy Challenge’ linked to the campaign. We also use monitoring and targeting (M&T) systems which enable us to track the use of energy on our production lines and other energy-intensive equipment. To improve our carbon management still further, we recently piloted a link between M&T and our SAP Energy and Renewable Energy Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 business system and implemented an have to cool down the beverage to fill the 95% advanced version of M&T at our Dongen package. In 2012, we introduced three new plant in the Netherlands. The system is now fillers for PET bottles, a new glass filler and fully operational and being used on a daily a new can line. basis to analyze energy usage real time • Borehole water cooling system CCE’s score in the Carbon and to produce detailed reports comparing At Sidcup, in Great Britain, we use water Trust Standard assessment, energy usage against specific targets from a borehole in a closed system for the highest ever awarded. (see employee spotlight). cooling purposes and return it to 4 sites now certified to energy The four sites of Wakefield and East Kilbride in groundwater. This enables us to save management standard a significant amount of energy without Great Britain, Chaudfontaine in Belgium and ISO 50001. depleting the aquifer. Dunkerque in France have gained certification to the new energy management standard, • Gas oven for packers ISO 50001. This helps in identifying priorities Two electric packers in Antwerp and Gent and installing systems to achieve them. in Belgium have been replaced by new “In 2011, we started implementing a new machines that use gas as a heating source Monitoring and Targeting (M&T) system Our energy management efforts were to shrink film for bottle or can packs. As at our Dongen plant in the Netherlands. recognized when CCE received the highest a result of this improved efficiency, energy By linking electricity and water meters to ever score of 95 percent in its Carbon Trust consumption has been reduced by this system, we can gain greater insight Standard assessment. As a result of this 25 percent. The conversion from electricity into our use of electricity, compressed score, the company was recognized as to gas allows an additional carbon air and steam for specific processes. one of the leading performers in carbon reduction of 15 percent. In 2013, 13 packers This means we can identify losses and management by The Carbon Trust in 2012. will be converted to gas supply. act quickly to solve these. We now Energy-efficiency improvements monitor energy and water usage daily. We continue to develop and roll out best ALTERNATIVE AND RENEWABLE ENERGY This system helps us to improve our practices and energy-efficient technologies Alternative and renewable energy is a efficiency significantly and will continue and to make sure our sites implement them key part of our Energy and Climate Change to do so into 2013.” consistently. Recent developments include: strategy. We have a number of projects Frank van Mossel, implemented and several more being Manager, Environment, Dongen, the Netherlands • Upgrading and replacing boilers developed. Our target is to source 35 percent We replaced older steam boilers with of manufacturing energy from alternative new, efficient steam or hot water boilers sources by 2020. at Chaudfontaine, Belgium, and Sidcup, Great Britain and installed three new District heating energy-efficient burners in boilers at District heating provides significant Edmonton and Milton Keynes in Great efficiencies by enabling businesses and Britain (see case study below). homes to use a centrally generated source of heat. Our Norwegian and Swedish sites • Ambient filling use district heating systems fuelled by We’re investing in new fillers which work biomass, drawing 25 percent and 36 percent at ambient temperatures so we don’t of their energy respectively from this source. Combined Heat and Power (CHP) In Great Britain, we’re investigating whether CASE STUDy CASE STUDy CHP technology would enable our Wakefield Optimizing our bottle blowers Carbon dioxide vaporization plant to produce electricity from natural gas In 2012, we completed the first phase of To carbonate our drinks, we buy and to reuse the heat generated in this a program to make our bottle-blowers CO2 in liquid form and need to process on site. more efficient. Across 15 sites, we evaluated vaporize it before adding it to the pressure on 52 lines and identified and the beverage – a process that Solar photovoltaic requires heat. Heat is traditionally We’re extending our use of solar photovoltaic implemented 28 improvements such as supplied by electrical heaters or panels. In 2012, we installed further panels installing ceramic reflectors, air recovery steam. We’re now implementing at Sidcup, Edmonton and Wakefield in Great systems and reducing pressures where alternative solutions that recover, Britain and more are planned for our plant possible. In 2013, we’ll upgrade the ovens of through heat exchangers, the heat in Marseille, France, and our new head 18 machines at nine sites. All these measures from process water or chilled office in Uxbridge, Great Britain. These latest together will reduce the energy used in our water. The temperature of process installations will be used in car ports for bottle blowers by around 15 percent. water or chiller water is then powering electric vehicles. reduced. This brings a secondary Wind benefit by reducing the energy Recent tests of a 70-meter-tall wind mast used by the chillers to cool down at Northampton, Great Britain, proved there process water. The project has was insufficient wind strength to make the been rolled out across ten of our project viable. We are, however, developing sites and others are being plans for wind turbines in Gent, Belgium, considered for 2013. and Dongen in the Netherlands. Transportation Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 11/24 and Distribution In 2012, in the Netherlands, we were the first to introduce three 45-tonne, 100 percent biogas-powered trucks to the global Coca-Cola system. These provide well-to-wheel carbon reductions of up to 80% (see case study). Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand Our goal by 2020 is to deliver a case by a third by delivering carbon reductions throughout our entire of product with 20 percent less carbon value chain. emissions than in 2007. We will do this by: • Driving fewer kilometers – by optimizing INTRODUCTION our logistics network and working with our customers to employ techniques such as Transporting our products generates a relatively small part of backhauling. our carbon footprint. Nevertheless, with more than 114 million • Reducing the carbon emissions of every kilometres driven every year, it is a fundamental part of our kilometer driven – by improving the operations. As volumes increase, we need to find new, less efficiency of our own vehicles and those of carbon-intensive ways of distributing our products. our distribution partners, using alternative fuels and technologies and driver training. DATA SUMMARY Progress NETWORK OPTIMIZATION Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 AND BACKHAULING The process of network optimization Transportation CO2e per case 2020 Deliver a case of product of product continues to reduce carbon emissions by Measurement in progress with 20 percent less making our distribution more efficient. One carbon emissions way we’re doing this is by developing more production and storage capacity at key sites to minimize our long-distance freight. In 2012, for example, we expanded production in France at Clamart and Marseille and we’re currently building more warehouse capacity at Wakefield in Great Britain and Dongen in the Netherlands. We’ve continued to expand our backhauling systems in Great Britain, Sweden and France, ensuring, as far as possible, that trucks are loaded on both outward and return journeys. As a result we’ve removed just over 1.3 million road miles during 2012. Backhauling requires complex logistics and information-sharing, within the legal boundaries, with customers and suppliers. We have backhaul arrangements in place Transportation and Distribution Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 with 23 major customers for some delivery To benchmark our progress and REDUCING EMISSIONS FROM routes and similar arrangements, for demonstrate our commitment to developing THIRD-PARTY VEHICLES example, with companies that supply low carbon vehicles and fuels, we have Most of our deliveries are made by thirdour cans in Sweden and pallets in signed up to the Lean & Green program in party hauliers with whom we work closely to Dunkerque, France. the Netherlands and Belgium and the FTA save road miles and reduce CO2e emissions. Logistics Carbon Reduction scheme in the REDUCING EMISSIONS FROM Developments in 2012 included: UK. We are also part of the Haga Initiative OUR OWN FLEET in Sweden which focuses on emissions from • Dual-fuel HGVs Alternative technologies and fuels logistics among other sources. Based on successful trials of dual-fuel, CCE is leading the way in new carbon44-tonne heavy goods vehicles (HGVs), reduction technologies. In particular, working Driver training one of our suppliers purchased 20 of with our own fleet and third parties, we aim In recent years we’ve provided ‘eco-driving’ these vehicles to deliver CCE’s products to to replace conventional diesel trucks with training to our drivers in the Netherlands, the Olympic Park during the London 2012 more efficient vehicles such as ‘Eco-Combis’ Great Britain and Belgium. We’ve also Games. Until alternative fuels and truck or trucks that use cleaner fuels, partly or installed computers that record how a technologies become more viable, we see completely from renewable sources. In vehicle is being driven so drivers can dual-fuel vehicles as a key element of our 2012, 9 percent of our distribution kilometers improve their fuel-saving techniques. green distribution strategy (see case across Europe were powered by alternative Speed and emission ‘caps’ study below). technologies or fuels. In Belgium, the smaller trucks delivering • Eco-Combis For example, in Sweden, we’ve switched our products to stores have been modified In the Netherlands, we have expanded from fossil fuels to biodiesel in our trucks. to limit their speed to 80km per hour and our use of Eco-Combi vehicles to a fleet We currently run 75 percent of all our so save fuel. of ten trucks which reduce emissions per Swedish fleet on this biofuel and are working Across our territories, we’ve reduced pallet by 20 percent. towards 90 percent. We deployed a fleet of emissions from our corporate car and van 14 biogas-powered vehicles for the London • Engine Optimization fleet by introducing CO2/km caps for our list 2012 Olympic Games and in January 2013, In France, we have worked with our third of cars, offering eco-friendly models to our the Netherlands also introduced the first party contractor to optimize the engines employees and choosing energy-efficient 45-tonne, 100 percent biogas-powered of vehicles which carry products from vans. We’re also testing electric cars to truck in the worldwide Coca-Cola system the factory to the external warehouse better understand if they may be suitable (see case study below). at Dunkerque and to make deliveries for our needs. to the Paris distribution center of the French supermarket, Monoprix, reducing emissions on this route by 25 percent. Alternative fuels in Sweden CASE STUDY • Electric Vehicles “A few years ago we started to use Biogas trucks in the Netherlands rapeseed oil instead of regular diesel In addition to testing electric cars we now In January 2013, we introduced, in the with our hauliers to some of our regional also deliver our GLACÉAU vitaminwater™ Netherlands, the first large trucks in the terminals. In 2012, one of our hauliers in electric vehicles in Paris. Coca-Cola system to be powered on invested in a dual-fuel truck using • Double-stacked trailers 100 percent biogas. This is a pioneering 75 percent liquid biogas and 25 percent In most instances our distribution is limited project which is pushing the limits of regular diesel. By using the biogas, the by weight, however, where possible we biogas technology – at present we can carbon footprint is reduced by 75 percent. stack to double the height within the trailer only deploy these trucks on relatively This dual-fuel truck travels 1,300km per and carry more product per journey. In flat routes such as those between Gent day, five days a week transporting empty and Dongen as they are less powerful 2012, we introduced three trailers designed cans from our supplier in Malmö to our than conventional diesel vehicles. As for this purpose. These are now used plant in Stockholm and then transporting the technology develops, we expect between the factory and the warehouse finished goods from Stockholm back to more powerful versions to become at Wakefield in Great Britain. our regional terminal in Malmö. In 2012, available. The trucks themselves use we had one truck running full time for • River transport biogas derived from landfill, thereby CCE and we plan to have two more After good results from a trial in 2011, using latent energy from waste, but at dual-fuel trucks running in 2013.” the feasibility of river transport in the present this has to be transported from Netherlands received a further boost at the UK because there is no local source. Par Samuelsson, the beginning of 2013 with the opening Transport Manager, CCE Sweden Despite this, the trucks are providing an of a new harbor near our plant at Dongen. 80 percent well-to-wheel carbon We continue to review the possibilities emission saving which has been with our river transport provider. independently certified and they also result in less noise and fewer local air quality emissions. Cold Drinks Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 12/24 Equipment This cooler is fitted with an energy management system (EMS-55) which means that it uses up to 35 percent less energy. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will reduce the carbon footprint of the drink in your hand by a third We aim to reduce the carbon emissions of by delivering carbon reductions throughout our entire value chain. our cold drinks equipment by an average of 35 percent between 2007 and the end INTRODUCTION of 2014. We are doing this by improving the efficiency of our existing equipment by At the end of 2012, we had approximately 584,062 pieces of retrofitting energy-saving devices, LED lights, cooling equipment (coolers, vending and fountain machines) in the and doors on open-fronted coolers. We marketplace, operated by CCE customers on their own premises. also specify high standards for new coolers As our cold drinks fleet is the largest source of carbon emissions and are working to remove gases with from our core business, we’ve made significant investments in this high global-warming potential such as equipment in recent years. From energy management systems to hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) from our fleet. LED lighting, we’re constantly exploring new solutions to help us Since January 2013, we have purchased reduce our carbon footprint. only HFC-free coolers. EXISTING COOLERS Data summary We continue to make existing coolers Progress and vendors more efficient. In 2012, we Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 refurbished 37,042 units at six service Cold Drinks Equipment Average CO2e per 2014 0.91 0.88 0.74 0.68 centers across our territories and retrofitted Reduce the carbon emissions unit of equipment energy-efficient technology to another from our cold drinks equipment 34,648 units in the field. by an average of 35 percent. CO2e reduction from 2014 -4% -5% -19% -24% 2007 baseline (%) We’re making our existing coolers more Purchase only HFC-free coolers HFC-free coolers 2013 4% 50% 82% 87% efficient in a number of ways: from 1 January 2013. purchased (%) Fitting doors Cold drinks equipment – environmental technology roll out By fitting doors to our large, open-fronted cold drinks equipment – environmental technology roll-out coolers, we can reduce their energy use by 100 up to 50 percent. We have now fitted doors % Eligible fleet fitted to 52 percent of our open-fronted cooler % Eligible fleet remaining fleet and aim to reach 75 percent by 2014. Of the remainder, 15 percent are in outlets with particular constraints (lack of space for % hinged doors, for example) and 10 percent are models we will phase out over time. In addition, we’ve started fitting doors to EMS: Energy Management Systems 0 our 14,000 smaller, open-fronted ‘impulse’ OFU doors: Open Fronted Cooler doors EMS OFU LED Vendor Vendor Programing: Vending machines coolers. We converted 482 units in 2012 doors lights programing with timers programed and plan to fit doors to 2,300 more in 2013. Cold Drinks Equipment Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 REMOVING HFCs 59% HFC refrigerants are greenhouse gases that can be harmful to the environment if they leak or are released when equipment of our eligible coolers are is disposed of incorrectly. To prevent leakage, now fitted with energy our equipment is maintained to high management system standards by our technical centers and field (EMS) devices. engineers. We also have systems in place for safe disposal and we no longer purchase equipment that contains HFC insulation. In 2012, approximately 87 percent of all our new cooler purchases were HFC-free – and More efficient lighting we have worked with our suppliers to ensure Growth of CCE’s CDE fleet We continue to replace the standard that 100 percent of coolers purchased from and reduction in carbon footprint fluorescent lighting in our coolers and January 2013 will be HFC free. CCE is the first Units CO2et 600,000 vending machines with long-life LEDs, Coca-Cola bottler to meet this commitment, 500,000 which can be up to 80 percent more with the vast majority of other bottlers 400,000 efficient. Around 20,278 coolers and planning the transition in 2015. 300,000 vending machines were fitted with LEDs OTHER COOLING INNOVATIONS 200,000 100,000 in 2012, bringing the total number in We’re constantly looking at new ideas 0 our fleet to 88,454. and opportunities for reducing the carbon 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Energy management devices footprint of our cooling equipment. In 2012, Our intelligent EMS-55 energy management we trialed an energy-saving solution for system device recognizes patterns of use the units used to cool fountain drinks in Improving efficiency and responds by shutting off lights and venues such as pubs and cinemas. This Between 2007 and 2012, our adjusting temperatures when the cooler is will be rolled out in partnership with our not being opened regularly. This can reduce customers in 2013. equipment fleet grew by over the cooler’s energy consumption by up to 14 percent or 72,000 additional 35 percent. In 2012, we fitted 20,733 EMS units. Over the same period, devices, so that 35 percent of our coolers and 34 percent of our vending machines “I work in field engineering, servicing the carbon footprint of the fleet now use this technology. We aim to install vending machines, coolers and fountain fell by 24 percent. a further 18,374 devices in 2013. equipment. Over the past two and a In 2012, we introduced the more compact half years, I have fitted over 1,100 energy EMS-25 Plus device for smaller, single-door management systems (EMS) and 300 CASE STUDy units and for larger coolers and vendors that low energy LED lights to make our coolers Developing LED lighting don’t have space for an EMS-55. This can more efficient. In 2012, I made 50 more Fluorescent lights produce heat and can also save up to 35 percent of the cooler’s conversions than any other technician. constitute up to 30 percent of a cooler’s energy use and its introduction has allowed I’m extremely proud of the impact of this energy consumption. CCE has been us to extend our EMS program to several work on reducing our refrigeration leading the way in replacing these with smaller models. emissions and am looking forward to LED lighting. LEDs are significantly more fitting doors to our coolers and EMS efficient and require less maintenance. Programing our vending machines systems on our fountain equipment to Fitting the first generation of LED lights Certain models of our vending machines reduce emissions further in 2013.” required breaking the wiring circuit of can also be programed to save up to 25 percent of energy used. In 2012, we Graham Cartledge, the machine so, working with our Technical Representative, Milton Keynes, GB supplier, Philips, we have used next programed 1,212 machines in this way. generation ‘tube’ LEDs, which are much NEW COOLERS quicker to fit into existing fixtures. This We have high standards for the new coolers helps us to reduce disturbance to our that we buy and install in our customers’ customers, improve the safety of our premises. We no longer buy open-fronted technicians and increase the reliability units and all new coolers with a capacity of the lighting. of over 250 liters now come with an EMS device pre-installed. Where possible, our new purchases now come with Electronically Commutated (EC) fans and motors. These are more expensive than previous versions, but are more energy-efficient and cheaper in the long run. In Great Britain, Belgium and the Netherlands, we now replace any failed fans or motors with an EC component. Sustainable Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 13/24 Packaging By the end of 2012, we achieved 25 percent recycled plastic (rPET) in all our bottles. Recycled PET has a lower carbon footprint than virgin PET so helps us to reduce the carbon embedded in our packaging. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for sustainable packaging, achieve zero We aim to set the standard in low-carbon, waste in our operations and recycle more packaging than we use. sustainable packaging and to contribute to CCE’s goal of reducing the carbon footprint INTRODUCTION of the drink in your hand by a third by 2020. This will require using less material for Packaging ensures the quality of our drinks and enables us to each product, using more recycled and deliver them safely to our customers and consumers. But it can be plant-based materials and making sure carbon-intensive in its manufacture and too often is not recycled, that our own packs are recyclable. despite the fact that nearly all our packaging is recyclable. USING LESS MATERIAL We estimate that packaging currently accounts for about half Through a process we call lightweighting, of the carbon emissions in our value chain. Reducing our carbon we’re constantly redesigning our packaging footprint means reassessing our packaging from design to to reduce its weight without compromising its disposal and making better use of natural and recycled resources. quality. This enables us to use less material Our progress in sustainable packaging is strongly linked to our and to reduce our carbon emissions. In the recycling initiatives which provide us with recycled materials. past year, we avoided using an additional 1,711 tonnes of packaging materials across Data summary our business. Progress Recent initiatives include: Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Reducing the weight of our 500ml PET Lightweighting Packaging use ratio 2020 n/a 131 127.5 123.9 plastic bottles from 24.7g to 21.7g across all Reduce by 25 percent (g/liter product) the amount of material markets. The process will be complete by we use across all Total weight of packaging 2020 355,6261 363,062 384,521 367,925 the end of 2013 with the conversion of our packaging formats. used (tonnes) final site at Clamart, France. Recycled Material Recycled aluminum, steel Ongoing n/a 41% 42% 41.2% Include recycled and glass (%) • Completing the lightweighting of our 1 litre aluminum, steel and pack in France and Benelux (down from glass in respective Total recycled materials Ongoing n/a 123,624 130,035 127,557 packaging formats. used (tonnes) 36.7g to 33.2g). PET Bottles PET that is rPET2 (%) 2020 10%1 17.9% 22.5% 25% • Lightweighting our can ends. The program Ensure that our PET bottles was completed in the Netherlands in 2011 set the standard for sustainable packaging, with further changes in Great Britain and PET bottles that are 2020 n/a 0.5% 25% 26.9% using the optimal PlantBottle3 (%) France in 2012. We will complete the combination of recycled PET and PET from changeover in Great Britain and France in plant-based materials. the early part of 2013. The final conversion 1. Does not include Norway and Sweden. will be in Sweden in 2014. 2. Year end figures; for 2012, we used an average of 23.8% rPET over the course of the year. 3. Year end figures. Sustainable Packaging Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 In 2013, we’ll complete the introduction ‘Sustainable Pack of the Year’ at the 2012 of shorter caps for large plastic bottles in Great Britain. We’ll also adopt shorter caps for our water brands at Chaudfontaine Packaging Awards in Great Britain and a Gold Environmental Leadership accolade from the UK Food and Drink Federation. 1,711 tonnes of materials in Belgium and lightweight some of our avoided through We believe the best solution environmentally non-returnable glass bottles in Great Britain. lightweighting will be a combination of plant-based PET initiatives in 2012. USING SUSTAINABLE MATERIALS and rPET, minimizing the amount of virgin A crucial step in developing sustainable material. We’re currently developing our packaging and reducing our carbon footprint carbon analysis systems to be able to identify is to use material from renewable sources the blend that will give us the lowest carbon OUR 2012 PACKAGING FOOTPRINT – either bio-products or recycled material. footprint. By 2020, we intend that all PET In 2012, we used a total of 367,925 tonnes bottles will contain a combination of Plastic from plants (PlantBottle™) of packaging materials of different types plant-based material and rPET. Although the PET plastic used in our bottles is across our countries of operation. widely recycled, the virgin product still comes Recycled materials Materials used Tonnes from non-renewable fossil fuels. We’re Across all packaging types, our recycled looking for ways to make PET from renewable content currently stands at 35 percent and Aluminum 52,687 materials instead and have made progress we’re committed to raising this figure. Steel 46,067 in recent years (see case study below). PET 120,104 • Aluminum and steel PlantBottle™ containing up to 22.5 percent It takes 95 percent less energy to produce Glass 78,242 plant-based material and 25 percent recycled aluminum than aluminum from Other (primary) 14,318 recycled PET (rPET) is now used in all bauxite ore, so we’ve made it a priority to Secondary and tertiary packaging 56,507 territories for our 500ml PET Coca-Cola, increase the recycled content of our cans. Total 367,925 Diet Coke, Coca-Cola Light and Coke Zero Current availability means that the amount products. In 2012, we introduced it in our new of recycled aluminum or steel in each can “I worked with a cross-functional team 375ml pack and the 250ml PET pack. Our is limited to around 50 percent. We’re with the objective of delivering 25 percent leadership in the use of biomaterials has working with our can suppliers to improve recycled PET (rPET) by the end of 2012 in been recognised with more awards including recycling rates and boost this percentage. our PET packages across our CCE territories. • PET To be able to reach this target we needed to Recycling PET uses about 60 percent less increase the supply of rPET; explore new rPET energy than producing the virgin product. technologies; ensure these met our quality However, recycling levels are lower than f standards and build additional capacity at or metals as the market for rPET is less facilities which could produce rPET in the developed. To address the issue, we’ve quantities that we needed. It also involved recently invested in two new PET recycling extensive testing both from a quality and facilities in Great Britain and France. As a operational perspective. result, by the end of 2012, we were able to At the time CCE was also working with CASE STUDY ensure 25 percent4 rPET in all our plastic LOCOG to ensure London 2012 was the most Plastic from Plants packaging, initially at the London Olympic sustainable Games ever. To help achieve and Paralympic Games and, later in the this we decided that all the PET bottles PET is made up of two components, year, across all our markets. we supplied would include a minimum of MEG (30 percent by weight) and PTA (70 percent). Since the introduction 25 percent rPET. The Games accelerated the • Corrugated (cardboard) of PlantBottle™ technology by The process for Great Britain and we delivered Most of the corrugated cardboard we use Coca-Cola Company, we can replace our goal ahead of time. This was a real comes from recycled sources, but needs MEG with chemically identical material challenge as Great Britain did not have a to be mixed with a small portion of virgin derived from sugar cane and molasses. sufficient local supply of rPET, which was fiber for strength. The majority of the Launched in 2009, the first generation addressed by creating our own joint venture virgin corrugated cardboard content in of PlantBottle™ packaging is a 30/70 recycling facility, Continuum. Given that the our packaging is from sources certified blend of plant-based MEG and virgin facility was only operational in Q1 2012 it was by the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC). PTA. The resulting material looks, a tremendous team effort to get everything We continue to work with our suppliers functions and recycles like traditional validated in time for the Olympics.” towards full FSC certification for virgin PET but has a lower carbon footprint. material across all product lines. Sarah Botterman, Senior Commercialization Manager, Coca-Cola Great Britain To make the material more widely available, The Coca-Cola Company MAKING OUR PACKAGING RECYCLABLE recently announced a further One of our 2012 commitments was to ensure partnership to build a new facility in that all cans and bottles supplied at the Brazil to expand production of the key London Olympic and Paralympic Games PlantBottle™ ingredient. would be fully recyclable. Having met this objective, we’re working towards the same See more at — target in all our territories by 2014. www.coca-colacompany.com/ our-company/introducing-plantbottle 4. Year end figures: for 2012, we used an average of 23.8% rPET over the course of the year. Recycling Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 14/24 Our ‘Recycle Beat’ hybrid truck was part of the 70-day Olympic Torch Relay. By returning bottles to the truck, consumers were able to 11m people could see activate new beats which were added to the official song and to share photos on recycling messages social media. 0.8m people could see at Olympic venues. Olympic Torch Relay ‘Recycle Beat’ messages. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for sustainable packaging, achieve Our strategy has three parts: zero-waste in our operations and recycle more packaging 32m 1. Consumer behavior and disposal than we use. In collaboration with customers, ‘opportunities consumers, suppliers and local INTRODUCTION to see’ CCE’s authorities, we aim to use our assets For any package to be recycled, it must be recyclable. recycling and brand marketing to influence We’re working to promote recyclability within the industry, messaging. consumer behavior and to educate and to ensure that Coca-Cola Enterprises’ packaging is recyclable inspire people to recycle more often. and to encourage the recycling of packaging when the consumer 2. Collecting and sorting has finished with it. Among other benefits, this work generates In markets with high rates of packaging more recycled material to feed back into our own packaging recovery, we support existing collection and so reduce our carbon footprint. schemes. Where recovery rates are lower, we’ll champion improvements to national Data summary collection schemes. Progress 3. Re-use and reprocessing By investing in recycling and reprocessing Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 infrastructure, we aim to ensure that, Recyclability Cans and bottles 2014 99 1 99 99 99.4 Ensure 100 percent of our recyclable (%) by 2020, the amount of packaging cans and bottles are fully collected and reprocessed through recyclable. national schemes and our own Manufacturing Total waste produced 2014 27,9111 29,810 34,480 32,894 initiatives is greater than the amount Send zero waste to landfill (metric tonnes) from our own manufacturing of packaging that we ourselves use. sites and reduce the amount Waste recycled (%) 2014 99.31 99.5 99.6 99.4 of waste we generate. CONSUMER BEHAVIOR AND DISPOSAL Packaging Recycling2 Packaging recycled as 2020 Measurement in progress 67.1 In partnership with our customers and other Recycle more packaging percentage of total used stakeholders, we’re using our brands and than we use, by championing (%) improvements to collection marketing programs to encourage recycling, schemes and investing especially in Great Britain and France where in strategic recycling infrastructure projects. around 50 percent of plastic (PET) bottles are Inspiring Consumers Number of consumer Ongoing n/a n/a 4.7 32.3 recycled. Initiatives in 2012 included: Increase packaging recovery opportunities provided million million rates by using our brands to view brand-led Festivals and events to educate and inspire recycle/recover consumers to recycle messaging We ran programs at 14 events in France more often. including the Le Mans 24-hour race and Rock 1. Does not include Norway and Sweden. en Seine in Paris, reaching 828,000 people 2. This is calculated from national recycling rates for each territory, plus the amount of material that is collected and reprocessed through CCE initiatives, taking account of any double-counting which may occur. For further information see ‘Recycling Rate Calculation Methodology’ on www.cokecce.com/ and directly interacting with over 25,000. corporate-responsibility-sustainability/publications-and-policies. Events were supported by our own employee Recycling Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 RECYCLING AT message was taken into cinemas through Council to investigate how making pledges OUR OWN SITES commercials and the ‘Be a star’ recycling and working with community groups can As part of our journey campaign. help improve recycling rates. to zero waste within our own operations, in 2012 we Support for industry-led Packaging recovery recovered 99.4 percent of communication campaigns To help raise recovery rates, we work closely all the waste generated In Great Britain, CCE is part of the aluminum with national recovery systems such as Fost at our facilities. industry’s Metal Matters scheme that Plus in Belgium, Nedvang in the Netherlands, works with local authorities to encourage Eco-Emballages in France, Returpack and households to recycle metals. In the REPA in Sweden, Norsk Resirk and Rentpak Netherlands, we support the Plastic Heroes in Norway and WRAP, DEFRA and Valpak program to increase the recycling rate for in Great Britain. On a smaller scale, we’re volunteers and in some cases were linked involved in local programs such as Recycle small PET bottles. to promotions in local stores. Nearly a Zones and are working with others to help quarter of those contacted afterwards We have launched a study with the University build packaging recovery infrastructure. claimed to be recycling more often as a of Exeter to understand more about how we result of these initiatives. can change consumer recycling behavior. RE-USE AND REPROCESSING See Factsheet 7 for further detail. Householders are more likely to recycle In Great Britain we helped to deliver the if they understand what happens to the most sustainable Olympic Games yet. The COLLECTION AND SORTING materials they collect. It’s essential therefore Olympic Torch Relay provided an excellent To reduce the amount of packaging sent to have a credible domestic infrastructure opportunity to spread a positive message to landfill, we’re working with policymakers for collecting and reprocessing materials. about recycling in interactive ways (see case to improve household recycling programs. study below). We also encouraged visitors In France, CCE is a board member of the At present, recycling rates vary by material to the Olympic Park to recycle their empty national recycling system, Eco-Emballages, and it’s hard to obtain high-quality, packaging through branded recycling bins. which aims to achieve a 75 percent food-grade recycled plastic (rPET) to increase See Factsheet 8 for more information. recycling rate. the recycled content in our PET packaging. To boost supplies, particularly in Great Britain Programs with major customers We were delighted that the UK government and France, we’ve invested in the rPET We’ve stepped up our partnerships has recently raised its recycling targets infrastructure in both countries (see case with retailers to encourage shoppers to following direct input from CCE. Also in studies below). recycle more often. A promotion with 300 2012, we helped to found The Resource Sainsbury’s stores in Great Britain invited Association, a new advocacy body for the As a result, CCE has been able to meet consumers to make a recycling pledge and reprocessing and recycling industries, and its target of 25 percent recycled material enter a prize draw. In Belgium, the recycling worked on a new project with Milton Keynes in our PET bottles by the end of 2012. “I have set up and led the implementation CASE STUDy CASE STUDY of a joint venture between CCE and Olympic recycling program Recycling joint venture APPE, France’s leader in recycled PET. During the 70-day Olympic Torch Relay, In May 2012, CCE opened Continuum Launched in October 2012, this investment our program collected 2.3 tonnes of Recycling, a joint venture with ECO of $8.45m will help to expand the plastic bottles and we interacted with Plastics in Great Britain. It is the biggest production of food grade rPET at APPE’s over 53,000 people, face to face, plastic bottle reprocessing facility in plant in Beaune by 70 percent (i.e. about recycling. the world and produces 25,000 tonnes an additional 20,000 tonnes vs prior of rPET a year, more than doubling capacities) and increase the availability During the Games, we provided recycling the amount previously produced in of recycled plastic in the country. The bins and communicated recycling the country. enlarged plant will begin operating in messages on menu boards and coolers Q3 2013 and is a strong demonstration at each venue. Our ‘Back in Six Weeks’ See more at — of CCE’s desire to invest in recycling campaign ensured that all 13 million www.continuumrecycling.co.uk in France.” bottles collected at the Games were reprocessed at Continuum, our joint François Chirol, Associate Director, Recycling, Paris, France venture, and returned to the shelves as new bottles in that time-frame. 70% of Olympic spectators more likely to recycle at home and on the move as a result of our campaign. Water Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 15/24 Stewardship Water Efficiency We have a number of blow-fill machines which allow us to rinse our pre-form bottles with air instead of water before we fill them, generating significant water savings (6-8000 m3/year). Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will set the standard for water efficiency, establish a water Becoming a water-sustainable operation sustainable operation and minimize water impacts throughout our involves four elements: entire value chain. 1. Protecting our water sources for our operations and communities. Introduction 2. Reducing the amount of water we use by Water is a precious resource and fundamental to our business. becoming more water-efficient. It’s the main ingredient in our products and is also used for cooling, 3. Recycling the water we use by ensuring it washing and rinsing at our manufacturing plants. We aim to be is treated and returned to the environment responsible stewards of water and to use as little as possible for at standards supporting aquatic life. each liter of beverage we produce. 4. Replenishing the water that goes into our beverages in areas of water stress or Data summary where water quality may be an issue – in Progress our case in Flanders, Belgium, South East Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 England and around Marseille in France. Reduce Water use ratio (liters 2020 1.51 1 1.48 1.43 1.40 This factsheet focuses on elements 2 and 3. Reduce the amount of water/liter product) For elements 1 and 4 see Factsheet 16. water we use, aiming to manufacture every liter Total water used (million 2020 8.7 1 9.5 9.4 8.8 of product using an cubic meters) Using less water average of 1.2 liters Our total water consumption in 2012 was of water. 8.82 million cubic meters (m3), down from Recycle Water returned at Ongoing 100% 100% 100% 100% 9.4 million m3 in 2011. Safely return to nature 100 standard supporting percent of the wastewater aquatic life (%) from our manufacturing While we cannot reduce the volume of water operations. in our products themselves, we can try to 1. Does not include Norway and Sweden use less in our cleaning and manufacturing processes. Over the past five years, we’ve water use ratio increased our production by around progress 2007 – 2012 and target 1 8 percent but reduced our water use by around 10 percent. Our operations in France Liters water used to make one liter of product and Great Britain remain the most water1.64 1.57 efficient in the global Coca-Cola system. 1.51 1.48 1.43 1.40 In Great Britain we’ve signed the Federation 1.2 House Commitment which aims to reduce overall water use across the food and drink sector by 20 percent by 2020. Our progress 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2020 target puts us well on track to meet this target and 1. Including Norway and Sweden from the year 2010 onwards Water Stewardship Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 No.1 CCE’s operations in has also gained us the new Carbon Trust Water Standard (see case study below). bottles and cans. In 2012, these have been used on our PET lines in Clamart, France, and France are ranked the Milton Keynes in Great Britain; for a new most water efficient in the We measure our water efficiency by blowfill machine in Edmonton; for new can Coca-Cola system. Our calculating the amount of water needed to fillers replacement in Wakefield, Great Britain operations in Great create one liter of product – known as our and in Dunkerque, France; and on a new 100% Britain are ranked ‘water use ratio’, expressed as liters/liter. In can line in Marseille, France. 73 percent of number two. 2012, we used 1.40 liters/liter, down from 1.43 our plastic bottle and can lines now use in 2011. Across CCE, we’ve set targets of 1.35 of our wastewater air rinsers. liters/liter for 2013 and 1.2 liters/liter by 2020. treated to standards supporting aquatic These are challenging goals, especially Recycle and reclaim loops life in 2012. as it becomes more difficult over time to We are optimizing our ‘Clean in Place’ (CIP) manage the complexities of our water sanitation systems to recover and reuse consumption. These complexities include our final-rinsing water for further cleaning growing range of flavors (which requires processes, to use cold rather than hot water, more cleaning of our lines between batches) and to clean by blowing with air rather than CASE STUDY and processes such as aseptic filling which using water. The Carbon Trust also increase our water consumption. Water Standard Electro chemically activated water Recycling the water we use Electro chemically activated water Alongside its work on In 2012, 100 percent of our wastewater was electrolyses salt added to water to create carbon reduction, the treated to a standard which supports a chlorinated cleaning solution. This can Carbon Trust seeks to recognise aquatic life. While most of our plants save up to 2,000 m3 of water per year. After companies that use water efficiently. pre-treat their wastewater on site and then trials in 2011, we introduced it to Marseille, The new Carbon Trust Water Standard send it to municipal water treatment plants, France in 2012. We are currently trialing it in has three measures – accurate data on our facilities at Gent and Chaudfontaine in Grigny, France with plans to implement in water-use, year-on-year reductions in Belgium, Wakefield in Great Britain and Dunkerque, France in 2014. consumption and demonstration of good water management. Having been Marseille in France carry out full wastewater Bottle washers asked by the Carbon Trust to help pilot treatment on site. Of this, 2,218,791 m3 were Bottle washing equipment is the main the process, CCE was one of the first treated by municipal wastewater treatment user of water in the plants with refillable businesses to submit itself for stations and 740,659 m3 by our own packaging. In Chaudfontaine, Belgium, due inspection and validation and was treatment plants. to the specific water quality, we add a small granted the Standard in March, 2013. One consequence of producing less proportion of CO2 to rinsing water in the wastewater is that it becomes more bottle washing process. This neutralizes See more at — www.carbontrust.com/ concentrated (with suspended solids etc.). caustic traces and reduces the amount of client-services/footprinting/footprintcertification/carbon-trust-waterThis in turn means further investment in water we need. standard systems and equipment to keep meeting the required standards over time. Adiabatic coolers At Antwerp in Belgium and Toulouse in “At the end of 2011, we implemented a Reduction and recycling France, we have saved water by replacing new water purification system. Water technologies existing cooling towers with ‘adiabatic’ treatment can use a lot of water in our We continue to seek new technologies for towers which mainly use air for cooling. plants; this innovation allows us to measure reducing and recycling the water we use. Where local conditions make it feasible, this consumption more precisely so we can In 2012, we spent more than $20 million in we plan to do the same at other sites, such react quickly if there is an issue. As a result, implementing proven technologies and as Grigny, France. the water efficiency of the Dunkerque piloting new ones to achieve greater plant has improved significantly – it now efficiencies. Recent developments have Resin regeneration takes only 1.19 liters of water to produce included: To purify the water for our drinks, we use one liter of product, exceeding our global resin granules that need to be regularly 2020 target. We have set a plant target Dry and semi-dry lubricants regenerated and then rinsed. After of 1.18 liters/liter and will continue to All conveyors that move cans and PET successful trials, the Dunkerque plant in look for new opportunities to improve bottles along production lines now use a France is now re-using some of the water our performance.” dry lubricant in place of soapy water. Trials from the rinsing process and saving around of a semi-dry lubricant for the stainless steel 15,000 m3 a year. We plan to implement the The Dunkerque team Régis Filliatre, Benoit Dulongcourty, Hèléne Castex, conveyors that move glass bottles have same system at Dongen in the Netherlands. Stéphane Devin, Patrick Flamein progressed well and the system will be rolled out to our glass lines in Antwerp, Rainwater harvesting in Belgium, Jordbro in Norway and Milton We use collected rainwater for washing Keynes in Great Britain in 2013, saving vehicles and flushing staff toilets at our sites over 4,000 m3 of water a year. in Northampton in Great Britain and at Chaudfontaine and Antwerp in Belgium. Air rinsers Whenever machinery is replaced or new lines are installed, we use ionized air for preforms instead of water to rinse pre-blown Protecting and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 16/24 Replenishing the Water We Use CCE has begun a water replenishment partnership with The Coca-Cola Company and WWF-UK to restore water quality in the River Nar, in Norfolk, Great Britain, an area of sugar beet farming. Our Commitment PROTECTING OUR WATER SOURCES We will set the standard for water efficiency, establish a waterWe work hard to preserve the long-term sustainable operation and minimize water impacts throughout quality of our water sources and to minimize our entire value chain. our impact on local communities and ecosystems. We draw less than 23 percent Introduction – 2,027,061 million cubic meters (m3) – of our water from on-site wells, all of which are Water is a precious resource and fundamental to our business. licensed by government. The remaining It’s the main ingredient in our products and is also used for cooling, 77 percent (6,791,637 million m3) of the water washing and rinsing at our manufacturing plants. Although Europe we use comes from municipal sources. is generally regarded as water abundant, we’ve seen scarcity and Since 2009, we have undertaken Source flooding in recent years and water quality can be unreliable in Water Vulnerability Assessments (SVAs) at some of the more densely populated areas where CCE operates. each plant to assess the potential water risks OUR STRATEGY to our business, the local community and the ecosystem. In conjunction with water Becoming a water-sustainable operation involves four elements: providers, government agencies and 1. Protecting our water sources for our operations and communities. community organizations, these SVAs have 2. Reducing the amount of water we use by becoming more water efficient. led to the development of Source Water 3. Recycling the water we use by ensuring it is treated and returned to the Protection Plans (SWPPs) for each production environment at standards supporting aquatic life. site. We’ve now begun updating each SWPP and aim to include greater community and 4. Replenishing the water that goes into our beverages in areas of water stress stakeholder involvement in these second or where water quality may be an issue – in our case in Flanders, Belgium, iterations (see employee spotlight overleaf). south east England and around Marseille in France. Our site at Chaudfontaine in Belgium is This factsheet focuses on steps 1 and 4 – those activities which take place outside working with the Regional Authority to our operations. For information on steps 2 and 3 see Factsheet 15. protect the local natural hot spring from DATA SUMMARY pollution. By 2013, the partnership will have Progress implemented 287 local protection measures Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 to prevent contamination from filling stations, Protect Sites with Source Ongoing 12% 88% 100% 100% fuel tanks, cattle farms and sewerage Protect the future Water Protection systems (see case study overleaf). sustainability of the water Plans sources we use implemented (%) Replenish Water 2020 Working with a variety of stakeholders, including Cranfield Return to nature the water replenished (% University, the Centre for Ecology and Hydrology and used in our beverages vs liters in our The Nature Conservancy; as well as The Coca-Cola where it is sourced from beverages made Company and Limnotech; we will be expanding our areas of water stress, by in areas of water existing water replenishment methodology so that it investing in communitystress) can be applied to chalk stream river restoration projects based water programs in the UK, and adequately capture the positive impact created from the types of changes we are making. Protecting and Replenishing the Water We Use Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 project to replenish two English river 100% catchments – the River Nar in Norfolk and the CASE STUDY River Cray near our Sidcup facility in Kent. In As part of our River Nar restoration of CCE’s plants each case we’re developing local catchment project, the Norfolk Rivers Trust have Source Water plans and implementing on-the-ground is reconnecting the Nar river Protection Plans projects to restore water and improve water with its natural flood plain in place. quality (see case study). by digging a new channel. We will use the lessons learned from these projects to influence the national water policy agenda and encourage measures to reduce water abstraction and demand. REPLENISHING OUR WATERSHEDS Replenishment in our supply chain The Coca-Cola system globally is committed Our studies have shown that around to replenishing 100 percent of the water it 80 percent of the total water footprint of uses in its finished beverages by 2020 our products comes from our agricultural through projects such as reforestation, supply chain – in particular, the production protecting aquifers and revitalizing rivers. and processing of sugar beet. The amount of Replenishment in the River Nar In 2012, it replenished 81.3 billion liters of water used is less important than the impact CCE is one of the partners in a project water – equivalent to 52 percent of global of that use: a large water footprint might be to restore water quality in the River Nar sales volume. sustainable in a water-rich area, while a in Norfolk. This river catchment is where smaller one in a water-scarce region can some of the sugar beet used in our CCE’s replenishment strategy is to invest in have a far greater environmental impact. products is grown. The first stage is to water-based community programs in areas of water stress within our countries of The Coca-Cola Company led a consortium survey plants and wildlife and analyze operation. Using water scarcity or stress which published a report: ‘Towards phosphate and nitrate levels in the mapping, we have identified these to be sustainable sugar sourcing in Europe’ in water. Following this, work will focus Flanders, south east England and the area August 2011 showing that impacts vary on implementing better farm around Marseille in France. Together, our between regions. In CCE’s territories, sugar management practices in the plants in these areas accounted for beet farming tends to have a low surrounding areas. The project has 38 percent of our 2012 production (around environmental impact. drawn additional support from the 2,374,668 million m3). Our aim is to replenish UK Department for Environment, Food We’ll continue to work closely with The and Rural Affairs (Defra) which will all the water we use in our products from Coca-Cola Company to develop our co-fund farm advisor work and these areas. understanding of supply chain water further restoration. Replenishment projects impacts and focus our replenishment efforts In 2012, in partnership with The Coca-Cola on minimizing them. See more at — www.norfolkrivertrust. Company and the World Wildlife Fund UK org/p/river-nar-local-catchment-plan. (WWF-UK), CCE launched a three-year html “I was responsible for revising the Source CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Water Protection Plan at our Jordbro plant The European Water in Sweden. The plan covers all aspects of Aquifer protection Stewardship Standard water supply from its origins, quality and We have been working The European Water quantity to its handling and treatment by for many years with the community Stewardship (EWS) Standard the plant. It has been recognised by the and Regional Authority at our site in has been developed by the European local Food Safety Authority for its high Chaudfontaine, Belgium, to protect the Commission in partnership with private levels of water control, the efforts to hot spring from pollution. Water takes companies, including The Coca-Cola design a long-range water-monitoring 65 years to filter through a zone of Company, and the public sector. Aligned program and for the strong collaboration around 240 hectares in size to reach the to the EU Water Framework Directive, it built with the municipality on ensuring aquifer below. We have been working aims to ensure high standards of water water protection.” to implement local protection measures use from extraction to wastewater. CCE to prevent contamination from filling Jonas Wittefeldt, piloted the standard at Dongen in the Environment Manager, Sweden stations, fuel tanks, cattle farms and Netherlands and was awarded Gold sewerage systems, To date, 287 houses Status EWS certification following an have been protected, from a total of audit in December 2012. 560 households. The total project represents an investment of $975,000 See more at — www.ewp.eu to protect the hot spring for future generations and is one of the first to do so in Belgium. Product Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 17/24 Portfolio In 2013, The Coca-Cola Company launched a series of adverts in CCE’s territories on the concept of energy balance, to encourage consumers to lead balanced, active lives. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will provide a wide variety of quality, refreshing beverages Our strategy has three priorities: with nutritional and ingredient information so consumers can 1. Developing our portfolio – introducing make informed beverage choices. new products to offer greater choice, accelerating the growth of noand INTRODUCTION low-calorie products, using more natural ingredients and providing package sizes We are fully engaged in the debate on the growing problem of to suit every occasion. obesity and the health and wellbeing of consumers. Healthy living 2. Providing clear, informative nutritional is about balance and all calories count, including those in our labeling to educate consumers about the products. If people eat and drink more calories than they burn, ingredients and calories in our products. they will gain weight. We want to be part of the solution and 3. Ensuring that our products are sold and believe that product choice, innovation, information and physical marketed responsibly (see Factsheet 18). activity can help make a difference. By providing clear information, greater choice of lowand no-calorie products and package sizes DEVELOPING OUR PORTFOLIO as well as sensible advice, we believe that we can help people to At CCE, we manufacture and distribute make more informed decisions about their diet and lifestyles and beverages owned by other companies. achieve energy balance. To ensure a successful, balanced portfolio, we work with The Coca-Cola Company and our data summary other brand owners to develop and introduce Progress new products and package sizes in line with Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 our strategy. We try to ensure that each outlet Choice Full sugar brands with Ongoing Measurement in progress 47.6 has our widest range of choices available. Develop and market a wide choice of a noor low-calorie products so people can decide which alternative (%)1 of our beverages best meets their Our core sparkling brands such as Coca-Cola, needs and lifestyles. Fanta and Sprite represent 27 percent of the Quality Facilities accredited to Ongoing 752 94 94 94 products in our portfolio. We also have a wide Ensure that our products meet the ISO9001 and ISO22000 (%) highest quality and food safety range of low-calorie soft drinks from Diet Number of product quality Ongoing 1.33 2 1.39 1.31 1.30 standards, in line with consumer complaints per million Coke and Coke Zero to alternatives for the expectations. units sold majority of our flavored drinks – nearly every Low-Calorie Products Products which are noor Ongoing 34.62 33.42 313 313 one of our full sugar sparkling soft drinks has Accelerate the growth of noand low-calorie (<40 calories low-calorie products. per 250ml) (%) a low-calorie alternative. The rest consists of Portion Size Products in packs that are Ongoing 19.82 20.82 19 19 categories such as waters, sports drinks and Increase the availability of small portion 250ml or less (%) functional and energy drinks. size choices for sparkling soft drinks. Ingredients Remove all artificial colors, flavors Products without artificial colors, flavors and Ongoing Measurement in progress. Based on changes to national Choice and preservatives in our products, preservatives (%) definitions of ‘artificials’ we are We aim to offer a wide choice so that people where possible. re-evaluating this target. can decide which of our beverages best meet 1. This includes all CCE’s full sugar brands including the smaller ones. Our most popular full sugar brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives and together these 2. Does not include Norway and Sweden. 3. Restated in unit cases. their needs and lifestyles. We are working make up over 90% of CCE’s volume. product portfolio Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 with The Coca-Cola Company to encourage In 2012, the Coca-Cola system in Great Britain Smaller portion sizes people to make choices which balance their joined a number of leading food retailers, Another way we help consumers to manage nutritional needs. Our recent ‘Be Ok’ restaurant chains and food and drinks their calorie intake is to offer our drinks in advertising in Europe highlights the fact that manufacturers in voluntarily supporting a smaller packages. Around 19 percent of our each full sugar Coca-Cola has 140 calories, calorie reduction initiative launched by the products are now available in units of less and some of the physical activities it would British government. The initiative is a key part than 250ml, such as our 150ml cans, and take to burn these off. It suggests that on of the Public Health Responsibility Deal, by we are looking to increase these smaller days when this level of activity isn’t possible, which the government, industry and health packaging choices. In 2012, we introduced Coke Zero provides a no-calorie alternative. groups are seeking to work together to tackle ‘pocket-sized’ 375ml Coca-Cola, Diet Coke complex health challenges such as obesity. and Coke Zero bottles to be sold alongside We continue to develop our portfolio through Through a combination of reformulation and our 500ml bottles. innovation, reformulation, acquisition and higher marketing investment behind our new distribution agreements and we have We’ve also limited our cup sizes for fountain no-calorie and zero-sugar colas, we are launched more than 580 new brands and new beverages in France and Belgium, where pledging that we will reduce the average packages since 2009. Additions which help we no longer sell branded cups larger than calories per liter of our range of sparkling soft us to promote healthy choices in 2012 include: 500ml in restaurants, leisure parks and drinks in Great Britain by 5 percent between • Sprite with the natural, zero-calorie most cinemas. 2012 and 2014. sweetener, stevia, in France; To achieve that pledge, the Coca-Cola system • Nestea with stevia in France and Belgium in Great Britain will invest $23.25 million in the • Ocean Spray 100 percent juice in Great reformulation of several leading non-cola soft CASE STUDY Britain and France; drinks brands by 2014, reduce the calories in Cutting the calories in • Expanding the Appletiser sparkling the non-cola brands we reformulate by at GLACÉAU vitaminwater™ 100% juice range to new flavors such least 30 percent, and increase the marketing The reformulation of GLACÉAU as Grapetizer; budget for no calorie, zero sugar colas by 25 vitaminwater™ in December • Powerade Zero in France. percent by the end of 2014. We will also work 2012, means that all eight with retailers to increase the availability of no variants are now sweetened Quality calorie, zero sugar colas where those drinks with stevia. The change We want to ensure that consumers trust our are currently limited. removes 30 calories from every bottle products and are satisfied with the quality we Ingredients and reduces sugar levels by 30 percent. offer. Of our 17 production facilities, 941 percent Since 2008, we have increased the number Made from spring water with no artificial have quality standard ISO9001 and ISO22000 of drinks with no artificial colors, flavors or colors or flavors, the reformulated drink and we have response centers in every country preservatives – such as Fanta Natural in contains a new blend of vitamins and to constantly monitor consumer feedback. In Sweden. We have also expanded the range minerals to support a healthy lifestyle. 2012, we received 88,539 consumer contacts of products with added vitamins, minerals or The move is just one example of CCE’s of which 17 percent were related to product other nutrients and introduced more juices commitment to the UK Government’s quality – equivalent to 1.3 product quality and juice drinks such as Ocean Spray and ‘calorie reduction pledge’ – a voluntary complaints per million units sold. Minute Maid. In some cases, by removing initiative by food and drinks businesses Noand low-calorie beverages ingredients such as caffeine, we’ve created to help to tackle obesity. Noand low-calorie products make up new products with further benefits to some 31 percent of the drinks we sell by volume2 of our consumers. and 55 percent by numbers of brands in our portfolio (this figure includes water CASE STUDy and hot drinks). We continue to raise these percentages by introducing reformulated Coming Together versions of our popular drinks, by expanding CASE STUDy In early 2013, The sales of our existing low-calorie products, and Coca-Cola Company launched a series Ensuring the safety of our cans of initiatives to reinforce our system’s by ensuring that noand low-calorie products Bisphenol A (BPA) is used in coatings commitment to being part of the solution are consistently distributed alongside our that line almost all metal food and drink to obesity. Two television advertisements regular soft drinks. Recent noand low-calorie containers, helping to prevent oxidation focus on the importance of energy balance reformulations of existing products include and to maintain product quality. The in managing weight, highlighting the the energy drink Monster Absolute Zero and European Food Safety Authority, the calories in a can of Coca-Cola, the physical the fitness drink, Powerade Zero. US Food and Drink Administration and activity required to burn those calories, Since the European Union approved the the World Health Organization have and our zero calorie alternatives, such use of the naturally sourced, zero-calorie all stated that its use poses no health as Coke Zero. To support this, we have sweetener, stevia, in 2011, we’ve started using risk to the general population, but within launched new, lower calorie product it in products such as Sprite. In early 2013, we certain CCE territories the safety of the innovation such as Sprite with stevia. launched a stevia-based reformulation of substance is being questioned. We Together, these actions reinforce our Glacéau Vitaminwater™ that cuts 30 do not use any packaging that is not commitment to giving people simple calories from each bottle and reduces sugar entirely safe but even so are working and clear information on the calorie levels by 30 percent (see case study) and will with our suppliers on BPA alternatives. content of our drinks, encouraging continue to expand our portfolio using stevia. Any new material must meet the same physical activity and continuing to stringent safety and quality tests as BPA. offer more beverage choices. 1. Covers CCE’s wholly owned facilities, but we also require co-packers and other partners to have quality certification standards in place. 2. Measured using unit cases. Responsible Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 18/24 Marketing We want to ensure that people know what is in our products. Working with our brand owners, we have incorporated Guideline Daily Amounts (GDA) labeling on 97.9% of all the drinks we sell. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will provide a wide variety of quality, refreshing beverages CCE aligns with The Coca-Cola Company’s with nutritional and ingredient information so consumers can Global Responsible Marketing policy, and make informed beverage choices. together with the rest of our industry have signed up to a series of clear, compelling INTRODUCTION and verifiable industry-wide commitments which control how we market our products Throughout our territories we take very seriously the need to across our channels of communication and control advertising and marketing of our products, particularly particularly to children. In particular, we focus to children. Our industry as a whole has developed strong on four main areas: self-regulatory practices to ensure a high level of responsible • General advertising and marketing; marketing. At Coca-Cola, we want to enhance and protect the role • Internet and digital; of parents and adult carers as the gatekeepers of their children’s • In schools; dietary choices so we try to go well beyond these regulatory and • On pack. voluntary standards. We adhere to strict policies which ensure that the way we market our products across a range of communication ADVERTISING AND MARKETING channels is appropriate, responsible and guides positive choices. We do not advertise or market any of our products directly to children under 12. data summary This means that our adverts are never shown Progress during children’s programing and we do not Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 undertake promotional activities aimed at Nutritional Information Products with on pack Ongoing 97 2 97 2 97 97.93 children under 12. We never provide samples Provide easy-toGDA labeling (%)1 or free products to children under 12 when understand nutritional and ingredient information so outside the presence of an adult or carer and that consumers are able to do not sell our drinks in primary schools. make informed beverage choices. Until 2011, the term ‘children’s programing’ Responsible Marketing Compliance with Ongoing referred to TV or radio advertising before, Ensure that our products responsible marketing, are sold and marketed in marketing to children, during or after programs for which the Measurement in progress a responsible way education channel and audience consisted of over 50 percent of digital marketing Our children under the age of 12, for example, on guidelines (%) advertisements 1. We have changed the way we measure against this target in 2012. Our 2009, 2010 and 2011 data in this table shows are never shown Saturday mornings. As of 2012, this audience the volume of our products with GDA labeling. To ensure greater focus on smaller brands, in 2012, we changed to measure during children’s threshold has been changed to 35 percent. products with GDA labeling rather than volume. The 2012 number therefore shows the percentage of our products with GDA labels. 2. Does not include Norway and Sweden. programing. 3. Does not include products which do not require GDA labeling such as waters and our fountain Bag in Box products. Responsible Marketing Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Independent IN SCHOOLS We have also signed the UNESDA initiative to auditing of 34,000 We respect the need for school classrooms ensure that energy drinks are not marketed primary schools in 2010 to be free from commercial influences. to under 16s. on behalf of UNESDA showed Working with the Union of European Soft 5a 95 percent compliance ON PACK rate with our industry’s Drinks Associations (UNESDA), CCE has helped to develop a set of industry To make the right choices, consumers need responsible marketing commitments that define beverage sales to know what their food and drinks contain commitments.1 in schools throughout our territories. and how this information relates to a Depending on local concerns and legislation, balanced diet. In 2007, we introduced each country in which we operate has ‘Guideline Daily Amount’ (GDA) labeling for different policies on the distribution of our best-selling products and have recently INTERNET AND DIGITAL MEDIA our products in school. The overarching extended it to our smaller ranges so that it At CCE we strongly support The Coca-Cola commitments can be summarized now covers 99.8 percent of our brands, up Company’s policies for responsible as follows: from 97 percent in 2011. marketing of our products on the internet • Un-branded vending – to respect the Our pack labels also include information on and via digital media. We recognize the commercial-free character of schools ingredients and nutrition. We take advice growing use of these communications and include educational images and from local and European Scientific Advisory channels by children and have extended our messages on vending machines to Councils and make no health claims unless policies beyond the more traditional means promote balanced diets and healthy these are scientifically proven. Product of advertising such as television, radio and active lifestyles. information is also available through print to cover the internet, company-owned websites, care lines and consumer websites and mobile phones. • Third-party distributors – must be made aware of these commitments when information centers in all the countries Across the Coca-Cola system we do not directly responsible for the final where we operate. market products to children on the internet distribution of products to schools. The 2011 European Union nutritional or other forms of digital marketing • Promotional activities – any redemptions, labeling directive requires nutritional communications. This means that we ensure under-the-cap offerings, text message/ labeling per 100ml along with voluntary that our internet sites, content and related SMS contests, etc. which offer prizes or information per serving and GDA. We intend technologies are designed for visitors aged rewards must avoid requiring consumers to be fully compliant by the 2014 deadline. 12 or above. We use features and elements to drink excessive quantities of product in on our websites that are appealing We also provide extra information order to participate. predominantly to visitors over the age of 12 about ingredients on pack labels to help and we ensure that all marketing Independent monitoring has shown high consumers make the right personal choices. communications placed on the internet are, levels of compliance across the industry. For example, our energy drinks carry a by the nature of the content or by its During 2012, sales of products in schools statement that they are not suitable for presentation, easily identifiable to the represented less than one percent of children and pregnant and breast-feeding reasonable attentive viewer as a CCE’s total sales volume. women, specific populations for whom communication of a commercial nature. caffeine is not recommended. CASE STUDY Further reading • The Coca-Cola Company Global UNESDA Responsible Marketing policy: COMMITMENTS www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ In 2006, UNESDA, the European responsible-marketing-policy Soft Drinks Association, developed a set of commitments in the area of marketing and • T he Coca-Cola Company Global communications. CCE is a member of UNESDA and School Beverage Guidelines: a signatory to these commitments which comprise: www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/ global-school-beverage-guidelines • No advertising on TV, in print or online to children under 12; • T he Coca-Cola Company Responsible Marketing Charter, Great Britain: • No offering of soft drink products for sale www.coca-cola.co.uk/about-us/ in primary schools across the EU; responsible-marketing.html • Ensuring that in secondary schools, where • U NESDA Commitments to Act our products are offered for sale, a variety Responsibly: www.unesda.org/ of drinks including water, juices and noour-unesda-commitmentsand low-sugar products are available; act-responsibly • Ensuring a variety and choice of beverage • UNESDA Digital Marketing sizes and types is available. Commitments: www.unesda.org/ In 2008, the advertising commitment was extended unesda-commitments to cover cinemas and, in 2010, to cover the • UNESDA Code for Energy Drinks and digisphere. At CCE we try to go beyond compliance Shots: www.unesda.org/blog/ with all these commitments where possible. code-conduct-energy-shots 1. Link to the audit report website: www.unesda.org/sites/default/files/page/FINAL%202010%20%20monitoring%20report.pdf Active Healthy Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 19/24 Living Birken Ski Race, Norway In March 2012, CCE in Norway supported the Birkebeiner-rennet cross-country ski race, with 17,000 entrants, travelling over 54kms, including a number of hill climbs totaling 960 meters. CCE contributed products to fuel the participants in the last 10kms of the race. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will encourage active healthy living by supporting physical Our strategy is linked to our community and activity and nutrition education programs. product strategies (see Factsheets 20 and 17) and focuses on three areas: INTRODUCTION • Local collaboration. Obesity is caused when ‘calories in’ exceed ‘calories out’. We • Active lifestyles. want to help people to balance their calorie intake by encouraging • Nutrition education. physical activity through different active healthy living programs across our territories. A multi-faceted problem, tackling obesity LOCAL COLLABORATION Local collaboration is about encouraging will involve a multi-stakeholder solution, so we are focused on people to adopt active healthy lifestyles collaborating with a wide range of partners in the communities by supporting local partnerships and by where we operate and playing our part in this journey. using our brands to sponsor relevant events and activities. DATA SUMMARY Progress For example, in Great Britain, our sports Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 drink, Powerade, hydrated all the athletes Local Collaboration Investment in Active Ongoing n/a n/a 867,000 1.0 million at the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Encourage people to lead Healthy Living activities ($) Games. The brand also supports the an active healthy lifestyle Powerade Fives five-a-side football by working with our brands and supporting tournament at GOALS Soccer Centers. local partnerships. Physical Activity Numbers of people Ongoing Measurement in progress ACTIVE LIFESTYLES Support people to engaged in Active Healthy Across our territories, we’re helping people participate in programs Living programs which encourage active to participate in programs that encourage healthy living. active healthy living. Nutrition Education Investment in nutrition Ongoing Current focus on providing nutrition Support community education ($) and ingredient information on pack. Great Britain partnerships to highlight We are looking to take this further in In Great Britain we’re part of several the importance of good coming years. nutrition, balanced diets community-based, active healthy living and active healthy living. partnerships. In the past year, most of these have been run in conjunction with the London 2012 Olympic Games (see case study overleaf) such as StreetGames. Active Healthy Living Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 Due to the success of the program in the organization that helps young people in the Netherlands, CCE is developing Mission Haninge municipality where our bottling Olympic in Belgium where, in May 2012, we plant is situated – we sponsor eight young engaged over 23,000 students in their own people from the local area. Every summer schools through workshops focused on two they spend a week at Stadium Sports Camp Olympic sports – tae kwon do and fencing. trying out different sports. We aim to continue to expand Mission Olympic in Belgium through collaborating USA with school sports organisations and the Our US office sponsors a number of sports-related activities in Atlanta, The Coca-Cola Company’s new National Olympic Association. including the Winship 5k run in support advertisements aim to provide As part of the global Coca-Cola partnership of Winship Cancer Institute at the city’s education on calories in our with the Special Olympics organization, Emory University. we have sponsored Special Olympics in products and encourage people Belgium for a number of years. In 2012, over NUTRITION EDUCATION to manage their energy balance. 40 volunteers from CCE supported the event Along with encouraging physical activity, and we aim to increase this in 2013. We also we aim to form partnerships with relevant France intend to activate a partnership with Special community bodies to promote the The program ‘Le Sport Ca Me Dit’ Olympics in the Netherlands. importance of good nutrition, balanced (‘I Like Sport’) is led by Coca-Cola France. diets and active healthy living. In Belgium we support the French and Operating in 660 municipalities, the scheme Flemish national sports associations, In 2012, CCE supported a number of encourages young people to take part in Bloso and Adeps, which train coaches Coca-Cola system pilot partnerships which sports and games in the streets, in parks, on and organize sporting events for their we hope will inform our activities in coming the beach and in other urban spaces. Since own linguistic communities. We also help years. For example, in the Netherlands, the its creation in 2008, it has involved more than to fund the Jeugdsportfonds Camille Paulus Coca-Cola system is partnering with the 500,000 young people. program which encourages teenagers JOGG (Youngsters of a healthy weight) to take part in organized sport. initiative. This is a community-based, Benelux multi-partner approach to help young Mission Olympic, started in 2003 by The Norway people lead healthy lives, in which a range Coca-Cola Company and the Dutch Olympic In Norway, we encourage active, of organizations, including the municipality, Committee, is the biggest annual school healthy lifestyles through campaigns and sports organisations, schools, and local sports competition in the Netherlands with sponsorships backed by CCE sports drinks companies work together to design and 315 schools taking part. It encourages such as Powerade. CCE Norway is also implement interventions to encourage youngsters between the ages of 12 to 18 to a sponsor of the Norway Cup, one of the healthy lives. CCE is one of the partners in participate in sports throughout their school world’s biggest youth football tournaments Dongen, the community where our plant years and aims to help them develop a with an emphasis on cultural co-existence. is located. lifelong interest in physical activity. Although The 2012 tournament brought together hugely successful, reaching over 150,000 1,500 teams from 60 nations. See Factsheet 18 for further information youngsters in the Netherlands, we aim to on nutritional labeling and how we are expand this program further in coming years Sweden educating consumers through on-pack by reaching more schools. In collaboration with Sweden’s Stadium communication. Sports Camp and Ungdomens Hus – an “In 2012, CCE began its partnership in Belgium CASE STUDy with Special Olympics, an organization which provides year-round sports training and Our London 2012 legacy athletic competition for children and adults The Coca-Cola Company’s sponsorship with intellectual disabilities. This was a perfect of the London 2012 Olympic and fit for our business, going beyond sport to help Paralympic Games was an opportunity participants integrate into society and build for CCE to involve more people in sport. confidence. I encouraged 45 CCE volunteers The ‘Future Flames’ program gave 1,000 and their families to help athletes before, young people who contribute to their during and after the competition. We received an excellent response and I am looking communities the chance to carry the forward to strengthening our partnership and Olympic Torch. Coca-Cola Great Britain increasing the number of volunteers in 2013.” also sponsored the StreetGames charity intellectual disabilities. As part of the which makes sport accessible to young London 2012 legacy, The Coca-Cola Philippe Spildooren, Company funded a major extension Senior Manager, National and Key accounts, Belgium people in disadvantaged communities and 65 participants also had the of Special Olympics GB’s Unified Sport opportunity to carry the Olympic Flame. program which brings intellectually disabled and able-bodied people CCE has supported Special Olympics GB together to compete in the same teams. for the last three years. The organization provides sports training and competition for young people and adults with Community Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 20/24 CCE employees from the Atlanta office participated in the transformation of an elementary school grounds during CRS in Action week. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will make a positive difference in our communities, work with Our strategy focuses on three themes: local partners and support the active involvement of our employees. • Supporting young people. • Encouraging active healthy living. INTRODUCTION • Protecting the environment. Coca-Cola is a local product, made by local people, and over the years our manufacturing sites have built strong relationships SUPPORTING YOUNG PEOPLE with our communities. We value these links and want to make Young people are our future and we want to support them in acquiring the a positive difference within these communities. This means skills, knowledge and understanding of the addressing social and environmental needs wherever we workplace that will give them a competitive manufacture or sell our products, working with local partners edge in today’s job market. Through local and supporting the active involvement of our employees. partnerships and our own education Our business makes a significant economic contribution to the centers, we support over 100,000 young countries where we operate. At the end of 2012, we employed people each year – providing work-related around 13,000 people. During the year we paid salaries and learning, insights into careers in benefits of $1.1 billion and contributed $1.3 billion in taxes manufacturing, one-to-one mentoring and help with preparing CVs and finding (see Annual Report for further detail). jobs. Our programs include: Data summary • Education Centers – we have five Progress education centers in Great Britain at Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 our East Kilbride, Wakefield, Edmonton Social Investment Pre-tax profit 2014 n/a 0.5 0.6 0.5 and Sidcup plants and at Continuum Invest 1 percent of our annual invested (%) Recycling. These are visited by over pre-tax profit to support charitable and community 15,000 secondary students per year and partners and make a positive encourage students to connect what difference in the communities in which we operate. they learn in the classroom with real life Community Total value of Ongoing n/a 4.3 5.7 3.9 business and manufacturing practices. Invest in community projects community We also run a European Visitors Center and partnerships where we can contributions next to our Antwerp plant, in Belgium. make the biggest impact, (million $) aligned to our core business • Real Business Challenge – we work with and CRS focus areas. local partners to deliver an enterprise Employee Volunteering Number of hours Ongoing n/a 12,000 14,000 10,200 education competition in which students, Support the active involvement volunteered of our employees by by CCE employees from secondary schools in Great Britain, encouraging them to volunteer. (hours) form small companies and work to develop business-related concepts. We engaged 56,300 students in 2012. Community Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 ENCOURAGING drivers take part in the three-day event, Through local partnerships ACTIVE HEALTHY LIVING which uses a mix of electric, biofuel, and our own education centers Leading an active, healthy lifestyle hydrogen and plug-in hybrid cars. has a positive impact on people’s social, • CRS Roadshow – together with Returpack, we support over 100,000 young physical and mental wellbeing. Through the Swedish recycling organization, we people each year. a range of community programs, we’re undertook a roadshow in Sweden where helping more people to enjoy sport and we met and talked to 5,000 students aged to take part more often in physical activity. 16-18 about our environmental agenda. • Passport to Employment – in France We have a range of programs which we bring high school students and EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING are covered in Factsheet 19. recent graduates from underprivileged Employee volunteering is central to our plan backgrounds to CCE offices and PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT to contribute one percent of our pre-tax prepare them for job interviews. We depend on natural resources throughout profit to charitable and community • Espoir Banlieues (Hope for the Suburbs) – our supply chain. Protecting the environment causes. It also helps employees to enhance CCE is one of 75 companies that pledged is therefore core to our business and a key their own skills and experience. We to recruit unemployed people from 750 responsibility wherever we operate. Through encourage volunteering as part of existing affected areas as part of this French a range of partnerships, we’re working to community initiatives. In 2012, we recorded government initiative set up in 2008. It protect and enhance the environment by approximately 10,200 employee volunteering aims to reduce the disparity in education recycling more, protecting our local water hours, with our employees spending their and employment in different French sources, reducing carbon emissions and volunteer time working on a range of our regions. 10 percent of our new recruits cleaning up litter. Examples of our community projects from recycling activities, in France have been employed through programs include: Clean the Beaches, Passport to Employment, Espoir Banlieues over the past 5 years. to the Real Business Challenge. • Clean the Beaches – in Sweden, we • Unemployed Internship program – are partnering with Städa Sverige (Clean COMMUNITY INVESTMENT in Sweden, in collaboration with the Sweden), an organization working CONTRIBUTIONS local unemployment agency, we offer with Swedish sports clubs to promote In 2012, CCE invested $3.9 million in the 30 two-month internships to long-term environmental awareness among young communities in which we operate. unemployed people to help them return people. Over the past three years 320 to work. sports clubs, and 10,500 participants, • Red Cross – in Norway we’ve been have removed over 155 tonnes of litter supporting the Red Cross for the past 10 from 760 beaches and raised money years. There are four Red Cross centers to spend on sports equipment. in Oslo, each of which aims to support • Love Where You Live – in Great Britain young people to achieve their ambitions. we support the national Keep Britain Tidy campaign, which focuses on reducing litter and increasing recycling, through local litter-picking activities. Measuring the value • ZERO Rally – we are one of the of our contribution official sponsors of ZERO Rally – an Total management costs 16% In calculating our contribution environmentally friendly car rally in Total time 24% to the community, we use the Norway which aims to raise awareness Total in kind 5% London Benchmarking Group reporting and enthusiasm about sustainable climate solutions. The world’s best rally Total cash 55% model which provides a standardized way of managing and measuring a company’s community involvement. Our calculation is based on the value represented by four kinds of activities: CASE STUDy • D irect investment in community projects and partnerships aligned Bridging the digital divide with our corporate responsibility In 2012, CCE began a collaboration and sustainability (CRS) objectives; with Information Technology (IT) charity ‘Close the Gap’, which aims to reduce the digital divide between developed and • Time volunteered by our employees; developing countries. It does so by finding companies willing to • Giving in kind; donate high-quality, second hand PCs and other IT equipment. • Relevant management costs. This equipment, repaired if necessary, then goes to schools, universities, hospitals and other institutions, mainly in Africa In 2012, we invested $3.9 million, where a support and maintenance program ensures their around 0.5 percent of pre-tax profit, long-term sustainable use. In 2012, CCE donated more than in community initiatives across our 150 reconditioned computers and other pieces of IT equipment territories. By 2014, we aim to raise to different organisations in developing countries through that figure to one percent of our ‘Close the Gap’. pre-tax profit. See more at — www.close-the-gap.org Diversity Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 21/24 During CRS in Action week in France, 16 volunteers from CCE coached 33% of our board of 50 diverse graduates from local communities to help them develop skills to enter the job directors are market and tackle youth female. unemployment. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse Within our workplace, we focus our CRS workforce within a safe and healthy workplace, to foster a winning efforts on three priorities: and inclusive culture. • Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture. • Working towards world-class safety Introduction status in our manufacturing and sales People make a company successful and sustainable. Recruiting the operations. best people and providing rewarding careers is a fundamental part • Developing a wellbeing program to of our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CRS) agenda encourage our employees to live positively. and one of our three strategic business priorities (Factsheet 5). This factsheet addresses how we are building and supporting a diverse workforce. Data summary Please see Factsheet 22 for more Progress information on health, safety and wellbeing. Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 Workplace diversity Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing n/a 6.5 5.7 6.4 FOSTERING A DIVERSE Attract, develop and retain Average training days Ongoing n/a 3 3 3 AND INCLUSIVE CULTURE a highly talented, engaged per employee and diverse workforce. CCE aims to attract, develop and retain Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 23 23 23 24 a workforce that reflects the diversity of Females in management Ongoing n/a 32 33 36 roles (%)1 the communities in which we operate. Employees with individual Ongoing n/a n/a 47 64 This year, for the first time, we appointed development plans (%) a full-time head of diversity and inclusion (D&I) workplace profile – (see employee spotlight overleaf). We also 2011 2012 carried out an organizational assessment, Workforce Total employees 13,250 13,000 and consulted every leadership team Full-time employees (%) 94 94 member in CCE on how we can improve Gender Females on Board of Directors (%) 33 33 our D&I policies, practices and procedures. Females in executive roles (%)2 29 29 The result has been a new D&I strategy based Females in non-management roles (%)3 22 21 on four pillars – accountability, education, Age Age profile of workforce (%) <20 1 1 environment and connection. 20–29 19 17 30–39 33 32 Accountability 40–49 32 33 We intend that all levels in the business 50–59 14 15 should take responsibility for diversity. 60+ 2 2 As a result, we’re setting up a Group Diversity Board of Directors members over 40 (%) 100 100 Council and creating a detailed D&I Ethnic diversity Ethnically diverse members of the Board of Directors (%)4 17 17 scorecard that will allow us to measure and 1. Percentage of women in management and leadership bands. 3. Percentage of women below management and leadership bands. 2. Percentage of women on the Executive Leadership Team at CCE. 4. Based on official US definition of diversity. benchmark progress across the business. All business units and functions are now Diversity Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 required to present their diversity action representation for women, particularly in Connection plans to our CEO, John Brock. In addition, all CCE’s leadership and in commercial and An inclusive workplace depends on free and of our Executive Leadership Team members operational roles, we aim to have at least open communications within the company have D&I individual performance objectives. one female on both the candidate list and and with the rest of society. In our drive for the interview panel for every open greater diversity, we are developing Education leadership position at CCE. Our efforts are partnerships with a number of external Our D&I learning strategy has two aspects – showing results: in 2012, women in the stakeholders including The Coca-Cola embedding D&I in the existing management leadership band1 represented 20.7 percent, Company, local communities, public training curriculum and building stand-alone an increase from 16.6 percent in 2011. authorities, customers, suppliers and D&I programs. The recently piloted D&I specialists. For instance, in France awareness raising program ‘Diversity is Our University Talent Program (UTP) is where one of our D&I priorities is to support everybody’s business’ will be rolled out to all helping to build a pipeline of graduate talent, underprivileged youth, in 2012 we continued employees in 2013. An ‘Inclusive Leadership’ both male and female. 24 graduates were to achieve the target of supporting as program will provide training in diversity recruited in 2012, bringing our total to 80 many youth as salaried employees through management and gender balance for our graduates hired since UTP was launched in our programs. top 400 leaders. 2009. 56 percent of all graduates currently on the program are female. We’ve also developed better ways to We’re also building women’s networks to help communicate with our employees. Our HR make our culture more inclusive and to support Every employee is encouraged to create portal, ‘HeRe Online’, makes it easier for women in their careers. Women’s networks an Individual Development Plan (IDP) to help employees to manage their working lives, have been set up in France, in the Benelux, identify personal development opportunities. enabling them to view their payslips, enroll and in Great Britain (see case study below). 8,320 employees had a personal plan by for benefits and set their performance We aim to create similar women’s resource July 2012. objectives online. This year we launched a groups in Norway and Sweden in 2013. In 2011, our employees told us through our mobile version of our intranet which gives global engagement survey that we needed employees access to many of these tools via Environment to further develop our learning and their company or personal mobile devices. Part of supporting diversity is to improve our development opportunities. In 2012, we processes, organization and culture. Under Employees are encouraged to raise any established the CCE Academy, offering our ‘Diversity in action’ program, sites and workplace concerns or issues through a online training in four main areas: leadership, functions are provided with D&I check-ups variety of channels – online, by speaking commercial, supply chain and global and self-assessment workshops covering to our team of HR professionals, or through functions. Since May 2012, 8,800 individuals several D&I dimensions: gender, ethnicity our 24-hour confidential Ethics and have completed one or more courses. In and nationality, age, disability, sexual Compliance hotline. 2013, we aim to offer over 300,000 hours of orientation, religion and work-life balance. training – an average of 28.5 hours per Sixteen sites and functions will benefit from employee. During 2012, we began launching the program in 2013. a series of policies on attendance and We continue to review all our HR processes flexible home working arrangements. from a D&I perspective. To achieve greater “My role is to make CCE progress in Diversity CASE STUDY CASE STUDY and Inclusion, in a sustainable way. My goal Elles@Coke Sidcup diversity check-up in 2012 was to develop a truly European Our commitment is to promote Our Sidcup facility was one of the strategy that provided us with a common women’s careers by allowing them first to pilot our new diversity ‘checkframework and at the same time gave our to express their full potential. To up’. This reviewed seven aspects business units the freedom to tackle their improve the status of women in of diversity at the site – gender, own Diversity and Inclusion challenges. We our company, CCE launched the ethnicity, nationality, disability, made sure that this strategy was part of our Elles@Coke program in 2010. Dedicated sexual orientation, religion and leadership members’ objectives and we to managers, this club allows women work-life balance – and identified asked all business units to adopt specific to meet quarterly, exchange ideas, a series of actions to be taken. The Diversity and Inclusion action plans. We also coach each other and better Sidcup leadership team established started reviewing all our HR processes and understand their work life. External a diversity action group and have piloted innovating auditing and training speakers, including women from other subsequently consulted employees programs. In 2013 we will roll out all the backgrounds and companies, are on their schedules and working different programs both at a corporate and also organized. Women involved in hours, installed a computer room to a business unit level.” Elles@Coke can also access the help develop IT skills and coached Thais Compoint, multi-company network: the European managers on their own working Associate Director, Diversity and Inclusion Europe, CCE Paris professional Women’s Network. This patterns. French initiative aims to contribute to the promotion of women in our business. The final goal is for women to be better represented in the highest functions of the company. 1. Leadership roles are those of Director level and above at CCE. A Healthy and Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 22/24 Safe Workplace We provide our employees with access to health and fitness facilities where possible across our territories. Our new European head office, Enterprises House, incorporates a gym for employees, run in partnership with Nuffield Health. Our Commitment OUR STRATEGY We will attract, develop and retain a highly talented and diverse Within our workplace, we focus our CRS workforce within a safe and healthy workplace, to foster a winning efforts on three priorities: and inclusive culture. • Fostering a diverse and inclusive culture. • Working towards world-class safety status Introduction in our manufacturing and sales operations. People make a company successful and sustainable. Providing • Developing a wellbeing program to a healthy and safe working environment is fundamental to encourage our employees to live positively. everything we do and key to ensuring our employees can perform This factsheet addresses how we maintain to the best of their potential, every day. a healthy and safe workplace. Please see Factsheet 21 for more information on Data summary diversity at CCE. Progress WORKING TOWARDS WORLD-CLASS Target KPIs By when 2009 2010 2011 2012 SAFETY STANDARDS Workplace safety Lost-time accident rate 2020 1.67 1.50 1.15 1.10 We aspire to world-class safety standards Provide a safe and healthy (number of lost-time work environment with a accidents per 100 full-time and a zero-accident workplace and are vision of achieving zero equivalent employees) working towards a consistent approach and accidents and attaining world-class health and Number of fatalities 2020 n/a 0 0 0 level of performance across all our countries. safety status. We have strong safety governance with Employee wellbeing Employees with access 2014 Business Unit Safety Councils at national Provide access to health to health and wellbeing Measurement in progress level and health and safety committees and wellbeing programs programs for 100% of our employees. at each of our production, sales and distribution sites. Our standards apply equally to employees and contractors. Lost time accident rate 2007–20121 Number of lost time accidents per 100 full time equivalent employees. At the end of 2012, 16 of our 17 production facilities and all regional distribution centers 2.97 Operations Commercial and sales CCE TOTAL 2 were certified to Occupational Health and 2.50 2.69 Safety management system OHSAS 18001. Our lost-time accident (LTA) rate was 2.07 1.90 1.83 1.10 accidents per 100 full-time equivalent 1.65 1.67 1.59 1.50 1.41 1.40 employees, down from 1.15 in 2011 and 1.07 1.21 1.15 1.06 1.14 1.10 there were no fatalities. Our LTAs for manufacturing trend slightly lower than commercial and sales, influenced by the 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 fact that site-based employees are in a 1. Data changed from previous years due to recalculation owing to an anomaly. more controllable working environment. 2. Nordics are included from the year 2010 onwards. These figures continue a six-year falling A Healthy and Safe Workplace Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 trend in the number of accidents, helped by training in the haulage industry – for • Implementing an Employee Assistance the following initiatives: example, in Great Britain, drivers must Program, a confidential information • Behavioral programs designed to change undertake a Certificate of Professional service designed to support employees people’s attitudes to safety and empower Competence. We have safety review who have work or personal problems employees to challenge unsafe practices. processes in place with our hauliers and such as bereavement, stress or contractors and ensure that any LTA or financial concerns. • A Europe-wide health and safety training high potential incidents involving their • Setting up a network of wellbeing curriculum aimed at standardizing and employees on our sites are logged and champions to support the roll-out of consolidating our safety training. Linked to followed up directly. corporate programs and to engage this is a program to clarify accountabilities and implement standard methods of Our strong safety performance has our people in local wellbeing initiatives. controlling hazards in the workplace. been recognized this year with a number • Continuing to provide health and of awards across the business. wellbeing-related information on While continuing to record our safety performance in terms of LTAs, we’re N  orthampton, Sidcup, Bristol our HR portal, ‘HeRe Online’. tightening our reporting procedures for and Milton Keynes Cold Drink • Offering flu vaccinations to employees incidents that do not result in lost time but still Center in Great Britain were in all CCE countries. require medical treatment. Other activities awarded the RoSPA Gold Award. In 2013, we aim to roll out a Health Risk include planned safety inspections, safety • East Kilbride, in Great Britain, received a Assessment program that offers employees tours by site management and the Highly Commended RoSPA Award and an analysis of their own state of health and systematic investigation of the root causes of a Gold MORR (Management of Road risks they might be facing. accidents – typically manual handling, slips, Risk) Award. trips and falls and contact with stationary or EMPLOYEE WELLBEING moving objects. We aim to promote a culture of wellbeing Away from our sites, we focus on safe that empowers and encourages our driving with programs such as an online employees to live positively. This means assessment of a driver’s risk rating and a providing a healthy, safe environment so safety program for drivers of our branded that employees are engaged at work and vehicles and company cars. As a significant can focus on their performance. We provide proportion of our product is distributed programs to encourage employees to by third parties, our contracts include manage their overall health and resilience. requirements that their staff must be trained To achieve this objective, we’ve developed to meet CCE standards and we also benefit a company-wide strategy, and actions in from the demanding regulation of driver the past year have included: CASE STUDY CASE STUDY Communicating Safety Day in Paris Forklift Safety Employee safety is a major concern. In 2012, a dedicated program was launched in The Warehouse Logistics team France, called Safety First, to promote safety across all our sites. Risk management, from our Dunkerque site – Fabien training, mobilization and communication are at the heart of this approach and Safety Vangrevelynghe, José Gilliers, Day is one of its pillars. All sites and the majority of employees participated. The purpose Pascal Boreux and Frédéric Falempin of the day, entirely devoted to safety, was to help employees both in their professional – found a creative solution to and personal lives. The Safety Day combined creative workshops, role playing, training communicate and raise awareness of and sports activities and some of the content was tailored to specific sectors, for the safety risks involving forklifts and example, management of road risks for field sales representatives and chemical hazards pedestrians amongst 400 employees for manufacturing sites. This allowed us to train employees to detect potentially on site. They independently created a dangerous situations and to understand the importance of safety. short film, using a webcam, from the eyes of a forklift driver in action, highlighting hazards and pedestrian safety issues. The movie was hugely successful in increasing audience engagement and interest and has been rolled out as a best practice across all of our French sites. 2012 Data Table Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 23/24 We have set 37 stretch targets across our seven commitments. Our progress so far is Our 2012 data for documented in the table Sustainable Packaging below and our baseline and Recycling, Product year is 2007 unless Portfolio and Responsible Our 2012 carbon otherwise stated. Marketing has been assured footprint has been by Two Tomorrows as audited by SGS as indicated by indicated by PROGRESS FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2009 2010 2011 2012 9 Carbon Footprint Reduce the carbon footprint of the Value chain CO2 emissions/ 2020 Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Energy drink in your hand by a third. total number of products in progress in progress in progress in progress and Climate Carbon footprint – Grow our business, but reduce Carbon footprint – core 2020 854 840 769 726 Change Core Business the absolute carbon footprint of business operations business operations by 15 percent. (‘000 tonnes CO2e) CO2e reduction from 2020 0 -2 -10 -15 2007 baseline (%) 10 Manufacturing Manufacture every liter of product CO2e per liter of product 2020 30.781 27.76 25.37 25.5 Energy and with 50 percent less carbon emissions. manufactured Renewable Energy Use Ratio 2020 80.20 1 88.37 81.67 81.52 Energy (KWH/liter) Alternative Energy Source 35 percent of manufacturing Energy sourced from 2020 Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement energy from renewable/low-carbon renewable/low-carbon in progress in progress in progress in progress sources. sources (%)2 11 Transportation Deliver a case of product with CO2e per case 2020 Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Distribution 20 percent less carbon emissions. of product in progress in progress in progress in progress 12 Cold Drinks Reduce the carbon emissions from Average CO2e per 2014 0.91 0.88 0.74 0.68 Cold Drinks Equipment our cold drinks equipment by an unit of equipment Equipment average of 35 percent. CO2e reduction from 2014 -4 -5 -19 -24 2007 baseline (%) Cold Drinks Purchase only HFC-free coolers HFC free coolers 2013 4 50 82 100 Equipment from 1 January 2013. purchased (%) 6 Supplier Work in partnership with our suppliers Number of suppliers Ongoing n/a n/a 129 130 Supplier and Collaboration to reduce carbon emissions across completing CCE’s Sustainability each stage of our value chain. carbon challenge Value Chain Work with partners to find innovative Number of projects/ Ongoing Work in n/a 0 1 ways to minimize water impacts partnerships established progress throughout our value chain. Ingredients Work with our sugar suppliers to ensure Sugar sourced from Ongoing Work in Work in Work in Work in that the sugar we use is sustainable. sustainable sources (%) progress progress progress progress 13 Lightweighting Reduce by 25 percent the amount Packaging use ratio 2020 n/a 131 127.5 123.9 Sustainable of material we use across all (g/liter product) Packaging packaging formats. Total weight of packaging 2020 355,6261 363,062 384,521 367,925 used (tonnes) Recycled Material Include recycled aluminum, Recycled aluminum, Ongoing n/a 41 42 41.2 steel and glass in respective steel and glass (%) packaging formats. Total recycled materials Ongoing n/a 123,624 130,035 127,557 used (tonnes) PET Bottles Ensure that our PET bottles set the PET that is rPET (%)3 2020 101 17.9 22.5 25 standard for sustainable packaging, using the optimal combination of PET bottles that are 2020 n/a 0.5 25 26.9 recycled PET and PET from plantPlantBottle (%)3 based materials. 14 Recyclability Ensure 100 percent of our cans Cans and bottles 2014 991 99 99 99.4 Recycling and bottles are fully recyclable. recyclable (%) Manufacturing Send zero waste to landfill from our Total waste produced 2014 27,9111 29,810 34,480 32,894 own manufacturing sites and reduce (metric tonnes) the amount of waste we generate. Waste recycled (%) 2014 99.31 99.5 99.6 99.4 Packaging Recycle more packaging than we Packaging recycled as 2020 Measurement Measurement Measurement 67.1 Recycling4 use, by championing improvements percentage of total used (%) in progress in progress in progress to collection schemes and investing in strategic recycling infrastructure projects. Inspiring Increase packaging recovery rates Number of consumer Ongoing n/a n/a 4.7 million 32.3 million Consumers by using our brands to educate opportunities provided to and inspire consumers to recycle view brand-led recycle/ more often. recover messaging 15 Reduce Reduce the amount of water we use, Water use ratio (liters 2020 1.511 1.48 1.43 1.40 Water aiming to manufacture every liter water/liter product) Stewardship of product using an average of 1.2 liters of water Total water used 220 8.71 9.5 9.4 8.8 (million cubic meters) Recycle Safely return to nature 100 percent Water returned at standard Ongoing 100 1 100 100 100 of the wastewater from our supporting aquatic life (%) manufacturing operations. 2012 Data Table Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 PROGRESS FACTSHEET NUMBER TARGET KPIs BY WHEN 2009 2010 2011 2012 16 Protect Protect the future sustainability Sites with Source Water Ongoing 121 88 100 100 Water of the water sources we use. Protection Plans Protection implemented (%) Replenish Return to nature the water used in our Water replenished (% vs 2020 Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement beverages, where it is sourced from liters in our beverages in progress in progress in progress in progress areas of water stress, by investing in where sourced from community-based water programs. areas of water stress) 17 Choice Develop and market a wide choice of Full sugar brands with Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement 47.65 Product products so people can decide which a noor low-calorie in progress in progress in progress Portfolio of our beverages best meets their alternative (%) needs and lifestyles. Quality Ensure that our products meet Facilities accredited to Ongoing 751 94 94 94 the highest quality and food safety ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 (%) standards, in line with consumer Number of product quality Ongoing 1.331 1.39 1.31 1.30 expectations. complaints per million units sold Low-Calorie Accelerate the growth of noProducts which are noor Ongoing 34.61 33.41 316 316 Products and low-calorie products low-calorie (<40 calories per 250ml) (%) Portion Size Increase the availability of small portion Products in packs that Ongoing 19.81 20.81 19 19 size choices for sparkling soft drinks. are 250ml or less (%) Ingredients Remove all artificial colors, flavors Products without artificial Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement Based on and preservatives in our products, colors, flavors and in progress in progress in progress changes to where possible. preservatives (%) national legislation around definitions of ‘artificials’, we are re-evaluating this target 18 Nutritional Provide easy-to-understand Products with on pack Ongoing 971 971 97 97.97 Responsible Information nutritional and ingredient information GDA labelling (%)9 Marketing so that consumers are able to make informed beverage choices. Responsible Ensure that our products are sold Compliance with responsible Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Marketing and marketed in a responsible way. marketing, marketing to in progress in progress in progress in progress children, education channel and digital marketing guidelines (%) 20 Social Investment Invest 1 percent of our annual Pre-tax profit invested (%) 2014 n/a 0.5 0.6 0.5 Community pre-tax profit to support charitable and community partners and make a positive difference in the communities in which we operate. Community Invest in community projects and Total value of community Ongoing n/a 4.3 5.7 3.9 partnerships where we can make the contributions (millions $) biggest impact, aligned to our core business and CRS focus areas. Employee Support the active involvement of our Number of hours Ongoing n/a 12,000 14,000 10,200 Volunteering employees by encouraging them volunteered by CCE to volunteer. employees (hours) 19 Local Encourage people to lead an active Investment in Active Ongoing n/a n/a 867,000 1.0 million Active Collaboration healthy lifestyle by working with Healthy Living activities ($) Healthy our brands and supporting Living local partnerships. Physical Activity Support people to participate in Numbers of people Ongoing Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement programs which encourage engaged in Active in progress in progress in progress in progress active healthy living. Healthy Living programs Nutritional Support community partnerships Investment in nutrition Ongoing Current focus on providing nutrition and ingredient information Education to highlight the importance of good education ($) on pack. We are looking to take this further in coming years. nutrition, balanced diets and active healthy living. 21 Workplace Attract, develop and retain a highly Voluntary turnover rate (%) Ongoing n/a 6.5 5.7 6.4 Diversity Diversity talented, engaged and diverse Average training days Ongoing n/a 3 3 3 workforce. per employee Females in workforce (%) Ongoing 23 23 23 24 Females in management Ongoing n/a 32 33 36 roles (%)10 Employees with individual Ongoing n/a n/a 471 64 development plans 22 Workplace Safety Provide a safe and healthy work Lost time accident rate 2020 1.671, 8 1.508 1.158 1.10 A Healthy environment with a vision of achieving (number of lost time and Safe zero accidents, and attaining world accidents per 100 full time Workplace class health and safety status. equivalent employees) Number of fatalities 2020 n/a 0 0 0 Employee Provide access to health Employees with access 2014 Measurement Measurement Measurement Measurement Wellbeing and wellbeing programs for to health and wellbeing in progress in progress in progress in progress 100 percent of our employees programs 1. Does not include Norway and Sweden. Calculation Methodology’ on 6. Measured using unit cases. in 2012, we changed to measure products 2. Including grid renewable energy. cokecce.com/ 7. Does not include products which do with GDA labeling rather than volume. 3. Year end figures. Please note that we used corporate-responsibility-sustainability/ not require GDA labeling such as waters The 2012 number therefore shows the an average of 23.8% of rPET over the publications-and-policies. and our fountain Bag in Box products. percentage of our products with GDA course of the year. 5. This includes all CCE’s full sugar brands 8. Data changed from previous years due labels. 4. This is calculated from national recycling including the smaller ones. Our most to recalculation owing to an anomoly. 10. Percentage of women in management and rates for each territory, plus the amount of popular brands (Coca-Cola, Fanta, 9. We have changed the way we measure leadership bands. material that is collected and reprocessed Sprite) all have low-calorie alternatives against this target in 2012. Our 2009, 2010 through CCE initiatives, taking account of and together these make up over 90% and 2011 data in this table shows the any double-counting which may occur. of CCE’s volume. volume of our products with GDA labeling. For further information see ‘Recycling Rate To ensure greater focus on smaller brands, Independent Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 24/24 Assurance statement Our approach Responsibilities of the Directors Without affecting our assurance We performed our work using Two of Coca-Cola Enterprises and of opinion, our key observations and Tomorrows’ assurance methodology which the assurance providers recommendations are summarised below: is based on our professional experience and The Directors of Coca-Cola Enterprises have • Coca-Cola Enterprises has a best international assurance standards, including sole responsibility for the preparation of the practice, multi-stakeholder approach the International Standard on Assurance Corporate Responsibility & Sustainability to innovating and developing more Engagements 3000 (Revised) – ‘Assurance Report 2012. In performing our assurance sustainable product packaging and Engagements Other Than Audits and work, our responsibility is to the management improved recycling. We recommend that Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ of Coca-Cola Enterprises; however our future reporting should provide more and ISO19011. statement represents our independent detail on Coca-Cola Enterprises’ opinion and is intended to inform all of approach to innovation around other We planned and performed our work Coca-Cola Enterprises’ stakeholders including material issues such as encouraging to obtain the evidence we considered its management. We were not involved in healthy lifestyles, nutritional labelling necessary to provide a basis for our the preparation of any part of the Report. and how stakeholders are involved in assurance conclusions. We are providing However, having reviewed and provided the process. a ‘limited level’ of assurance. A ‘reasonable feedback on drafts of the Report, in a number level’ of assurance would have required • Coca-Cola Enterprises demonstrates of instances changes were made to the additional work at Group and site level to a proactive approach to employee final version. gain further evidence to support the basis diversity, for example through the of our assurance conclusions. We have not been involved in providing recent pilot of the new diversity ‘check-up’ Coca-Cola Enterprises with any other services initiative at the Sidcup manufacturing We used the GRI Quality of Information during the reporting period. site, and the ‘diversity in action’ Principles to evaluate the performance self-assessments that are due to be data together with Coca-Cola Enterprises’ Our core assurance team comprised rolled out across sixteen sites in 2013. data protocols for how the sustainability Jon Woodhead, Gareth Manning, We recommend Coca-Cola Enterprises performance data are measured, recorded Samantha Parsons and David Keddie. should consider further roll out of and reported, as the basis of the Reporting Further information, including individual these initiatives to other sites across Criteria for undertaking our assurance work. competencies relating to the team can the company. be found at: www.twotomorrows.com Basis of our opinion • We observed that Coca-Cola Enterprises A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability Our key observations and has strengthened its governance and assurance specialists performed work recommendations processes in relation to business ethics, at Group level. Our assurance work included We have provided a confidential Management in particular through work to improve the the following: Letter containing our observations and ethics hotline. Reporting on ethics issues recommendations made during the course could be further improved by including • Interviewing senior management information on the number and type of of our work to Coca-Cola Enterprises’ responsible for the management of ethics incidents recorded by the hotline management. Overall, the new format of corporate responsibility and sustainability, and the range of other work undertaken reporting this year provides a useful and the Corporate Responsibility & on business ethics. accessible account of the management Sustainability Report 2012 and selected • We note Coca-Cola Enterprises’ arrangements and performance within data reporting systems; “label diversité” in France has improved Coca Cola Enterprises. • Reviewing and sample checking the diversity of suppliers used in the sustainability performance data procurement. Coca-Cola Enterprises measurement, collection and reporting should look for ways to adopt similar processes at Group level; approaches in other country operations, • Reviewing how the sustainability including measures to support small performance data was represented in the entrepreneurs. 2012 Data Table and within the relevant • We recommend future reports include Performance sections of the report; and information on Coca Cola Enterprises’ • Assessing the GRI index for compliance health and safety performance for with the GRI application level requirements employees and third party contractors for B+. in its distribution operations. ABOUT THIS REPORT Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability report 2012/2013 • Coca Cola Enterprises in Great Britain • Ingredients KPI: has clear guidance and other measures We note that the KPI for ingredients in place to align with the Coca-Cola was removed due to regulatory Company’s Global Responsible Marketing challenges around the definition of policy. We recommend that Coca Cola ‘natural’. To enhance future reporting Enterprises should consider introducing on ingredients, we recommend further an auditing process across all country consultation and agreements with level operations to ensure consistent regulators and nutritional experts to adherence to this policy. develop a list of ingredients that can • We recommend Coca-Cola Enterprises be described as ‘natural’. should review the current suite of targets • Data Methodology: and KPIs to ensure they are aligned with We found very limited internal the core business strategy. The review guidance on how data for each KPI should consider how to define these should be measured and calculated. targets and KPIs in the most accurate We recommend developing a more and constructive way, with objectives that formalised data methodology for each both challenge the business and that KPI. This will improve consistency of address the expectations of customers reporting across the business. and other stakeholders. Our conclusions Our key recommendations relating to the On the basis of the work undertaken, Product Portfolio, Responsible Marketing, nothing came to our attention to Sustainable Packaging and Recycling suggest that: factsheets include: • the sustainability performance data • Packaging database for the year ended 31 December 2012, Our review highlighted gaps and as published in the Product Portfolio, out-dated values for material weights of Responsible Marketing, Sustainable multiple items in the current packaging Packaging and Recycling factsheets, database. A new, automated system is are not prepared in all material respects being considered (the “New Packaging with the Reporting Criteria; and Database Project”) and work continues to define exact functionality and design. We • Coca-Cola Enterprises’ self-declared GRI recommend that this project makes use application level of B+ of the GRI “G3.0” of flexible database systems to encourage Guidelines as published in the GRI index is regular updates. not fairly stated in all material respects. • Data review and sign off: Reporting systems currently lack a process for DNV Two Tomorrows Limited of formal signoff and review of figures London and calculations behind KPIs reported. We recommend introduction of a formal 10th May 2013 review and sign off process to strengthen internal oversight. • Choice KPI: The ‘Choice’ KPI required significant manual effort to calculate as this is the Jon Woodhead first year that Coca-Cola Enterprises Director have reported on it; the data calculations were overcomplicated and often several manual reiterations of the data were required. We recommend developing an automated and less labour intensive data collection process for this KPI. Two Tomorrows is part of DNV, a global provider of services for managing risk and helping customers to achieve sustainable business performance. www.twotomorrows.com
