Global Compact Communication On Progress 2013 Global Compact Communication On Progress Christensen & Co. architects a/s Member since 2010 Address Bragesgade 10B. DK-2200 Copenhagen Denmark www.cco.as Contact Names Michael Christensen, founder, director. Heidi Pedersen, Public Relation & Executive Assistant 3 DTU-Compute 4 Global Compact Communication On Progress Executive Statement of Continuing Commitment We are pleased to confirm our ongoing commitment and support to Global Compact and the 10 principles covering the issue areas; human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this Communication on Progress report, we express our support for the principles, which are a part of the core values of Christensen & Co. architects. We believe that good architecture applies to all aspects of a building. Neither design nor function, economy nor process should be considered separately, but holistically together. Good architecture makes a difference. Architects with intention, empathy and thoroughness make buildings that actively can change people’s lives. Michael Christensen Director and founder Christensen & Co. architects. 5 Global Compact Communication On Progress Green Lighthouse 6 Global Compact Communication On Progress Short description of the Company Christensen & Co. architects (CCO) was established by Michael Christensen in 2006 and has gained a reputation for building healthy sustainable new buildings with a good indoor climate. CCO has won a number of major international and Danish competitions, amongst them buildings for education, leisure, culture and offices with a focus on sustainability. Having developed a number of low-energy projects with very ambitious environmental agendas, in close collaboration with an array of experts, engineers and with the help of cutting edge technical equipment, our ambition is to constantly challenge the architectural methods and processes. We believe that the surprising, unique and characteristic solutions occurs when factors such as program, location, function, culture or climate, challenges the architectural intention; Sustainability through integrated design. In 2009 CCO finished Denmark´s first public CO2 neutral building; Green Lighthouse for the University of Copenhagen. In 2011 Green Lighthouse was the first public building in Denmark to receive a LEED Gold certificate. Most recently we delivered the new research and administration building for Technical University Denmark´s Institute of mathematics and compute. DTU-Compute contains an innovative new hybrid ventilation system as well as 22 indoor threes to help the building breathe. Throughout our six years in business, we have consolidated our reputation as an innovative company, with a visionary approach to sustainable architecture. We are active members of the Danish Global Compact community attending SME related meetings and conferences in Denmark. Additionally we support NGOs like Architects Without Borders. We are app. 50 architects, design engineers and administrative staff, situated in the northern part of Copenhagen. 7 8 Global Compact Communication On Progress Response to the four issue areas At the centre of our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is our architectural philosophy; to create buildings that are healthy for both people and the environment. As a consultancy company we aspire to advise our clients to make well founded decisions to implement and introduce sustainable solutions for the future. We have taken part in a new initiative LABOUR ANTI-CORRUPTION launched by The Danish Association At Christensen & Co. architects we Promoting close cross culture of Architectural Firms to enhance comply with the labour standards collaboration between the various knowledge of CSR within the Danish as described by the International disciplines within the building industry, building industry. Labour Organization’s Declaration on the sub-contractors and our supply Fundamental Principles and Rights at chain, ensures a healthy working Though a collaboration with five other Work. climate. Where corruption is not Danish architecture company´s, permissible. we have helped write a tool book There is complete freedom of and guidelines for all architectural association at Christensen & Co. company´s in their endeavor to create a architects, as well as the recognition of business based on responsible dealings the right to collective bargaining. There throughout the supply chain. is a staff representative at the office, chosen in a vote among all employees. We adhere to the 10 principles of Global Compact by following the four issue areas as stated below. ENVIRONMENT The end user and the environment is a focal point for the practice. Being HUMAN RIGHTS an architectural company our most In our business approach we follow the important output is our buildings. Human Rights principles, as described in the 1948 General Assembly Universal Our main aim is to create buildings with Declaration of Human Rights. a healthy indoor climate and to respect the environment, during the building All of our current projects are in process as well as in considerations for Scandinavia and we take outmost care the life cycle of the building, combined and precautions to ensure that Human with respect for the existing area within Rights are upheld throughout all stages, which we are building. and all links in the supply chain, of the projects we are involved in, as well as in the collaborations within which we engage. 9 Global Compact Communication On Progress DTU-Compute 10 Global Compact Communication On Progress Practical actions OUR APPROACH We aim to continue this approach on We have worked together with the aim At CCO we have an open community future projects, to keep visiting the to develop new procedures and tools for spirit within the company. Our foundation buildings after handing over to the end handling CSR in architectural projects is based on dialogue and in recognizing user. in Danish architectural practises. The the social responsibilities of the practice. new CSR tools will be presented to the We encourage communication and professional community in Denmark at a broad collaboration within the office, as ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN conference on June 11 2012. well as a close collaborative cooperation We design our buildings for longevity with external partners on the projects, and to improve life for the end user. We at CCO will add to the general work ensuring that our knowledge is updated There has to be a clear relationship by developing specific tools and code of with the latest research, in order to give between the design and the behaviour conduct for internal use, as a practical the best possible advice to clients. A of the end user, part of our commitment tool for the management staff and prerequisite for a successful building is to share the concept behind the project leaders. is respectful collaboration between all design with the users in order for them parties included. We believe in ambitious to be able to use the building to its and challenging collaborations where maximum. In a building with numerous dialogue is key and the collective aim is sustainable and low-energy technical high from the outset. functions, there has to be a close relationship between design and end user. ACTIVITIES We focus on measuring the We have an ongoing schedule of internal performance of the sustainable office seminars; a morning of knowledge buildings. The Sunhouse climate friendly sharing where our experiences on the nursery, which is built on the Active projects are shared for all. We invite House principles, is part of a study which external speakers, to these seminars will monitor the nursery´s performance. to enlighten us on any new methods We hope to learn from the success and on a given subject. Subjects has so far failures, in order to ensure that we do included; user participation, workshops not repeat mistakes. We also have a and future learning and research keen interest in how the various energy environments. We aim to continue these initiatives work. At the nursery the staff internal seminars in the future. has been inspired by the building to teach the children about the various green features. NEW TOOLS FOR THE DANISH ARCHITECTURAL COMMUNITY Our newly finalized research and A recent new measure an action administration building for Technical Christensen & Co architects has been University Denmark is yet another step engaged in the development of new forward, towards a modern building policies and tools for CSR in the Danish where indoor climate, good circulation architectural practises. and incorporation of modern pedagogic measurements are combined within The project is initiated by the the spatial lay-out from the beginning Association of Danish Architectural of the architectural thought process. Firms (Danske Ark) who has The building creates an exciting indoor commissioned social responsibility environment with large indoor threes consultants from Responsible Assets to growing on the ground floor under which cooperate with three major architectural the students can study in groups and firms in Denmark; Henning Larsen have meetings, study related as well as Architects, C. F. Moller Architects and social. Christensen & Co. 11 Global Compact Communication On Progress Zero-Energy Environmental Centre 12 Global Compact Communication On Progress Measurement of outcome We are continuing our work of We find it hugely satisfying to work on creating sustainable buildings and these sustainable projects, which help we have a new zero-energy building us push the boundaries for modern opening in July. The building will building design. Not only does it keep house a new environmental center us up to date on the field of innovative at Copenhagen´s new Northern sustainable materials and initiatives Harbour Area, an upcoming area it also offers constant challenges in developed with an innovative our quest to create healthy modern sustainable green focus. buildings. Around 35 members of staff and We are looking forward to see the administration will have their daily new CSR tools put into practice in workplace at the new zero-energy after the launch in June, and hope that center. Merging with its surrounding everyone within the Danish architectural nature, through a grass covered roof community will find it even easier to act sloping to the ground, the zigzag in responsible on a daily basis. shaped building has solar panels and photovoltaic cells incorporated in its We hope to be able to provide a distinct architecture. measurement of the outcome in our next communication on progress in 2014. The building produces energy through the solar panels and photovoltaic cells, combined with heat storage and thermo active covering the energy usage will be that of zero. 13 For further information please go to our web site www.cco.as
