corporate responsibility report 2012 INTRODUCTION 2 Contents of the report 4 Kesko in brief and key performance indicators RESPONSIBILITY IS A STRATEGIC CHOICE 8 Review by the President and CEO 10 Review by the SVP responsible for corporate responsibility 11 Sustainability indices 12 Events in 2012 14 Impacts of Kesko’s operations 16 Materiality assessment 18 Stakeholder interaction 20 Opportunities and risks 22 Kesko’s responsibility programme RESPONSIBILITY THEMES 26 Responsible operator 34 For the benefit of the community 38 Working community 44 Responsible purchasing and sales 50 Wellbeing for customers 54 Mitigation of climate change RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 60 GRI Index 65 Responsibility management in day-to-day activities 68 Responsibility monitoring and steering performance INDICATORS 77 Economic responsibility 82 Environmental responsibility 91 Social responsibility 101 Definitions of terms and the boundaries 102 Independent assurance report 104 Contacts 1 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Contents of the report Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported impacts of responsibility on business opversions of the stories are available in the on its corporate responsibility in accorderations, stakeholder interaction, and oponline version of this report. ance with the Global Reporting Initiative portunities and risks while concentrating The Responsibility Management sec(GRI) guidelines for reporting on sustainon issues most material to the retail trade. tion discusses the management and orable development. This report covers, in The results of the 2008–2012 responsibilganisation of responsibility at Kesko and line with the GRI G3 guidelines, the key ity programme are presented on page 22 responsibility themes are used for deareas of economic, social and environand the key objectives of the updated rescribing the management approaches. mental responsibility. In our operations, sponsibility programme on page 23. The progress and results of responsible we apply the AA1000 AccountAbility PrinBased on the responsibility prooperations are disclosed in more detail ciples (inclusivity of stakeholders, idengramme and materiality assessment, six in the GRI Indicator section of the report tification of material issues and responmaterial themes have been selected to deon pages 77−100, arranged in accordance siveness to stakeholders). scribe Kesko’s responsibility work. The with the GRI guidelines. The results are We have divided this report into five theme Responsible Operator discusses presented using indicators most material sections: introduction, strategy, responKesko’s responsible operating practices to stakeholders and Kesko. sibility themes, responsibility manageand the multi-channel store network. When reading the report it should be ment and GRI indicators. Their contents The theme For the Benefit of the Comnoted that personnel affairs, for example, are described in section Report Strucmunity describes the local approach and are discussed in the Working Community ture. A comparison of the report contents K-retailer entrepreneurship. Kesko as an theme section and the GRI Indicator section. against the GRI G3 guidelines is provided employer and workplace is discussed in on pages 60–64. As required by the GRI, the Working Community section. The Other channels of the comparison includes Kesko’s self-decfourth theme is a review of responsiresponsibility communications laration on its reporting level. The level bility in purchasing and product safety, assessment has also been checked by the and the fifth theme discusses online serMore extensive financial information, assurance provider and the parties are in vices and services promoting customer Kesko’s principles of corporate governagreement that Kesko’s reporting has folwellbeing. The theme section ends with ance and risk management are disclosed lowed the A+ application level of the GRI a review of Kesko’s work for mitigating in more detail in Kesko’s Annual Report reporting guidelines. climate change. and at www.kesko.fi. Kesko’s responsibilThe case examples within the themes ity programme for 2008–2012, corporate Report structure have been divided into two groups: The responsibility vision and principles, as ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ cases illustrate well as the stakeholder analysis are availThe introduction first provides basic inKesko’s key responsibility work in respect able in full at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. formation on Kesko, its divisions, brands, of business strategy, while the Highlights Kesko’s responsibility work is also ownership structure and market area. This cases describe Kesko’s pioneering work described in Kesko’s Annual Report, on is followed by the reviews by the President and diversity of operations. A new comthe websites of Kesko and its chains, on and CEO and the Senior Vice President, ponent in the Themes section are the the Pirkka.fi pages, on the Facebook pagresponsible for corporate responsibility, addresses by stakeholders in which our es of Kesko, its chains and K-stores, and Kesko’s ratings in the most important suskey stakeholders talk about their expectathrough other social media channels. tainability indices, a summary of the key tions and views. events in 2012, and Kesko’s responsibility Since the summer of 2012, we have Reporting scope path. A summary of the key responsibility presented Kesko personnel’s responsibilindicators can be found on page 7. ity work in the series ‘Bearing ResponsiThe Kesko Group (hereinafter also ‘Kesko’) The section Responsibility is a Strategic bility’ published on Keskonet, the Kesko follows the principles for reporting Choice describes the impacts of Kesko’s intranet. The series has been included in boundary and disclosure levels defined operations, the most material aspects, the the Themes section of this report. Longer in the GRI Boundary Protocol. 2 introduction THIS IS kesko’S 13TH CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT. THE REPORT THEME IS LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. corporate responsibilty report 2012 The reporting covers all of Kesko’s opreport presents information on K-stores Assurance of reporting erations. (e.g. energy monitoring) when it is materi• Most economic responsibility indially related to Kesko’s reporting and comThis report has been published in print cators are derived from the consoliplements the overall picture of the relain Finnish and English. The PDF version dated financial statements, the preptions of Kesko and K-retailers with society and the online version are available at aration and representation of which and other stakeholders. In such cases, the www.kesko.fi/responsibility. The online are governed by the IFRS standards. report refers to them as ’the K-Group’. version consists of the main elements of • The key environmental indicators, the report and some additional material. such as energy consumption, waReport stakeholders An independent third party, Pricewater consumption, waste and direct terhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurgreenhouse gas emission from opKesko’s reporting is comprehensive, and ance for the corporate responsibility inerations, cover the most significant many investors and institutions making formation in the printed Finnish language environmental impacts of the parent sustainability assessments use the report report and checked congruence between company Kesko Corporation and its as their source of information when asthe Finnish and English versions. The subsidiaries in all countries in which sessing Kesko’s performance in various assurance report provided by Pricewaterthey operate, excluding Intersport areas of responsibility. The most imporhouseCoopers Oy can be read on pages stores in Russia. tant target groups of the report include 102–103. • The HR indicators cover the personowners, investors, analysts, Kesko perAn independent assurance provider nel of the parent company Kesko sonnel and the media. In the report, we has provided assurance for Kesko’s reportCorporation and its subsidiaries in have also taken into account Kesko’s other ing since 2002. The assurance is commisall countries in which they operate. important stakeholders: customers, supsioned by operative management. pliers of goods and services, as well as This report covers the progress and Around three quarters of Kesko employees non-governmental and environmental results of responsibility actions in 2012 work in retail stores. The report does not organisations. In the Themes section, we with some information concerning Janucover the personnel employed by retailer give our customers and business partners ary–March 2013. The 2011 report was pubentrepreneurs, unless separately stated practical information on Kesko’s responlished in April 2012 and the 2013 report in the text. sible operations and events in 2012. will be published in spring 2014. Any deviations and limitations in the boundary are reported in connection with Global compact reporting the indicators in question. If changes have taken place in the indicators, their scope, The report describes Kesko’s progress on boundary or measurement methods rethe 10 principles of the Global Compact ported previously, related information is initiative. The Global Compact accepts the given in connection with the respective use of the indicators in the GRI G3 Guideindicators. lines as appropriated for this purpose. The Indicator reporting does not cover conGRI index on pages 60–64 shows which tractors or suppliers of goods and services, indicators have been used for evaluating unless stated otherwise. performance in fulfilling the principles of human rights, labour, the environment Information on K-retailers and anti-corruption. Kesko’s division parent companies and chains act in close cooperation with retailer entrepreneurs and other partners. The 3 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Kesko in brief Kesko is a listed trading sector company domiciled in Helsinki, where the main office is also located. Kesko operates in the food trade, the home and speciality goods trade, the building and home improvement trade, and the car and machinery trade. Kesko manages retail chains and provides services for the retail chains’ purchasing, logistics, network development and information management. Kesko’s chain operations comprise some 2,000 stores in eight countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belarus. Kesko’s divisions Food trade Home and speciality goods trade LINE OF BUSINESS LINE OF BUSINESS Kesko Food is a key operator in the Finnish grocery trade. Kesko’s home and speciality goods chains provide customers K-food retailers, with whom Kesko Food applies the chain busiwith products and services related to clothing, home, leisure, ness model, are responsible for the more than 900 K-food stores. home technology, entertainment, interior decoration and In December 2012, Kesko Food opened the first grocery store in furniture. the K-ruoka chain in St. Petersburg, Russia. Percentage of Percentage of the Percentage of Percentage of the the Group’s net Group’s OPERATING the Group’s net Group’s OPERATING sales profit excl. nonsales profit excl. nonrecurring items recurring items 44% 69% 16% 8% Net sales Operating profit Net sales Operating profit excl. non-recurring excl. non-recurring items items 4,311 € million 168.4 € million 1,603 € million 19.8 € million Number of personnel, Operating countries Number of personnel, Operating countries as at 31 Dec. 2012 as at 31 Dec. 2012 3,114 Finland, Russia 8,950 Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Russia citymarket.fi 4 introduction Building and home improvement trade Car and machinery trade LINE OF BUSINESS LINE OF BUSINESS Rautakesko operates in eight countries where it manages and The car and machinery trade consists of VV-Auto and Konekesko develops five retail store chains for building, renovation and with their subsidiaries. VV-Auto and Konekesko represent leadhome improvement products and services, and the K-maatalous ing brands and are responsible for their sales and after-sales agricultural chain in Finland. Rautakesko and its chains are enservices. gaged in both B2C and B2B sales. Percentage of Percentage of the Percentage of Percentage of the the Group’s net Group’s OPERATING the Group’s net Group’s OPERATING sales profit excl. nonsales profit excl. nonrecurring items recurring items 29% 6% 11% 17% Net sales Operating profit Net sales Operating profit excl. non-recurring excl. non-recurring items items 2,827 € million 13.6 € million 1,114 € million 42.1 € million Number of personnel, Operating countries Number of personnel, Operating countries as at 31 Dec. 2012 as at 31 Dec. 2012 10,204 Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Belarus 1,259 Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia 5 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Kesko’s business operations Personnel suppliers and service PROVIDERS Kesko and K-retailers form the K-Group, In 2012, the average number of Kesko perKesko purchased products valued at whose retail sales totalled around €12 bilsonnel was around 19,741 (2011: 18,960), around €8.1 billion, of which around 68% lion in 2012. The K-Group employs around converted into full-time employees, and was from Finnish suppliers. Kesko had 45,000 people. they work in eight countries: Finland, a total of around 21,700 active product In 2012, the Kesko Group’s net sales Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuand service suppliers, of which 10,600 were €9,686 million, representing a ania, Russia and Belarus, with 52% in were companies operating in Finland. growth of 2.4% compared to the previous Finland and 48% in the other countries. The Group had 8,100 suppliers in its other year. International operations accounted Approximately three quarters of all emoperating countries and 3,000 in the rest for 18.2% of net sales, showing an increase ployees worked in retailing. of the world. The main countries from of 9.0%. At the end of 2012, Kesko had Compared to 2011, there was an average which goods were imported for opera1,210 K-retailer entrepreneurs as partners. increase of 170 employees in Finland. Outtions in Finland were the Netherlands, side Finland, the increase was 611 comSweden, Germany and Denmark, and, Kesko’s owners pared to 2011. outside the EU, China. Kesko Corporation is a listed company Store site operations Customer groups whose shares are quoted on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd Helsinki Stock ExThe store site network is a strategic comKesko’s sales to retailer entrepreneurs acchange. Kesko Corporation’s share capipetitive factor for Kesko. It provides opcounted for 52% of the sales in 2012. Food tal is divided into A and B share series. At portunities for developing business retailers made around 92% of their pur31 December 2012, the company’s share operations and increasing sales and cuschases, home and speciality goods retailcapital totalled €197,282,584. tomer satisfaction. Kesko’s division parers around 96% and building and home A shares accounted for 32.2% and B ent companies are responsible for their improvement and agricultural retailers shares for 67.8% of all shares. Each A share own store sites throughout their life cyaround 72% of their purchases via Kesko. carries 10 votes and each B share 1 vote. cles. The companies plan their own store K-retailers’ product purchases from local The votes attached to A shares accounted site networks and, on the basis of their regional suppliers valued at €586 million. for 83% and the votes attached to B shares network and business plans, make capiKesko’s own retailing accounted for 26% 17% of all votes attached to the shares. tal expenditures in accordance with the of total sales. Kesko’s sales to professional The company’s 10 largest shareholders, Group’s real estate strategy. Opportunities customers contributed 22% to total sales. calculated by number of votes, held 17.3% for cooperation between the division parof all shares and 36.0% of all votes. ent companies are sought and leveraged The company cannot vote with treasin shopping centre projects. ury shares (608,591 B shares). At the end Kesko’s real estate operations are based of 2012, the market capitalisation of A on the life cycle affordability and eco-efshares was €774 million and that of B ficiency of store sites. The aim is the lowshares €1,644 million. The total market est life cycle costs in the trading sector. capitalisation was €2,418 million. Kesko makes capital expenditure only on At the end of 2012, the number of properties needed in its own or supportshareholders was 44,554, which is 3,339 ing business operations. more than at the end of 2011. At the end of 2012, the combined area Foreign ownership of all shares was of real estate and premises owned or 18% at the end of December. Foreign ownleased by Kesko was 4,122,000 m2. At the ership of B shares was 27% at the end of end of the year, the area of owned propDecember. erties in Finland was 750,000 m2 and in the other operating countries 355,000 m2. KESKO’S BUSINESS MODELS RETAILER ENTREPRENEURS’ RETAILING ∙ Store concepts and SUPPLIERS business models CONSUMER­ KESKO’S OWN AND SERVICE ∙ Sourcing, logistics and RETAILING CUSTOMERS PROVIDERS marketing services ∙ Store chain management ∙ Store sites B2B SALES ∙ Retailer resources ∙ Support processes 6 introduction KEY performance INDICATORS 2012 2011 2010 Finances Net sales, € million 9,686 9,460 8,777 Operating profit excl. non-recurring items, € million 235 279 268 Profit before tax, € million 215 282 312 Return on capital employed excl. non-recurring items, % 9.3 13.1 14.0 Dividends, € million 118 118 128 Salaries, fees and social costs paid, € million 603 571 521 Goods, materials and services purchased, € million 9,454 9,188 8,526 Capital expenditure, € million 378 425 325 Personnel Permanent employees, % 89.0 87.4 86.3 Full-time employees, % 71.3 71.5 71.3 Wellbeing at work (personnel survey, scale 1–5) 3.81 3.75 3.75 Gender equality (personnel survey, scale 1–5) 4.18 4.11 4.02 Supervisory positions held by women, Finland, % 51 51 52 Contribution to occupational health care, €/person 479 447 435 Sickness absence rate, Finland, % 4.8 4.8 4.9 Sickness absence rate, other operating countries, % 4.0 3.4 3.7 Environment CO2 emissions, Scope 1 and 2, C02e, thousand tonnes (real estate and own logistics) 208 202 200 CO2 emissions/net sales (Scope 1 and 2) 21.4 21.3 22.8 CO2 emissions/FTE (Scope 1 and 2) 10.5 10.5 10.8 Specific consumption of electric energy, Finland, kWh/gross m 2 213 219 224 Specific consumption of heat energy, Finland, kWh/gross m 2 95 90 110 Waste recovery rate, % (central units and cash&carry outlets in Finland) 93 93 n/a Supply chain  irect purchases from high-risk countries, Finnish companies, D % of all purchases 1.3 1.8 1.5 Suppliers included in BSCI audit process 209 247 188 SA8000 certified suppliers 14 10 24 Finland All divisions. Number of stores 1,535. Sweden and Norway Building and home improvement trade. Number of stores 127. Baltic countries Building and home improvement trade, machinery trade, furniture trade and distance sales. Number of stores 46. NORWAY SWEDEN FINLAND Russia Building and home improvement trade, food trade, sports trade, machinery trade. Number of stores 44. ESTONIA RUSSIA Belarus LATVIA Building and home improvement trade. Number of stores 9. LITHUANIA BELARUS 7 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 REVIEW by THE PRESIDENT AND CEO 2012 was characterised by the deterioration of the general economic situation and consumer confidence and the Kesko profitability programme that was launched in response. The role of e-commerce and services became more pronounced as consumers expect an increasing number of multi-channel services from the trading sector. The most significant projects were the Veturi shopping centre in Kouvola and the first grocery store of the K-ruoka chain in St. Petersburg, Russia. During the year we updated our responsibility programme, which sets both long and short-term objectives for Kesko and the entire K-Group. PROFITABILITY PROGRAMME TO capital expenditure and improving stock idly. In December, the first grocery store GENERATE SAVINGS AND IMPROVE turnover rates. Most of the targeted cost in the K-ruoka chain was opened in St. EFFICIENCY savings are expected to be achieved durPetersburg, Russia. The objective is to ing 2013. open three new K-grocery stores in the The deteriorating economic situation St. Petersburg region and a third K-rauta and the higher cost levels in 2012 called STORE NETWORK EXPANDS INTO in Moscow during 2013. for strong measures to ensure Kesko’s NEW MARKETS Crucial preconditions for expansion competitiveness and to improve costinclude success in the acquisition and efficiency. Kesko started a Group-wide One of Kesko’s largest retail projects, building of good store sites, in the develprofitability programme aimed at securthe Veturi shopping centre was opened opment of store concepts, in purchasing ing sales growth, implementing costs in Kouvola in September. In addition to and logistics and in the recruitment and savings of €100 million and enhancing Finland, an important area of growth is encouragement of motivated and skilled the efficiency of capital use by adapting Russia, where the market develops rappersonnel. 8 responsibility is a strategic choice The trading sector’s operation is suband for us to offer interesting electronic Our customers must be able to trust the ject to many kinds of international and services and online stores to customers. quality and safety of the products we sell national regulations. During 2012, there and be confident that when they enter a was a lot of discussion on the proposed OUR PARTICIPATION IN K-store they will make a responsible and amendment to the Finnish Competition COMBATING CLIMATE CHANGE sustainable choice. The new K-responsiAct regarding dominant market shares. bility concept will be adopted in all K-food Kesko opposes the proposed change, beIn the spring of 2012, Kesko joined the store chains during 2013, and it aims to cause we believe it would limit open and Climate Partners network, a joint organimake responsible actions visible and easy fair competition, raise prices, reduce the sation formed by businesses and the City to make for our customers. range of goods on offer and increase imof Helsinki that aims to find new ways to ports. The amendment does not take into combat climate change. KESKO REMAINS IN THE MOST consideration the fact that K-food retailThe Kodin1 department store for inteIMPORTANT Indices er entrepreneurs compete not only with rior decoration and home goods in Raisio, other companies in the food trade but also scheduled to be completed in May 2013, The demand for responsibility has with one another. will be the first passive retail store buildemerged as an important criterion for ining in the Nordic countries. With a waste stitutional investors when deciding where RESPONSIBILITY IS A STRATEGIC recovery rate of nearly 99% at Anttila’s loto invest. Kesko has established its posiCHOICE gistics centre in Kerava, almost no waste tion in comparative studies that measure ends up in the dump. responsibility and serve as tools for invesResponsibility is an inherent part of daily Energy solutions currently in use intors when making investment decisions. work at Kesko and K-stores. It is also esclude the K-store freezer lids and doors, In 2012, Kesko was again included in sential for achieving good financial recondensate heat recovery, refrigerated the most important sustainability indices, sults and building trust between Kesko, units that use carbon dioxide, and adsuch as the Dow Jones indexes DJSI World the K-stores, customers and business justable and targeted lighting. Keslog and DJSI Europe, the FTSE4Good index partners. transport emissions are reduced through and the Nordic Climate Disclosure LeadIn 2012 we updated our responsible economic driving, route planning and ership index. Kesko has been included in working principles that guide the work two-tier trailers. ‘The Global 100 Most Sustainable Corpoof employees at Kesko and K-stores. It is The Energy Expert service at K-rauta rations in the World’ list every year since especially important to ensure that all emand Rautia stores aims to make it easy for the list was set up in 2005. ployees in the eight countries where we customers to improve energy efficiency Kesko participates in the UN Global operate, as well as our partners, commit in their homes. Compact initiative and is committed to themselves to working in line with KesWe are also looking into the use of reobserving ten generally accepted prinko’s values and responsibility guidelines. newable energy sources: using the ground ciples related to human rights, labour and water as sources of heat and cooling standards, the environment and antiSERVICES ADOPT MULTI-CHANNEL as well as using solar energy are increascorruption in all the countries where it APPROACHES ingly often possible alternatives as technioperates. cal solutions become more sophisticated. International initiatives and sustainCustomer needs and purchasing habits ability indices set a high standard for Keschange rapidly as new online services and THE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME ko’s responsibility. In the future, we have quickly-developing technologies are inUPDATED to take even better care that responsibility troduced. The importance of electronic is implemented without exceptions in all transactions and multi-channel services The Kesko Board of Directors accepted the our operations. has grown in the past few years. updated Kesko responsibility programme I wish to extend my warmest thanks to The increase in electronic services and in December 2012. When working on the all Kesko employees, retailers and their online shopping provides customers new programme and setting its objectives, we staff, and our business partners for our purchasing opportunities and forces the took into account the future changes in fruitful cooperation. Let’s continue to do trading sector to develop new operational our operating environment and the expecgood together. models and logistics solutions. tations of our stakeholders. The updated Kesko has started a Group-level project responsibility programme contains both Matti Halmesmäki that aims to greatly increase electronic shortand long-term objectives for KesPresident and CEO transactions, services and interaction ko’s and the whole K-Group’s operations provided by stores and chains. Achieving up to 2020. The responsibility programme the objectives requires for the developcovers all divisions and it is important to ment projects to progress quickly enough ensure that it is adopted as a part of all our operational processes. 9 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 REVIEW BY THE SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT RESPONSIBLE FOR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY CANNOT BE COMPROMISED Kesko engages in long-term, high-qualfrom some 22,000 suppliers with about €8 In 2012 we paid special attention to ity corporate responsibility work that billion every year. It is likely that different making responsible actions increasingly has been internationally recognised. For cases related to stores’ responsibility will visible to our customers in stores. In the years, Kesko has been included in the come up in the public in the future. Cusfuture our responsibility work will be most significant sustainable development tomers expect us to ensure the implemenvisible as concrete information in stores indices. This sets a high standard for the tation of responsibility across the entire through the ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ camdemands on our responsibility work and supply chain regardless of its length. We paign: we will talk about products, their its continued development. The objective must ensure that responsibility is impleorigins, production and locality. We want of our updated responsibility programme mented without exceptions in every one to make our responsibility work visible to is to ensure that responsibility is impleof our processes. Our partners’ operations customers and we want to help our cusmented in the daily work of every K-Group must also be carried out responsibly. tomers make sustainable decisions as easemployee and across all of our processes. As the population ages and the strucily as possible. The trading sector has been in the pubture of the workforce changes, the trading Kesko’s 2012 Corporate Responsibillic spotlight during the past year, also in a sector will face a labour shortage in the ity Report is already our 13th report. Over negative light. Topics of discussion have future. The importance of responsibility the years we have developed our reportincluded the structure of the Finnish rein the construction of the employer image ing practices, and this year is no exceptail trade, the taxation and amendment to is increasingly emphasised. One of our tion; our report has a lot of new features, the Competition Act regarding the domiareas of emphasis in 2013 is to improve such as the addresses by stakeholders and nant market share in the grocery trade. As youth employment and the attractiveness the online version of the report. We await an employer, Kesko was in the public eye of the K-Group as an employer. We are parwith interest the changes brought by the in the autumn of 2012 when cooperation ticipating in the Youth Guarantee initiaG4 version of the GRI reporting guidelines negotiations related to Kesko’s profitabiltive, which drives youth employment and and the development towards integrated ity programme were carried out in all diprevents social exclusion. There are some reporting. visions. Product supply chains and prod1,300 K-stores in addition to Kesko’s units, uct safety were discussed by the public in and the objective is to employ as many Matti Mettälä early 2013, first due to the unsatisfactory young people under the threat of social Senior Vice President, Human Resources working conditions in a Thai factory reexclusion as possible. and Stakeholder Relations, Member of the vealed by Finnwatch and then because of Kesko actively monitors and pre-empts Corporate Management Board responsible the horsemeat cases. societal changes and we will continue to for corporate responsibility Kesko operates in eight countries work more closely and speak openly with and the K-Group employs approximately organisations, authorities and our other 45,000 people. We purchase materials stakeholders. 10 responsibility is a strategic choice KESKO IN THE MOST SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY INDices Kesko has been included in ‘The Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World’ list since 2005. On the 2013 list published in January, Kesko came in the 50th place. DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Yearbook 2013 STOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices In the 2013 Sustainability Yearbook pubSince 2011, Kesko has been included in Kesko has been included in the Dow Jones lished in January 2013, Kesko was classithe STOXX Global ESG Leaders index famSustainability Indices DJSI World and DJSI fied into the bronze class in the Food & ily, which represents the leading global Europe for ten successive years. Drug Retailers sector. The Sustainability companies in terms of environmental, Yearbook includes companies only the social and governance criteria. top 15% of which in each sector qualify among the world’s leaders according to RobecoSAM’s assessment. FTSE4Good CDP OEKOM Kesko has been included as a member in In October 2012, Kesko was featured in The German oekom research assesses the FTSE4Good Index since 2009. KesCDP’s Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadcompanies based on over 100 environko’s overall score in the FTSE4Good Index ership Index (CDLI) for the second time. mental and social responsibility criteria. assessment in 2012 was 96/100. Kesko’s Kesko’s disclosure score was the highest oekom research has assigned Kesko a work for mitigating climate change was in the Consumer Staples sector. prime grade of C+ (latest in January 2012). given 5 points on a scale of 0–5. This means that Kesko ranks among the world’s best companies within the same industry. read more www.kesko.fi/investors 11 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 EVENTS IN 2012 26 March 2012 27 June 2012 MANY KINDS OF PERFORMERS GUIDE ’OUR RESPONSIBLE WORKING Thanks to the joint project of the K-RetailPRINCIPLES’ WAS UPDATED ers’ Association and the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD), dozens of people with disabilities have found an employment or a training position in K-stores. 18 April 2012 CLIMATE PARTNER NETWORK Kesko joined the Climate Partner network between the City of Helsinki and businesses and committed to reducing its carbon dioxide emissions. 1 May 2012 1 June 2012 1 September 2012 E-SERVICES TO CUSTOMERS MORE ENERGY EFFICIENT GUIDE ‘PRINCIPLES AND housING PRACTICE OF SOCIALLY The Pirkka recipe and shopping list services, operable on mobile devices since RESPONSIBLE TRADING’ Rautakesko’s Energy Expert concept was May, had over 120,000 users at the end adopted in 26 K-rauta and 88 Rautia UPDATED of the year. stores during the year. Energy Experts and The guide helps Kesko’s buyers and Energy Masters serve the customers of the suppliers especially in purchasing from building and home improvement stores. high-risk countries. KESKO’S RESPONSIBILITY PATH KESKO PUBLISHES AN ENERGY GUIDE K-ENVIRONMENTAL GUIDE ‘OUR RESPONSTORE MODEL SIBLE WORKING COMPREHENSIVE PRINCIPLES’ REPORTING RESPONSIBLE PURBEGINS CHASING: SA8000 CERTIFICATION ENVIRONMENTAL KESKO’S POLICY VALUES 1982 1990 1996 1998 1999 12 responsibility is a strategic choice 5 December 2012 24 October 2012 K-RUOKA IS KESKO’S FIRST GROCERY STORE NEW ONLINE STORES IN RUSSIA In addition to citymarket.fi opened in October, new retail websites opened during the year included mustaporssi.fi and kookenka.fi. 1 November 2012 CASH FROM K-FOOD STORES The cashback service was tested in 30 K-markets. The aim is to extend the service to K-food stores throughout the country by summer 2013. 13 September 2012 10 October 2012 5 November 2012 VETURI SHOPPING CENTRE MORE ECONOMICAL DRIVING K-SUMMER JOB CAMPAIGN OPENED IN KOUVOLA STRESSED THE IMPORTANCE OF Keslog launched a training programme in economical driving for its drivers aimed to EMPLOYING YOUNG PEOPLE The K-Group chains operating in the shopping centre are K-citymarket, K-rauta, reduce emissions from transportation. Anni Nurminen of K-citymarket Seppälä Anttila, Intersport, Musta Pörssi, Kookenkä was selected as the K-Summer Employee of and Budget Sport. the Year and the retailer couple Jyrki and Mari Koenkytö of K-citymarket Loimaa as the K-Summer Employer of the Year. RESPONSIBILITY PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAMME AND GLOBAL COMPACT RESPONSIBILITY FIRST WORK progress INITIATIVE CORPORATE TOWARDS 2020 RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE REPORT is ASSURANCE OF PURCHASING: published CORPORATE BSCI AUDITS RESPONSIBILITY REPORT BEGINS FIRST RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME 2000 2002 2005 2008 2013 13 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 IMPACTS OF KESKO’S OPERATIONS GLOBAL ECONOMY POPULATION ∙∙ Increasing importance of GROWTH responsible investment ∙∙ Adequacy of water and ∙∙ Ethical purchasing principles nutrition for 9 billion people and human rights in the ∙∙ Ageing of population and chain of functions adequacy of labour supply ∙∙ Good corporate governance KESKO’S VALUE CHAIN RAW MATERIALS production LOGISTICS RESPONSIBILITY THEMES responsible for the benefit of working 1 operator 2 the community 3 community Our responsible working principles guide all A local approach and K-retailers are the comWe offer meaningful and varied jobs for our operations. Together, we improve the petitive advantages of the K-Group. Retailers 45,000 people in eight countries. We want financial profitability. We develop the multiknow the local community and the needs of to be the most attractive workplace in the channel approach of our store network listheir customers. Together with its partners, trading sector, with satisfied employees and tening to the expectations of our customers. Kesko is building a better community. competent supervisors. 14 responsibility is a strategic choice Kesko’s responsibility themes are based on the impacts of global megatrends on Kesko’s value chain. Responsibility aspects have been prioritised in the materiality matrix on page 17 and they are described in more detail in the theme sections on pages 24–59. CLIMATE CHANGE TECHNOLOGICAL ∙∙ Taking account of the environDEVELOPMENTS mental impacts of the entire ∙∙ Increasing importance of production chain and products electronic services throughout their lifecycles ∙∙ Time and place become ∙∙ Improving own operations irrelevant STORE CUSTOMER PRODUCTS AND SERVICES RECYCLING responsible wellbeing for mitigation of 4 purchasing and 5 customers 6 climate change sales We make customers’ lives easier, providing We participate in the mitigation of the proWe ensure the responsibility of the purchasthem with services that promote health and gress of climate change and promote the ing chain and bear responsibility for prodwellbeing and guiding them on the proper sustainable use of natural resources. We uct safety and quality. We provide customers use of products. We make responsible achelp customers reduce their impact on the with information and support for responsible tions visible and easy for customers. environment. purchasing decisions. 15 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Responsibility work focuses on MATERIALITY Kesko’s vision for corporate responsibility and materiality assessment of responsibility were updated in the autumn of 2012. Matters taken into account in the process included the issues that came up during the updating of Kesko’s responsibility programme, megatrends in responsibility, aspects significant for stakeholders and Kesko’s strategic objectives. Corporate responsibility sponsibility steering group, Corporate The commitments and key objectives vision Management Board and Board of Direcof the responsibility programme are pretors. sented on page 23 and at www.kesko.fi. Kesko’s vision for corporate responsibility The themes of the report on pages 24–59 is summarised as: In all areas of responResponsibility programme are based on the objectives and results sibility, we are one of the trading sector of the responsibility programme’s corpioneers on a global scale. More specific The updating of the 2008–2012 responresponding sections. The programme reinformation on the corporate responsisibility programme started in late 2011. sults for 2012 are presented on page 22 and bility vision by key stakeholder groups is During 2012, stakeholder expectations more extensively for the years 2008–2012 available at www.kesko.fi. and wishes were extensively examined at www.kesko.fi. by interviewing management and retailMateriality assessment ers, conducting surveys and organising stakeholder panels. The results obtained The purpose of Kesko’s materiality assessas well as stakeholder expectations, imment is to identify Kesko’s and its stakepacts on Kesko’s business and the major Kesko’s material corporate responsibilholders’ key responsibility aspects. The aspects identified in the course of updatity aspects are presented in the adjoining materiality assessment guides Kesko’s ing the vision for corporate responsibility matrix, in which the vertical axis shows corporate responsibility and stakeholder and the materiality assessment formed the level of concern for stakeholders and work and defines activities for meeting the basis for the various sections of the the horizontal axis the current or potential stakeholder expectations. Kesko has also responsibility programme. impact on Kesko. The level of concern for defined the indicators presented in this The responsibility programme was stakeholders has been assessed as a whole, report in terms of materiality to the comupdated by the Groupand divisionwhich is why the weightings of areas by pany itself. level project group and discussed by the separate shareholders are not shown in The division of the previous materialmanagement boards of various divisions the matrix. ity assessment – updated in 2010 – into during spring 2012. Kesko’s Corporate economic responsibility, environmenManagement Board discussed the respontal responsibility, human resources resibility programme in November 2012 and sponsibility, and responsible purchasing Kesko’s Board of Directors approved the and sales was given up, because many of programme in December 2012. The upthe operations cover widely various secdated responsibility programme was pubtions. Aspects affecting purchasing inlished in February 2013. clude working conditions in factories, The responsibility programme applies environmental impacts of production, to all of Kesko’s divisions and contains efficient logistics, product safety and fiboth long-term and short-term objecnancial profitability. Aspects related to the tives. Each division has prepared its own, same section were also combined in the division-specific objectives for the proassessment. New aspects or those with gramme section. The commitments of more weighting include local approach, the programme form its framework and, servitisation of products and changing in the future, individual objectives can expectations about work. be annually specified more flexibly than The updated materiality assessment before. was discussed by Kesko’s corporate re16 responsibility is a strategic choice MATERIALITY MATRIX O C A I D B P LEVEL OF STAKEHOLDER CONCERN Q H G N F R J E M L K CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON KESKO A. Financial The themes report on pages 24–59 areJ. based profitability of the on guidance Customer the aspects identified in B. Good corporate the materiality matrixgovernance and risk as follows: K. Servitisation of products management L . Local approach C. Product safety and quality M. Sense of community D. Accessibility and multi­channel approach N. Shopping safety Responsible operator E. Development Working community of personnel competencies Wellbeing for customers O. Sustainable product selection A. Financial profitability F. Efficient logistics E. P ersonnel’s competence H. Promoting P. Human rights and environmental wellbeing impacts of B. GoodG.corporate governance Fair working and community development production in the purchasingJ. Guiding customers chain risk management H. Promotion of wellbeing Changing expectationsK.for G. A fair workingQ.community Servitisation work of products D. Accessibility I. Energyandand resource efficiencyQ. Changing expectations multi-channel R. Promotion of sustainable agriculture for work-life approach Mitigation of climate N. Shopping safety and security Responsible purchasing change and sales F. Efficient logistics For the benefit of C. Product safety and quality I. Energy and resource efficiency the community O. Sustainable product selection R. Promoting sustainable agriculture L. Local approach P. Human rights and the environmental M. Sense of community impacts of production in the purchasing chain 17 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION The assessment of corporate responsibilin the stakeholder group analysis of the ality assessment and the responsibility ity performance takes account of Kesko’s Group’s responsibility work, available at programme on pages 16–17 and 22–23. key stakeholders, namely customers, inwww.kesko.fi/responsibility. The diviVarious surveys are regularly conductvestors and Kesko’s owners, Kesko persions also use their specific stakeholder ed to identify stakeholder expectations. sonnel, retailers and store staff, supplianalyses. The Group’s stakeholder analAccording to the 2012 survey by TNS Galers of goods and services, the media, the ysis and Kesko’s corporate responsibillup on companies’ reputation and responauthorities, non-governmental and other ity vision are available at www.kesko.fi/ sibility, the strongest area in Kesko’s and organisations, and trade unions. At Kesko, responsibility. The process description K-stores’ reputation was considered to be the stakeholder analysis is included in the prepared on Kesko stakeholder interacthe combination of products and services. management system and operating plans. tion is presented below. Room for improvement was seen in the Operations in all areas of responsibility In connection with updating its retransparency of financial operations and are developed in accordance with the exsponsibility programme, Kesko arranged in social responsibility as a whole, such as pectations of the key stakeholder groups. two stakeholder panels to take stakelooking after employees, honesty and the Kesko’s corporate responsibility viholder expectations and aspects signifianti-bribery approach, and the observance sion has been described in respect of cant to them into account when setting of ethical principles. its stakeholders. It is available at www. the objectives. The materiality assessment Staying aware of stakeholder expectakesko.fi/responsibility. Stakeholders’ exof Kesko’s responsibility guides Kesko’s tions requires regular dialogue. The table pectations of Kesko, Kesko’s actions to corporate responsibility work and defines on page 19 describes interaction with the meet these expectations, and indicators measures in response to stakeholder exkey stakeholder groups. measuring the performance are described pectations. Read more about the materiKESKO’S STAKEHOLDER INTERACTION PLANNING DATA COLLECTION ACTIONS AND FEEDBACK Stakeholder identification Viewpoint and importance to Reporting performance against Nature of stakeholder the company targets relationship Viewpoint indicators Reporting against criteria (GRI, Stakeholder expectations Process scope, target and AA1000) Key values and operating schedule Assurance principles relevant to different Type of data collection Stakeholder feedback stakeholders Data auditing and analysis, comparison with objectives and indicators POLICIES, GUIDELINES, METHODS DOCUMENTATION 18 responsibility is a strategic choice KEY STAKEHOLDER INCLUSIVITY AND CHANNELS RESPONSIVENESS TO STAKEHOLDER STAKEHOLDERS OF INTERACTION EXPECTATIONS CUSTOMERS • Customer service channels Responsibility is strongly visible to customers • Interaction via social media channels in the K-Group’s consumer brands and stores. (Facebook, Twitter, Google+ and Pinterest, Customers have to be able to trust on the quality in particular) is increasing and the significance and safety of products and the fact that their of blogs is growing responsible choices start when they enter • Kesko’s and K-stores’ responsibility inquiry a K-store. at Pirkka.fi in the spring of 2012: important issues for respondents included product safety, secure handling of customer data and increasing the share of local foods in store selections • Mobile and e-services for customers, such as the Pirkka recipe and shopping list app INVESTORS, Investors and shareholders have been asking Kesko wants to continue and improve its ratings OWNERS AND more questions concerning responsibility in in significant sustainability indices and lists, as ANALYSTS recent years. Kesko annually replies to inquiries they are important neutral evidence of responsiof several institutions making sustainability ble operations. Transparency of reporting and assessments. corporate governance principles as well as Examples of events: ensuring that legislation and responsible • General meeting working principles are observed create a solid • Investor meetings basis for Kesko’s business operations. • Press conferences • Capital Market Days EMPLOYEES AND • Personnel survey Kesko’s working community is developing and RETAILERS • Performance and development reviews global; common working principles and • National Works Council meetings practices provide the basis for our work every• The Keskonet intranet’s country-specific where. The importance of responsibility in creatpages for Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Russia, ing the employer image is further emphasised. and Keskonet Global, that is common to all The companies in which job satisfaction is high • Keskonet has the ‘Direct Line’ and ‘Mail to and which are able to offer versatile jobs and President and CEO’ feedback channels, a opportunities for career progress, most discussion channel and several blogs probably succeed in attracting and hanging on • Annual K-Team event for K-retailers, K-store to the best employees. K-retailers listen to the personnel, Kesko employees and business wishes of their customers and adapt their partners selections accordingly. Stores implement • Value discussions on responsible working responsibility in all of their operations. principles SUPPLIERS AND • More than 21,000 suppliers of goods and Multi-form networking with suppliers and SERVICE PROVIDERS services service providers requires that all parties to • Close cooperation the supply chain accept the common values, • ‘Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible objectives and working principles. Trading’ guide We are together responsible for ensuring that • Business partner meetings, such as the annual our customers can rely on our expertise, info event organised by Kesko Food services and the quality and safety of our products. SOCIETY (THE • Meetings Kesko proactively follows any changes in society MEDIA, AUTHORI• Media events and inquiries in close cooperation with its stakeholders. We TIES, NON-PROFIT • Activities in organisations cooperate and discuss openly with NGOs, AND OTHER • International BSCI operations and the national authorities and other decision-makers. ORGANISATIONS, AND TRADE BSCI country group UNIONS) • Inquiries by NGOs, including Finnwatch’s report on the responsibility of the trading sector’s own-brand products in 2013 and WWF Finland’s soy inquiry in 2012 19 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Opportunities and risks Kesko promotes sustainable concepts, purchasing operations and lofor the building, repair, concept changes, development jointly with its gistics, as well as the recruitment and enmaintenance and use of real estate propcustomers couragement of motivated and competent erties that reduce the consumption of mapersonnel. The country risks in Russia, terials and energy during the life cycles of For Kesko, responsible operation is a strasuch as corruption, unpredictability of these properties. tegic choice and bearing its corporate reofficials and rapid changes in laws and The implementation of the EU’s Intesponsibility is one of Kesko’s values. It their application, coupled with unexpectgrated Energy and Climate Policy, and the creates possibilities to improve customer ed changes in the operating environment Finnish Government’s energy policy will satisfaction and to increase healthy, profcan delay the expansion and make busiaffect energy solutions and may increase itable business. ness operations more difficult. energy prices, adding to energy saving As a multi-division company operating pressures. Kesko wants to support a toin eight countries, Kesko offers responsiElectronic services tal solution towards carbon dioxide free ble product alternatives and service soluincreasingly important production, reduce Finland’s dependency tions to a great number of consumers in on imported energy and improve the efnearly all sectors of consumption. Kesko’s New web services and rapidly developing ficiency of the electricity market. A Kesko product and service selections provide technology have changed customers’ needs subsidiary, Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy, is choices with which Kesko and its customand purchasing habits. E-commerce is not a participant in the Fennovoima project ers together can reduce the adverse effects confined to opening hours, as shopping which aims to build a new nuclear power of consumption and promote sustainable is possible irrespective of time and place. plant in Finland. development. In view of the competitive situation in the Kesko efficiently recovers waste heat, trading sector, the importance of electronic such as condensation heat generated Store network growth to new shopping and multi-channel services has from cooling stores’ refrigeration units, markets grown significantly within a few years. for heating while using the latest technolThe achievement of objectives requires ogy. Kesko also actively examines the use The K-Group’s principal business model attractive e-services and retail websites, of renewable energy sources. The use of, in Finland is the chain business model, in utilisation of a multi-channel approach for example, ground and water as storages which independent K-retailers run retail and electronic customer communications of heat and cold, and making use of solar stores in Kesko’s chains. Competitive edge to support it. The risk is that the progress energy, will be a potential alternative as is gained by combining systematic chain of our e-commerce and e-service developthe technical solutions become increasoperations and the K-retailer operations ment projects is outpaced by competitors, ingly sophisticated. based on entrepreneurship. Listening to or that competing online stores and eKesko also helps its customers find the wishes of local customers and making services are more attractive to customers. energy efficient solutions. Products and use of customer data, the K-retailers build Store network maintenance and visits services offered by the building and home a selection of products and services that in shopping centres and stores generate improvement stores make it easy for cusmeet customers’ needs. some of the environmental impacts which tomers to improve the energy efficiency of In addition to Finland, Kesko seeks Kesko aims to help reduce jointly with its housing and to find solutions that support growth especially in the rapidly growstakeholders. sustainable development. ing Russian market. In the last few years, Read more on pages 24–59 and 78–79. Kesko has made significant capital expenImpacts of climate change ditures, especially in the development of Transparency and the food store network in Finland and the Climate change causes both physical, regresponsibility of purchasing network of building and home improveulation-related risks and risks and opporchains ment stores abroad. The key strategic obtunities affecting reputation factors. jective is to increase the selling power of The emissions from the production In respect of products offered to customthe implemented capital expenditures of electrical and heat energy represent a ers, the aim is to take account of the impact and thereby to reach the targets set for significant part of the K-Group’s environof their entire life cycles on consumption. return on capital. mental impacts. In accordance with the The transparency and responsibility of The key in expansion is to succeed in K-Group’s environmental policy, Kesko’s purchasing chains have become increasthe acquisition and building of well loreal estate functions develop, in cooperingly important and increasingly detailed cated store sites, the development of store ation with business partners, solutions information on the origin and manufactur20 responsibility is a strategic choice ing methods of products need to be made Risk management at Kesko available to customers. Care must be taken read more that responsibility is realised in all operaKesko’s risk management is proactive and tions and throughout the supply chain. an integral part of its management and www.kesko.fi/investors Diversified networking with suppliday-to-day activities. The objective of risk ers of goods and providers of services management is to ensure the delivery of requires that all supply chain operators customer promises, profit performance, Risk management, Kesko’s Annual Report, share the same values, objectives and dividend payment capacity, shareholder pages 55–58 and www.kesko.fi/investors. operating practices. A failure in product value, the implementation of responsible safety control or in the quality assurance operating practices and the continuity of of the supply chain can result in financial business operations in the Kesko Group. A comprehensive presentation of Kesko’s losses, the loss of customer confidence The risk management policy conmost significant risks and uncertainties or, in the worst case, a health hazard to firmed by the Board of Directors guides and risk management responses, customers. risk management in the Kesko Group. The www.kesko.fi/investors. Customers’ purchasing decisions are policy is based on the COSO ERM Framealso affected by a concern for personal work and the SFS-ISO 31000 risk managewellbeing. Promoting healthy ways of ment standard. Financial risks and implications, and risks living and eating habits is an opportuKesko has a uniform risk assessment and opportunities from climate change for nity and a strategic objective for the food and reporting system. Risk identification the organisation, pages 78–79. trade. Different forms of physical activis based on business objectives and opity play a significant role in the product portunities and the defined risk appetite. selections of the K-Group’s sports stores Risks are prioritised on the basis of their The focal points of Kesko’s corporate and department stores, as well as Kesko’s significance by assessing the impacts and responsibility work, materiality assessvarious forms of cooperation in projects probability of their materialisation and ment, page 17. which promote the wellbeing of families the level of risk management. When asand children. sessing the impact of materialisation, the There are different kinds of requireimpacts on reputation, people’s wellbeing Impacts of Kesko’s operations related to the ments on product packaging: packaging and the environment are considered in focal points are illustrated on pages 14–15. protects products, but packaging labeladdition to financial impacts. ling also provides customers with inforThe risks identified in Kesko’s risk The issues closely connected to the stratemation which supports their purchasing assessments and reported to the Kesko gies of Kesko and its divisions, which are decisions. As early as in preparing product Board include the following: estimated to create business opportunispecifications, for example, product char• Weakening customer demand ties and generate competitive advantages, acteristics, such as ingredients, allergens, • Electronic services change customer Kesko’s Annual Report, pages 8–35. microbiological features and nutritional behaviour values can be determined. • Expansion in Russia For home and speciality goods, a list of • Slow implementation of changes in banned chemicals, maintained by Product business operations Research, has been adopted jointly with • Regulation of the food trade a policy which defines the quality level • Business interruptions and informarequired of products and which every suption system failures plier is expected to comply with. • Store sites Read more about the product selec• Product safety and supply chain quality tions of the food trade on pages 34–37 and • Competence and working capacity of 44–49, the Energy Expert concept of the personnel building and home improvement trade on • Suppliers and distribution channels page 53, the energy efficient products of • Crime and malpractice the car trade on page 57, and the responsi• Responsible operating practices and ble purchasing of the home and speciality reputation management goods trade on pages 44–49. 21 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 KEY RESULTS OF THE 2008–2012 RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME The objectives and results of the responsibility programme in 2008–2012 can be read in full at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. WE ACTIVELY INCREASE THE NUMBER OF LOCAL ENVIRONMENTAL WORK AT STORES SUPPLIERS AND ENCOURAGE K-RETAILERS TO ∙∙ Objective: Including Anttila Oy’s all new department stores in PURCHASE LOCALLY Anttila’s ISO 14001 certification. The K-environmental store concept ∙∙ Objective: Increasing the amount of local purchases. widely used in the food trade and the building and home improveIn 2012: K-retailers’ direct purchases totalled €586 million. ment trade chains. In 2012: The central unit, 28 Anttila department stores, 9 Kodin1 department stores for interior decoration and WE MAINTAIN A COMPREHENSIVE STORE NETWORK home goods, and the logistics centre are certified. For K-environIN FINLAND mental store information, see page 76. ∙∙ Objective: Compared to Finnish competitors, Kesko Food’s store network is the most comprehensive and the distance to the nearRESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND PURCHASING est food store for households is the shortest. In 2012: The K-food POLICIES store network covered 87% of all Finnish municipalities. Around half ∙∙ Objective: Kesko’s monitoring officers in China make 160 factory of the Finnish population lived within one kilometre of the nearest visits to the premises of Kesko’s suppliers annually. In 2012: A total K-food store. of 379 factory visits in 2008–2012. ∙∙ Objective: Continuing the promotion of BSCI audits. In 2012: 47 full MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE audits and 14 re-audits. ∙∙ Objective: The K-Group has signed the trading sector energy ∙∙ Objective: Establishing the fish and shellfish statement. In 2012: efficiency agreement and made a commitment to save 65 GWh by The statement is applied to Kesko Food Ltd’s, Kespro Ltd’s and the end of 2016. Electricity purchased by Kesko to the K-Group is K-food stores’ purchases. carbon-free. In 2012: Around 70% of the target had been achieved. Electricity purchased by Kesko was carbon-free and produced with RESPONSIBLE PRODUCT SELECTIONS nuclear power. ∙∙ Objective: Promoting the sales of biodegradable Pirkka bags and reusable Pirkka bags, new biodegradable packaging. In 2012: ProINCREASING ENERGY EFFICIENCY (KESKO FOOD) moting sales and developing packaging continued. ∙∙ Objective: Actions include fitting chest freezers in all new stores ∙∙ Objective: All Pirkka products with high salt, sugar or fat content with lids, cold cabinets with doors, new stores’ advertising signage reformulated. In 2012: 143 reformulated products. with LED lighting, optimising the number of cold cabinets, and ∙∙ Objective: Training 500 specialists in healthy diets for K-stores. energy classification recommendation ‘A’ for store equipment. In In 2012: Over 680 K-food specialists. 2012: The total length of refrigeration equipment fitted with lids and ∙∙ Objective: Kesko Food’s selection and sales of Fairtrade products doors around 7.8 km. LED lighting used in illuminated signs and for the largest in Finland. In 2012: 215 Fairtrade products, of which 39 general and outdoor lighting. Pirkka products. ∙∙ Objective: Developing Rautakesko’s costand eco-efficient service TRANSPORTATION solutions for building and housing. In 2012: The Energy Expert con∙∙ Objective: Reducing relative CO2 emissions per kilogram transcept in use in K-rauta and Rautia stores. ported by 10% by 2012. In 2012: Relative emissions per kilogram ∙∙ Objective: The K-maatalous chain continues the development transported were 0.0236 CO2kg. Compared to the comparative 2007 of sustainable cultivation methods. In 2012: The next cultivation level, relative emissions from transportation have decreased by 5.0%. development programme is a cultivation programme for organic production. BUSINESS TRAVEL AND USE OF COMPANY CARS ∙∙ Objective: Reporting the CO2 emissions from company cars and WELLBEING AT WORK the average emission level (g CO2/km). Reducing air travel and ∙∙ Objective: €2 million for employees’ recreational and leisure activireporting the CO2 emissions from air travel. In 2012: The average ties annually. In 2012: €1.4 million were used. CO2 emissions were 140 g and the CO2 emissions from company cars ∙∙ Objective: In the development of wellbeing at work, promoting were 3,076 tonnes. The emissions from air travel were 1,489 tonnes. working capacity and maintaining the ability to work. In 2012: The programme for wellbeing at work, the management model for wellRECOVERY AND MATERIAL EFFICIENCY being at work and the early intervention model were used. ∙∙ Objective: A recovery rate of around 90% in warehouse operations. Increasing the recovery rate of K-food stores to the same 90% level INCORPORATING THE RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME In by 2012. In 2012: The recovery rate in Kesko Food’s logistics was 96% THE BRAND AND MARKETING STRATEGY WORK and in Anttila’s logistics centre, it was around 99%. ∙∙ Objective: Strengthening the responsibility image associated with ∙∙ Objective: Reducing wastage in K-food stores by some 20% by Kesko and its product brands and making responsibility work visible 2012. In 2012: Around 90 K-stores had adopted the new waste manto customers. In 2012: K-food stores, K-citymarket Oy and a signifiagement model and had recovery rates of around 90%. The use of cant part of K-rauta and Rautia stores will adopt the K-responsibility the model will be expanded in 2013. concept in the course of 2013. ∙∙ Objective: Developing the recovery and recycling services offered by K-food stores to their customers. In 2012: There were 220 Eco Points for customers at K-food stores. 22 responsibility is a strategic choice UPDATED RESPONSIBILITY PROGRAMME WE ARE COMMITTED TO WE BUILD A BETTER SOCIETY RESPONSIBLE WORKING PRINCIPLES TOGETHER AND we TOGETHER GENERATE ∙∙ We establish partnerships and contribute ECONOMIC VALUE ADDED to the development of local communities ∙∙ Responsible working principles guide ∙∙ We develop our operations in interaction all our operations with customers 100% of our ∙∙ We follow good corporate governance More training on ∙∙ Our personnel act responsibly in personnel act in principles responsibility issues day-to-day operations compliance with ∙∙ We improve financial profitability together for personnel our responsible ∙∙ We develop the multi-channel approach working principles OBJECTIVES INCL. in our store network while listening to customers’ expectations We are an attractive partner and We expand the contract cultivaa responsible neighbour. tion programme trainings; the OBJECTIVES INCL. We include our customers and our objective is to train 100% of the personnel in our responsibility work. contract farmers. All of our personnel act in compliKesko’s target for return on equity ance with our responsible working is 12% and the target for return on We help customers in efficient We develop the organic farming principles. capital employed is 14%. shopping; online stores, SmartPost, programme into a concept. We organise regular training on our in-store collection. responsible working principles. WE PERFORM AND OFFER WE PURCHASE AND SELL RESPONHIGH-QUALITY WORK SIBLY AND SUPPORT CUSTOMERS IN ∙∙ We have satisfied employees and MAKING SUSTAINABLE CHOICES competent supervisors ∙∙ We provide customers with information ∙∙ We offer meaningful and diverse jobs and support in responsible buying and development opportunities decisions The ‘Let’s Talk ∙∙ We are the most attractive workplace 200 Pirkka ∙∙ We make responsible actions visible about Work’ in the trading sector organic and easy for customers model adopted by ∙∙ We offer a safe and healthy working products ∙∙ We develop our product selections while all companies environment by 2015 listening to customers ∙∙ We ensure responsibility in the OBJECTIVES INCL. supply chain ∙∙ We answer for the safety and quality We are the best employer in the We train our supervisors on of products trading sector in terms of job a regular basis. OBJECTIVES INCL. satisfaction. We reduce sickness absences and We conduct a performance and premature disability pensions. We identify the whole of our supWe offer a wide selection of Pirkka development review annually with ply chain and actively promote the responsible products; 500 Pirkka every employee. social responsibility audits of our products meeting a responsibility suppliers in high-risk countries. criterion by 2015 and 200 Pirkka We add indication of origin to our organic products by 2015. own brand products. WE OFFER SERVICES WHICH PROWE JOINTLY MITIGATE CLIMATE MOTE CUSTOMERS’ WELLBEING CHANGE AND PROMOTE the ∙∙ We make life easier for our customers SUSTAINABLE USE OF NATURAL ∙∙ We offer healthy products and services RESOURCES which promote wellbeing ∙∙ We reduce our environmental impacts in ∙∙ We increase our offer of e-services cooperation with the whole supply chain The theme ‘Let’s do ∙∙ We provide advice to customers 100% recovery ∙∙ We promote the development towards a good. Together.’ is in using products rate in warelow carbon society visible to customers house functions ∙∙ We help our customers reduce their environmental impacts OBJECTIVES INCL. OBJECTIVES INCL. Every building and home improveThe theme ‘Let’s do good. TogethWe increase cooperation with We reduce food wastage by ment store has at least one trained er.’ is visible in stores and marketing. the supply chain in order to pro10% by 2020. Energy Expert and a service coopWe train and advise our machinery mote the sustainable use of natural eration network. At least one EnWe improve our annual energy trade customers in the correct, safe resources and the development efficiency by 65 GWh by 2016. ergy Master’s qualification is comand economical use of machines towards a low carbon society. pleted every year. We reduce the relative emissions and devices and in prolonging the We recover the waste generated All K-food stores will have adopted from Keslog’s transportation by service lives of machinery. in our operations to achieve zero the K-responsibility concept by 2014. 10% by 2020. landfill waste. 23 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 24 RESPONSIBILITY THEMES KeY ISSUES IN 2012 RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR p. 26–33 ∙∙ The Veturi shopping centre opened in Kouvola ∙∙ The first K-ruoka store in Russia ∙∙ The ‘Our responsible working principles’ guide was updated ∙∙ Value discussions proceeded to new offices in Russia FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMMUNITY p. 34–37 ∙∙ The K-Retailers’ Association celebrated its 100th anniversary ∙∙ K-retailers’ local purchases totalled €586 million ∙∙ Kesko’s and its subsidiaries’ support to communities and organisations was €0.9 million WORKING COMMUNITY p. 38–43 ∙∙ Kesko’s profitability programme was launched ∙∙ The wellbeing at work programme focused on the development of supervisory work and working communities ∙∙ Kesko and K-stores to participate in the Youth Guarantee initiative ∙∙ The fourth K-trainee programme was launched RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND SALES p. 44–49 ∙∙ The guide for responsible trading was updated ∙∙ Suppliers in high-risk countries have 209 factories or farms within the scope of the BSCI process ∙∙ The Product Research Laboratory analysed more than 11,600 product samples ∙∙ The number of Pirkka organic products will increase to 200 by 2015 WELLBEING FOR CUSTOMERS p. 50–53 ∙∙ E-channels increase interaction ∙∙ Mobile and online services to support customers ∙∙ Responsibility visible for customers in stores ∙∙ The Energy Expert service helps improve energy efficiency at home MITIGATION OF CLIMATE CHANGE p. 54–59 ∙∙ New solutions for refrigeration equipment provide significant savings in K-food stores ∙∙ The Kodin1 department store for interior decoration and home goods in Raisio is the first passive retail store building in the Nordic countries ∙∙ Keslog aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions from transportation by 10% by 2020 25 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Kesko’s operations have an impact on the whole of society Kesko develops and provides trading sector services, employs directly and indirectly, and buys, sells and arranges the manufacture of products. The operations of Kesko and K-retailers generate economic benefits for shareholders, personnel, suppliers of goods and services and their employees, customers, as well as municipalities and states. Kesko and K-retailers employ a total of The K-food store network is compreabout 45,000 people in eight countries. hensive: at the end of 2012, there were 936 In 2012, Kesko paid a total of €503 million K-food stores in 290 municipalities in Finin salaries and other employee benefits in land. Around half of the Finnish populaall operating countries. K-retailers paid tion lives within less than one kilometre €382 million in salaries, €40 million in of a K-food store. K-food stores welcome income taxes, and €93 million in obligaabout 900,000 customers every day. tory social security expenses. The development of electronic shopping and e-commerce are strategic focal Customer-driven points in all of Kesko’s divisions. The new business models retail websites citymarket.fi, mustaporssi.fi and kookenka.fi were launched during the The principal business model in the Finnyear. ish market is the chain business model, in “The popularisation of e-services and which independent K-retailers run retail e-commerce provides new kinds of shopstores in retail chains managed by Kesko. ping possibilities for people living outside In Finland, all food stores and building population centres, or people with reduced and home improvement stores in the mobility, for example. E-commerce is not K-Group are run by K-retailer entrepreconfined to opening hours, as shopping neurs. Kesko’s own retail stores in Finland is possible irrespective of time and place. include, for example, Anttila department New channels offer new ways of making stores and Kodin1 department stores for price comparisons and exchanging prodinterior decoration and home goods, and uct experiences,” says Senior Vice PresiKesko is also responsible for the K-citydent Minna Kurunsaari, responsible for market chain’s home and speciality goods Kesko’s electronic marketing and services trade. The company’s own retailing is the projects. model mainly used in the other countries. In September 2012, the Veturi shopping Kesko is also engaged in B2B sales. centre, one of Kesko’s biggest projects ever, opened in Kouvola. Veturi was designed on Diverse store network the basis of customer needs, accessibility, comfort, diversified selections, as well as Kesko has about 2,000 stores engaged easy, barrier-free movement. in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Read more about Veturi on pages 32–33. Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia and Belarus. 26 Responsible operator 27 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 highlights case Kesko is a significant tax payer In recent years, taxes paid by companies have become a topic of public discussion and all parties’ contributions to balancing public economies have been considered important. The discussion has especially focused on the level of companies’ income taxation and the payment of income taxes to different countries. In 2012, the income taxes paid by Kesko to Finland were €70.5 million and to other countries €5.3 million. Kesko paid €3.8 million in real estate tax to Finland and €4.2 million to other operating countries in 2012. Kesko also collects, reports and remits indirect taxes. “Indirect taxes include, for example, value added tax and excise duties. Value added tax is a consumption tax paid by the end consumers of goods and services, in other words, households. Kesko remits value added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity of a company selling goods and services. As for excise tax, it is a consumption tax levied from the manufacturer, producer, importer or wholesaler of certain products and Majority of purchases from shrink while imports would increase. remitted to tax recipients. The excise Finland Kesko is in favour of fair and open duty is included in the product price, competition and Kesko Food’s retailer Most of the economic benefits from Kesbusiness model advances competition. which makes it payable by the consumer. ko’s operations, 83% of Kesko’s net sales, K-retailer entrepreneurs operate in comKesko remits excise duties on, for examflow to suppliers of goods. petition with not only other food retail ple, confectionery, alcohol, soft drinks In 2012, Kesko’s purchases from supbusinesses but also with each other. As and cars. In 2012, Kesko remitted value pliers in Finland were €5,478 million and local operators, K-food retailers have the added taxes to Finland to the amount of €2,591 million from other countries. best knowledge concerning customer €319.8 million, and €42.0 million to other Kesko encourages K-retailers to inneeds and they buy products from local countries,” says Kesko’s Tax Specialist clude locally produced products in their producers. Kesko objects to the proposed Jyrki Seipäjärvi. selections. K-retailers’ direct purchases amendment to the Competition Act befrom Finnish regions were €586 million cause, in Kesko’s opinion, it restricts open in 2012. and fair competition which serves the best interests of consumers. Proposal to amend the Competition Act relates to Good corporate governance dominant market share Kesko complies with the Finnish CorpoThe Finnish Parliament is considering a rate Governance Code for Listed Compaproposal to amend the Competition Act to nies and publishes a Corporate Governthe effect that a minimum market share of ance Statement annually on its website. 30% in the grocery trade would automatiFor the third time, Kesko was placed cally mean a dominant market position in the final in the Corporate Governance in purchasing and selling markets. The competition organised in Finland in 2012. amendment would affect Kesko Food and Kesko was given especially good ratings the around 1,000 K-food retailer entrefor its remuneration statement and the preneurs who have signed a chain agreedescription of its risk management, interment with it. nal control and internal audit functions. If the bill is passed, Kesko expects it to In 2013, as in the two previous years, have very negative impacts on competiKesko was awarded by World Finance tion in the grocery trade as well as for conMagazine for ‘the Best Corporate Governsumers. Prices would rise and selections ance in Finland’ in terms of corporate 28 Responsible operator governance development and reporting. dent and CEO, and animated examples of and act in compliance with them. KnowlIn 2012, Kesko was given high scores the guidelines in practice. Kesko personedge of and compliance with competition for its responsible operating practices, nel was encouraged to test their knowllaws, for example, is essential at Kesko compliance with laws, anti-corruption edge and views on responsible working and also on a wider scale in the trading work and corporate governance in the asprinciples with the help of the Responsible sector. Kesko has a competition law comsessments of the Dow Jones Sustainability Operator web application. pliance programme, composed of trainIndexes DJSI World and DJSI Europe, as The annual personnel survey asks ing sessions and an e-learning component well as the FTSE4Good Index. whether employees, in their own opinavailable to all Kesko employees. Those Kesko’s placement in the most imporion, act in accordance with the responsiwhose work is largely related to competitant sustainability indices is described ble operating principles. In 2012, the avertion laws are invited by the Group’s Legal further on page 11 of this report and at age rating in the Kesko Group was 4.37 on Affairs Unit to complete the training. www.kesko.fi. a scale of 1–5. “The training discusses the principles reKesko expects its business partners to lated to cooperation and exchange of inforOur responsible working comply with corresponding responsible mation between competitors as well as chain principles operating principles. In autumn 2012, all operations, and sanctions on the infringedivisions in all operating countries inment of competition rules, among other The work of people at Kesko and K-stores troduced model letters and contractual things. Since 2011, more than 800 Kesko is guided by ‘Our Responsible Working clauses to be sent to business partners employees in Finland have completed the Principles’. Employees in the eight operin order that they commit themselves competition law e-learning programme. We ating countries have the same guidelines to compliance with Kesko’s responsible updated the e-learning programme in auand a shared understanding of our comworking principles, or with their own, tumn 2012 and published it also in English. mon values and principles. provided they are at least as responsible. In 2013, we will also invite employees in the The ‘Our Responsible Working PrinciThe aim was to send the letter to the maother operating countries on a wide scale ples’ guidelines were revised in 2012. The jority of existing contract parties by the to complete the training,” says Kesko’s Vice contents were specified and the principles end of 2012. The responsibility clause has President, General Counsel Anne Leppäläand guidelines were illustrated with pracbeen added to new contracts from the beNilsson. tical examples. The revised guide was pubginning of 2013. lished in print in eight languages in summer 2012 and distributed to the personnel Competition law e-learning in all operating countries. The guide is also available on Kesko’s website in the section Kesko runs compliance programmes to Our Responsible Working Principles, comensure that Kesko employees are familiar plemented with a foreword from the Presiwith the key laws relating to operations 29 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Operations in Russia are expanding Russia is a large and growing market have extensive service counters for meat, area, in which Kesko seeks growth just fish and prepared foods plus an in-store Kesko’s as it does in Finland. Kesko’s business scratch bakery. We also launched Pirkka operations in Russia include the food, products, which are safe, high-quality OPERATIONS IN ALL building and home improvement, maand valued by Finns, on the Russian marCOUNTRIES ARE chinery and sports sectors. The 14 K-rauta stores in Russia are located in ket. When the store opened, we already had about 250 Pirkka products in our BASED ON THE OBSERSt. Petersburg, Moscow, Tula, Kaluga and selections and we aim to increase the VANCE OF LAWS AND Yaroslavl. The 29 Intersport stores opernumber to about 2,000 over the course RESPONSIBLE OPERATate in St. Petersburg, Moscow, Novosiof 2013,” says Oleg Buyalski. birsk, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg ING PRINCIPLES and Krasnodar. The first grocery store Value discussions in the K-ruoka chain was opened in proceeded to new offices St. Petersburg in December 2012. It is important that the personnel in a new Operating with many chains in Russia market area are experienced and know creates efficiency and synergy benefits the operating environment for the retail for Kesko. trade and local customer needs. Most “We share offices in St. Petersburg and employees in the offices of Kesko Food also have shared service operations, such Rus and the K-ruoka store are Russian. as the financial and HR services centres. Special attention was paid to recruitWe cooperate in the acquisition, conment, as there is a shortage of labour in struction and maintenance of store sites. St. Petersburg in particular and employee We will also try to locate different stores turnover is very high. in the same premises, whenever possible. It is particularly important to ensure Since late 2012, it has been possible for that all employees commit themselves to customers to get a Russian K-Plus loyalty working in accordance with Kesko’s valcard,” says Kari Heiskanen, Kesko Food’s ues and responsible working principles. Country Director for Russia. Our business partners are also required to act according to the corresponding K-ruoka offers healthy, responsible operating principles. high-quality products “Kesko’s operations in all countries are based on observance of laws and Oleg Buyalski, General Director of responsible operating principles. We Kesko Food Rus, says that the launch condemn all forms of bribery. We will also of operations ofК К-Руока, the first gronot promise or pay bribes or facilitation cery store of the chain in Russia has propayments or any other illegal payments ceeded according to plan. to the authorities or other parties to pro“We adopted solutions that reduce mote or secure any business activities,” the consumption of materials and energy says Anne Leppälä-Nilsson, Kesko’s during the life cycle of the property. We Vice President, General Counsel. save energy in store operations: the In December 2012, value discussions freezers are covered with lids and conon responsible working principles were densation heat from the cooling units is organised in Kesko Food Rus in St. Petersrecovered. Waste recycling and segreburg and in Intersport Russia in Moscow. gation remain at an early stage in Russia Anne Leppälä-Nilsson and Kesko’s Chief and the recycling infrastructure is insuffiAudit Executive Pasi Mäkinen discussed cient. We recycle much of the cardboard with local management the challenges and plastic packaging and will introduce the companies have faced when applying new recycling methods with the develresponsible working principles. opment of the market.” “In Kesko Food Rus, for example, we Experiences during the first months discussed the best practices to impleof operations have been good: customment Kesko’s responsible working priners are satisfied with the store’s product ciples in the new company, responsibilselection and sales have exceeded expecity clauses in supplier agreements and tations. Russian customers value the freshacceptable hospitality. Intersport Russia’s ness and high quality of Finnish products. list of questions included store and infor“The store focuses on good selections mation security as well as issues related of healthy and fresh products. Our fruit to the management of rights of use,” says and vegetable department is large, we Pasi Mäkinen. 30 Responsible operator address by stakeholder highlights case Mirja Tiri, FRCC The European Finnish companies operating in Russia, trade sector such as Kesko, have a very good reputation among Russian authorities, employcooperates ees and other affiliated groups. to protect its interests One can say that economic responsibility is built into Finnish companies. It is reflected in the full and timely payment of taxes and transparent and even exemKesko seeks to influence developments plary accounting practices, among other in the trade sector by cooperating with things. Social responsibility is reflected international trade sector organisations. in the ‘over-the-table’, timely and full For instance, it has been a member of payment of salaries, pensions and social UGAL, the Union of Groups of Independtaxes, in the significant investment in the ent Retailers of Europe, since the 1970s, professional development of personnel and it participates in the activities of and good working conditions, and in the EuroCommerce, the trade representation efforts to secure employment even durto the EU, via the Federation of Finnish ing difficult times. Commerce. The trust that customers, employees UGAL represents nearly 300,000 indeand the authorities have in Rautakesko pendent retailers and groups, which have and Intersport, including their products, over 500,000 outlets within the EU. Euroemployer obligations and corporate Commerce represents the retail, wholeresponsibility, is a great asset to Kesko Mirja Tiri is the Managing Director of the sale and international trade sectors, Food in its mission to succeed in Russia. Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce. promoting the visibility and defending the interests of commerce and raising awareness among EU decision makers about the special features and operating environment of commerce. Kesko’s Vice President, General Counsel Anne Leppälä-Nilsson, is a Board member of UGAL and a Board member and a steering committee member of EuroCommerce. IT IS IMPORTANT TO INFLUENCE In 2012, UGAL and EuroCommerce discussed various issues related to corporate responsibility, such as the EU sustainability strategy for 2011–2014, human rights, self-regulation in the sector’s distribution chain, supplier agreements and e-commerce. “Obtaining information via UGAL and EuroCommerce and cooperating with international trade companies is very important for Kesko. Most of the regulation on commerce comes from the EU and there are currently several projects about the sector underway in the commission. For instance, the proposed amendment to the Finnish Competition Act that would change the dominant market share provisions can be partly attributed to regulatory pressure coming from the EU. It is important to influence and to receive information about provisions being prepared in good time,” says Anne Leppälä-Nilsson. 31 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Veturi GENERAL SERVICES shopping ∙∙ ∙∙ Opened in Kouvola in September 2012 The eighth largest shopping centre in ∙∙ ∙∙ Employs 800 people Store area 48,000 m2; more than 80 stores centre ∙∙ Finland One of Kesko’s biggest shopping centre ∙∙ The K-Group stores in Veturi are K-citymarket, K-rauta, an Anttila department projects of all time store, Intersport, Musta Pörssi, Kookenkä and Budget Sport ∙∙ Around 35 completely new operators, most of them in response to the wishes TRAFFIC of local inhabitants ∙∙ Expected number of customer visits: about CONNECTIONS four million per year ∙∙ Wide and accessible: six escalators, four Veturi’s key words ∙∙ About 1,800 parking spaces, including 33 customer lifts are a local approach, for disabled customers ∙∙ Families with children taken into account: ∙∙ Nearly 200 parking spaces for bikes and children’s playroom and baby care facilities an active life and a separate parking area for scooters ∙∙ Electronic information board and web that cosy feeling ∙∙ Separate parking lots for families and pages in Finnish, English and Russian loading bays for trailers ∙∙ K-citymarket has four checkouts for tax free shopping to serve Russian customers 32 Responsible operator There are three recharging points ENERGY EFFICIENCY for electric cars in the Veturi shopping centre’s yard. ∙∙ K-citymarket’s cooling system uses the CO2 ∙∙ Web-based, hour-by-hour remote reading technology; surplus condensation heat is system for electricity and water consumpused to heat the premises tion with separate measurement of con∙∙ LED illuminated signs sumption ∙∙ Outdoor lighting that dims in five stages ∙∙ Energy-efficient, optimised ventilation ∙∙ BREEAM environmental rating: very good ∙∙ About half of the shopping centre’s heat∙∙ More durable roof and frame structures ing and cooling power comes from the than required by building regulations – ground: 109 ground heating/cooling wells lower energy consumption, lower costs ∙∙ The shopping centre also uses electricity and a lower risk of damage (e.g. ability to supplied by the local electricity company withstand snow) KSS Energia, produced, to a great extent, ∙∙ Light-coloured roof covering reduces by hydroelectric power from the Kymijoki heating during summer and thus the need river system for interior refrigeration ∙∙ A recycling point for customers ∙∙ Energy-efficient building, top-class tightness 33 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 DOING GOOD TOGETHER, LOCALLY A local approach and K-retailers are the competitive advantages of the K-Group. Retailers know the local community and the needs of their customers. Together with its customers and partners, Kesko is building a better society. At the end of 2012, Kesko had 1,210 K-retailer enhancing and strengthening K-retailer entrepreneurs as partners. In Finland, all entrepreneurship and promoting K-retailfood and building and home improveers’ interests in the trading sector. ment stores in the K-Group are run by The K-Retailers’ Association celebrated K-retailer entrepreneurs. its 100th anniversary in 2012 and K-retailer In 2012, 65 new K-retailers started their entrepreneurship was made known in careers. Approximately one fifth of all many ways during the year. ‘K100, the K-retailers are female, while many of the K-Retailers’ Association 1912–2012’, which K-stores are family enterprises, headed by tells the one-hundred-year history of the a retailer couple. K-Retailers’ Association, K-retailers and The K-retailers are responsible for their the K-Group as part of the development of stores’ customer satisfaction, personnel Finnish commerce and society, was puband business profitability. K-retailers lislished in early 2012. ten to the wishes of their local customers, Many retailers participated in the discreating the selection and services that cussion about the significance of entrerespond to their needs. The common sepreneurship in society at the main festival lection of the chain is, for instance, comof the annual Entrepreneur Event in Tamplemented with local food from nearby pere and also in the discussion organised producers. in the SuomiAreena radio channel in Pori. Future K-retailers are trained by the The ‘Encounters in K-stores’ competition retailer training programmes. The traintempted nearly 1,700 customers to remiing consists of online studies, on-the-job nisce and tell about their recollections training under a mentor retailer and reover the years. The stories were published gional and nationwide classroom instrucin the Pirkka, Kehittyvä Kauppa and Kauption sessions. pias magazines as well as on the website of the K-Retailers’ Association. K-retailer entrepreneurship highlighted in its anniversary Support for children and the year young The K-Retailers’ Association, which looks In 2012, Kesko and its subsidiaries gave after the interests of and promotes cofinancial support worth approximately operation between K-retailers, has all €0.9 million to various communities and of the 1,210 K-retailers as members. The organisations. K-Retailers’ Association’s duties include 34 for the benefit of the community highlights case Local Pirkka breads meet consumer demand Local products have a central position in K-food stores’ selections. In 2012, the Pirkka range focused on bread. Local Pirkka products were developed in cooperation with local bakeries to meet the growing demand for local foods. Cooperation with the Nurmes-based Pielispakari resulted in Pirkka Organic bagels and Pirkka rye pan bread being included in the selections of K-food stores in Northern Savo and Northern Karelia regions in August. “It’s great that Kesko Food has chosen to participate in maintaining local food culture. The bagels are made from organic flour in the traditional Karelian way. The rye pan bread is high in fibre, contains no additives and is baked according to a traditional recipe,” says Erkki Timonen, Managing Director of Pielispakari. highlights case Benefits from Plussa cooperation K-Plussa’s sponsorship service encourages and supports retailers in their local charity and sponsorship work. In 2012, K-Plussa and K-retailers provided support to around 140 sports clubs or teams across Finland. The K-stores in the Turtola shopping centre in Tampere have had Plussa cooperation with local sports clubs for years. Club members shop at the stores, which pay a certain percentage of their purchases as support to the clubs. K-city­ market Turtola, Intersport Koskikeskus and Intersport Turtola are all major sponsors of the Ilves sports club. Special Ilves events are organised in K-citymarket Turtola to attract new junior players to join in the activities of the club. 35 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Aaltonen shares his knowledge with the next generation of retailers Hannu Aaltonen, who has been a K-cityA department manager market retailer since 1990, was recogbecomes a retailer nised as Tutor Retailer of the Year by the K-Food Retailers’ Club in spring 2012. Juha Pöyhönen became interested in This Turku-based K-citymarket Kupittaa a retailer career at K-citymarket Kupitretailer has helped seven people start taa, where he worked in different departtheir careers in retail in seven years, all ments for five years. Pöyhönen now of them his employees. works in his second store, the K-market Neste Oil in Paimio, as a retailer. Retailer training is a “Hannu gave me a really good basis passageway to becoming for my retailer career. We went through a K-retailer the main issues together, from financial indicators to the importance of product Kesko Food’s retailer training prodisplay. And things did not end there: gramme includes different kinds of studHannu arranges annual events so that ies: online learning, guided retailer trainthose of us who were trained in Kupittaa ing, and regional and nationwide on-site can exchange experiences,” commends assignments. Retailer training takes 4–24 Pöyhönen. months, depending on the specified training needs. Retailing is a way of life The retailer training provided by Aaltonen differs from Kesko Food’s retailer Who has it in them to be a retailer? training programme to some extent. The According to Aaltonen, practical work training occurs alongside paid work and tells the tale, and many people work the employer pays compensation to the in this field for years before acquiring trainee for studying, too. The training retailer training. People with completely period is also longer than in the training programme. different backgrounds, such as banking, THE TRAINEE also choose this career path. “Because I’m eventually going to lose Aaltonen says that working as a HAS A CHANCE TO a good employee, I also try to get a lot retailer is a way of life that combines PARTICIPATE AS out of the trainee. With us, the retailer HR management, purchasing and chain training takes 4–5 years instead of one operations. Retailer entrepreneurship WIDELY AS POSSIBLE or two years, which is usually the case. also has a social dimension that may IN ALL THE WORK This way we ensure that the trainee affect the whole family. “You can be has a chance to participate as widely offered a store site anywhere in Finland, AT THE STORE, PROas possible in all the work at the store, which will entail a complete change in GRESSING TO MORE progressing to more demanding duties the life of any possible family,” Aaltonen and assuming more responsibility,” says concludes. DEMANDING DUTIES Aaltonen. AND ASSUMING MORE RESPONSIBILITY highlights case Rautakesko helps build an orphanage in Vietnam As a partner of the Eurobuy purchasing province of Nghe An in North Vietnam. cooperation, Rautakesko helped support Opened in July 2012, the Nghi Loc Eurobuy’s Eurogroup Charity Fund (ECF) Mother Theresa Orphanage offers in the Far East when it participated in the orphans, many of whom have disabiliconstruction of an orphanage in the poor ties, primary care, shelter and education. 36 for the benefit of the community Board of Directors donated €40,000 to the highlights case collection, which generated about €1.4 million in all. Vouchers of €70 each were given to 18,000 families. Food culture to “Through our Facebook pages, we have received dozens of messages from mothlocal children ers thanking us for the voucher and saying that €70 is a lot of money for their families The K-citymarket yard was filled with and saves their Christmas,” says Sanna children at the market event celebratRäsänen, Communications Officer for the ing Children’s Food Culture Week in Finnish Red Cross, who has participated in Äänekoski one September morning. organising the collection for many years. Together with the local society for Agricultural Producers, K-citymarket retailer Cooperation with partners Mika Lankinen had invited all the local kindergartens, private day care providKesko requires that its suppliers and other ers, children’s day clubs and primary partners act in compliance with Kesko’s valschools to learn about the origins of ues and responsible operating principles. Finnish food. Cooperation with partners requires a In front of the store, the children regular dialogue. Kesko Food organises interested in food had a chance to hear an annual information event for its supabout domestic food production and see pliers. In November 2012, nearly 600 peoagricultural machinery. The local prople gathered in Helsinki to hear about ducers invited by the retailer offered the competitive advantages provided by samples of rye bread and milk products K-food stores, Kesko Food’s expansion to the children. into Russia and the shift of customer encounters to electronic channels. “Customer relationships are undergoing a change: we have an increasing number of active and demanding consumers highlights case aged over 65, while for the young, on the other hand, the web is omnipresent. As competition for customers is escalatSalads and ing and getting more complex, we must herbs direct The main emphasis in Kesko’s and also be present in electronic channels forecasting and interpreting customer from farmer K-stores’ sponsorship activities is on proneeds. We are shifting from mass marviding support to children and the young. keting towards an interactive business Based in Sipoo, Kenneth Eskman supAt any given time, Kesko’s sponsorship model. While this is an opportunity for plies salads and herbs to two K-food is targeted on a few projects that affect a us, it also presents a risk if we don’t keep stores in Helsinki. Eskman supplies the large number of consumers. up with the change,” said President and products himself, visiting the stores For 15 years now, Kesko has been proCEO Matti Halmesmäki at Kesko Food’s every other day in the winter and more moting an active lifestyle and the wellpartner information event. often in the summer. being of children, families with children “The biggest benefit for both the store and the young in cooperation with the Stores as a meeting place and customers from having small, local Young Finland Association. In 2012, Kesko suppliers is the short supply chain – the participated in the regional competition Retail stores offer various shopping and products are guaranteed to be fresh and of the Association’s Your Move Taisto other services and act as meeting places of high quality,” says Jouni Ekholm, campaign for physical activity. in many localities. retailer at K-supermarket Mustapekka. About 170 K-stores also provide postal From the perspective of a small supGood Christmas spirit services in their neighbourhood. Smartplier, the advantage of cooperating with post parcel terminals will be installed in the stores is the ongoing relationship it The Finnish Red Cross and the Mannerall K-citymarkets by the end of 2013. Cusoffers. heim League for Child Welfare annually tomers can order their online purchases “I have supplied salads to K-supermarket organise a Christmas Spirit collection to to a Smartpost terminal and pick them up Mustapekka for eight years now. Over help Finnish low-income families with during their shopping trips. the years we have expanded our product children. The collection is implemented Tests of the cashback service started in range to also include various herbs, such in cooperation with three media channels 30 K-markets across Finland in Novemas coriander and parsley,” says Eskman. – YLE Morning TV, YLE Radio Suomi, YLE ber 2012. The experience gained so far has During their long journey, Ekholm and Radio Vega – and Kesko. The funds donatbeen positive and the aim is to expand the Eskman have developed operating praced to the collection are used to distribute service nationwide in K-food stores durtices that benefit both of them. They have gift vouchers that the families can use at ing 2013. agreed that Eskman can take broken palK-food stores to buy food for Christmas. Pilot projects for testing electronic lets from the store for use in heating the In 2012, consumers could, for the first price displays and self-service checkouts greenhouse, which reduces the amount time, also participate in the collection by in retail stores were also launched in 2012. of waste in the store. donating their K-Plussa points. Kesko’s 37 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 We do and offer high-quality work The K-Group employs around 45,000 people in eight countries. We offer meaningful and varied jobs, flexibility at work for various life situations plus personal development opportunities. We want to be the most attractive workplace in the trading sector, with satisfied employees and competent supervisors. In Kesko and K-stores, you can have a varcommunity and management and superied career in many trading sector jobs, visory work. Enhancing supervisory work, which vary from retail store duties to reproviding management tools and creating tailer entrepreneurship and specialist and the right conditions for success at work all supervisory jobs in different sectors. contribute to wellbeing at work. Many Kesko employees work in sevIn 2012, Kesko’s wellbeing at work proeral different jobs during their careers and gramme focused on the development of may also change from one division to ansupervisory work and working communiother. In 2012, there were more than 5,000 ties. The special emphasis was on the use of internal transfers to new jobs. the personnel survey to develop the workKesko is a significant regional eming community. During the year, Kesko ployer, and the new shopping centres in arranged around 30 training events for particular provide jobs for hundreds of supervisors, where the models for early people. The two newest ones, Veturi in intervention and performance and deKouvola and Karisma in Lahti, employ a velopment reviews were discussed. Aptotal of about 1,400 people. In spring 2012, proximately 500 managers and supervithe Karisma shopping centre was recogsors participated in these training events. nised with an honourable mention for ‘the “With the goal of developing skills for Employment Provider of 2011’. the working community, we produced some videos in cooperation with Ketonen Working community skills the and Myllyrinne, the popular sketch actors. theme of the year Humorous videos were used to spark discussion about developing working comIn Kesko, wellbeing at work is based on munities and as part of the online Master the opportunity to do meaningful work, Sales Assistant training material. In 2012, in line with one’s abilities, in a safe, pleasbest practices were also sought through an ant and supportive working environment. in-company contest, and the good workThe management of wellbeing at work ing community deeds reported were preconsists of the following areas: life mansented on the intranet site throughout the agement, work and competence, working year. The community deed of the year was 38 working community LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Checkout personnel have many skills Besides knowing about various products, checkout workers also need information on, say, different payment cards and age limit control concerning purchases. Superiors play a key role in the induction of new checkout workers and the many online training courses available provide support. 1 AGE LIMIT CERTIFICATE common to the K-Group, matters of current interest in the chains’ business operations, Retail stores offer many products whose sale product information and customer service. to minors is either restricted or entirely forbidden. According to the directions that came 4 DATA SECURITY CERTIFICATE into force in January 2013, checkout workers must always verify the age of any customer Annual data security training provides basic buying alcohol beverages, tobacco products information on data security risks and minimisand smoking paraphernalia who appears to be ing them in connection with payment transacunder 30. Employees’ proficiency at age limit tions by paying attention and acting properly. control is improved by training. They have to At the end of 2012, more than 23,000 Kesko and take the proficiency test of the Finnish Grocery K-store employees had completed the trainTrade Association and follow the instructions ing and received the data security certificate. given by the association on age limit control. 5 CASHBACK SERVICE 2 RESPONSIBLE CHOICES Online training for the cashback service proIn 2012, the K-instituutti training centre implevided by retail stores started in March 2013. mented a new online training course called Checkout personnel are given information on ‘Responsible choices’ to give a comprehensive the operations of payment and POS terminals idea of different areas of responsibility in the when customers want to withdraw cash when K-Group and answers to questions frequently paying for their purchases. asked by customers. 6 K-PLUSSA MASTERCARD 3 M ASTER SALES ASSISTANT TRAINING An online training course on K-Plussa MasterCard, the K-Group’s own means of payment, Master Sales Assistant training has been availahas been available to store personnel since ble to K-store sales assistants for over 50 years. February 2013. The course provides basic inforThe current online training programme, which mation on the terms and benefits of the card was revised in 2012, focuses on basic issues to the customer. 39 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Productivity the shared commuting bus arranged for Job satisfaction Indoor Group employees,” says Janna Pir­ honen, Kesko’s Manager for Wellbeing at Work. Support for supervisors and employees during changes The aim of the profitability programme implemented during the latter part of the year was to improve cost-efficiency in all of the companies and units. Besides other savings, the measures also had a significant impact on personnel. The implementation of the profitability programme is supported by common Life management Work and coaching events arranged for supervisors competence and by group coaching. Various employment trainings are offered for employees. Uniform operating system for occupational health care in Finland Working Management All employees of Kesko and its subsidicommunity and supervisory aries in Finland fall within the sphere of work comprehensive occupational health care. In addition to the extensive health care services for maintaining working capacity, full-time employees are entitled to general practitioner level health services. Starting from the beginning of 2012, Kesko’s Occupational Health Service and Kela, the Social Insurance Institution of Finland, have been applying the PATU service provider model. Throughout Finland, occupational health care services for all of Kesko’s division parent companies are produced and purchased by the OccupaResponsibility tional Health Service, whose centralised highlights case K-retailers contribute to employment of persons with intellectual disabilities To celebrate its 100th anniversary, the authorities on the financial aid provided K-Retailers’ Association launched a profor employment. For various reasons, ject called ‘Many kinds of performers’ in 13 of the contacts did not lead to the April 2012 in cooperation with the Finnish desired end result. Association on Intellectual and DevelopOne of those employed in the project is mental Disabilities (FAIDD). An employee Tiina Sulander (to the left in the picture), was hired at the FAIDD to bring together who found a job she likes in K-supermarK-retailers and people with intellectual ket Härkätie in Somero. “Tiina was quick disabilities who are interested in workto learn various duties and now handles ing in K-stores. the cheese department like a pro,” praises During the spring and autumn, 55 retailer Minna Lunden (to the right in the retailers across Finland announced that picture). On the basis of her experience, they were interested in the project. In she is ready to recommend this type of 13 cases, employment contracts have employment to other retailers, too. since been signed and in 29 cases the The project will continue in 2013, when process was still underway at the beginthe aim is to build a permanent operatning of 2013. One of the reasons was that ing model for employing intellectually the retailer was waiting for decisions by disabled people at K-stores. 40 working community sourcing and target-oriented manageLET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case ment enable us to provide uniform content and practices throughout the whole Kesko Group. A common management model for The activities of the Occupational Health Service help Kesko and its subsidiwellbeing at work aries achieve the targets of the programme on wellbeing at work. A common management model for Hypermarket Director Nina Wikström “We are here to coach supervisors and wellbeing at work is being developed (to the left in the picture). managers on early intervention in chalfor K-citymarkets’ home and specialAlthough supervisors are primarily lenging situations, such as in case of ity goods departments and for Anttila responsible for the induction of new extended absences due to illness or condepartment stores. The idea is that employees, it has been agreed in Porvoo flicts at the workplace. We also provide the same methods used for increasing that everyone will take part. Feedback support for supervisors in various daily wellbeing at work can be introduced in given for work will, among other things, situations and support employees in cases department stores across Finland. The strengthen the feeling of appreciation. of personal crisis, burnout or something objective is to enhance employee well“A supervisor’s feedback to an threatening their physical health,” says being by decreasing staff turnover and employee is naturally the most important Pirjo Anttila, Chief Physician of Kesko’s sick leaves, and to increase the feeling of all, but praise from colleagues also feels Occupational Health Service. of appreciation of work and productivity. good. We are learning to give positive “The aim is to develop a model that feedback to each other and to learn from Rehabilitation helps people is easy to adapt in various department each other by working across departmenstay at work stores and that produces results that are tal boundaries,” says Wikström. easy to measure,” says Janna Pirhonen The third target for improvement in Several ASLAK rehabilitation courses, paid (to the right in the picture), Kesko’s ManPorvoo is improving the community spirit for by Kela and coordinated by Kesko’s ager for Wellbeing at Work. between the department and checkout Occupational Health Service, were arA multi-disciplinary working group, personnel. According to Wikström, it ranged for store, warehouse and office which included representatives from is important that checkout personnel employees and supervisors in 2012. K-citymarket Oy’s and Anttila Oy’s understand the nature of the work done In the greater Helsinki area, Kesko’s HR Management, the Kesko Group’s in the department. Occupational Health Service also directed HR unit and the Occupational Health SerIn Porvoo, overall progress and the employees to AMI rehabilitation, which vice, was set up to develop the manageexperiences gained from new operating promotes mental health. AMI rehabilitament model for wellbeing at work. The practices are dealt with on a weekly basis tion for outpatients is a development prohome and speciality goods department at department meetings. Future surveys ject carried out by Kela that has provided of K-citymarket Porvoo was selected to will ultimately reveal how wellbeing at help for depression patients in working life. serve as a test case. work develops. After an initial inspection of the hyperJanna Pirhonen says that the indicaPersonnel survey supports the market, special attention was paid to the tors used in the model should remain development of the working following: induction of new employees, the same for a longer period. This allows community appreciation of employee wellbeing, those interested to monitor whether the and the community spirit between the activities agreed upon and implemented The wellbeing of the working community department and checkout personnel. affect the feeling of wellbeing at work. and the quality of management are meas“A decision was made to focus on ured in Kesko and its chains’ stores with things we can genuinely affect,” says an annual personnel survey. In the 2012 personnel survey, the Kesko Group’s results improved from the previous year. The total satisfaction was 3.94 (scale 1–5), compared with 3.90 in the previous year. The total average given for supervisory work was 3.94, compared with 3.90 in 2011. The state of wellbeing at work is monitored with the help of an index that measures the working capacity of employees and the work-load. In 2012, the wellbeing at work index increased to 3.81 from 3.75 in the previous year. Employees felt that they easily get help from their colleagues. High scores were also given for the tolerance of differences and for the implementation of equality between people of different ethnic backgrounds, gender and ages. Room for improvement was found in Kesko’s attraction as an employer, in opportunities for job rotation and in cooperation between the different units. 41 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 address by stakeholder As part of the 2012 theme of developing the working communities, 30 working Eeva Hukka, Ilmarinen units got help from an external consultant to enhance the unit’s operations after the 2011 personnel survey. Improving wellbeing at work and extending In 2013, the programme on wellbecareers are themes that are close to ing at work will focus on work safety and those of us in the work pension insurergonomics. ance sector. As a pension provider, the role of Ilmarinen is to offer facts, figures, Training for store personnel good practices and expertise for the use of our client companies. Kesko’s subsidiary K-instituutti has been We find Kesko’s approach to wellorganising the Master Sales Assistant being at work through work and the training programme for retail store perrequirements of working to be very sonnel for over 50 years. smart: there is no point in talking about The training package was revised in wellbeing at work, if the work does not 2012 and went all online. The contents feel worthwhile or if the supervisor does focus on the K-Group’s joint basic comnot offer the desired level of support. petencies, matters of current interest in Kesko’s last year is a good example of the chain’s business and on product inhow a company can simultaneously start formation. a profitability programme and invest in the The K-Retailers’ Association organised well-being of employees at work. Luckily its annual K-Team event in Turku on 3 Noinvestments in personnel do not deduct Eeva Hukka is an Account Manager for vember 2012. More than 4,000 K-retailfrom the company’s results, and in fact the major customers at Ilmarinen. ers, K-store employees, Kesko employees opposite is true. Employees who are well and business partners gathered at this pro work more efficiently, and therefore each event to see the Master Sales Assistant fieuro that is correctly invested in wellbenals, learn about new products and hear ing at work is returned many times over. the partners’ latest news. For the sixth Wellbeing at work benefits the employee, year, Kesko had a corporate responsibilthe employer and the entire society. ity stand at the event. This year’s theme was social responsibility. In 2012, the K-instituutti training centre implemented the new Responsible Choices online course, which is part of the 2013 Master Sales Assistant training, offering an extensive presentation on the BEARING RESPONSIBILITY case K-Group’s work for responsibility. Kesko Food and K-instituutti will proWellbeing at work in the Baltics vide training on the new K-responsibility concept for Kesko employees, K-food retailers and store personnel in 2013. Tools In 2012, HR Manager of Konekesko Baltic to support and help practical implementaKatrin Tur, focused on the implementation in stores will include online training tion of Kesko’s and Konekesko’s groupmaterial and a concept manual. Responsilevel HR processes in Estonia, Latvia and ble deeds in Kesko and retail stores will be Lithuania. presented with illustrative case examples. One of the major projects is the communication and implementation of the Kesko and K-stores to wellbeing at work model in the Baltic participate in the Youth countries. Guarantee initiative “On the Baltic level, the most important thing is to support every employee’s Kesko and K-stores will participate in the understanding of wellbeing at work and social guarantee for young people initiabetter awareness of wellbeing in gentive, with a view to promoting employeral. I like the definition of wellbeing at ment and preventing social exclusion work in Kesko’s guide: Wellbeing at work among young people. Kesko will implemeans the opportunity to do meaningment the initiative in cooperation with ful work, in line with one’s abilities, in a the authorities, the K-Retailers’ Associasafe, pleasant and supportive working tion and other organisations. A tailored environment,” Katrin Tur says. programme will be built for the K-Group to employ young people in K-stores and Kesko. Kesko’s Board of Directors granted Sivu: 42 Kieli: GB €100,000 to start up the programme in February 2013. read more corporateresponsibility2012.kesko.fi/tur 42 working community Start to a career in a K-store for a scholarship. In order to qualify for highlights case the scholarship, the student’s mark for the The K-Group offers different training and summer jobs, most of which are in training period, given by the supervisor, must be either excellent or good. K-summer job K-stores. Kesko also employs thousands of summer employees, job trainees, and In 2012, the programme was expanded to cover all polytechnic students and Kescampaign to young people for short-term orientation to working life and for short-term summer ko scholarships of €500 each were distributed to 24 students from 10 polytechnics. employ young jobs called ‘Learn and Earn’. In K-stores, summer employees most people A year as a K-trainee provides often work as checkout clerks or sales extensive experience in assistants, while in Kesko they do office commerce work, such as in financial administration, or assist in warehouse duties in logistics The K-trainee programme is directed at centres. young people with a university or polyIn 2012, Kesko’s and K-stores’ aim was technic degree, either newly graduated to have each Kesko unit and store employ or with little work experience. The core at least one young summer employee or of the 15-month programme consists of trainee. K-retailers employed around 3,200 work in various trading sector duties. The people and Kesko employed 1,200. programme also includes a joint leaderKesko and the K-Retailers’ Association ship training period at K-instituutti and supported K-stores’ participation in the advanced divisionand chain-specific Finnish Family Firms Association’s ‘Sumcourses. mer job for 10th graders’ project. K-stores The fourth K-trainee programme was provided summer jobs for 90 grade 10 seclaunched in June 2012. From among over Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association ondary school students. 500 applicants, ten were selected for the organised a K-summer job campaign in For many young people, apprentice programme. 2012 to attract attention to the employtraining is a good way to advance in a caOver the year, the K-trainees were takment of young people. The campaign reer path. In 2012, there were 773 people ing turns to shoot a video blog, in which culminated in awards for the K-summer in apprentice training, of whom 224 had a they described their experiences during employee and the K-summer employer vocational and special qualification. the training. of the year. The three previous programmes have The K-Summer Employee of the Year title Kesko known to teachers and been completed by 50 K-trainees, of whom went to Anni Nurminen from Joutsa, students 39 worked in specialist or supervisory posiwho worked at K-citymarket Seppälä in tions in the Kesko Group at the end of 2012. Jyväskylä for the summer. Kesko is engaged in close collaboration Anni Nurminen charmed both customers with students and teachers in various and fellow workers. “She has set an examSurveys of employer image fields. Kesko employees regularly visit ple and showed the right attitude, creatbusiness universities and polytechnics, as Kesko’s attraction as an employer is moniing a positive feeling and a spirit of getting well as recruitment fairs, to tell students tored with several surveys. The Univerthings done among everyone working about the K-Group’s career and summer sum Young Professionals 2012 survey here,” praises K-citymarket Seppälä’s job opportunities, K-trainee programmes looked into the opinions of professionStore Manager Jukka Vihavainen. In and the retailer entrepreneur path proals in working life about employment, cathe picture, Vihavainen and Department vided by polytechnics. reers and the most ideal employers. Kesko Manager Anja Ylivainio lift Anni up high. A special programme (‘K-Tutuksi’), tarwas the 10th most popular employer in The K-Summer Employer of the Year was geted at teachers, business partners and the answers of young trading sector proretailer couple Jyrki and Mari Koenkytö Kesko personnel, offers a practical, guidfessionals. of K-citymarket Loimaa. This retailer ed opportunity to become familiar with T-Media’s Young and Management couple had 17 summer employees and K-food store operations and competence 2012 survey focused in particular on trainees in 2012. The inventive retailers requirements. young people’s thoughts about superbought a special ice cream bike for the For ten years, Kesko has organised visory work. Respondents said that the summer and employed young people to autumn seminars on topical issues for most important means for contributing ride around selling ice cream. teachers, guidance counsellors, princito the development of young people in“The unique ice cream bike campaign pals and programme directors. The five clude introduction, support given by the paid off,” the retailers say. “Although seminars held in autumn 2012 discussed working community and feedback. In the the investment did not produce much Kesko’s expansion in Russia and the Masimages of young people, Kesko was on the money, the campaign was more than ter Sales Assistant training. lists for both the best managed (ranking good publicity for us. We care about our 12) and the worst managed (ranking 9) neighbourhood and these young peoKesko scholarship programme companies. ple and want to share the good feelings with others.” Kesko launched a special scholarship The second K-summer job campaign programme for students at business polywill be organised in 2013. technics in 2011. Students who have completed their study-related training period in Kesko’s offices or a K-store can apply 43 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 WELL-RESEARCHED AND SAFE PRODUCTS A product’s route to the store shelf is often long and the supply chain may have many steps. It is the store’s duty to help customers make responsible choices. Customers must be able to rely on the fact that the products offered by stores are well-researched, safe and sustainably produced. SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS sustainability. Kesko Food’s representative, SUPPORT THE WORK OF BUYERS Product Research Manager Matti Kalervo, is a member of both working groups. The buyers in Kesko’s various divisions Kesko Food participates in the national make purchasing decisions every day. It monitoring group set up in 2012 to moniis important that they all follow common tor European standardisation initiatives on rules, have sufficient information and are the sustainability and traceability of cocoa. experts in responsible sourcing and purchasing. In order to ensure responsible PAYING SPECIAL ATTENTION TO operations across the entire chain, Kesko WORKING CONDITIONS IN HIGHalso requires that all suppliers accept our RISK COUNTRIES values and principles and act accordingly. Kesko’s purchasing principles guide In its operations, Kesko pays special atour responsible purchasing. Various tention to human rights issues and workpolicy statements, such as the palm oil ing conditions across its sourcing chain. policy, the fish and shellfish statement, Monitoring focuses mainly on countries the timber policy, and the stand on the where the risks that these rights will sandblasting of jeans, have been prepared be violated are the greatest (such as in to support purchasing operations. many Asian, Central American and AfriKesko Food is a member of the Roundcan countries). International assessment table on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), systems, BSCI auditing and SA8000 cerwhich promotes the sustainable productification, are used for supplier audits in tion of palm oil. Kesko Food recommends high-risk countries. the use of certified sustainable palm oil Kesko is a member of the European (CSPO) by manufacturers of Pirkka and Business Social Compliance Initiative Menu products. (BSCI). There is also a project underway As declared in the fish and shellfish to add audits on environmental impacts statement, Kesko Food, Kespro and K-food and risks to complement social auditing stores do not sell species with a red ratin the future. ing in WWF Finland’s traffic light guide Kesko’s Finnish companies’ direct purfor fish. Species with a green rating are chases from suppliers in risk areass acfavoured and sustainable fish stocks and counted for 1.3% of Kesko’s all purchases MSC certified suppliers are preferred in 2012. The most important non-EU supwhen making selection decisions. Kesko plier countries in risk areas are China, InFood supports retailers’ efforts to sell fish dia and Turkey. Imports from these councaught in local waters using sustainable tries mainly consist of clothing, home methods. The Pirkka range contains 11 textiles, shoes and household appliances. MSC certified fish products and new ones Kesko actively promotes social responare sought actively. sibility audits of suppliers in high-risk During 2012, there was much public discountries. The aim is to only do business cussion about the recommendations in the only with suppliers that have passed an WWF’s fish guide and about sustainable audit. At the end of 2012, Kesko’s suppliers fishing of Finnish migrant whitefish and in high-risk countries had 209 factories or wild Baltic salmon in particular. The Minfarms within scope of the BSCI process. istry of Agriculture and Forestry set up two The audits alone are not sufficient to working groups to develop regulations on improve working conditions, but the BSCI whitefish and salmon fishing to ensure its system increases awareness and provides 44 responsible purchasing and sales highlights case Anno products are designed to stand the test of time The Anno collection, which has been designed in Pitäjänmäki, Helsinki, is based on basic products and neutral colours, and is complemented with a colour palette that changes from season to season. Anno textiles are mainly made from natural materials, such as cotton, linen or wool. The redesigned Anno products are made from recycled materials and locally produced when possible. For instance, the Anno Kupla vase is made from recycled glass and the new Anno Collection paper napkins are manufactured by Suomen Kerta Oy in Kotka. The Anno Rehti blanket is partly made from recycled fibres, while the kitchen textiles in the Aika range are made from recycled cotton. “When we developed the collection, our aim was to create long-lasting and reasonably-priced products that customers find easy to combine. We have paid special attention to the materials and quality. The collection includes many natural fibres, whose positive features are hard to match with other materials,” says Pia Lehtovuori, designer of home products for K-citymarket Oy and Anttila Oy. Efforts are made to minimise the use of packaging materials. For instance, some of the Anno kitchen textiles have no plastic in their packaging. When designing large products, packaging is taken into account to allow shipping containers to be packed as tightly as possible (using the so-called flat pack method). Production stages have also been minimised as far as possible. For example, some of the Palmikko wool carpets are not dyed or bleached but their colour comes directly from the wool itself. “Our Anno Collection wool carpets are made in India under controlled conditions. The factory that manufactures the popular Pandora wool carpets is committed to social responsibility and supports the communities near the weaving centres by arranging education for the children. This factory has been particularly active and has worked to resolve issues in the Indian carpet industry,” says Helena Frilander, Communications and Responsibility Manager for K-citymarket Oy and Anttila Oy. 45 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 concrete examples and models for resolvto help Kesko’s buyers and suppliers in concentrate via its Dutch parent company. ing possible grievances. More permanent purchases from high-risk countries. The case attracted much publicity and results are achieved through long-term The guide, which was updated in 2012, provoked discussion about product oritraining and cooperation with local authorprovides basic information about Kesko gins and the seller’s responsibility for the ities, trade unions and other stakeholders. and its purchasing principles. It describes entire supply chain. Kesko takes the isthe BSCI process in a step-by-step manner. sues brought up by the report seriously. GUIDANCE FOR SUPPLIERS “The guide was published in electronWe are working to create a business model THROUGH MONITORING ic format on Kesko’s website, where it is that would enable us to keep better track readily accessible from all over the world. of the implementation of our purchasing In China, Kesko supports its home and All of our suppliers in high-risk countries principles throughout the entire sourcing speciality goods suppliers through monishould be able to find the information chain, including indirect purchases from toring. The local monitor guides, trains they may need about Kesko’s purchashigh-risk countries. and oversees the terms of employment ing principles in this guide. This is one and working conditions at Kesko’s Chiof those areas where common rules help PRODUCTS ARE ACCURATELY nese suppliers, and their observance of our buyers in their work and speed up our RESEARCHED environmental and chemical regulations. purchasing process,” says Marjut Lovio, Chinese factories need particular support Kesko’s Corporate Responsibility Advisor. Kesko Food has a Product Research Laborain issues related to working times, comtory of its own, which monitors the qualpensation and management practices. FINNWATCH REPORT FOCUSED ity of groceries and home and speciality Rautakesko monitors and improves ON WORKING CONDITIONS goods sold by K-food stores, Anttila dethe working conditions of its suppliers in AT FACTORIES IN HIGH-RISK partment stores, K-citymarkets and Kodin1 the Far East through Eurogroup cooperadepartment stores for interior decoration COUNTRIES tion. BSCI audits cover the evaluation of and home goods. The Product Research occupational health and safety practices, A report that was published in January 2013 Unit analyses food and home and specicompliance with legislation on working by the Finnwatch NGO on the sustainability ality goods samples, develops new food times and compensation, and manageof own-label products in the trading secitems and tastes, and is responsible for ment practices in the factories of Rauta­ tor revealed that a factory in Thailand had product recalls. kesko’s suppliers. severe problems with working conditions. In 2012, the laboratory analysed 11,688 The factory manufactures pineapple product samples and conducted 51,744 THE GUIDE FOR RESPONSIBLE juice concentrate, which is used for three analyses. TRADING WAS UPDATED Finnish retail chains’ own-label products, The Product Research Laboratory is a including Pirkka pineapple juice. The testing laboratory that has T251 accreditaThe Principles and Practice of Socially RePirkka juice is manufactured for Kesko tion from FINAS accreditation services. It sponsible Trading guide has been created by a Finnish company, which imports the is the only research laboratory for trading LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case From customer’s idea to product in six months Customer involvement is a constantly growing trend in the development of new products and services and Pirkka has also wanted to invite customers to join in. The Pirkka low lactose mild quark got its start from customer requests in the Pirkka Idea Corner. FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL The Pirkka Idea Corner receives a customer’s The decision to include the item in the range Designing the appearance of the package request for low lactose mild quark that could is made. Kesko Food’s Pirkka Product Research takes about one month from when it is combe served as a snack. The Pirkka product range defines the quality criteria for the product. missioned. already includes a corresponding item that Opportunities for turning the idea into an contains lactose. actual product are identified and the search Heta Rautpalo of Kesko Food’s Consumer for a suitable supplier starts. Service thanks the customer for the idea and The selection of Pirkka products is a compli6 x 250 g forwards it to the product development unit. cated process, in which every piece must fit. Låg laktoshalt mild mjölkkvark Vähälaktoosinen Other customers have also requested that low Product design and development necessitate Valmistuttaja / Tillverkas för: FI 60319 EY Valmistaja/ Tillverkare: mieto maitorahka Säilytys / Förvaring: +2 – +8 °C lactose mild quark be included in the product close cooperation between the supplier and Osuuskunta Maitokolmio, Toholampi Ruokakesko Oy, Satamakatu 3, 00016 Kesko range. The idea receives 47 votes in all. the purchasing unit, product quality managers Valmistuttaja / Tillverkas för: Valmistaja/ Tillverkare: Säilytys / Förvaring: +2 – +8 °C Låg laktoshalt mild mjölkkvark and a home economics teacher from the Pirkka Vähälaktoosinen Osuuskunta Maitokolmio, Toholampi Ruokakesko Oy, Satamakatu 3, 00016 Kesko test kitchen. mieto maitorahka FI 60319 EY When products are selected for the Pirkka 6 x 250 g range, top priority is always given to the domestic alternative, provided that it meets the quality and price criteria. A Finnish supplier, Osuuskunta Maitokolmio, is found for the product. 46 responsible purchasing and sales sector own-label products in Finland that Municipal food inspectors also conhighlights case has been certified as complying with the duct inspections in food stores. Starting SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. Laboratory Chemist Timo Kivi exfrom May 2013, the results will be initially published on the Internet and be PEFC info plains what accreditation means: “Accreditation is about establishing also posted later at the store entrance. The Finnish Food Safety Authority Evira event in K-rauta competence. It is a practice based on international criteria that allows someone coordinates this national system, which is called Oiva. stores offered to reliably verify the credibility of the analyses carried out by the lab.” The results of food inspections will be listed in the Oiva report, where smiling customers For the laboratory, obtaining and face symbols indicate the results obtained information on maintaining accreditation requires high level and continuous development. by the store. The four smiling face options are: excellent, good, room for improvewood origins “The quality of measurements and the ment and poor. correctness of results are ensured with the The publication of inspection data PEFC certification was highlighted in validation of the analysis methods and should help increase transparency and an info event arranged for consumers the calibration of measuring instruments. provide consumers with information to in K-rauta stores in May 2012. The PEFC In the annual accreditation survey of the assist them when making decisions. logo tells the company and the conlaboratory, external reviewers assess the sumer that the product has been manperformance and quality of the laboratory FLOWERS AND BANANAS ARE ufactured from wood originating from and its analyses. The laboratory annually THE MOST POPULAR FAIRTRADE sustainably managed forests. PEFC speparticipates in comparative surveys, in PRODUCTS cialists visited stores in Espoo, Helsinki, which several laboratories from different Järvenpää, Kirkkonummi, Tampere and countries determine, say, the salt content In 2012, Kesko Food had 146 Fairtrade Vantaa to tell customers about PEFC cerof the same sample. Based on the results suppliers in 38 countries. Kesko Food had tification of timber and the domestic oriobtained by all the labs, a statistical result 215 Fairtrade products in its selection, of gin of wood. is determined to which the lab’s result is which 39 were Pirkka Fairtrade products. K-rauta aims to further develop as compared to assess whether the result The most popular Pirkka Fairtrade proda shopping destination offering highobtained is acceptable,” says Timo Kivi. ucts are flowers, bananas, oranges, coffee, quality and responsible products. Rauta­ juices, honey and chocolate. kesko’s selections currently include PEFC THE MONITORING OF PRODUCTS IS The products sold by Kesko Food genlogos on the wrapping of sawn goods, THE KEY TO QUALITY ASSURANCE erated a total of over €330,000 as a Fairand on floor materials, building boards, trade premium for social development glue boards, mouldings and panels. The Food operators are obligated by statute projects. Out of this, Kesko Food’s flower selection of PEFC certified products to set up systems to determine product sales accounted for nearly €190,000. keeps growing. Customer awareness of safety hazards involved in their operaA campaign, in which a hand-made the significance of good origins is raising tions and to draw up systematic measures bracelet from Kenyan women was added interest in domestic wood in particular. to manage these hazards. Kesko Food’s to each Pirkka Fairtrade flower bunch, Experiences gained from the day were Product Research unit is responsible for was carried out in May for the third year positive and encourage us to organise guidance and support for the relevant in succession. corresponding events in the future. K-Group activities. JUNE–JULY SEPTEMBER OCTOBER–JANUARY Approval of print proofs and the manufacture The quality and safety of a finished product is The new arrival is presented in the K-RuokaPirkka of packaging materials. checked once more at this stage. The Pirkka leaflet, the Pirkka magazine and on the Pirkka Product Research makes an evaluation of the Facebook site. Home economics teachers first finished lot before the product is approved develop recipes suitable for the product, such 95,5 mm for sale. The Pirkka low lactose mild quark is as a snack of cottage cheese and quark. Tekstialue launched to the market in September 2012 and Painopinta is well received by customers. Stanssin reuna (tuotteen lopullinen koko) Saumausalue 4 mm stanssin Vähälaktoosinen reunasta mieto maitorahka Låg laktoshalt mild mjölkkvark Runsaasti proteiinia sisältävä • Proteinrik Rasvaton • Fettfri CLIENT ORDER FROM PRODUCTION AD DATE INFO Pirkka Elina Suuriniemi Jari Mäkelä 2.5.2012 C M Y K In case Pantone 186 is not available, use PROJECT READY TO PRINT VERSION these CMYK-values: Vähälaktoosinen mieto xx.xx.2012 1 PMS PMS PMS COOL COOL 0 c 100 m 100 y 0 k maitorahka kansi 186 337 340 GRAY 3 GRAY 10 47 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 highlights case Pirkka Organic milks are just naturally good Pirkka Organic low-fat milk and Pirkka Organic fat-free milk come from the milk of cows raised on organic farms in Finland. When the search for a partner started, a decision was made to complement the Pirkka range with Finnish organic milk, because consumers value Finnish origins. Organic milk is processed less in the dairy; it is pasteurised but not homogenised. This means that fat globules in the milk are not broken up and the structure remains as natural as possible. Organic farms allow cows to behave in ways typical for their species. They may go out all year long and nurse their offspring. The cows’ food mainly comes “The best-selling Pirkka organic prod“We ordered 350,000 bracelets and 350 from organic feed produced on the same ucts are eggs and Pirkka Organic Fairtrade women started to make them in Kenya in farm. bananas. We will respond to demand and January. The women receive part of the No artificial fertilizers or chemical customer wishes and increase the selecproceeds, while the rest is used for the pesticides are used on organic farms. tion still further. Our aim is to offer 200 community. In 2012, the money was used The nutrients return to the field to fertiPirkka organic products by 2015,” says to build a new classroom for the school in lize plants as efficiently and with as little Pirkka Manager Ulla Heikkilä. Naivasha and to expand the kindergarten wastage as possible. In addition to Pirkka organic products, providing education. The women use their money to buy farm land or domesKesko Food’s selection includes more than tic animals or to finance their children’s 1,500 organic products. K-retailers also education,” says Liisa Myllylä, Purchasing buy organic products direct from local Manager at Kesko Food. producers. highlights case Kesko highlighted fair trade issues The goal is to have 500 products that during the Fairtrade week in October meet a responsibility criterion in the Pirkka The Product’s 2012 with articles in various channels, with in-store campaigns and by particirange by 2015. Merchandise that fulfils a responsibility criterion includes Fairtrade Path opens up pating in a panel discussion at the ‘Global responsibility through Fairtrade’ seminar products, MSC certified products, products with environmental labelling and the product’s in Tampere. In cooperation with Fairtrade UTZ certified products. route Finland, Kesko arranged a Mothers’ Day event for the third time in Helsinki in May LABELLING PROVIDES 2012, where 10,000 Pirkka Fairtrade roses INFORMATION ABOUT PRODUCT Customers are increasingly interested in were given to mothers and grandmothers. ORIGINS product origins and the working conditions across the entire production chain. THE SELECTION OF ORGANIC Product package labelling and origins The Product’s Path map application, pubPRODUCTS IS GROWING provoked much public discussion in early lished at kesko.fi and pirkka.fi sites, illus2013 in particular, when horsemeat was, trates the journeys of our key products Kesko Food is a founding member of the contrary to package labelling, found in from factories or farms to stores. For Pro Luomu association, which was estabproducts across Europe. Due to the error example, the route of the Pirkka Organic lished to promote the development and by the company manufacturing Pirkka Fairtrade banana can be followed from growth of organic production in Finland. products, Pirkka kebab slices were among Peru to Finland via text, pictures and The growing popularity of organic prodthe products recalled for this reason. a video. ucts is reflected in K-food stores: sales of Kesko complies with Finnish law and Pirkka organic products increased by over EU legislation on package labelling for its 40% from the previous year in 2012. own brands and imports. In the autumn of 2011, K-food stores All Finnish Pirkka products have had set themselves a target of doubling the sethe name and location of the manufaclection of Pirkka organic products from turer indicated on the packaging for over fifty to around one hundred by the end of 25 years. Foreign Pirkka products carry 2012. The result came extremely close as the name of the country of origin. Finnish READ MORE there were 99 Pirkka organic products at Pirkka products always have the Hyvää www.kesko.fi/productspath the end of the year. 48 responsible purchasing and sales address by stakeholder Sonja Vartiala, Finnwatch Kesko should pay more attention to the responsibility issues concerning the products sold under its own brands across the entire subcontracting chain. Kesko is responsible for the observance of human rights throughout the value chain of its own products. In the case of many products, Kesko’s current monitoring activities only extend to the closest producer. Finnwatch considers the BSCI system favoured by Kesko as a good start. However, BSCI auditing only focuses on direct suppliers from high-risk countries, ignoring indirect purchases. Nor does the system require that suppliers pay their employees enough to ensure a decent standard of living. Finnwatch is a NGO focusing on global As a stakeholder, we would like to corporate responsibility issues. Sonja have more specific information on the Vartiala is the Executive Director at results of Kesko’s BSCI audits and the Finnwatch. Suomesta (Produce of Finland) label to number of audited factories in relation indicate their Finnish origin if the criteto the total number of factories in highria are fulfilled. There are currently 279 risk countries. Pirkka products with this label. Since 2011, the country of origin for meat has been indicated in the list of ingredients in those Pirkka products that have meat as one of the main ingredients. BEARING RESPONSIBILITY case Legislation requires that the area where fish have been caught must be indicated, but Kesko has expanded the information Tuuli is responsible for to also cover fish products in the Pirkka range, such as fish fingers and canned purchasing canned foods tuna. The information on origin was added to most meat and fish products over the Product Group Manager Tuuli Luoma course of 2012. of Kesko Food’s Processed Foods hanThe country of origin will be indicated dles the purchasing of canned foods for on all own-brand products in K-citymarket Kesko Food’s selections. and Anttila as their selections are updat“My product group is exceptional ed. It will, however, take some time before because around 60% of the products this information is indicated on all owncome from abroad. Most of the food brand products available in stores. Rauta­ suppliers in the high-risk countries fall kesko aims to add the country of origin on within my area, including Thailand, China the labelling of its own brands. and Indonesia. This makes social responWhen the transition period for the EU sibility issues extremely important in my regulation comes to an end in December job,” says Tuuli. 2014, changes will be required in conIn her job, Tuuli promotes BSCI audits sumer information on package labelling. of suppliers and she is a member of the For information on nutritional values, the BSCI Food and Primary Production Workdeadline is December 2016. In practice, ing Group. these so-called consumer information “Most recently, I visited the factories regulations will change all food package of different suppliers in Thailand and the labelling and specify new requirements Philippines in the spring of 2012. There is for product names and the readability still much to be done in the area of social of labelling, for instance. The work that responsibility in many places, but it was a Sivu: 49 Kieli: GB is currently underway in Kesko Food on pleasure to discover that most things are changing package labelling is vast, as in order in the factories of our suppliers.” changes need to be made in the packaging of about 2,500 products. READ MORE corporateresponsibility2012.kesko.fi/luoma 49 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Wellbeing for customers Kesko and K-stores aim at making customers’ lives easier, providing them with services that promote health and wellbeing and guiding them on the proper use of products. More and more often services are offered electronically. More electronic services ops and tests food recipes. The nutritional contents for nearly all of the approximateThe development of electronic trans­ ly 5,000 recipes have been calculated to actions and shopping is one area of strahelp customers make choices. Specified tegic emphasis in all of Kesko’s divisions. searches enable consumers find recipes Many kinds of mobile and web serfor special diets and, for example, to find vices, such as Budget Sport’s online cusgluten-free, egg-free, milk-free, sugar-free tomer service, Asko’s design programme or vegetarian recipes. and K-rauta stores’ instructional videos, The ‘Own Kitchen’ service on the Pirkka are available for customers. website provides an electronic recipe Volkswagen published a mobile phone book, where customers can save their application for those touring by car in favourite recipes. The Pirkka recipe and 2012. The Service App contains a travel shopping list app, which can be downvocabulary in several different languages, loaded on smartphones and tablets, was route directions to the nearest Volkswagen published in 2012. service centre, route directions back to In Intersport’s Sport to the People conthe parked car, and the car dashboard cept, sport has something for everyone, symbols and explanations. regardless of age and level of interest. EveA QR (Quick Response) code was testry Intersport store in Finland organises a ed on Pirkka meat packages in cooperaphysical activity event for its customers at tion with HK Ruokatalo during the year. least twice a year. The aim is to promote a By reading the QR codes on 15 domestic healthy lifestyle and to encourage people Pirkka meat packages, customers receive to be physically active. recipes recommended by the Pirkka test kitchen on their smartphones and can We guide our customers on the also give feedback. By monitoring the proper use of products number of QR codes scanned and the contents selected, Kesko obtains information According to the Consumer Protection Act, on what kinds of mobile contents interest goods shall be delivered with instructions K-food store customers. for use, maintenance and care, if instructions are needed to use the product. A Health through proper food responsible store takes care that the cusand physical exercise tomer also understands the instructions and knows how to correctly use the purThe promotion of healthy lifestyles and chased appliance. Special attention was eating habits and physical exercise is espaid to this particularly in the machinery sential for our food and sports stores in trade in 2012. particular. “Machinery trade products are often K-Food Specialists, experts in nutrition a big investment for a customer. It is imporand special diets, have been trained for tant to make sure that the customer knows K-food stores since 2010. At the end of how to use the purchased machine bought. 2012, there were already more than 680 At Konekesko, our aim is to train and guide employees with this training. our customers to use machinery and apAll of the about 210 K-supermarkets pliances correctly and safely. Proper use in Finland annually organise a Fruit&Veg is economical and will extend the useful campaign, in which different fruits and life of machinery,” says Lina Morkunaite, vegetables are offered for one euro per kilo, Managing Director of Konekesko Lithupackage, box or bag. ania. The Pirkka test kitchen, which is part of Kesko Food’s Product Research unit, devel50 wellbeing for customers 51 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Responsibility made visible to customers Kesko and K-stores want to make their A new K-responsibility manual will responsible operations more visible be distributed to K-food stores to supto customers in stores. In 2012, a new port them in their continuous responK-responsibility concept was designed sibility work and compliance with the for K-food stores to tell customers about responsible store operating system. The the store’s good actions in practice and to K-responsibility manual will guide permake sustainable choices easy for them. sonnel in how responsibility is a matter A new symbol and the customer of cooperation between the customer promise ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ were and the store and how responsibility is designed for the concept. The new comprised of local influence, a good K-responsibility concept is more comworkplace, environmentally friendly prehensive than the earlier K-environactions, reliable selections and healthy mental concept. In addition to the envifoods. As personnel adopt the themes ronment, K-food stores’ K-responsibility of the K-responsibility concept, they will concept takes better account of other be able to guide K-food store customers responsibility aspects, such as local oritoward increasingly responsible choices gin, healthiness of food, safe products and actions. and a good working community. The K-responsibility concept will enaThe concept, to be adopted in the ble K-food store customers and employcourse of 2013, will help communicate ees to become increasingly aware of difKesko Food’s and K-food stores’ responferent aspects of responsibility. One of sibility and the work done to achieve it the concept components is local origin to customers, personnel and the public and the inclusion of local operators’ with the help of concrete examples. The products in the food stores’ selections. K-responsibility concept is part of K-food K-food stores are an important market stores’ chain concepts and its messages place for local products. are made visible to customers on, for K-food stores, K-citymarket Oy and example, store fixtures, signs and advera significant part of K-rauta and Rautia tisements in stores. stores will adopt the K-responsibility concept in 2013. BEARING RESPONSIBILITY case Interaction online Building a good customer relationship requires that the service chain works in all of the channels as promised. Customers are seeking for more opportunities for online interaction with store people and other customers. “Blogs can also serve as a channel for discussion about responsibility. Our new Anno products have been given an encouraging reception by customers, bloggers and the media. In one blog, new Pandora carpets in the Anno collection were admired but some concern was expressed about their manufacturing conditions. With the permission of the blog writer, we were able to give background information directly to those asking these questions,” says Kesko’s Social Business Director Anne Laakso. Sivu: 52 Kieli: GB READ MORE corporateresponsibility2012.kesko.fi/laakso 52 wellbeing for customers LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Energy Expert service led to savings The K-rauta and Rautia stores’ Energy tors were replaced with new ones and all Expert service aims to make it easy for the visible parts of the piping were pulled customers to improve their energy efdown. The utility areas were also renoficiency at home. Services and products vated to allow installation of the ground offered to customers include an energy heat pumps. In addition to the installasavings survey, a thermal camera surtion of the pumps, the job also included a vey, air and ground heat pumps, solar lot of other work, such as all the required water heaters and solar panels, and electrical installation.” installation services. “Scheduling was demanding in this project, as there were so many parA housing association with four families ties involved in this complex job,” says on Mesikukankuja lane in Helsinki comTeemu Lampinen, who was responsipletely upgraded its heating system in ble for the coordination of the project 2011–2012. The exceptionally extensive at K-rauta Vantaanportti. renovation of the heating system and the Thanks to good cooperation by all, related repairs required careful coordihowever, the project was completed on nation of the business partner network schedule. by K-rauta Vantaanportti, which made a “We have been pleased,” says Markku bid for the contract. Heinonen, who lives in the housing assoThe housing association where the ciation. “Our total electricity consumprenovation took place consisted of two tion decreased by over 30% compared semi-detached houses built in 1982 on with 2010. Pipe leaks made us start two sites. They had completely separate repairs. In hindsight, we should have heating systems: one house had nightintroduced ground heat even earlier to rate electric storage heating, while the save energy. The renovation evened out other had single-pipe radiator heating. room temperatures and there has been “The job was demanding,” says Conplenty of hot water. Ground heat also has tractor Jarno Hartonen, a business much less impact on the environment partner of K-rauta Vantaanportti. “Old than electric heating and I think the value 2.1 cubic metre boilers were dismantled of the investment is directly reflected in to make room for heat pumps, the radiathe increased value of the property.” address by stakeholder Noora Jokinen: Good choices easily As the mother of small children I think about the impact of my purchases every time I go shopping. Besides environmental impacts I consider working conditions in the supply chain and the treatment of animals. I would like to buy food and clothes without damaging the environment, animals or other people. I prefer products which consist of easily identifiable raw materials. Seasonal, local food is easier to trace and therefore often feels like a safe option. I expect the store to take the issue of responsibility seriously and be trustworthy. I wish that responsible products were easily available and I wouldn’t have Noora Jokinen is a food store to figure out how to make good choices customer. when visiting the store. 53 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Choices for the benefit of the environment Kesko contributes to mitigating the progress of climate change by saving energy and increasing the recycling and recovery of waste. We also want to help our business partners and customers to contribute to the same effect. Environmental responsibility in practice is Efficient energy solutions are also the about knowing and reducing the environguiding principle in Rautakesko’s buildmental impacts of one’s own operations. ing projects. Rautakesko and Ruukki have Working for the benefit of the environment jointly developed an energy efficient and is part of the duties of all Kesko personnel airtight frame and outer shell model for and those working at K-stores and we also stores that has been used in building expect it from our partners. K-rauta Skanssi, which opened in Turku Kesko has signed the trading sector enin March 2013. ergy efficiency agreement and committed “K-rauta Skanssi’s energy efficiento saving 65 GWh of its annual energy concy clearly exceeds the current required sumption by the end of 2016 through varilevel. The tightness of the outer shell of ous actions. This amount corresponds to the building is state of the art. LED lamps the annual energy consumption of more are used in all lighting to help reduce the than 3,200 one-family houses. By the end store’s thermal stress and the consumpof 2012, we had achieved approximately tion of electric energy. The roof has a coat70% of our target. ing that reduces the carbon footprint of the building by removing nitrogen oxides Energy efficient building with from the air. Its light colour also reduces partners the thermal stress placed on the building,” says Rautakesko’s Construction Manager The design of a new store site or shopPetri Mörk. ping centre is based on sustainable deThe Kodin1 department store for intevelopment and energy efficiency. When rior decoration and home goods, which building new stores and renovating exwill open in Raisio in May 2013, will be isting ones, we use solutions that reduce the first passive retail store building in the consumption of materials and energy the Nordic countries. The new building during the lifecycles of the properties. It is has been designed with special attention very important that partners are carefully to air tightness, ventilation, the optiselected and that the building and installamum location of ventilation equipment tion process is closely supervised. and lighting control. Excessive lighting 54 mitigation of climate change highlights case Recycling made easier for customers Consumer packaging discarded by households, such as deposit beverage packaging, cardboard, glass and metal can be returned to the Eco Points at K-food stores during shopping visits. Customers can find 220 Eco Points at K-food stores. In 2012, 330 million beverage cans and 131 million recyclable bottles were returned to K-food stores. Over 1.7 million kilos of clothes from K-stores’ recycling points were delivered to UFF (U-landshjälp från Folk till Folk i Finland rf) for recycling. The amendments to waste legislation will change producers’ liability and impose new duties on the trading sector. Recycling will become easier for customers, as it can be combined with shopping trips more often than before. Starting from 1 May 2013, consumers may return waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE) also to stores. The store’s obligation to accept returned WEEE depends on the sales area and product selection. The collection of WEEE has been tested in Rovaniemi, Ranua and Pello since October 2012. The K-Group stores participating in the pilot are K-rauta Rovaniemi, K-citymarket Rovaniemi and Anttila Rovaniemi. K-citymarket Director Sari Mommo and Merja Rantala, responsible for environmental affairs at the store, are happy with the recycling pilot. Customers have found it a good additional service and the collection has not caused excessive work for store personnel. “We have been slightly surprised to see that the quantity of recyclable WEEE is not bigger. Most of the returned items are lamps and other small household appliances, such as coffee makers,” says Sari Mommo. It is hoped that the collection of WEEE at stores will increase their recycling rate. The scrap returned to WEEE collection is primarily treated in Finland. It is treated for recovery of harmful substances, such as lead and mercury, which prevents them from ending up in landfill sites and the environment. 55 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 will be avoided by using it only where and for substantial energy savings. oxide, “says Kesko Food’s Refrigeration when needed. Since 2008, refrigeration equipment in Engineering Expert Ilpo Hakkarainen. After tightness measurements, the all new K-food stores has lids and doors. Kodin1 building is awarded a passive buildChest freezers with lids help save 40% of The right kind of lighting ing certificate by VTT Technical Research energy compared to uncovered ones. saves energy Centre of Finland in spring 2013. Eco-effiK-supermarket Nurmijärvi, which cient measures will enable the heating enopened in August 2012, uses the latest The design and proper selection of lighting ergy consumption of the department store refrigeration equipment: can save energy in a store. to be reduced by around 60% and electric“All of the refrigeration equipment in The new signs of all K-Group stores ity consumption by around 50% compared the store has either doors or lids. Frozen use LED lighting. This results in savings to a traditional department store. foods, milk products, cheese, meat and of 60–70% compared to traditional neon The Kodin1 Raisio building project is fish products are kept in chest freezers fitand fluorescent tube solutions. part of the Sustainable Community Techted with lids or cabinets that have doors. Intersport is refurbishing its Russian nology programme of Tekes – the Finnish Waste heat from refrigeration units is restores in accordance with the Sport to the Funding Agency for Technology and Incovered and used for heating the store,” People concept. Environmental friendlinovation. VTT Technical Research Centre say the retailer couple Ville and Mia Kiuru. ness is part of the new concept, and LED of Finland and Kimmo Lylykangas ArchiThe cooling of chest freezers and other lighting will be used throughout the retects, also participating in the project, aim refrigeration equipment generates confurbished stores. to set target levels for energy consumpdensation heat that can be used for heatThe Anttila department stores and tion in passive retail store buildings. ing. Condensation heat is recovered in the Kodin1 department stores for inte“The project includes several subconnearly all K-food stores, thanks to which rior decoration and home goods have tractors who have the opportunity to try they only need additional heat energy in achieved substantial savings in their eleccompletely new types of environmentalvery low sub-zero temperatures. tricity consumption by using adjustable ly friendly solutions in commercial conK-supermarket Nurmijärvi is one of the and directional lighting systems. struction. In about a year, we will know around ten K-food stores that use carbon The lighting system in the Kodin1 dethe actual energy consumption, the imdioxide recovered from industrial propartment store for interior decoration pact of savings in energy costs on competcesses in their refrigeration equipment. and home goods in the Merituuli shopitiveness and how the experiences from A refrigeration unit that uses carbon diping centre in Espoo, which was refitted this project have been used in others,” says oxide increases the capital expenditure with low non-directional lighting and low Heli Törrönen, Customer Relationships of the store, but it pays off in the long run power directional lights in 2012, helps Director of the Kodin1 department store. because the consumption of heat energy save around 40% compared to earlier conis 30% lower compared to the use of other sumption. Energy efficient adjustable and New refrigeration equipment refrigerants. directional lighting is used in the refursolutions “Recovered carbon dioxide is a natural bished Anttila department store in Kuoand safe refrigerant that saves costs and is pio, where it helped save 12% on the store’s An unbroken cold chain is an essential more environmentally friendly than tratotal electricity consumption, and in the part of food safety and the quality of prodditional refrigerants based on hydrogen Anttila department store in the Veturi ucts offered to customers. K-food stores halides. All K-food stores will gradually shopping centre in Kouvola, opened in actively adopt energy efficient solutions introduce equipment using carbon diautumn 2012. 56 mitigation of climate change In 2012, more than 20 K-rauta stores LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case in Sweden adopted the practice of turning off the lights in every car park and illuminated sign between 22.00 and 5.00. Lowering emissions with According to Real Estate and Setup Coordinator Jan Oxendal, the company hopes economical driving and to save over €100,000 annually through this practice. route planning Kesko’s logistics company Keslog Ltd are also more and more interested in Waste recovery aims to cut carbon dioxide emissions how environmental aspects are taken Reducing waste and wastage from stores from transportation by 10% by 2020. into account in logistics,” says Toni and warehouses has a significant enviEnvironmentally friendly transportation Pelin, Keslog’s Environmental and Safety ronmental impact. Kesko’s objective is to solutions are constantly sought, as transManager. direct all generated waste to recycling and portation has a significant impact on the energy recovery. environment. Keslog helps its customers Anttila’s logistics centre in Kerava Since the autumn of 2012, Keslog has recycle recovers nearly all its waste, at a rate of provided training in economical driving around 99%. Operations have been enstyle for the contract transport comKeslog also offers a return logistics serhanced by, for example, using recyclable panies and their drivers with the aim of vice to its customers, where empty botpallets and removing excessive packagcutting emissions. Nearly all of Keslog’s tles and other recyclable materials are ing materials from products destined for more than 500 contract drivers will be transported for recycling. This is an department stores at the logistics centre. trained in the economical driving style in important service for restaurants in parPackaging materials and waste are the course of one year. At the same time, ticular, because they do not usually have carefully sorted in Kesko Food’s logisterminals will be installed in vehicles to much space in their backrooms. Keslog’s tics. The amount of waste ending up in monitor the driving styles of individual return logistics help customers recycle landfill has decreased and the recovery drivers. and also save on their recycling costs. rate has improved from 86% (in 2009) to Keslog was the first in Finland to use When one operator transports all recy96% at present. a two-tier trailer for distribution to retail clable materials away, it means fewer kil“We began collecting energy waste, stores in the autumn of 2011. This innovaometres driven and fewer emissions. plastic, wood and metals over ten years tive trailer cuts carbon dioxide emissions Keslog annually picks up around 61 ago. Previously, we disposed of packaged by one third, when one trailer carries million aluminium beverage cans and 32 organic waste with mixed waste, but now more than double a normal load. Keslog million bottles of recyclable plastic from it is directed to ethanol production. We had seven two-tier trailers in use in 2012. K-food stores and Kespro’s customer aim to reach a 100% waste recovery rate “As traffic-related environmental restaurants for further processing and and to reduce the amount of waste. A key requirements become stricter and costs recycling. Kesko transports recyclable method for achieving this target is the reincrease, it certainly pays to be active materials from return logistics terminals duction of wastage to which logistics can and take the initiative. Our customers for further processing by the industry. contribute through a better placement of articles in warehouses, the use of shelves on roll containers, employee training and leveraging order pickers’ practical experience,” says Toni Pelin, Environmental highlights case and Safety Manager of Keslog. Kesko Food has developed operating models for K-store waste management Freedom of choice since 2011. The recovery rates of around 90 K-stores that have adopted the new From 2006 to 2012, the CO2 emissions The network of natural/biogas refuelmodel in the Greater Helsinki area and the of Volkswagen passenger cars imported ling stations in Finland will expand in the Uusimaa region have risen to 90%, which into Finland fell from 173.36 g/km to next few years, which will help vehicles is partly attributable to centralised waste 130.96 g/km (source: VV-Auto Group Oy). using them for fuel gain popularity. The management reporting and efficient reThe wide Volkswagen range offers CO2 emissions from natural gas combuscovery of organic waste. In 2013, the opeconomical, low emission TSI petrol tion are around 25% lower compared to erating model will be expanded to other and TDI diesel engines, the EcoFuel petrol combustion and there is virtually parts of Finland. engine running on natural/biogas and no dust emission. Using domestic biogas the TSI MultiFuel engine running flexibly reduces CO2 emissions by about 80%. In The building and home on high-blend ethanol E85 and petrol. addition to the Passat, Touran and Caddy The TSI MultiFuel alternative, currently ranges, the EcoFuel range running on improvement trade and available on the Passat models and in natural/biogas will be complemented furniture trade promote the course of 2013 also on the new Golf by a new Golf and the eco up! model, healthy housing models, enables a choice of petrol type which is one of the internal combustion According to estimates, 600,000 – 800,000 based on cleanliness, price or availability. engine cars with the lowest emissions in people in Finland are exposed daily to The percentage of ethanol made from the world: the CO2 emissions of eco up! moisture and mould damage in homes, organic waste in RE85 fuel reduces fossil stand at no higher than 79 g/km. workplaces or other public buildings. emissions by as much as 80%. Rautakesko wants to promote healthy housing and has joined the Stop Mould! 57 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Moisture and Mould Programme coordiAsko Bonnell spring mattresses, available their whole lifecycle from cultivation to nated by the Ministry of the Environment. at Asko stores, are entitled to the Allergy table can be examined. The carbon footThis nationwide five-year programme Label. print test available at Pirkka.fi shows the aims to give impetus to the restoration of impacts of different transportation methFinland’s building stock, reduce moisture Carbon footprint label ods to the store, different storage and and mould damage and prevent further displays information on cooking methods, and if, after all this, damage. Rautakesko seeks to find opporenvironmental impacts the potatoes are discarded. tunities to develop new service concepts through this cooperation. Pirkka is the first Finnish private label to Less food wastage Healthy housing is also taken into accarry a carbon footprint label on its packcount in the product selections of buildaging. Pirkka bags of potatoes have carried Discarded food has a much higher enviing and home improvement stores. The the label since the end of 2011 and their ronmental impact than the manufacture Cello paints sold by the K-rauta and Rautia carbon footprint is 16 g per 100 g. of packaging and waste management. chains are water dilutable, solvent free The calculation model for the Pirkka (Source: MTT Agrifood Research Finland) and nearly odourless. They have the M1 carbon footprint label is based on research In 2011–2012, Kesko Food participatcertificate of low emissions, granted by conducted by MTT Agrifood Research Fined in the ECOPAF research project run the Building Information Foundation land. The label indicates the environmenby Tekes – the Finnish Funding Agency RTS, and the Allergy and Asthma Federatal impacts of potatoes with respect to ferfor Technology and Innovation and MTT tion’s Allergy Label. tilizers, lime and seed potato production Agrifood Research Finland to find out The Asko furniture chain has develup to storage in the central warehouses of whether the properties of foodstuffs packoped its mattress and sofa collection in the trading sector. aging, such as size and usability, have any cooperation with the Allergy and Asthma At the Pirkka.fi website, the carbon disignificance in food waste generation. Federation. As a result, Puro sofas and the oxide emissions of potatoes throughout LET’S DO GOOD. TOGETHER. case Cultivation programme aims to improve the profitability of customers’ cultivation The cultivation programme provides ment of cultivation techniques. During solutions tested in local conditions to the growing cycle, we assist farmers in meet the needs of Finnish farmers. The choosing and using agricultural inputs K-maatalous’ cereal cultivation probased on the established yield potential grammes are based on research and and observations made during previous tests conducted by the K-maatalous’ growing cycles. We provide advice on, Experimental Farm and the results for example, plant protection on the from cultivation in practice aimed to phone and in connection with chloroenhance customers’ cultivation and imphyll measurements. Presentations of proving its profitability. experimental plots are among the key events,” says Seppo Vätti, Store ManThe Experimental Farm annually tests ager of K-maatalous Eura. several cereal and oil plant varieties and In 2012, the K-maatalous’ Experimentailors the best plant protection recipes, tal Farm monitored the progress of the fertilising recommendations, cultivation growing cycle and the development of techniques and varieties suited to their different plant species on the experimenintended use. The product selection tal plots. Plant disease control during a relies on the Experimental Farm’s results rainy growing season played a key role in from the research on testing varieties, the test. The data on cereal development fertilising and plant protection prodmonitoring were updated on the website ucts. The cultivation programmes enadirectly from the experimental plots, and ble cereal development to be monitored the data on accumulated temperature, online, with the related data updated on sum of precipitation, plant development a weekly basis. The products included in stages and cultivation measures were the cultivation programmes are sold with made available on K-maatalous’ online the help of the Cultivation Guide. service and in the Cultivation Guide. The specialist sales assistants of The next major element to be added K-maatalous are trained professionals. to the cultivation programme will be “In winter, we organise advisory the organic cultivation programme. and training sessions for customers The year 2013 marks 50 years since the and stakeholders at which farmers can establishment of K-maatalous’ Experistudy the products and the enhancemental Farm. 58 mitigation of climate change K-food stores aim to reduce food wastaddress by stakeholder age with the help of a forecast based replenishment system. “Purchased products are recorded Amanda Haworth Wiklund, in the information system at the store checkout. As soon as there is enough inCDP Nordic formation, the system produces a forecast on future product needs. The foreIt has been a delight to watch Kesko cast enables us to have the right amounts improve the quality of their reporting of goods available at the right time. The over the six years it has responded to the system has clearly reduced wastage in investor request for climate information our store,” says retailer Pauli Jaakola of through CDP. The integrity with which K-supermarket Ruokaniitty. it works and the seriousness with which it addresses these questions are just a K-citymarkets recycle store few of the reasons why the company has fixtures achieved high CDP disclosure scores. Kesko improved its score for discloNot all store fixtures need to be new, even sure to 88 in 2012 and has made the if the store is. A manager in charge of store annual Nordic Climate Disclosure Leadfixtures at K-citymarket Oy and Anttila ership Index (CDLI) on three occasions. Oy got the idea to refurbish store fixtures CDP also rates companies on their clidiscarded from a K-citymarket and make mate actions and strategies for improvthem useful in another or even more than ing performance. Kesko improved its one other store. This operating model was 2010 grade with a B in both 2011 and thorough responses to the questions adopted in 2011 and has generated store 2012, reflecting the actions it is taking CDP poses on behalf of many interested specific savings of 30–60% compared to to reduce emissions and mitigate the parties, but also provide inspiring examcorresponding new acquisitions. risks of climate change. ples that lead the way for their sector “All reusable metal fixtures, such as CDP works to transform the global peers. shelves, shelf studs, background boards economic system to prevent dangerand regulating tubes, are reused. In conous climate change and value our natural CDP is a not-for-profit organisation, nection with the store refurbishment, resources by putting relevant informawhich gathers information about comthey are given a new paint finish which tion at the heart of business, investment panies’ operations to prevent climate makes them better than ever. The new and policy decisions. This goal is robustly change. operating model has enabled the materienabled when companies write not only als costs to be reduced when replacing fixtures. It has been nice to see how, in the long run, small things can contribute to major savings in finances and natural BEARING RESPONSIBILITY case resources,” says Store Fixture Manager Sanna-Kaisa Loisa of K-citymarket Oy and Anttila Oy, the mother of the idea. Real Estate Managers help Preference for virtual improve energy efficiency meetings Kesko’s 40 Real Estate Managers help Kesko recommends that its personnel orK-stores find ways in which to make the ganise virtual meetings instead of travelstores’ energy consumption more effiling to meetings. Due to cost, efficiency cient. and environmental considerations, a vir“Store operations are supported by the tual meeting shall always be given priority good condition of premises and equipwhen choosing a meeting method. ment, and the correct settings of lighting, Virtual meetings can be telephone building services and store equipment,” conferences, web conferences via persays Customer Relationships Manager sonal computers or video conferences. Eero Aho, YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy, in At Rautakesko, which has operations charge of Kesko’s store properties. in eight countries, employees have lots of Regular monitoring, technical supermeetings from their work stations using vision and the comparison of reports the Microsoft Lync system. from separate properties are used for “I use Lync to communicate with other maintaining the optimal level of energy Rautakesko personnel on a daily basis. consumption. Lync is easy to use and fast if you need “Lighting control optimised in accordto get an answer without delay. It saves ance with opening hours generates savboth costs and time,” says Marketing Diings, whereas in-store lighting left on by rector Henning Johansen of Byggmakmistake on a Sunday, or illuminated signs Sivu: 59 Kieli: GB ker, Norway. remaining lit through the night would READ MORE mean hundreds of euros added to the corporateresponsibility2012. electricity bill,” says Aho. kesko.fi/aho 59 Kesko’s corporate social responsibility report 2012 GRI index 2012 We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level A+ cation Level A+. Kesko reports on all material information and of the GRI G3 Guidelines (version 3.0). PricewaterhouseCoopers indicators related to its operations. GRI indicator protocols are Oy has checked our reporting and has confirmed it to be Applinot applied in detail for all of the indicators. GRI GUIDELINE Kesko’s Report Code GRI content Included Page Further information Global Compact 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the President and CEO 8–9 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14–15, 20–23 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 6 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 4–5 2.3 Operational structure 4–5 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 4 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 4–5, 7 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6, 77 2.7 Markets served 3–7 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 6–7 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 6, 13 size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 11, 38 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its 104 contents 3.5 Process for defining report content (materiality, 3, 16–17 prioritisation, stakeholders expected to use the report) 3.6 Boundary of the report 2–3 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased 2–3 facilities, outsourced operations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 3 calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 3 information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or 3 measurement methods applied in the report 3.12 GRI content index 60–64 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3, 102–103 assurance for the report 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 68–69 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, pages 53–54. 4.2 The Board Chair’s function within the organisation’s 68 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, page 54. management 4.3 Independence of Board members 68 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, page 54. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 68–69 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, page 53. recommendations or direction to the Board 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Board 69, 91 Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, page 55. and the management, and the organisation’s corporate responsibility performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of 68–69 Kesko complies with the Finnish Corporate interest are avoided Governance Code for Listed Companies. Kesko’s 2012 Annual Report, pages 52–55. 4.7 Qualifications and expertise of the Board members for 69 strategic management and corporate responsibility 60 responsibility management GRI GUIDELINE Kesko’s Report Code GRI content Included Page Further information Global Compact 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct and principles, and the 65–66 status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation’s 16, 65–66, management of economic, environmental and social 68–69 performance, including risk management 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance 68 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is 20–21, 78–79 addressed 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social 66 initiatives to which the organisation endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organisations 71 www.kesko.fi/responsibility 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 19 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 18 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 18–19 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 16–18, 95 engagement 5. MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY 20–23, 65–71 x Economic performance indicators EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed 77–78 EC2* Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for 78–79 x the organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3* Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan 79 obligations EC4* Financial assistance received from government 79 EC5 Standard entry level wages compared to local minimum In Finland, Sweden and Norway, collective wages at organisation’s significant locations of operations agreement. In other countries, at least statutory minimum wages. Ratio data not available. EC6* Spending on locally-based suppliers 73, 80–81 EC7* Procedures for local hiring 80–81 x EC8* Infrastructure investments and services provided for 81 public benefit EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including 14–15, 23, 81 the extent of impacts ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL 20–23, 65–67, RESPONSIBILITY 75–76, 82 x Environmental performance indicators EN1* Materials used 82 Packaging materials supplied to the market. x Data from outside Finland not available. EN2* Materials used that are recycled input material 82 Reporting covers recycling of packaging plastic used in transportation. EN3* Direct energy consumption 82–83 x EN4* Indirect energy consumption 82–83 x EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 83–84 x improvements EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 53, 57, 84 Energy savings achieved not reported. x and service EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 84 Energy savings achieved not reported. x reductions achieve EN8* Water withdrawal 84–85 x EN9 Water sources significantly affected by Not material Not material in Kesko’s operations. Kesko in Kesko’s withdrawal of water uses municipal water. Included Partly included Not included * Key indicator recommended in the GRI Guidelines x) Reporting in compliance with Global Compact principles, COP = Communication on Progress 61 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 GRI GUIDELINES Kesko’s Report Code GRI content Included Page Further information Global Compact EN10 Water recycled and reused 85 EN11* Land owned, leased and managed in areas of high 85 biodiversity value or in protected areas EN12* Impacts of activities on biodiversity in protected areas and 85 Reporting covers Kesko’s areas of direct areas of high biodiversity value impacts and provides purchasing policy definitions. All supply chain impacts cannot be reliably assessed. EN13 Habitats protected or restored 85 EN14 Strategies, actions and plans related to biodiversity 23, 75–76, 83,85–86 EN15 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 86 species in areas affected by operations EN16* Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 86–87 x EN17* Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 86–87 x EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 87 Emission reductions achieved not x reported. EN19* Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 87 x EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type 87 x EN21* Water discharge 87 EN22* Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 87–89 x EN23* Total number and volume of significant spills 89 x EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Not material in Kesko’s operations. waste deemed hazardous EN25 Water bodies significantly affected by the reporting 89 organisation’s discharges of to water and runoff EN26* Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 22, 89–90 Kesko has indirect impacts on products x and services, and extent of impact mitigation on sale. Results achieved through products on sale cannot be reliably assessed. EN27* Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials 90 Reporting covers recycling of packaging x that are reclaimed plastic used in transportation. EN28* Compliance with environmental laws and regulations 89 x EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 86–87, 90 x EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Data not available. investments SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO 20–23, 65–67, LABOUR ASPECTS 71–72 x Labour practices and decent work performance indicators LA1* Total workforce by employment type and employment 91–92 contract LA2* Employee turnover 91–92 Not reported by age group or gender. x Data not available. LA3 Benefits provided to employees 91–92 Benefits exceeding statutory level not reported in detail. Practices vary by operating country. LA4* Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 92 x agreements LA5* Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 92 x LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal health 93 Percentage of employees not reported. x and safety committees Arrangements compliant to local legislation. LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 93 Reporting does not cover contractors. x absenteeism and work-related fatalities Occupational injury statistics not available for countries other than Finland. LA8* Education and counselling to assist workforce members 93–94 Kesko’s activities/programmes for serious x regarding serious diseases diseases have direct impact on Kesko personnel only. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements In Finland, arrangements based on with trade unions legislation. 62 responsibility management GRI GUIDELINES Kesko’s Report Code GRI content Included Page Further information Global Compact LA10* Average hours of training per employee 94–95 Not reported by personnel category. Data not available. LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 94–95 LA12 Performance and career development reviews 95 LA13* Composition and diversity of governance bodies and 95–96 x employee categories LA14* Ratio of basic salary of men to women 97 Ratio not reported. Group-level x comparison not possible. MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO 20–23, 65–67, HUMAN RIGHTS 71–74 x Human rights performance indicators HR1* Human rights screening in investment decisions In Kesko’s operating countries, no problems in human rights issues related to the retail trade have been detected. The issue is included in the risk assessment procedure. HR2* Suppliers’ and contractors’ screening on human rights 97–98 Number of suppliers in BSCI, SA8000 and x Fairtrade audits reported, no percentages. HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning 98 Training hours not reported, data not x aspects of human rights available. HR4* Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions 98 x taken HR5* Operations in which the right to exercise freedom of 98 Employee unionisation rates reported for x association and collective bargaining may be at risk functions on which data is available. HR6* Operations with a risk for incidents of child labour 97–98 x HR7* Operations with a risk for incidents of forced or 97–98 x compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in aspects of 98 Description of security issue human rights management. HR9 Number of incidents involving rights of indigenous people 98 No violations. x and actions taken MANAGEMENT APPROACH 20–23, TO sOCIETY ASPECTS 65–67,70–71 x Society performance indicators SO1* Programmes that assess and manage the impacts of Assessments compliant with local laws. operations on communities SO2* Percentage and number of business units analysed for risks 99 Risks related to corruption considered as x related to corruption part of Kesko’s risk management. Key risks are identified and assessed regularly during the year. SO3* Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption 99 Number of employees trained and x policies and procedures percentages for management and other employees not reported. Percentages not available. SO4* Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 99 x SO5* Organisation’s public policy positions and participation in 99 x public policy development and lobbying SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, 99 x politicians and related institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, 99 and monopoly practices SO8* Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 99 with laws and regulations Included Partly included Not included * Key indicator recommended in the GRI guidelines x) Reporting in compliance with Global Compact principles, COP = Communication on Progress 63 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 GRI GUIDELINES Kesko’s Report Code GRI content Included Page Further information Global Compact 20–23, MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO 65–67, PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 73–75 x Product responsibility performance indicators PR1* Assessment of health and safety impacts of products and 99 Percentage of products and services x services at various life cycle stages covered by the assessment not reported. Data not available. PR2 Non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning 99 x health and safety impacts of products PR3* Product and service information required by procedures 100 Percentage of products included in x mandatory product information not reported. Data not available. PR4 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 100 x concerning product and service information and labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of 100 Results of customer satisfaction surveys customer satisfaction surveys not reported. Group-level results not available. PR6* Adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes related 100 to marketing communications, incl. advertising, promotion and sponsorship PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations and 100 voluntary codes related to marketing communications PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and 100 Number of complaints regarding breaches x losses of customer data of customer privacy not reported. Statistics on complaints are not compiled by issue. PR9* Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations 100 concerning products and services Included Partly included Not included * Key indicator recommended in the GRI guidelines x) Reporting in compliance with Global Compact principles, COP = Communication on Progress 64 responsibility management RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT IN DAY-TO-DAY ACTIVITIES Kesko’s Values Corporate responsibility work at Kesko is integrated in day-to-day work. It is based on Kesko’s values and vision and guided by the management system, corporate responsibility stakeholder analysis, operating principles and the guide ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’ (Code of Conduct). The trading sector operators are expected to take care of product safety and healthiness and the environmental and social impacts of business operations. VALUES We exceed our customers’ expectations We are the best operator in the trading sector We create a good working community We bear our corporate responsibility Values, strategy and The strategic objectives are presented of channels for interaction between stores management model on page 66. Kesko’s strategy is largely built and customers is growing. on division and chain specific strategies The key objective of Kesko’s home and Corporate responsibility at Kesko is a guided by the division Boards and the speciality goods chains is to offer custommeasurable activity, based on Kesko’s Kesko Board. ers a shopping experience that seamlessly values, operating principles, objectives Over the next few years, Kesko Food’s combines the services of an online store and strategy. The implementation of the key strategic focus will be on an efficient and a traditional store. The emphasis is on values is monitored using a number of implementation of customer-oriented developing electronic services that supcorporate responsibility performance inprojects to generate competitive advanport the extensive store network, and on dicators, such as surveys of customer sattages and on strengthening customer online stores. isfaction, investor and personnel surveys, loyalty relationships. The competitive Rautakesko’s objective is sales growth net sales and market share performance advantages of the food trade include the exceeding market growth and improveand sustainable development indices. fruit and vegetable department, the bakment in profitability. Rautakesko develKesko’s key strategic objective is ery department and service counters with ops its digital customer solutions and healthy growth exceeding market growth. fresh meat, fish and ready meals, a wide continues the development of planning Growth is sought by actively developing selection of products from local producand installation services offered to cusstore selections and services to meet cusers adding to the chain selection, Pirkka tomers in 2013. tomer needs, by actively revising the store products, responsibility and e-services. In the car and machinery trade, the obsite network and by developing e-services Competition in the home and specialjective for 2013 is to increase the market and e-commerce. Capital expenditure in ity goods trade is becoming increasingly share of the brands it represents, to furKesko’s business operations in Russia ofinternational and the proportion of online ther develop its dealer and maintenance fer significant growth potential for a long business out of total sales in the sector network and to strengthen customer satistime to come. The principles of sustaincontinues to grow. Customers’ purchasing faction and loyalty. The key focus areas for able development and responsible workbehaviour is more individual than before, development are strengthening the selecing principles are a central part of the daypurchases are made from an increasing tion of products and services and increasto-today activities of Kesko and its chains. number of online stores, and the number ing electronic customer communications. 65 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Kesko’s strategy is presented in more declarations and conventions are also detail in the Annual Report on pages 8–11 included in the principles. The most imand at www.kesko.fi. portant of them are the UN Universal DecStrategic objectives The business models applied in Kesko’s laration of Human Rights and the UN Consales to consumer-customers are retailing vention of the Rights of the Child, the ILO PROFITABLE GROWTH through retailer entrepreneurs and Kesko’s convention on the Fundamental Rights ∙∙ Our objective is healthy growth exceeding own retailing. Kesko is also engaged in and Principles at Work, the OECD Guidemarket growth. B2B sales. More detailed information on lines for Multinational Corporations, the ∙∙ We seek growth especially in the growing the business models and responsible and ICC Business Charter for Sustainable DeRussian retail market. efficient operating practices is available in velopment and principles against corrup∙∙ We strongly develop e-services and the Annual Report on pages 10–11. tion and bribery, the UN Global Compact e-commerce. Kesko’s financial reporting and planinitiative, and the purchasing principles ∙∙ Our objective is to improve profitability ning are based on the Kesko Group’s manof the Business Social Compliance Initiaand increase shareholder value. agement system. The plans and actions tive (BSCI). Kesko has used the ISO 26000 relevant to corporate responsibility are standard as a source document that offers SALES AND SERVICES FOR integrated in the different sections of orientation to corporate responsibility. CONSUMER CUSTOMERS Kesko’s management system (see below). The Board of the K-Retailers’ Association ∙∙ We increase the value of our brands. Management systems based on internahas recommended that Kesko’s principles ∙∙ Our customer satisfaction rating is higher tional standards have been adopted. be also followed by K-stores. than that of our competitors. The progress and results of Kesko’s corKesko’s corporate responsibility prin∙∙ Our competitive asset is the K-retailers, porate responsibility work are discussed ciples can be read at www.kesko.fi/rewho know local customers and their in the section Kesko’s Responsibility Prosponsibility. Kesko’s general corporate reneeds. gramme on pages 22–23 and in the GRI sponsibility principles are complemented ∙∙ We leverage loyal customer information Indicator section on pages 77–100. by more detailed policies, principles and efficiently to serve our customers. statements. They are listed in the guide GENERAL OPERATING PRINCIPLES ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’ and RESPONSIBLE AND EFFICIENT GUIDING RESPONSIBILITY at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. OPERATING PRACTICES Kesko uses the GRI (Global Reporting ∙∙ Our operating practices are responsible. Kesko’s Corporate Management Board has Initiative) guidelines as the its reporting ∙∙ We efficiently combine retailer entrepreapproved the Group’s general corporate principle. Kesko reports on economic, enneurship and chain operations. responsibility principles. These princivironmental and social responsibility in ∙∙ We leverage our economies of scale and ples define the basic economic, social and compliance with the GRI guidelines vercompetencies. environmental responsibility promises, sion 3.0. and related communication principles. Kesko’s commitments to international THE KESKO GROUP’S MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rolling planning and risk assessment Q4 financial statements report EMB ER JANUA RY DEC hly repor tin ont R FE BE M g BR M NO UA VE RY Annual report Q3 interim N report IO Rolling planning and OCTOB ST Vision CH AT M AR RA risk assessment ER IMPLEMENT Values TEGI Strategic focus C PROCE ER Operating TE MB principles APRIL IC Rolling EG SS planning and risk SEP AT Q1 interim report assessment R ST UST M AU Mo AY G nthly repor ting JULY JUNE Corporate responsibility report Q2 interim Rolling report planning and risk assessment 66 responsibility management RESPONSIBILITY ORGANISATION ∙∙ guides the development of HR processes and services and monitors the quality and efficiency of HR processes and services. RESPONSIBILITY ORGANISATION IN KESKO Corporate responsibility in Kesko is integrated in daily work. The WELLBEING AT WORK STEERING GROUP management of each business division is responsible for the practiSenior Vice President for HR and Stakeholder Relations (Ch.), division cal implementation, and Kesko’s Board and Corporate Management and specialist representatives Board handle reporting and the key principles. Kesko’s Corporate ∙∙ prepares the Group’s management model for wellbeing at work and Responsibility Unit, assisted by steering groups, is responsible for the common operating principles development, coordination and reporting. The corporate respon∙∙ sets the common objectives for work aimed at wellbeing at work sibility function is managed by the Senior Vice President for Human and monitors their achievement Resources and Stakeholder Relations, who is a member of Kesko’s ∙∙ coordinates practical implementations and promotes the sharing of Corporate Management Board. best practices within the Group. GROUP-LEVEL RISK MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL STEERING GROUP President and CEO (Ch.), division representatives Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist ∙∙ discusses the operating principles and key policy definitions representatives concerning risk management, safety and security ∙∙ develops the Group’s environmental management based on the ∙∙ assesses and monitors the Group’s risks and the safety and security objectives set by the Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board situation, and the implementation of risk management responses. ∙∙ promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group ∙∙ keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to environmental CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ADVISORY BOARD responsibility. Senior Vice President for HR and Stakeholder Relations (Ch.), division representatives STEERING GROUP FOR RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING ∙∙ develops the principles that guide the Group’s corporate Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist responsibility representatives ∙∙ steers and coordinates their practical implementation ∙∙ develops the Group’s purchasing and sourcing based on the objec∙∙ sets the objectives for corporate responsibility work and monitors tives set by the Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board and, as necessary, supports their implementation. ∙∙ promotes the sharing of best purchasing practices within the Group ∙∙ keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to product purchasSTEERING GROUP FOR HR OPERATIONS ing and sourcing. Senior Vice President for HR and Stakeholder Relations (Ch.), division representatives DIVISION-SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITY STEERING GROUPS ∙∙ prepares the Group’s HR strategy and common HR policy definitions are, based on the objectives set and information distributed by the ∙∙ sets the common objectives for the HR function and guides and Group-level steering groups, responsible for: coordinates the achievement of the objectives of HR operations ∙∙ determining their own responsibility objectives and practical implementations ∙∙ implementing them in accordance with the specific characteristics and strategy of the division. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STEERING AT KESKO Food trade Home and and Building and home Car and speciality improvement trade machinery trade goods trade Kesko’s Board of Directors Corporate Management Board Risk Management Steering Group Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board Steering Group for HR operations Wellbeing at Work Steering Group Environmental Steering Group Steering Group for Responsible Purchasing Division-specific responsibility steering groups 67 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 RESPONSIBILITY MONITORING AND STEERING RESPONSIBLE OPERATOR Management approach We are committed to responsible working principles and we together generate economic value added We generate economic At Kesko, economic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, the efficient use of resources, as well as value added generating stable, long-term economic benefits to different stakeholders. Responsible working Different aspects of responsibility, such as ethicality of production and sourcing, fair and equal treatment of employees principles (Code of Conduct) and environmental protection are increasingly important for customers. Possible failures of responsibility would result and reputation management in negative publicity for Kesko. Kesko’s challenges in responsibility work include communicating its responsibility principles to suppliers, retailers and customers, and ensuring responsibility in the purchasing chain. Responsible working principles are promoted by arranging value discussions in all of Kesko’s operating countries. Goals The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme, see page 23. Policies and working principles Accounting policies The Kesko Group complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the European Union. The accounting policies adopted by the Group are collected in the accounting manual, which is updated when amendments to standards are adopted. The manual contains instructions for separate companies, the parent company and for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Corporate Governance Kesko’s decision-making and corporate governance are guided by Kesko’s values and responsible operating practices. principles Decision-making and corporate governance comply with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly quoted companies, Kesko’s Articles of Association, the charters of Kesko’s Board and its Committees and the rules and guidelines of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Ltd. The company complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies 2010. The Code can be read in full at www.cgfinland.fi. As provided by the Comply or Explain Principle of the Corporate Governance Code, Kesko departs from the Corporate Governance Code’s recommendation for a Board member’s one year term of office in that the term of office of a Kesko Board member is three years in accordance with Kesko’s Articles of Association. Read more at www.kesko.fi/investors or in the Annual Report on page 52. The highest decision-making power in Kesko is exercised by the company’s shareholders at the company’s General Meeting. The company’s shareholders elect the company’s Board of Directors and the auditor at the General Meeting. The Kesko Group is managed by the Board and the Managing Director who is the President and CEO. The President and CEO is appointed by the Board. The company uses a so-called one-tier governance model. Read more about the General Meeting, matters falling within the competence of the General Meeting, convocation of the General Meeting, right to participate in the General Meeting, its minutes and the presence of the administrative bodies at www.kesko.fi/investors or in the Annual Report on pages 53–54. Kesko’s Board has seven members, two of whom are women. All of Kesko’s Board members are non-executive directors. In the latest independence evaluation carried out on 16 April 2012, the Board found all members independent of the company’s significant shareholders and the majority of the members also independent of the company. Three Board members (K-retailers) control companies each of which has or has had a chain agreement with a Kesko Group company at the date of evaluation. Kesko’s Board does not have representatives of the personnel. Board members are obliged to provide the Board with sufficient information to allow the Board to evaluate his or her independence. The Board regularly assesses its operations and working practices and carries out a related self-assessment once a year. In 2012, the Board held 11 meetings. The Board members’ average attendance rate at Board meetings was 98.7%. Read more about the Board’s operations in the Annual Report on page 53 and at www.kesko.fi/investors. The Board has an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee, both of which consist of three Board members. The Committees have no independent decision-making power. Instead, the Board makes decisions based on the preparatory work of the Committees. In 2012, the Audit Committee held five meetings and the Remuneration Committee held three meetings. Further information on the Committees’ operations is available in the Annual Report on pages 53–54 and at www.kesko.fi/investors. In accordance with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies’ Act, all Board members are collectively responsible for the administration and the proper organisation of the operations of the company. The Board has not appointed any of its members to concentrate especially on corporate responsibility matters, nor does Kesko have a separate process for evaluating the Board members’ competence in corporate responsibility. In its decision-making, the Board relies on the expertise of the Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board, as necessary. The Board members’ fees are not tied to the company’s corporate responsibility performance. The Board’s remuneration plans and fees are presented in the Annual Report on pages 55–56 and at www.kesko.fi/investors. The Board discusses the Corporate Responsibility Report as soon as it has been completed, and as necessary, also other related issues brought out either by the Corporate Management Board or the Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board. The Board’s main duties are listed in the Annual Report, on page 53 and at www.kesko.fi/investors. 68 responsibility management The Kesko Group has a Corporate Management Board, the Chair of which is Kesko’s President and CEO. The Corporate Management Board has no competence based on legislation or the Articles of Association. The duty of the Corporate Management Board is to discuss Group-wide development projects and Group-level policies and practices. In addition, the Corporate Management Board discusses the Group’s and the division parent companies’ business plans, profit performances and matters handled by Kesko’s Board, in the preparation of which it also participates. The Corporate Management Board is composed of the presidents of the major division parent companies and the senior vice presidents responsible for corporate accounting and finance, human resources and stakeholder relations (including corporate responsibility), as well as store sites and investments. Two of the eight Corporate Management Board members are women. The Corporate Management Board takes a stand on matters brought out by the Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board. The Corporate Management Board meets 8–10 times a year. Risk management principles The risk management policy confirmed by Kesko’s Board is available at www.kesko.fi/investors. Monitoring and control systems Kesko’s financial reporting and planning are based on the Kesko Group’s management system. The Group units’ financial results are reported and analysed within the Group on a monthly basis, and disclosed in interim reports published quarterly. Financial plans are prepared for quarterly periods, in addition to which significant changes are taken into account in monthly performance forecasts. The Group’s and its units’ strategies and related long-term financial plans are updated annually. Prevention of malpractice Kesko’s attitude to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncompromising. Kesko’s principles are presented in the guide ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’, adopted by all Kesko units and K-stores since 2008. The guide has been published in Finnish, Swedish, Norwegian, English, Russian, Estonian, Lithuanian and Latvian, as have the animated videos on the themes available at www.kesko.fi. The guide was updated in 2012 and an online training programme was built to support it. The updating process also included some specifications on stakeholder cooperation, for example, to the Group and division level instructions relating to the Responsible Working Principles. Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles, adopted for trade relations with suppliers in high-risk countries, make a statement about opposition to bribery. Kesko is a member of Transparency International, Finland. The Kesko Group’s Internal Audit has paid particular attention to the efficiency of controls that prevent malpractice and financial losses. Measures preventing malpractice have included more effective communications, training and guidelines as well as tightened controls. Information technology is used to trace exceptional transactions, and to prevent and examine malpractice. Kesko has a malpractice examination and reporting guideline, according to which Kesko’s Risk Management examines the suspicions of malpractice. Clear suspicions of criminal activity are reported to the police for further investigation. Through Kesko’s intranet, employees in all operating countries, except for Belarus, can give feedback and ask questions concerning operations not only in their own units but also directly to top management. Feedback can be given openly or anonymously. Through the intranet or by e-mail at IA@kesko.fi, employees can also contact Kesko’s Internal Audit in confidence. 69 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Privacy protection K-Plus Oy, a Kesko subsidiary, manages and maintains the K-Plussa customer loyalty system, operated by K-chains and K-Plussa partners. K-Plus is the most extensive customer loyalty system in Finland with around 2.2 million, or some 85% of Finnish households, enjoying K-Plussa’s customer loyalty benefits. At the end of 2012, the customer loyalty programmes in Russia, previously implemented on a chain-specific basis, were combined under one programme run jointly by all K-Group chains, called the K-plus Loyalty Program. The programme operated in the Russian market is managed by Kesko Food Rus OOO. The customer information of K-Plussa cardholders forms a customer database that is used, with the customer’s permission, for managing customer relationships, for customer contacts and marketing purposes of the companies which have joined the K-Plussa system. Data on cardholders’ purchasing patterns are collected at sum total, product group or product level. Customers can forbid the connection of product or product group level information to their identified customer relationship. In this case, product group data on their purchases are not collected and product specific purchasing data are not used in targeting information at customers. Customers can also request that no information at all is registered on their purchases, and only make use of the immediate benefits they receive from using their K-Plussa cards. In these cases, purchasing data are not recorded in the K-Plussa system and the customer does not gain K-Plussa points. At the end of 2012, some 3,900 active customers had requested that their purchasing data not be collected at all. According to the K-Plussa rules, personal data from the customer database and customer information accrued from the use of the K-Plussa card can be used and assigned for direct marketing purposes to the companies participating in K-Plussa cooperation. Customers can forbid the use and assignment of information for this purpose by informing K-Plus Oy. The prohibition always applies to the K-Plussa customer and the holder of a parallel card. As a data controller, K-Plus Oy ensures that customer information is only used for the purposes specified in the file description. Information on individual customers is protected with instructions given to the personnel and by technical systems. Customer data is only disclosed to outside parties if required by law. In compliance with the Finnish Personal Data Act, K-Plus Oy’s file description is available in Finnish at www.plussa.com. E-services and e-commerce The development of electronic shopping and e-commerce are strategic focal points in all of Kesko’s divisions. The projects are coordinated by the Customer Information and E-commerce Unit. The objective is to be strongly present throughout customers’ purchase transactions, so that customers will be able, if they wish, to use web services from planning their purchases to using the products. Risk management The Kesko Group has a uniform risk assessment and reporting system and it applies a business-oriented and comprehensive approach to risk assessment and management. This means that key risks are systematically identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported as part of business operations at the Group, division, company and unit levels in all operating countries. Risk identification and assessment play a key role in Kesko’s strategy work and rolling planning. Risk assessments also cover significant projects related to capital expenditure or changes in operations. The business division and Group managements are responsible for the execution of risk management. Kesko has a Group-level Risk Management Steering Group, which is chaired by the Group’s President and CEO and composed of the representatives of the management of the various divisions and Group functions. The Group’s risk management function supervises and coordinates the development of joint risk management and security procedures, the adoption of best practices in the Group, and is responsible for risk reporting to the Group’s management. Links Corporate Governance Code www.cgfinland.fi Kesko’s corporate www.kesko.fi/investors governance principles FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMMUNITY Management approach We build a better society together A retail store plays an important role in a local community. It serves and employs local people. In addition to its direct employment impact, the retail trade is also a significant indirect employer through its suppliers and business partners. Long-standing cooperation models with competent partners strengthen competitiveness. A retailer represents local activities. The K-retailer entrepreneur is responsible for his or her store’s staff and customer satisfaction. Listening to the wishes of local customers and making use of customer data, K-retailers build a selection of products and services that meet customer needs. Retail stores serve as local meeting places. We develop our business in interaction with our customers. We make sure our employees are committed to responsibility work and increase related training activities. Goals The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme, see page 23. Policies and working principles • ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’ guide • Chain business model 70 responsibility management Monitoring and control systems Chain business model The K-Group’s principal business model in Finland is the chain business model, in which independent K-retailers run retail stores in Kesko’s chains. Cooperation between K-retailers and Kesko – chain operations – is based on equality, openness and a willingness to develop common operations. Chain operations aim at increasing competitiveness and customer satisfaction and achieving a higher, uniform quality and lower costs. A competitive edge is gained by combining systematic chain operations and the K-retailer operations based on entrepreneurship. Kesko is responsible for the constant development of the business model and the store concepts, for chain operations management and for sourcing and purchasing the products included in the chain selections. Stakeholder interaction For Kesko, knowledge of and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. Kesko has a competition legislation manual and a control system, which includes self-assessments and employee training events. Key principles and guidelines of competition legislation have also been presented in the internal web training on matters concerning competition legislation. Those whose work is largely related to competition laws are also invited by the Group’s Legal Affairs Unit to complete the training, supervised by the unit. Anti-competitive behaviour For Kesko, knowledge of and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. Kesko has a competition legislation manual and a control system, which includes self-assessments and employee training events. Key principles and guidelines of competition legislation have also been presented in the internal web training on matters concerning competition legislation. Those whose work is largely related to competition laws are also invited by the Group’s Legal Affairs Unit to complete the training, supervised by the unit. Public policy Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry organisations in Finland and in the European Union, contributing its expertise to social development and legislative work. The chart describing Kesko’s channels of influence and representation in organisations is presented at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. WORKING COMMUNITY Management approach We perform and offer high-quality work Good working community Equality, justice and non-discrimination are important principles which are observed at Kesko throughout the employment relationship. The most suitable person with the most development potential is selected for the job, and applicants are judged according to their competence, skills and accomplishments. Every Kesko employee is responsible for creating and maintaining a good atmosphere at work. Bullying at work, discrimination and other improper behaviour are not acceptable. Questions and comments on the activities of the working community can be presented to supervisors. The Kesko Group also has the Direct Line feedback channel on Kesko’s intranet, Keskonet, through which employees can ask questions, anonymously if they wish, about any matter concerning the operations of Kesko or its subsidiaries, with the exception of Belarus. The questions and answers to them are published on Keskonet. High-quality supervisory Basic duties of supervisors include setting targets for their subordinates, ensuring their competencies and giving work feedback. At Kesko, supervisors are trained to manage their teams in a coaching manner towards the set objectives and good performance. Supervisors are also supported in proceeding constructively in challenging situations. Supervisors are responsible for promoting direct, open and constructive discussion about all work-related matters. Supervisors are also responsible for the induction of new employees. In order to monitor this, Group companies in Finland launched an induction survey in 2012, which is also to be implemented internationally in 2013. Diversity in the K-Group In 2012, the K-Retailers’ Association launched a project called ‘Many kinds of performers’ in cooperation with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). The project will continue in 2013. Kesko and K-stores participate in the Youth Guarantee initiative launched at the beginning of 2013 to promote employment and prevent social exclusion among young people. Goals The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme, see page 23. HR goals Kesko’s HR goals are: • The most attractive workplace • The most competent and motivated personnel • The best personnel productivity Systematic and long-term work is carried out to achieve the HR goals through, for instance, competence development and management models for wellbeing at work. Wellbeing at work In the development of wellbeing at work, the objective is to increase employees’ job satisfaction and motivation, programme reducing sickness, increasing the retirement age and enhancing employer image and, in this way, increasing personnel productivity. In 2012, the wellbeing at work programme focused on the development of supervisory work and the working community. For supervisory work, supportive training events were arranged on performance and development reviews and on early intervention. Approximately 500 managers and supervisors participated in these events. Policies and working principles HR policy Kesko’s HR management is based on Kesko’s values and responsible operating practices, which are described in the guide ‘Our Responsible Working Principles’. The guide was updated in 2012. Kesko’s HR policy defines key operating principles in various areas of HR management. The HR principles are operating principles and guidelines of a permanent type to be followed in practical personnel issues. The HR strategy defines HR management objectives, critical success factors and key development initiatives. The Corporate HR Unit is responsible for defining the HR strategy and the HR Steering Group monitors and promotes its implementation. 71 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Monitoring and control systems Continuous and long-term The implementation of Kesko’s HR goals is monitored continuously. Various indicators, such as the HR scorecard, monitoring wellbeing at work indicators and personnel productivity guide operations and they are reported to the management on a regular basis. The responsibility, wellbeing at work and labour protection programmes are updated, taking both shortand long-term targets into account. Labour protection The personnel’s ability to work is protected by creating a safe and supportive working environment. The goal of labour programme protection is to secure and maintain employees’ ability to work and to prevent and avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other physical and mental health hazards arising from work or the working environment. Each supervisor is responsible for labour protection in his/her area as it is part of the line organisation’s normal management and supervisory work. Action plan of The objective of occupational health care is to maintain and promote employees’ health, ability to work and function, the Occupational preventing work-related diseases and injuries, ensuring health and safety in the working environment and supporting Health Service the functionality of working communities. The Occupational Health Service is managed by the chief occupational health physician. The action plan of the Occupational Health Service defines the contents and the extent of the Kesko Group’s occupation health care in Finland and it is updated annually. The update carried out at the end of 2012 took into account the requirements of the future decree on occupational health care. The Chief Physician of Kesko’s Occupational Health Service is a Board member of the Finnish Association of Occupational Health Physicians and represents the association in the development and monitoring section for occupational health care in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. In 2012, the section prepared a decree on good occupational health care practices and cooperation in health care issues. Personnel survey The annual personnel survey measures the wellbeing of individual employees and the working community and the quality of management. Supervisors are coached and supported for discussions concerning the personnel survey and the units draw up unit-specific development plans, the implementation of which is monitored by the HR units in addition to each unit concerned. The results of the personnel survey also serve as one of the contributing factors in bonuses paid to those in supervisory positions. Employer image The external employer image is monitored through various surveys. Kesko came in 10th place (15th place in 2011) in the 2012 Universum Young Professionals survey investigating the views of business economy professionals and in 21st place (20th) in the Universum survey among business economy students. Sickness absences and Sickness absence monitoring is monthly and conducted on a company-level basis, and supervisors receive quarterly injury statistics reports of their teams based on the ‘Let’s talk about work’ model. Starting from the beginning of 2013, regular company-specific injury reporting has also been adopted. HR scorecard The attainment of HR goals and the development of indicators are monitored with the help of the HR scorecard. The indicators used include labour productivity figures, personnel survey figures, total employee turnover, internal mobility and sickness absence rates. Links HR policy www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Policies-and-principles Kesko’s responsibility www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Responsibility-programme programme ‘Our Responsible Working www.kesko.fi/static/responsibility Principles’ guide RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING AND SALES Management approach We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in their sustainable choices In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to human rights issues and working conditions in its purchasing chain and, in monitoring these, primarily focuses on suppliers in high-risk countries. In accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative), these are countries and areas where there is a risk of human rights and workers’ rights violations. The classification is based on, for example, the UN Index of Human Development and the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index. The list drawn up by the BSCI on high-risk countries is available at www.bsci-intl.org. High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoration items, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such as coffee, tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines), and canned fish, fruit and vegetables. In 2012, direct purchases by Kesko’s Finnish companies from suppliers in risk areas totalled €99 million (€143 million in 2011) and accounted for 1.3% (1.8%) of Kesko’s total purchases. Direct imports from high-risk countries accounted for 17.1% (25.6%) of Kesko’s total imports into Finland. The most significant high-risk countries from which Kesko imported were China (€61.1 million), India (€9.9 million) and Turkey (€8.2 million). There are no statistics available on the imports of Kesko’s subsidiaries in other countries from high-risk countries, but, in 2012, Kesko’s purchases analysed by a company’s country of domicile and by a supplier’s country of domicile also included purchases from high-risk countries at a total value of €267 million (€237 million), or 3.3% (2.9%) of Kesko’s total purchases. Some 81% (72%) of Kesko’s imports into Finland (excluding imports by VV-Auto) come from EU countries. In addition to its own direct imports, Kesko also purchases goods produced in high-risk countries from other importers operating in Finland and through international purchasing groups. There are no reliable statistics available on the countries of origin of these imports, which mainly consist of international branded goods that have been the subject of much attention in respect of guaranteeing the responsibility of their production in recent years. There may also be social risks involved in the manufacture of products imported to Finland through third countries or in the production of their ingredients. Kesko is developing an operating model which would enable us to better monitor the implementation of our purchasing principles throughout the entire purchasing chain, including indirect purchases from high-risk countries. 72 responsibility management Product Research Kesko and K-Group stores are responsible to the products’ end-users for ensuring that the products comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU legislation, are safe for users and meet quality and other promises. Kesko Food’s Product Research is responsible for the safety and quality assurance of the products purchased, development of own-brand products, coordination of self-control, keeping abreast of food legislation and for recipe and consumer services. In addition to food products, Product Research also controls the safety and quality of non-foods and home and speciality goods. In the development of own brands, Product Research works in close cooperation with Kesko’s buyers and product manufacturers. Goals The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme, see page 23. Policies and working principles Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles, which are available at www.kesko.fi/ responsibility. The principles are based on national labour protection legislation and corresponding conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), which are applied when national legislation does not correspond to the same level. Kesko’s policy on chemicals applies to home textiles, clothing, leather goods and shoes. Based on EU and Finnish legislation, it lists the chemicals which are prohibited or the quantity of which is restricted in the products supplied to Kesko. In addition, product group specific responsibility policies have been prepared to support purchasing, such as the palm oil policy, the fish and shellfish statement, the timber policy and the stand on sandblasting of jeans. Monitoring and control systems Kesko has a steering group for responsible purchasing, which steers and coordinates the implementation of ethical purchasing principles. The group consists of representatives of Kesko’s division parent companies importing from high-risk countries. The steering group met four times in 2012. The key issues on the agenda included updating the guide for buyers and suppliers on socially responsible trading, BSCI annual targets, purchasing policies and the organisation of the monitoring work. Kesko is a member in the European BSCI audit system, and uses both BSCI auditing and the SA8000 standard for assessing its suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko is committed to the BSCI Code of Conduct, the content of which is practically the same as Kesko’s own ethical purchasing principles. In cooperation with the BSCI, Kesko follows other audit systems in the market and accepts audits based on them, provided that the level of requirements is the same as in the BSCI audit. See the table on page 74 which presents on some certification and audit systems used for different product groups in Kesko. Kesko is a member of the CGF (the Consumer Goods Forum), a discussion and cooperation forum for the grocery trade and industry, currently working on the Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP), aimed at enhancing the comparability of social and environmental audits. In China, Kesko supports its suppliers of home and speciality goods through monitoring. A local monitoring officer guides, trains and oversees Kesko’s Chinese suppliers in issues related to terms of employment and working conditions and compliance with environmental and chemical regulations. Kesko’s own monitoring principles are based on the BSCI audit requirements. The ultimate aim is to get the factory to apply for a third-party BSCI audit or SA8000 certification. Rautakesko and Kesko Food monitor and develop the responsibility of the purchasing chain as part of the sourcing cooperation with other European retail chains (Eurogroup, ICASS and AMS). Kesko has a SUMO (supplier monitoring) database, in which the information on supplier audits, certifications and monitoring visits to suppliers in high-risk countries is saved alongside their respective risk ratings. The information on BSCI audits is also saved in the database maintained by the BSCI and is available to all members. Product Research audits Specialists of the Product Research visit companies manufacturing Pirkka products to audit them. Auditing extends from the storage of raw materials to product manufacture and the warehousing of finished products. Audits are conducted according to the Product Research Unit’s audit protocol. The Product Research Laboratory monitors the quality of products sold by K-food stores, Anttila department stores, K-citymarket hypermarkets and Kodin1 department stores for interior decoration and home goods. It is a testing laboratory T251 which has been accredited by the FINAS accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. Links Ethical purchasing principles www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Purchasing-principles Responsibility programme www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Responsibility-programme Policy statements www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/This-is-how-we-operate/Statements-and-policies List of high-risk countries www.bsci-intl.org 73 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 KESKO’S DIRECT IMPORTS FROM OUTSIDE THE EU, 10 LARGEST COUNTRIES IN 2012* Country Value of imports, € million China 61.1 India 9.9 Turkey 8.2 Thailand 7.8 Vietnam 4.6 Philippines 1.5 Pakistan 1.5 Bangladesh 1.1 Egypt 0.9 South Africa 0.8 * Direct imports forwarded by Keslog only, excluding imports by VV-Auto. certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries used by kesko Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria Product label BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) All product groups Social, limited environmental part No SA8000 All product groups Social No Fairtrade Agricultural products, incl. Social, environmental Yes cotton Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental Yes FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Council) Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable fishing) Yes RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) Products containing palm oil Finance, environmental, social No MAIN ELEMENTS OF SA8000 AND BSCI AUDITS Auditing areas Relevant ILO convention Compliance with laws and agreements 110 (agriculture) Freedom of association and collective bargaining 11, 87, 98, 135 and 154 Discrimination 100, 111, 143, 158, 159, 169 and 183 Compensation 12, 26, 101, 102 and 131 Working hours 1, 14 and recommendation 116 Health and safety at work 155, 184 and recommendations 164 and 190 Child labour 10, 79, 138, 142, 182 and recommendation 146 Forced labour 29 and 105 Basic environmental protection WELLBEING FOR CUSTOMERS Management approach We offer services which promote customers’ wellbeing Kesko and K-stores aim to make their customers’ lives easier, providing them with services that promote health and wellbeing and guidance on the proper use of products. Customer needs and purchasing behaviour are changing quickly along with new online services and fast-developing technology. The development of electronic transactions and shopping is one area of strategic emphasis in all of Kesko’s divisions. Goals The objectives have been recorded in the responsibility programme, see page 23. Policies and working principles Providing services that enhance customer wellbeing is part of Kesko’s responsibility programme. 74 responsibility management Monitoring and control systems Measuring is carried out by customer satisfaction inquiries, customer feedback systems and customer advice events, for instance. The K-responsibility concept to be adopted in K-food stores in 2013 will replace the previous K-environmental store concept and, in addition to the environment, it will also cover other areas of responsibility. The K-responsibility training related to the concept will also be launched to improve competence in this area, while the K-responsibility manual will provide support in practical work. Kesko’s ethical purchasing principles guide Kesko’s responsible sourcing and purchasing. In supplier assessment, Kesko uses international assessment systems, BSCI auditing and SA8000 certification. MITIGATION OF CLIMATE CHANGE Management approach We jointly mitigate climate change and promote the sustainable use of natural resources At Kesko, the mitigation of climate change includes the key issues in environmental responsibility; energy consumption, emissions, waste management and sustainable use of natural resources. Energy consumption has a significant impact on both the progress of climate change and costs. Among greenhouse gases as outlined in the GHG Protocol, emissions from the energy consumption of properties are the most significant component. Electricity, heating and water are the biggest expense items in property maintenance. Mitigating climate change resulting from energy consumption is one of the focus areas in Kesko’s environmental work. Preventing the generation of waste, increasing the recovery rate and recycling of materials are the means by which Kesko reduces the amount of landfill waste. Optimisation of logistics Kesko’s own logistics company, Keslog, has long reduced the emissions from the K-store supply chain by centralising distribution. New vehicle replacements have reduced unit specific emissions. Key methods for improving logistics efficiency also include the optimisation of transport routes and a high volumetric efficiency. A significant part is also played by efficient return logistics with, for example, purchased loads or carrier trays and recycling components, such as pallets, roll containers, cardboard, bottles or cans, collected on the return route. Training in economical driving styles has also been arranged for drivers. Kesko concentrates on reducing the impacts of climate change in order to preserve biodiversity. Kesko only builds stores on areas zoned for business properties and it does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity. Indirect impacts arise through products on sale. In consequence, Kesko’s management actions are limited to individual measures and policy definitions. Goals The objectives in Kesko’s environmental work are defined in Kesko’s responsibility programme and they were updated at the beginning of 2013. The responsibility programme sets both long-term and short-term objectives. The key objectives in environmental responsibility include reducing the environmental impacts of the supply chain, reducing emissions and helping customers reduce their environmental impacts. See page 23. Policies and working principles The K-Group’s environmental policy, updated in 2011, covers the operations of the Kesko Group and the K-Group stores both in Finland and the other operating countries. The K-Group’s key business partners are also expected to observe corresponding environmental management principles. Environmental management is part of the K-Group’s management system and it is based on the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development, environmental management standards, as well as requirements set by legislation and the authorities. Kesko is also committed to observe the UN Global Compact principles. Monitoring and control systems The Kesko Group’s Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board defines the main policies for environmental work and the target levels for the Group companies, taking account of the environmental impacts of operations and their significance throughout the whole life cycle and chain of functions. The division parent companies and subsidiaries specify the main policies of their environmental work into environmental action programmes which support their business operations. The action programmes are monitored and updated annually as part of strategy work. At the end of 2012, environmental systems covered 63% of the Kesko companies net sales in Finland and 53% of the whole Group’s net sales. The coverage has been calculated in proportion to retail sales. The environmental systems used at Kesko are presented on page 76. The operations of the central units of Keslog and Anttila are ISO 14001 certified, as are most of Anttila department stores and Kodin1 department stores for home goods and interior decoration. VV-Auto Group Oy and its subsidiaries fulfil the requirements of environmental programme of Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs Association and the ISO 9001 quality system, and Audi Center Espoo is ISO14001 certified. In the food, the building and home improvement and the agricultural trades, environmental management is based on the K-environmental store model – the K-environmental store diploma. The model is part of the K-citymarket, K-supermarket, K-market, K-rauta, Rautia and K-maatalous chain concepts. The operating model will be replaced by the K-responsibility concept. The revised K-responsibility concept will be adopted in the course of 2013. Food stores applying for the K-environmental store diploma are audited by Bureau Veritas, who also perform annual repeat audits. Key environmental issues are also included in the food store chains’ concept measurements. The Environmental School of Finland (SYKLI) is responsible for the audits of the building and home improvement stores and for repeat audits conducted every third year. 75 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Energy consumption Kesko’s maintenance partners monitor the energy consumption of properties with the help of the monitoring EnerKey.com system supplied by Energiakolmio Oy. Energiakolmio reads remotely energy consumption measurement terminals located in properties and records the data in the database by the hour. The EnerKey programme responds to even minor location-specific changes in consumption and sends an alarm to the person in charge. Energy efficiency agreement Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement (www.energiatehokkuussopimukset.fi). In terms of specific energy consumption, the types of properties with the highest energy consumption are K-citymarkets, K-supermarkets, Anttila department stores and large wholesale and warehouse buildings. Every property is important, but the consumption monitoring of these properties has the highest significance for the reduction of energy consumption. Kesko conducts energy reviews in the properties managed by it on a regular basis. Water consumption Water consumption monitoring is also part of real estate consumption monitoring in Finland and the other operating monitoring countries. Biodiversity In line with Kesko’s sourcing recommendation, the garden furniture made of tropical wood and sold by the K-Group stores is either FSC certified or made of wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. Kesko’s fish and shellfish statement is intended to direct Kesko Food’s and Kespro’s own sourcing, as well as K-food retailers’ sourcing to safeguard responsible fishing and the cultivation of fish. Palm oil must be produced in a responsible manner, taking account of economic, social and environmental aspects. Kesko Food is a member of the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) and recommends that the producers of Pirkka and Menu products use certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). Waste management Kesko develops recycling systems in cooperation with other operators and promotes waste recycling by developing packaging methods and the use of materials. The generation of waste is prevented by using recyclable transport units and by minimising the wastage of products on sale. According to Kesko’s business model, retailer entrepreneurs are responsible for wastage management in K-stores. Building contracting and Kesko’s building contracting is based on target conditions and key technical quality factors determined for each maintenance business concept and the planning and execution instructions in respect of building services and construction engineering based on them. Kesko measures the efficiency and quality of planning and execution by providing its individual properties with international green building certificates, such as BREEAM and LEED. Kesko’s partners in the maintenance and service of properties are YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy, ISS Palvelut Oy and Ovenia Oy. YIT Kiinteistötekniikka’s environmental system has ISO 14001 certification, and Ovenia’s quality system is ISO 9001 certified. Kesko’s main office in Katajanokka, Helsinki, and Kesko Food’s central warehouse in Hakkila, Vantaa, have themselves developed and adopted an environmental programme for office work. So far, companies outside Finland have not adopted certified environmental systems. Links K-Group’s environmental www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Policies-and-principles policy Responsibility programme www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/Responsibility-management/Reponsibility-programme Statements and policies www.kesko.fi/en/Responsibility/This-is-how-we-operate/Statements-and-policies ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEMS AT KESKO Function Environmental management system Comment Keslog’s warehousing, terminal and transportaISO 14001 Certificate revised in 2013 tion operations Anttila Oy: central unit, logistics centre, mail ISO 14001 Certificate revised in 2011 order sales and NetAnttila, 28 Anttila department stores and 9 Kodin1department stores for interior decoration and home goods Real estate service and maintenance operations ISO 14001; ISO 9001 Certificates held by YIT Kiinteistötekniikka Oy ISO 9001 certificate held by Ovenia Oy VV-Auto Group Oy ISO 9001 and AKL’s environmental programme ISO 14001 Certificate held by Audi Center Espoo ISO 14001 Action programme of The Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs (AKL) K-food stores: 471 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement for K-citymarkets, K-supermarkets and K-markets K-rauta stores: 40 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 42 stores, process (of which one combination store) underway in one store Rautia stores: 92 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 99 stores, process (of which 47 combination stores) underway in two stores K-maatalous stores: 72 K-environmental stores K-environmental store concept Chain requirement, total of 83 stores, process (of which 47 combination stores) underway in one store Main office in Katajanokka, Helsinki and Environmental management system for offices System developed by Kesko warehouses in Vantaa 76 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS economic responsibility Management approach to economic responsibility, including benefits FROM KESKO’S OPERATIONS flowing to operating principles and monitoring and control systems, is stakeholder groups described on pages 68–71. € million 2012 2011 2010 Customers* Income 10,433 10,165 9,476 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Goods, -9,454 -9,188 -8,526 materials and services Suppliers purchased EC1 ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND Value added 979 977 949 DISTRIBUTED generated Kesko assesses the economic benefits of its operations with reDistribution of gard to different stakeholder groups and market areas. Stakevalue added: holder welfare in its market areas is important for Kesko and its Salaries, fees -603 -571 -521 international trading operations also promote increased welfare and social outside its own markets, especially in developing countries. Employees security costs The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its Net finance -2 2 6 stakeholders, as well as the distribution of economic value added income/ Creditors costs between stakeholder groups. The consolidated income stateOwners Dividend -118 -118 -128 ment, the consolidated statement of financial position and the Public sector Income taxes -76 -85 -97 consolidated statement of cash flows are available in full in the consolidated financial statements (IFRS) in the Annual Report Communities Donations -1 -1 -2 beginning on page 64. Retained for 180 204 207 business According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distribdevelopment utes at least 50% of its earnings per share excluding non-recurring items as dividends, taking into account, however, the com* Incl. net sales and other operating income pany’s financial position and operating strategy. In 2012, Kesko distributed a total of approximately €118 million as dividends for Basic information on Kesko shares and the 2011 profit, which represented 64.9% of earnings per share shareholders as at 31 Dec. 2012 and 65.3% of earnings per share excluding non-recurring items. 2012 2011 2010 A decision has been made to distribute approximately €118 milNumber of shares (1,000 pcs) 98,712 98,645 98,641 lion for the 2012 profit as dividends, which represents 91.9% of Share capital (€ million) 197 197 197 earnings per share and 79.9% of earnings per share excluding A shares as percentage of all 32 32 32 non-recurring items. shares (%) At 31 December 2012, foreign ownership of all shares was 18%. B shares as percentage of all shares 68 68 68 Foreign ownership of B shares was 27% at 31 December 2012. (%) The price of liquid B shares decreased by 4.6% and that of A shares as percentage of all votes 83 83 83 less liquid A shares by 1.7%, while the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki All (%) Share Index increased by 8.3%. The B share turnover rate on the B shares as percentage of all votes 17 17 17 (%) Helsinki stock exchange rose by 8.2%, but the exchange value fell Market capitalisation of A shares 774 788 1,101 by 16%. The A share turnover rate rose by 8.3%, but the exchange (€ million) value fell by 8% from the previous year. Market capitalisation of B shares 1,644 1,719 2,337 The largest foreign shareholders are from the United States, (€ million) Norway, Great Britain, Switzerland and Sweden (source: BigNumber of shareholders 44,554 41,215 38,258 Dough). Earnings per share, diluted (€) 1,30 1,84 2,06 Dividend per share (€) 1,2 1,2 1,3 Analysis of economic benefits from Kesko’s operations by market area Pension and social Capital Salaries and sharesecurity expenses Purchases expenditure based payments and taxes* Total € million Finland 5,478 292 364 551 6,685 Other Nordic countries 869 8 57 53 986 Baltic countries 225 3 47 37 313 Russia 226 68 31 13 339 Other countries 1,272 8 7 3 1,289 Total 8,069 378 506 657 9,612 * Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes and withholding taxes. 77 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 10 largest shareholders by number of shares Kesko’s support for the public good held (A and B series) as at 31 December 2012 € 1,000 2012 2011 2010 Percentage of Percentage of Non-governmental and 113 189 130 shares, % votes, % environmental organisations Science, research and education 86 96 1,033 K-Retailers' Association 3.61 9.27 Culture 51 94 166 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3.54 7.06 Sports 470 463 619 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3.48 8.95 Health care 0 15 89 Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance 2.85 1.41 Youth work 125 198 207 Company Veteran organisations 15 16 10 Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1.36 3.49 Total 860 1,072 2,253 Varma Mutual Pension Insurance 1.15 0.29 Company Tapiola Mutual Pension Insurance 1.11 0.29 K-food stores in Finnish municipalities Company (as at 31 december 2012) Foundation for Vocational Training 1.02 2.27 in the Retail Trade Number of Municipalities % of all K-food stores in 2012 municipalities Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1.01 0.26 10 or more 16 4.8% The State Pension Fund 0.78 0.20 7–9 7 2.1% 5–6 21 6.3% STORE NETWORK 3–4 53 15.8% Kesko has around 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in 2 55 16.4% Finland and other operating countries. The K-food store network, 1 138 41.1% which consists of over 900 K-food stores, is comprehensive. The 0 46 13.7% food trade services cover nearly all municipalities in Finland Municipalities, total 336 100% and K-food stores welcome around 900,000 customers every day. Kesko also has a large number of B2B customers. Outside Finland, Kesko engages in the food trade, the building and home EC2 FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS AND improvement trade, the machinery trade and the sports trade. OTHER RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR The numbers of stores are shown on page 7. THE ORGANISATION’S ACTIVITIES DUE TO At the end of 2012, Kesko had 1,210 K-retailer entrepreneurs CLIMATE CHANGE as partners. Kesko’s sales to retailer entrepreneurs accounted for 52% of total sales in 2012. Climate change causes physical risks, regulation-related risks, as Kesko and K-retailers form the K-Group, whose retail sales well as risks and opportunities affecting reputation factors. Clitotalled €12 billion (VAT 0%) in 2012. The K-Group employs apmate change may impact on the company’s business operations proximately 45,000 people. in terms of risks involved in regulation, such as various permit procedures, or costs arising from emissions trading or taxation. Staff costs Physical changes, such as storms and heavy rains have conse€ million quences for the built environment. Resulting from draught and 2012 2011 2010 desertification, the availability of water has become difficult in Wages, salaries and fees 503 473 451 many countries, reducing the productive capacity of the econSocial security costs omy. Agricultural production will suffer in case desertification pension costs 48 45 23 and sea level rise reduce the arable land area. The availability of social security costs 49 46 41 energy sources and emission limitations may have impacts on Share-based payments 3 6 5 energy prices. Climate change can also affect business operations In 2012, foreign operations accounted for €142 million of total wages and in terms of other risks, such as reputation risks and changes in salaries. In 2012, foreign operations accounted for €31 million of total consumer behaviour. On the other hand, the above changes repension costs and other social security costs. sulting from climate change can also provide new opportunities and competitive advantages for business operations. Taxes One of the key objectives in Kesko’s responsibility work is € million 2012 2011 2010 to mitigate the progress of climate change. Assessments of the Income taxes to Finland 70.5 78.7 92.6 financial implications for business activities vary significantly Income taxes to other countries 5.3 6.5 4.2 between risk scenarios. The financial implications are assessed Real estate taxes to Finland 3.8 2.4 3.0 annually in the responses to CDP’s (Carbon Disclosure Project) Real estate taxes to other 4.2 1.9 1.3 questionnaire. countries Physical risks are related to both the physical store network Value added taxes to Finland 319.8 * * and logistics. Exceptional weather conditions can cause interrupValue added taxes to other 42.0 tions in operations or problems in the availability of products. countries * * Climate change can affect the sources of supply and availability Withholding taxes to Finland 91.7 * * of products both inside and outside Europe. Accidents, natural Withholding taxes to other 23.1 phenomena and epidemics can cause damage or business intercountries * * ruptions which cannot be prevented. * information not available Real estate taxes to Finland include real estate tax returns for previous years. 78 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Increasing regulations restricting competitive trading condiRISK MATRIX tions are being imposed in Finland and also by the European Union. Regulation also has indirect impacts on the costs of electrical MAJOR RISKS / MAJOR RISKS / MINOR OPPORTUNITIES MAJOR OPPORTUNITIES and heat energy. The electrical and heat energy used in Kesko’s own properties represents a significant part of the K-Group’s enForms of energy ergy costs. The implementation of the EU’s Integrated Energy and and energy prices Climate Policy, and the Finnish Government’s energy policy will INCREASE IN RISK RELATED TO THE ASPECT Store network, Legislation related selections and affect future energy solutions and may increase energy prices, to selections and customers adding to energy saving pressures. store operations Reputation factors An analysis of risks and opportunities also takes customers’ Agility and flexibility Exceptional Energy and future needs into account. Kesko actively develops the stores’ of organisation material efficiency weather conditions and awareness of selections and services in all of its divisions to meet customer climate change needs. At the same time, customer awareness of, for example, Logistics environmental impacts is increasing and their needs and buying behaviour have become diversified as new forms of services, such as e-commerce, have been made available. With regard to the competitive situation in the trading sector, the role of online transactions and multi-channel services has grown significantly in a few years. Kesko also helps its customers find energy saving solutions. MINOR RISKS / MAJOR RISKS / The Energy Expert concept of the building and home improveMINOR OPPORTUNITIEST MINOR OPPORTUNITIES ment trade makes it easy for customers to improve energy efficiency in their homes. K-maatalous’ cultivation programme INCREASE IN OPPORTUNITY RELATED TO THE ASPECT tests the suitability of plant varieties for the Finnish climate in order to help customers choose the best variety and cultivation method for Finnish conditions. EC3 COVERAGE OF RETIREMENT Kesko wants to support a total solution towards carbon dioxide free production, reduce Finland’s dependency on imported BENEFIT PLANS energy and enhance the efficiency of the electricity market. The Group operates several pension plans. In Finland, the reA Kesko subsidiary, Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy is a particitirement benefits of employees are managed partly by pension pant in the Fennovoima project, which aims to build a new nuinsurance companies and partly by the Kesko Pension Fund. The clear power plant in Finland. statutory retirement benefits of the Kesko Group employees are Kesko recovers the waste heat from real estate, such as the managed by pension insurance companies and additional recondensation heat from cooling stores’ refrigeration units, and tirement benefits are managed by Pension Fund’s department uses it efficiently for heating with the help of the latest technolA. Department A was closed on 9 May 1998. The pension plans ogy. Kesko also actively examines the use of renewable energy managed by the Kesko Pension Fund are classified as defined sources, such as soil and water as sources of heat and cold, as benefit plans. As at 31 December 2012, the plan obligation was well as solar energy, which will be potential alternatives as the €243.0 million (€292.4 million in 2011), which is fully covered. technical solutions become increasingly sophisticated. The surplus was €147.0 million (€200.1 million in 2011) at 31 DeCustomers are paying increasing attention to issues related to cember 2012. Calculated in compliance with IFRS (Pension Fund’s climate change. Possible failures in implementing responsibility insurance premium is based on a defined benefit plan), the whole may weaken Kesko’s reputation. Group’s insurance premiums represented 9.5% (9.6% in 2011) Kesko’s operations are surveyed in continuous risk assessof the amount of wages and salaries. Read more in the Annual ments, which also cover changes possibly necessitated by cliReport, the consolidated financial statements, note 20, page 103. mate change. The Group’s risk map, the most significant risks At the end of the year, the additional retirement benefit plan, and uncertainties, as well as changes in and responses to them or department A, covered 582 employees. are reported to the Kesko Board’s Audit Committee in connection In the other countries, retirement benefits are arranged in with handling the interim reports and the financial statements. compliance with local legislation, and there are no benefit plans, The risk matrix on this page describes some of the risks and except in Norway. The number of employees entitled to addiopportunities related to Kesko’s operations in respect of climate tional retirement benefits in Norway is not material in proporchange. tion to the whole Group. Read more about risks on pages 20–21 and in the Annual Report on pages 55–58. EC4 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE RECEIVED FROM GOVERNMENT The Group did not receive significant financial assistance from the government in 2012. 79 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 MARKET PRESENCE in Finland are import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. EC6 SPENDING ON LOCALLY-BASED Kesko actively increases the amount of local purchases and encourages K-retailers to include products from near-by proSUPPLIERS ducers in their selections. In 2012, K-retailers’ direct purchases Kesko assesses the economic benefits from its operations by from Finnish regions totalled €586 million; see table on page 81. reporting its purchases by operating country and the company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports K-retailers’ direct purCAPITAL EXPENDITURE chases of goods in Finland by region. In 2012, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €378 million (€425 Most of the economic benefits from Kesko’s operations – apmillion in 2011), or 3.9% of net sales (4.5% in 2011). Capital exproximately 83% of Kesko’s net sales – flow to suppliers of goods, penditure in store sites was €310 million (€362 million in 2011). from which purchases were valued at €8.1 billion in 2012. Capital expenditure in foreign operations accounted for 22.9% In 2012, Kesko had around 21,700 suppliers of goods and ser(31.7% in 2011) of the total capital expenditure. vices from which the purchases were valued at at least €1,000 In addition to Kesko, K-retailers annually make capital exduring the year. Of these, around 10,600 operated in Finland, penditures on the building or reconstruction of stores used by around 8,100 in Kesko’s other operating countries, and around the K-Group. These included, the total capital expenditure in 3,000 in the rest of the world. Finland was around €469 million in 2012 (€434 million in 2011). The 10 largest suppliers accounted for 22.5% (24.3% in 2011) Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers on the operations of building firms, building sector service comfor 51.8% (53.4% in 2011). Of the 10 largest suppliers, seven were panies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information Finnish food industry companies, one import company operatsystems, for example. ing in Finland and two German car manufacturers. The purchases of all of Kesko’s companies from suppliers of goods operating in Finland totalled €5,478 million, accounting EC7 PROCEDURES FOR LOCAL HIRING for 67.9% (67.5% in 2011) of the Group’s total purchases. Kesko recruits local expertise and aims to cover a wide diversity The purchases of goods by the Kesko Group’s Finnish compaof candidates for job openings, including management and midnies totalled €6,692 million. Of these purchases, 81.5% were from dle management positions. Kesko compiles statistics on new suppliers operating in Finland and 18.5% from other countries. employment relationships by country. In 2012, all of Kesko’s It should be noted that because some of the suppliers operating top and middle management positions in Finland were held by Finnish citizens. Kesko’s purchases by operating country in 2012 Suppliers of Suppliers of goods goods and and services in services in other operating country* Purchases from suppliers of goods** countries* Purchases from suppliers of goods** pcs € million % pcs € million % Finland 10,356 5,453 81.5 2,180 1,239 18.5 Sweden 991 111 83.0 129 23 17.0 Norway 899 561 97.8 82 13 2.2 Estonia 674 41 52.9 286 36 47.1 Latvia 479 27 34.8 248 51 65.2 Lithuania 861 69 30.6 1,189 156 69.4 Russia 1,918 212 95.0 41 11 5.0 Belarus 1,355 39 59.5 43 27 40.5 Total 17,533 6,513 80.7 4,198 1,556 19.3 * Suppliers of goods and services ** Suppliers of goods Kesko’s purchases in 2012 analysed by company’s and supplier’s country of domicile Supplier’s country of domicile Company’s country of Other domicile Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia Belarus countries Total € million Finland 5,453 177 10 42 1 4 0 0 1,005 6,692 Sweden 9 111 1 0 0 0 0 0 12 133 Norway 1 5 561 2 0 0 0 0 5 574 Estonia 5 1 0 41 3 1 0 0 26 77 Latvia 4 1 0 6 27 2 0 0 39 79 Lithuania 6 1 0 7 17 69 2 1 121 225 Russia 0 0 1 0 0 0 212 0 10 224 Belarus 1 0 0 0 0 1 11 39 13 66 Total 5,478 295 573 98 49 77 226 41 1,231 8,069 80 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS In the other operating countries, 97% of top and middle manKesko’s and retailers’ purchases have economic impacts on agement positions on average were held by local people. suppliers of goods and services, such as increase in jobs. Furthermore, purchases from local producers impact on regional business activities. The salaries, taxes, staff costs and capital INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS expenditure paid by Kesko and retailers have impacts on regional economic wellbeing. EC8 INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENTS AND Kesko is a significant tax payer. In 2012, the income taxes SERVICES PROVIDED FOR PUBLIC BENEFIT paid by Kesko to Finland were €70.5 million and to other countries €5.3 million. The Group’s effective tax rate was 35.2%. Kesko During the reporting period, Kesko itself did not make any inpaid €3.8 million in real estate tax to Finland and €4.2 million to frastructure investments for public benefit referred to in the other operating countries in 2012. Kesko also collects, reports and GRI. Instead, Kesko made contributions to the public good in remits indirect taxes. Indirect taxes include, for example, value donations and through its business partners. At the national added tax and excise duties. Value added tax is a consumption tax level in all of its operating countries, Kesko supports initiatives paid by the end consumers of goods and services, in other words, promoting, for example, science, research and education, youth households. Kesko remits value added taxes to tax recipients in work, sports, as well as the operations of non-governmental and its capacity of a company selling goods and services. As for exenvironmental organisations. Kesko especially supports projects cise tax, it is a consumption tax levied from the manufacturer, promoting the wellbeing of families with children. producer, importer or wholesaler of certain products and remitted to tax recipients. The excise duty is included in the product Kesko’s support for the public good price, which makes it payable by the consumer. Kesko remits excise duties on, for example, confectionery, alcohol, soft drinks 2012 2011 2010 and cars. In 2012, Kesko remitted indirect taxes to Finland to the €1,000 860 1,072 2,253 amount of €319.8 million, and €42.0 million to other countries. For more details, see the table on page 78. Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as emEC9 SIGNIFICANT INDIRECT ECONOMIC ployment impact, increased municipal tax income, or income in IMPACTS, INCLUDING THE EXTENT OF the producer and supplier chain, must be evaluated case by case, IMPACTS in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. Read more about impacts on society on pages 14–15. Kesko is a service sector company which, in addition to its own direct impacts, has indirect impacts related to the production, use and recyclability of products which play a significant part of the whole. Economic benefit generated by Kesko and k-retailers to Finnish regions in 2012 Kesko’s and Kesko’s K-retailers’ K-retailers’ purchases of direct purchases capital Salaries paid by Salaries paid by Taxes paid by Region goods of goods expenditure* Kesko K-retailers K-retailers Total € million Southern Karelia 9.6 15.2 18.4 5.4 13.1 1.4 63.1 Southern Ostrobothnia 263.7 38.6 19.8 5.4 13.2 1.3 342.1 Eastern Uusimaa 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.0 1.5 Southern Savo 32.2 15.8 4.4 4.6 11.6 1.5 70.1 Kainuu 2.1 13.0 0.1 1.6 5.8 0.5 23.2 Kanta-Häme 75.7 24.2 6.9 4.6 12.4 0.7 124.5 Central Ostrobothnia 49.2 17.6 0.2 1.9 4.2 0.7 73.8 Central Finland 63.6 21.5 8.9 9.7 18.1 1.7 123.4 Kymenlaakso 39.0 20.9 48.6 5.9 11.7 1.4 127.5 Lapland 16.1 21.7 2.7 5.8 17.1 1.8 65.2, Pirkanmaa 371.5 34.4 23.8 25.1 33.3 3.4 491.6 Ostrobothnia 133.7 9.7 1.1 5.1 8.3 0.8 158.7 Northern Karelia 25.1 20.7 0.7 4.3 11.7 1.8 64.2 Northern Ostrobothnia 87.5 39.3 32.7 17.5 26.4 2.6 206.1 Northern Savo 160.5 28.2 7.0 11.5 19.6 1.7 228.5 Päijät-Häme 139.9 26.1 5.9 9.3 11.8 0.9 193.9 Satakunta 109.9 27.8 5.2 4.1 15.6 1.2 163.7 Uusimaa 3,148.5 141.2 251.5 264.4 112.8 13.3 3,931.6 Varsinais-Suomi 698.8 69.8 31.5 23.8 35.1 3.0 862.0 Åland 26.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 26.1 Total 5,452.7 585.6 469.3 411.6 381.9 39.8 7,340.9 The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers’ total business volume. * Incl. increase in rent liabilities 81 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY At the end of 2012, environmental systems covered 63% of the net sales of Kesko companies in Finland and 53% of the whole ENERGy Group’s net sales. The coverage has been calculated in proporEN3 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND tion to retail sales. So far, environmental systems have not been EN4 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION adopted in the operations outside Finland. The K-Group’s environmental policy can be read at In 2012, Kesko’s office and warehouse properties and the K-Group www.kesko.fi/responsibility. stores in Finland consumed a total of 1,127 GWh of electric and heat energy. In the other operating countries, the total consumption of heat and electricity was 128 GWh in 2012. MATERIALS ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN FINLAND EN1 MATERIALS USED In Finland, multi-energy monitoring covered 2,533,692 m2 and In respect of Kesko, materials used refer to the quantities of packelectricity monitoring alone 581,491 m2 in 2012. The coverage of aging materials of products imported and packaged by Kesko. multi-energy monitoring, i.e. monitoring properties in respect Kesko reports these materials to the authorities in compliance of electricity, heating energy and water consumption, is 69%. with the EU packaging directive. Kesko’s logistics operations take Including properties monitored in respect of electricity conaccount of possibilities to use more environmentally friendly sumption only, the coverage is 85%. Based on the measurements, materials in its operations and packaging systems. a specific consumption is determined for each type of real estate, Kesko guides its customers in comparing the environmenwhich enables the calculation of the total consumption of all tal properties of products and packaging, their proper use and properties. For the 2012 report, the calculation of gross areas has disposal after use. Kesko can have an impact on the packaging been specified. In the same connection, the energy consumption materials and quantities, especially when developing its own figures for 2011 and 2010 were recalculated, which causes changbrand products. Among the clearly most important properties es in the calculated consumption data for the previous years. of packaging is to sufficiently protect the product from spoilage In 2012, the total electricity consumption calculated for Kesbefore use and to enable the whole product quantity to be used. ko’s properties (properties managed by Kesko and monitored by According to surveys (Source: MTT Agrifood Research Finland Energiakolmio Oy, see report attachments at www.kesko.fi) was FutupackEKO), the environmental impacts of foodstuffs packag779 GWh, whereas the consumption in 2011 was 783 GWh. Regarding as a rule are significantly smaller than the emissions from less of the fact that the total properties in Finland increased by the production and consumption of the foodstuff itself. 2.1% in 2012, the total consumption of electricity decreased by Read about the objectives and progress of Kesko’s recycling 0.6% during the same period. and material efficiency on pages 22–23. In 2012, the total heat energy consumption calculated for all properties was 348 GWh, showing an increase of 7.6% on 2011. QUANTITIES OF PACKAGING IMPORTED AND The increase in the measured specific heat consumption from PACKAGED BY KESKO 2011 is attributable to 2011 being warmer than usual, whereas Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 2012 was colder than normal. The standardised, or temperature Anttila/K-citymarket 2,506 2,231 2,575 corrected heat consumption in 2012 was 3.3% lower compared to 2011. Rautakesko 3,081 2,966 3,701 In Finland, the specific electricity consumption calculated for Kesko Food 17,805 17,869 18,101 all properties was 213 kWh/gross m2 in 2012, showing a decrease of 2.6% from 2011, when it was 219 kWh/gross m2. EN2 MATERIALS USED THAT ARE RECYCLED The corresponding specific consumption of heat energy in Finland was 95 kWh/gross m2. In 2012, the specific heat consumpINPUT MATERIALS tion of all of Kesko’s properties increased by 5.3%. In 2011, the In 2012, 267 tonnes (277 tonnes in 2011) of packaging plastic respecific heat consumption was 90 kWh/gross m2. covered from Kesko Food’s goods transportation was recycled. Specific consumptions of electricity and heat and developBecause most part of the reported packaging materials go to conments in real estate in Finland by property type can be read in the sumers, the calculation of the proportion of recycled materials consumption monitoring report at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. is not appropriate. Read more in EN27. ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN THE OTHER OPERATING COUNTRIES The real estate area of subsidiaries outside Finland was 1,042,000 m2 in 2012. Some heat energy was produced in the operating countries outside Finland from non-renewable energy sources; gas, oil and peat. 82 1 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SPECIFIC CONSUMPTIONS IN FINLAND, 2010–2012 In 2012, Kesko’s direct energy consumption consisted of 27.6 GWh of self-produced heat outside Finland and of 0.4 GWh of self-produced electricity, or a total of 28.0 GWh. The consump250 tion of purchased electricity was 88.4 GWh and district heat con200 245 246 244 sumption was 11.7 GWh. The total energy consumption in the 224 219 213 other operating countries was 128.1 GWh. 150 ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED BY KESKO TO THE K-GROUP 100 110 90 95 Kesko supplied 528 GWh, or approximately 68% of the total elec50 tricity consumed by the K-Group in Finland. In 2012, electricity was supplied by Helsingin Energia. The K-Group’s stores are also 0 located in shopping centres, in which case both electricity and 2010 2011 2012 heat is purchased from the real estate company. In addition, some Heat, kWh/gross m2 K-retailers purchase electricity, mainly from regional electric Electricity, kWh/gross m2 power plants. Water, m3/gross m2 The 2012 source data and calculation principles are available in the report attachments. The energy consumption figures for 2012 and the environmental profiles for energy consumption have been produced by Energiakolmio Oy. The calculation, which includes a comparison with the energy protocol contained in TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION IN REAL ESTATE the GRI reporting guidelines, is available at www.kesko.fi/reMANAGED BY KESKO IN FINLAND sponsibility. GWh Net sales in Finland, € million ENERGY CONSUMPTION 800 8,000 2012 2011 2010 700 7,000 Finland 783 779 600 784 6,000 Electricity (MWh) 778,961 783,290 783,675 500 5,000 Heat (MWh) 347,643 323,132 382,801 400 4,000 Total electricity and heat (MWh) 1,126,604 1,106,422 1,112,476 300 3,000 Water (m3) 893,803 880,641 857,012 383 200 323 348 2,000 100 1,000 Other operating countries 0 0 Electricity (MWh) 88,367 84,478 96,026 2010 2011 2012 Heat (MWh) 39,758 43,745 33,232 Heat Total electricity and heat (MWh) 128,125 128,223 129,258 Electricity Water (m3) 127,658 117,881 96,941 Net sales in Finland All operating countries Total electricity (MWh) 867,328 867,768 826,769 Total heat (MWh) 387,401 366,877 362,675 Total electricity and heat (MWh) 1,254,729 1,234,645 1,189,444 PROFILE FOR ENERGY CONSUMED IN REAL ESTATE MANAGED BY KESKO IN FINLAND Total water (m3) 1,021,461 892,279 772,297 Finland: figures for 2011 and 2010 have been specified. Primary energy, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million Other operating countries: figures for 2011 have been specified. Figures for 2010 do not include Belarus. 10 10,000 8 1.6 8,000 EN5 ENERGY SAVED DUE TO CONSERVATION 1.7 1.5 AND EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS 6 6,000 6.4 6.8 6.8 The K-Group has signed the trading sector energy-efficiency 4 4,000 agreement and committed to improving its energy consumption by 65 GWh through various energy saving measures by the 2 2,000 end of 2016. The agreement is based on the 9% savings target 0.6 0.4 0.5 0 0 set in the EU Directive on Energy End-Use Efficiency and Energy 2010 2011 2012 Services for the period 2008–2016. The agreement covers all store Renewable chains that belong to the K-Group. A report on the results of the Nuclear power trading sector energy-efficiency agreement is prepared annuNon-renewable ally. According to the latest reporting confirmed in June 2011, Net sales in Finland Kesko’s savings were approximately 34 GWh. For 2012, we have reported savings of approximately 14 GWh compliant with the agreement, which have not been confirmed yet. In other words, we have improved our energy consumption by a total of 48 GWh and achieved more than 70% of our target. The energy consumption at store sites consists of consumption related to store operations, such as lighting and electrical 83 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 PROFILE FOR ELECTRICITY SUPPLIED BY KESKO used by the shopping centre. The solution generates an annual TO THE K-GROUP IN FINLAND energy saving of 1.9 GWh. Read more about Veturi on pages 32–33. Primary energy, PJ Net sales in Finland, € million EN6 ENERGY EFFICIENT OR RENEWABLE 10 10,000 ENERGY-BASED PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 8 8,000 Rautakesko’s Energy Expert concept has been adopted by a total of 118 K-rauta and Rautia stores. In the concept, solutions for 5.85 0.01 6 6,000 0.07 5.92 0.01 higher energy efficiency are displayed at one in-store location 0.00 5.76 0.00 where a sales assistant, familiar with building services, finds 4 4,000 the solutions that best suit customers’ needs. The Energy Expert 2 2,000 concept also includes an optional installation service from a K-rauta or Rautia store. 0 0.00 0 The CO2 emissions of first time registered passenger cars in 2010 2011 2012 Finland were 139.70 g/km in 2012. Out of the car brands imported Renewable by Kesko last year, the average CO2 emissions of Volkswagen pasNuclear power senger cars, for example, were 130.96 g/km. Non-renewable In 2012, VV-Auto participated in the Recycling Value campaign Net sales in Finland of Finnish Car Recycling. A total of 65,058 certificates of destruction (CODs) were issued in 2012. To remove a car from the register equipment, and consumption related to the property, such as permanently, the owner must take it to a take-back point authorHVAC equipment and outdoor lighting. In food stores, the conised by Finnish Car Recycling where the owner is issued a COD. sumption of refrigeration systems can account for more than half VV-Autotalot has adopted a voluntary energy labelling scheme of the total electricity consumption at small store sites. for cars, in which the energy label indicates the car’s emission The installation of lids on the chest freezers in K-food stores category and fuel efficiency. The scheme corresponds to the encontinued. In 2012, the total length of added chest freezer lids ergy labelling scheme adopted in the EU member countries for and doors contributed 960 metres to the total length of around the energy consumption of household appliances. 7.8 (6.8) kilometres of such refrigeration equipment. Lids help Read more about energy efficiency in construction on page 54. save 40% of electric energy compared to uncovered chest freezers. In 2012, the total length of added juice and dairy cabinet doors was 330 metres. EN7 INITIATIVES TO REDUCE INDIRECT In 2012, the remote monitoring of stores’ refrigeration equipENERGY CONSUMPTION AND REDUCTIONS ment helped us save approximately 2.5 GWh of energy. With the ACHIEVED help of remote monitoring, refrigeration equipment can be adjusted for optimum temperatures and defrosting cycles. It also Kesko is building new, increasingly energy efficient stores in enables immediate response to any error conditions. both Finland and its other operating countries. By using energy At the end of 2012, the building automation of 145 Kesko faciliefficient building materials in stores, we have gained good results ties was connected to remote monitoring, i.e. a remote energy in energy consumption, especially in the tightness of buildings. management centre. The set points of properties and equipment In 2012, the air miles of Kesko personnel in business travel torunning hours can be changed from the management centre as talled 9.0 million (10.3 million in 2011). The aim is to continue renecessary, which also enables rapid response to possible disturducing air travel as part of the Group’s responsibility programme bances. The right run-times and set points are the easiest and the by, for example, increasing the possibilities for virtual meetings. most effective practical ways in which to improve energy effiAt the end of 2012, there were 27 Videra video conferencing ciency. The average specific heat energy consumptions of remote facilities in use within the Group and the total duration of video controlled properties were 11% lower compared to non-remote meetings arranged between two or several facilities was 5,458 controlled properties. The specific electric energy consumption hours (4,438 hours in 2011). The total duration of distance meetof remote controlled properties was 2.8% lower compared to the ings from employees’ own terminals (Microsoft Lync) was 7,627 consumption of non-remote controlled properties. hours. Increasingly many K-food stores save energy also by using At the end of 2012, Kesko had 665 company cars in use in carbon dioxide recovered from industrial processes as refrigerant Finland. Of these, 11 were run on ethanol, 288 petrol, 365 diesel in their refrigeration equipment. Not only is carbon dioxide an and 1 gas. environmentally friendly refrigerant, but the use of condensation energy from CO2 plants can save as much as 55% of a store’s heat energy compared to traditional solutions using condensaWATER tion heat from cooling units. Achieved savings are even bigger than calculated savings. Thanks to the solution combining a CO2 EN8 WATER WITHDRAWAL plant and efficient heat recovery at K-supermarket Jalasjärvi, for Finland has abundant water resources. Due to virtual water asexample, the store’s standardised specific consumption of heat sociated with the import of processed goods, more than half of energy was no higher than 33.7 kWh/m2, which is 75% less comthe water footprint of Finnish consumption falls outside Finland pared to an average supermarket. (Source: www. waterfootprint.org). LED technology is used in the illuminated signs of all new The K-Group has recognised the importance of fresh water stores. The resulting savings compared to ordinary neon and as a natural resource. In the K-Group’s own operations, water fluorescent tube solutions are 60–70%. LED technology is also is mainly used for cleaning. The level of hygiene and cleaning used to light outdoor areas, for example, at K-supermarket Jalasmethods for food stores have been stipulated in the Food Act and järvi and the Veturi shopping centre. the decree on food hygiene. Major consumers of water within At the Veturi shopping centre, ground heat and ground coolthe K-Group are car washes. All water used by Kesko comes from ing generate around half of the total heating and cooling energy municipal supplies. 84 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The total quantity of water consumed in the K-Group’s operaCLIMATE CHANGE IMPACTS UNDER GHG tions in Finland (monitored by Energiakolmio Oy) was 893,803 PROTOCOL IN FINLAND m3 in 2012 (880,641 m3 in 2011). Water consumption is part of real estate consumption monitoring also in the operating countries Tonnes of CO2e outside Finland. When needed, responses to changes can be fast. The most significant impacts from water consumption are 240,000 through the products on sale. With respect to the most material 200,000 150,773 product groups in terms of water consumption, such as fruits and 140,425 144,547 160,000 vegetables, most producers of imports have obtained the Global GAP certification for good agricultural production, including the 120,000 use of water. The beverage industry products included in the 80,000 selections are mainly manufactured in Finland. The breweries 34,982 34,540 33,501 and soft drink manufacturers used by Kesko have their own envi40,000 ronmental criteria concerning the use of water. The optimisation 0 of water consumption in the textile industry production begins 2010 2011 2012 from monitoring water consumption at the factory, coupled with Scope 1, own transportation and that controlled by Keslog the factory’s own measures. Scope 2, purchased energy Property-specific statistics on water consumption in Finland are available at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Water consumption in companies operating in countries outside Finland is of minor significance, totalling 127,658 m3 (117,881 m3 in 2011) per year. Read more on page 83. CLIMATE CHANGE IMPACTS UNDER GHG PROTOCOL, SCOPE 1 AND SCOPE 2, ALL EN10 WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED OPERATING COUNTRIES Kesko does not recycle or reuse water. All wastewater from Tonnes of CO2e Net sales, all operating countries, € million Kesko’s operations goes to municipal sewer systems. 240,000 12,000 200,000 10,000 168,179 BIODIVERSITY 161,036 160,000 8,000 159,420 120,000 6,000 EN11 LAND OWNED, LEASED AND MANAGED 80,000 4,000 IN AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY VALUE OR 40,448 40,809 39,297 40,000 2,000 IN PROTECTED AREAS AND EN12 IMPACTS OF ACTIVITIES ON BIODIVERSITY IN PROTECTED 0 0 2010 2011 2012 AREAS AND AREAS OF HIGH BIODIVERSITY Scope 1, own energy production, own transportation and VALUE that controlled by Keslog Scope 2, purchased energy Kesko does not own or operate in areas adjacent to areas with Net sales, all operating countries protection or high biodiversity requirements. Kesko only builds retail stores in areas zoned for business properties. Consequently, 2010 data for Belarus not included Kesko does not have significant direct impacts on biodiversity, which is why Kesko’s management operations are limited to individual actions and policy definitions. For indirect impacts, see EN15. PROFILE AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF ENERGY PURCHASED AND CONSUMED BY THE EN13 HABITATS PROTECTED OR RESTORED K-GROUP, ALL OPERATING COUNTRIES Kesko does not have protected or restored habitats. Surveys of contaminated land are made annually in connection with conPrimary energy, PJ Environmental impact, tonnes CO2e struction work and real estate transactions. In 2012, two sites 8 180,000 were restored from which a total of 1,374.14 tonnes of contami7.20 7.07 nated soil and 900 tonnes of contaminated concrete were re6 135,000 moved. One of the sites, an area of 4.5 hectares, is located in the 6.69 Varsinais-Suomi region and the other, less than one hectare in 4 90,000 area, in the Kymenlaakso region. Read more about the restora2 1.97 1.75 1.82 45,000 tion of contaminated sites in EN23. 0.73 0.54 0.57 0 0 EN14 STRATEGIES, ACTIONS AND PLANS 2010 2011 2012 RELATED TO BIODIVERSITY Renewable Mitigating the progress of climate change resulting from energy Nuclear power consumption is one of the key objectives in Kesko’s environmenNon-renewable Climate change tal work for preserving biodiversity. Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement. Read more on page 83. In 2012, Kesko completed the Forest Footprint Disclosure Request. 85 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Read more about the principles for preserving biodiversity on in the previous year, which has increased the emissions from page 76 and about our product selections in EN26. Kesko’s external electricity supply. Energiakolmio Oy has also calculated the environmental proEN15 IUCN ENDANGERED SPECIES IN AREAS file of the energy used by Kesko companies outside Finland. The calculation relies on country-specific electricity and heat AFFECTED BY OPERATIONS production profiles, which are based on the statistics of the InThere are no endangered species in areas directly affected by Kesko’s ternational Energy Association (IEA) of the OECD on production operations. Indirect impacts arise through products on sale. distributions and carbon dioxide emissions. The amount of raIn line with Kesko’s purchasing recommendation, the garden dioactive waste generated from nuclear fuel used is estimated furniture made of tropical wood and sold by the K-Group stores at 3.0 mgU/kWh regardless of country. The calculation of carbon is either FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified or made of dioxide emissions from own production is based on the IEA wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance with guidelines. Acidifying emissions from own production have not the principles of sustainable development. been calculated. The combined carbon dioxide emissions from Tropical wood and timber represented less than 1% of the real estate in other countries were 23,202 tonnes (22,663 tonnes in building and home improvement trade’s total sales. In 2012, 2011). Own energy production accounted for 5,796 tonnes (6,269 certified wood – mainly with the Finnish national FFCS forest tonnes in 2011) of the carbon dioxide emissions from real estate certification and the FSC certification – accounted for some 93% in the other operating countries. of sawn timber sold by Rautakesko. The emissions from transportation are calculated using the The K-Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs Kesko Food LIPASTO system developed by VTT Technical Research Centre of Ltd’s and Kespro Ltd’s own purchasing, as well as K-food stores’ Finland. The 2012 emissions have been calculated using the LIISA purchasing to safeguard sustainable fishing and the cultivation 2011 unit coefficients for heavy vehicle traffic. of fish. Read more about Kesko’s fish and shellfish statement at Transportation for Kesko Food and Anttila in Finland is hanwww.kesko.fi/responsibility. dled by Keslog Ltd, with a total distance of 38.6 million kilometres travelled by vehicles in goods transport in 2012 (37.9 million km in 2011). Own vehicles and those controlled by Keslog acEMISSIONs, effluents counted for 33,501 tCO2e of the carbon dioxide emissions from transportation. AND WASTE In 2012, the CO2e emissions from Keslog’s outsourced transportation were 8,758 tonnes. Rautakesko’s transportation is hanEN16 DIRECT AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE dled by Itella Corporation. The CO2e emissions from Rautakesko’s GAS EMISSIONS AND EN17 OTHER INDIRECT transportation in Finland were 2,576 tonnes. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS As vehicles have been replaced, their unit emissions have decreased. The relative emissions per transport kilometre in Kesko reports direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from Keslog’s transportation were 3.9% lower than in the previous its operations using the GHG Protocol (The Green House Gas year. Compared to the 2007 level, the relative emissions from Protocol). The greenhouse gas emissions reported by Kesko untransportation have decreased by 5.0%. der Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the GHG Protocol include the energy The total volume of imports forwarded by Keslog was 310,438 purchased by Kesko and retailers, own energy production abroad tonnes, showing a decrease of 2.4% on the previous year. There and own transportation in Finland. is no information on kilometres driven or any emission calKesko has expanded the emission calculation of indirect culations available for imports transportation. Transportation greenhouse emissions (Scope 3). For 2012, we report on indiarriving from Europe was handled by trucks, semi-trailers and rect emissions from outsourced transportation, primary energy, containers, and from outside Europe only by containers. Kesko waste, business travel, employee commuting and customers’ Food accounted for 74% of the volume of imports. visits to the K-Group stores. The Scope 3 calculation is based on Transportation of subsidiaries in other countries has been the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and, as applicable, on the divided between a larger number of companies than in Finland GHG Protocol Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Standard. The and part of the transportation is made from manufacturers diCorporate Value Chain Standard’s category 1, Purchased Goods rectly to end-users. Transportation statistics are incomplete and and Services, has been identified as the most significant category annual data is not based on a consistent database and statistics and related calculation will be specified in 2013. are not presented in this report. The development of transportaThe electricity, 528 GWh (538 GWh in 2011), supplied by Kesko tion statistics continues in order that information on the other represents 67.7% of the total consumption by real estate in Finoperating countries can also be reported. land. All carbon-free electricity purchased by Kesko from HelsIn 2012, the air miles of Kesko employees in business travel ingin Energia was produced using nuclear power. Consequently, totalled 9.0 million (10.3 million in 2011) and their CO2 emisthe carbon dioxide emissions from the electricity purchased sions were 1,489 tonnes (2,101 tonnes in 2011). In accordance by Kesko were 0 tonnes in 2012. The use of primary energy dewith Kesko’s travel policy, the environmental impacts from travel creased by 1.7% from the previous year. K-retailers’ own electricare considered when making decisions concerning travel. Virity purchases included, the total carbon dioxide emissions from tual conferences are part of ordinary meeting procedure. Read electricity used in properties were 73,809 tonnes. more on page 84. In 2012, carbon dioxide emissions from heat energy consumpAt the end of 2012, Kesko had 665 company cars in use in Fintion in real estate were 76,965 tonnes. The combined carbon land, of which 11 were run on ethanol, 288 petrol, 365 diesel and dioxide emissions from electricity and heat (CO2e) were 150,773 1 gas. Kesko’s company car policy recommends a CO2 emission tonnes, representing approximately 0.2% of total emissions in level below 160 g CO2/km. In 2012, the average emission level Finland (74.6 million tonnes of CO2e according to Statistics Finwas 140 g CO2/km (146 g CO2/km in 2011) and the total emissions land’s energy statistics for 2010). The carbon dioxide emissions from company cars were 3,076 CO2 tonnes (2,949 CO2 tonnes in from electric and heat energy consumption in Kesko’s operations 2011). The calculation includes private travel using company cars. in Finland increased by 4.3% in 2012. In the Nordic energy proIn 2012, allowances paid for business travel for Kesko in Finduction, the percentage of fossil fuels was slightly higher than land covered 8.8 million kilometres. Assuming that the average 86 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS emission level of employees’ cars was 167 g CO2/km, the total EN19 EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING emissions from such business travel would have been in the SUBSTANCES BY WEIGHT order of around 1,497 CO2 tonnes. For 2012, emissions from railway and ship traffic from Finland The building services equipment in properties managed by Kesko and hotel accommodations in Finland have also been calculated, contains approximately 16 tonnes of refrigerants. Refrigerants based on information obtained from service providers. are added because of leaks in the systems. Kesko monitors the Emissions from waste for all operating countries have been use of refrigerants by compiling refill data from its maintenance calculated based on the statistics presented in EN22 and the emispartners. In 2012, around 400 kg of refrigerants were added. sion factors provided by HSY Helsinki Region Environmental The HFC substance, more specifically R404a, is the most freServices Authority. quently used refrigerant in the refrigeration systems of K-food The emissions from employee commuting were calculated stores. The refrigeration equipment contains an estimated total using the VTT LIPASTO emission factors. For metro and trams, of 191 tonnes of R404a. New K-food stores use R744 technology, the calculation is based on emission factors used in the traffic in which the refrigerant is carbon dioxide recovered to 100% survey of Helsinki City Transport. The same emission factors from industrial processes. Refrigeration units make use of the have also been used in the calculation of emissions from cusgas temperature in the carbon dioxide process – higher than that tomers’ shopping trips in Finland, based on K-Plussa card data. generated in the traditional refrigeration process – by building an efficient heat recovery system for heating service water and SCOPE 3 CATEGORIES the incoming air of the air-conditioning system. Tonnes of CO2e 2012 HCFC chlorofluorohydrocarbon refrigerants, such as R22, are used in less than 40 stores. Their total quantity is around 4 Upstream tonnes, which corresponds to around 240 kg CFC-11 equivalents. Transportation1) 14,000 This refrigeration equipment using HCFC is technologically outPrimary energy 168,000 dated and HCFCs will be abandoned by the end of 2014. Waste 5,800 CFCs are no longer used in K-food store refrigeration equipBusiness travel1) 2) 3,700 ment. Employee commuting1) 9,000 The leading refrigerants in Keslog’s warehouses are NH3 (amDownstream monia) and R404a. Customer visits in K-Group stores1) 210,000 1) Only calculated for operations in Finland EN20 NOX, SOX, AND OTHER SIGNIFICANT AIR Including travel (air, railway, ship and car traffic) and hotel accommodations EMISSIONS BY TYPE AND WEIGHT 2) More information on Scope 3 calculation and the emission calIn 2012, the acidifying emissions of sulphur dioxide (SO2) from culation attachments (Energiakolmio’s reports) are available at electric and heat energy used in real estate properties (report by www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Energiakolmio Oy) in Finland were 212 tonnes (202 tonnes in 2011), and the nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) were 249 tonnes (234 tonnes in 2011). The ethylene emissions (C2H4e) producing EN18 INITIATIVES TO REDUCE GREENHOUSE lower atmosphere ozone were 9 tonnes (9 tonnes in 2011). The GAS EMISSIONS AND REDUCTIONS quantity of radioactive waste produced by using nuclear power ACHIEVED was 1.5 tonnes (1.5 tonnes in 2011). The Kesko subsidiary Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy is a participant in Fennovoima’s nuclear In its own operations, as well as through the services and prodpower plant project. Read more at www.kesko.fi/ responsibility. ucts it offers, Kesko makes effective efforts to operate in ways in CO2 emissions only are reported for transportation and business which to mitigate greenhouse gas production. travel. Read more in EN16 and EN17. By improving energy efficiency and using carbon-free electricity Kesko has been able to have a significant impact on the climate change impact of properties. For example, in Finland, EN21 WATER DISCHARGE when electricity purchased by Kesko and K-retailers themselves Wastewater from Kesko’s operations goes to municipal sewer is taken into account, the CO2 emissions from electricity have systems. There is no water discharge referred to by GRI from decreased by 67% (2001 is used as base year, when CO2 emissions Kesko’s operations. totalled 220,644 tonnes). The positive trend in the CO2 emissions from transportation in 2012 is attributable to the improvement in logistics efficiency. EN22 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE BY TYPE Keslog has long reduced emissions from the K-store supply chain AND DISPOSAL by centralising distribution. New replacements in the vehicle The total amount of waste generated in companies in Finland fleet have reduced unit emissions. Key tools in improving logis(Kesko Food Ltd (logistics), Kespro Ltd, Anttila Oy (logistics centics efficiency also include the optimisation of transport routes tre), Konekesko Ltd, Rautakesko Ltd and VV-Auto Group Oy) was and a high volumetric efficiency. A significant part is also played 11,239 tonnes (10,776 tonnes in 2011), of which 93% was recovered by efficient return logistics with, for example, purchase loads or (92% in 2011). The aggregate quantity of waste in the other opcarrier trays and recycling components, such as pallets, roll conerating countries was 11,478 tonnes (10,953 tonnes in 2011), and tainers, cardboard, bottles or cans, collected on the return route. the recovery rate there was 59% (67% in 2011). The total recovNearly all of Keslog’s more than 500 contract drivers will be ery rate in all operating countries was 76%. In Finland, Kesko’s trained in economical driving styles in the course of the prowaste statistics mainly cover warehousing operations, while in gramme launched in 2012. The number of two-tier trailers in long the other countries, most of the waste included in statistics is distance trunk delivery transportation has been raised to seven. generated in retail stores. In 2012, Kesko continued to support the CANEMU project of In 2012, the recovery rate in Kesko Food’s warehouses conthe Finnish Environment Institute SYKE. Kesko also participated tinued to improve from the previous year reaching 96% (95% in the TAPRE project of the EcoEfficient Tampere programme in 2011). In 2012, the amount of mixed waste per cubic metre aimed to promote energy efficiency in the service buildings of delivered was 0.11 kg (0.15 kg in 2011). the area. 87 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 WASTE MANAGEMENT STATISTICS ON OPERATIONS IN FINLAND Kesko Food (logistics) Kespro4) Anttila (logistics centre) Rautakesko Car and machinery trade Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Waste for recovery 7,473 7,245 5,596 849 941 542 423 471 640 439 405 734 689 969 WEEE 1 14 2 71 96 94 5 Landfill waste1) 2) 291 391 1,1003) 328 316 4 2 15 102 52 59 41 75 130 Hazardous waste2) 4 18 3 1 12 149 61 120 Total 7,769 7,668 6,698 1,180 1,269 617 521 581 742 491 464 929 825 1,219 Recovery rate, % 96 95 84 72 75 99 99 97 86 89 87 96 91 79 1) Mixed waste and other components not suitable for recovery 2) Composted organic waste and hazardous waste (since 2011) are included in the recovery rate. 3) In addition, 96 tonnes of building and special waste was treated in 2010 but not included in calculation. 4) Kespro’s waste statistics starting from 2011 WASTE MANAGEMENT STATISTICS FOR SWEDEN AND NORWAY Sweden1) Norway Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Waste for recovery 1,998 2,723 2,055 1,199 1,224 699 Landfill waste 727 512 480 11 22 504 Hazardous waste2) 164 62 45 37 38 Total 2,889 3,289 2,535 1,255 1,283 1,241 Recovery rate, % 75 85 81 99 95 56 1) Data for Sweden for 2011 have been specified. 2) Composted organic waste and hazardous waste (since 2011) are included in the recovery rate. WASTE MANAGEMENT STATISTICS FOR THE BALTICS, RUSSIA AND BELARUS Estonia Latvia1) Lithuania Russia Belarus1) Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 Waste for recovery 387 402 158 153 189 2,304 2,300 1,905 438 574 2,343 40 8 Landfill waste 176 43 271 464 478 938 1,050 796 2,109 1,113 771 290 53 Hazardous waste2) 10 7 2 7 22 25 11 1 0 132 Total 573 452 428 619 674 3,264 3,375 2,711 2,548 1,687 3,114 330 193 Recovery rate, % 69 89 37 25 28 71 68 70 17 34 75 12 4 1) Statistics for Latvia and Belarus starting from 2011 2) Composted organic waste and hazardous waste (since 2011) are included in the recovery rate. 88 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Kesko Food has developed K-food stores’ waste management 1,374.14 tonnes of contaminated soil was transported to processmodels since 2011. Approximately 90 stores in the Greater Heling plants. See EN13. sinki area and the Uusimaa region have adopted the new model. In addition, in connection with property transactions, possiTheir recovery rates have risen to 90% as a result of, for example, ble disruptive substances and ozone-depleting substances within centralised waste management reporting and efficient recovstructure were surveyed. ery of organic waste. The recovery rate of Anttila’s new logistics In 2012, there were no cases of non-compliance with envicentre is over 99%. ronmental laws or regulations within the Group. There are a total of 220 recycling points made available to customers at K-food stores. A total of 330 million cans and 131 EN25 WATER BODIES SIGNIFICANTLY million recyclable plastic bottles were returned. The collection of recyclable glass bottles from stores was AFFECTED BY THE REPORTING launched as a new operation in return logistics in spring 2012. ORGANISATION’S DISCHARGES OF WATER A total of 12.1 million reusable transport crates were collected AND RUNOFF in 2012. Kesko has no discharges into water bodies. All wastewater from For the first time, the quantities of clothes collected via the Kesko’s operations goes to municipal sewer systems. UFF clothes collection containers located at the K-Group stores were reported for 2012. PACKAGING DELIVERED BY KESKO FOOD’S RETURN PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LOGISTICS FoR RECOVERY AND REUSE EN26 INITIATIVES TO MITIGATE 1,000 pcs 2012 2011 2010 Aluminium cans 95,252 100,236 103,149 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS PET bottles 53,453 56,841 53,540 AND SERVICES, AND EXTENT OF IMPACT Disposable bottles 6,606 5,107 4,266 MITIGATION Reusable crates 12,097 11,429 10,885 Kesko can have a direct impact on the reduction of the environmental impacts of products in respect of its own products and IMPREGNATED TIMBER AND LEAD-ACID an indirect impact through product selections. ACCUMULATORS RECYCLED BY THE BUILDING AND Selection and marketing policies concerning organic products HOME IMPROVEMENT TRADE (K-RAUTA AND RAUTIA), and products with environmental labelling are, just like Fairtrade FINLAND products, included in the K-food stores’ chain concepts. At the end of 2012, Kesko Food had over 2,100 (around 1,790 in 2011) Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 organic products and products with environmental labelling Impregnated timber 891 931 840 in its selections, of which 99 (73 in 2011) were Pirkka Organic Lead-acid accumulators 4 4 5 products and 70 (78 in 2011) Pirkka products carrying the Nordic eco label. In addition, the Pirkka range includes 11 MSC certified BATTERIES AND ACCUMULATORS (RECSER) COLLECTED fish products. AT K-GROUP STORES, FINLAND In autumn 2011, doubling the number of Pirkka organic prod2012 2011 2010 ucts from 50 to around 100 by the end of 2012 was set as the Tonnes target. At the end of 2012, the number was 99. The number of Batteries and accumulators 152 130 108 organic products in K-food store selections varies depending on the size of the store. Some of the organic products – such CLOTHES COLLECTED VIA UFF COLLECTION as milk, bakery and meat products – are delivered by suppliers CONTAINERS AT K-STORES directly to stores; K-retailers also buy organic vegetables direct Tonnes 2012 2011 2010 from local producers. There are no reliable statistics on these Clothes 1,736 1,609 1,488 products. In 2012, Kesko Food’s selections included over 1,500 organic products. In 2012, the Pirkka family of local breads was developed with local bakeries to meet the customer demand for local foods. Read more on page 35. EN23 TOTAL NUMBER AND VOLUME Anttila department stores and Kodin1 department stores for OF SIGNIFICANT SPILLS AND EN28 interior decoration and home goods accept as pro-environmental COMPLIANCE WITH ENVIRONMENTAL products those which carry the Nordic ecolabel, the EU Flower LAWS AND REGULATIONS Ecolabel or the label indicating that the energy consumption category is ‘A’. These products are highlighted by ‘Pro-environmental ISO 14001 certified Kesko units manage their environmental risks product’ shelf labels in the stores. The Anttila and Kodin1 departand readiness to act in exceptional and emergency situations in ment stores currently have hundreds of products labelled as Proaccordance with the requirements of the standard. One of the environmental, especially paper products, light bulbs, batteries, biggest risks for trading sector companies is fire, which is why washing agents and household appliances. employees have been given appropriate instructions and trainMost of Kesko Food’s import suppliers of fruits and vegeing. In 2012, there were no cases of reportable environmental tables, 97.3%, have the GlobalGAP (Good Agricultural Practice) damages or accidents within the Group. certificate. All Pirkka bananas are RFA and SA8000 certified, exSurveys of contaminated land are made annually in conneccept Pirkka Fairtrade Organic bananas, which are Organic and tion with construction work and real estate transactions. In 2012, Fairtrade certified. the soil at five properties was surveyed in connection with conKesko Food’s Finnish producers of vegetables must belong to struction in Finland. Contaminated land was found at two sites, the Finnish Horticultural Products Society (KK), in other words, which were restored in 2012. The restored sites are located in the entitled to use the society’s seed leaf quality symbol. The society Varsinais-Suomi region and the Kymenlaakso region. A total of has drawn a guidebook “Quality Requirements for Vegetables” on 89 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 good production methods for the sector to ensure product safety When required, Kesko draws up sustainability statements of and environmental aspects of domestic horticultural products. its own concerning product selections and purchasing criteria. Compliance with these guidelines is compulsory for companies These include: using the KK’s seed leaf quality symbol. • A stand on the sandblasting of jeans In 2011, Kesko Food joined the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustain• A stand on genetic engineering able Palm Oil). Palm oil is used in a large number of foodstuffs. • A fish and shellfish statement Palm oil is an important source of income for the national econo• Pirkka egg statement mies of the countries of production. The yield potential of oil • Rautakesko’s timber policy palm per growing area is higher than that of any other oil plant. • Kesko Food’s palm oil policy However, the expansion of palm oil production into new tropical areas is a growing concern for the environment. Palm oil producThe statements can be read in full at www.kesko.fi/responsibilty. tion must be sustainable. Responsibility must be considered in respect of economic, social and environmental aspects. Kesko EN27 PERCENTAGE OF PRODUCTS SOLD AND Food recommends that the manufacturers of Pirkka and Menu products use Certified Sustainable Palm Oil (CSPO). Currently, 15 THEIR PACKAGING MATERIALS THAT ARE Pirkka products and 10 Menu products contain CSPO. Read more RECLAIMED BY CATEGORY at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Pirkka recycled plastic bags are manufactured to a 90% of reInstead of an ordinary plastic shopping bag, K-food store cuscycled plastic. Of this material, 30% is recovered from plastic tomers can choose a bag made of recycled plastic, a biodegradable packaging used in Kesko Food’s goods transportation. In 2012, 267 Pirkka bag or a non-disposable Pirkka bag. tonnes of plastic recovered from Kesko Food’s goods transportaThe long-term development programme of the Pirkka prodtion were used in the manufacture of Pirkka recycled plastic bags. uct range includes the launch of biodegradable packaging to the Jointly with suppliers, Kesko contributes to the reuse and market. No genetically manipulated ingredients are accepted. recycling of products on sale. Rautakesko offers a wide selection of products with enviThe quantities of consumer packaging, such as bottles and ronmental or energy efficiency category labelling. In the buildcans, recyclable hazardous waste, like impregnated timber, are ing and home improvement trade, products with the EU Flower reported in EN22. symbol or the Nordic ecolabel, as well as products made of FSC certified wood, are considered to be pro-environmental products. In environmental stores, these products are identified in shelf EN29 SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL or other price labelling. PEFC or FCS certified timber accounted IMPACTS OF TRANSPORTING for some 93% of sawn timber sold by Kesko. Tropical wood and CO2 emissions are reported in EN17. timber accounted for less than 1% of Rautakesko’s total sales. In line with Kesko’s purchasing recommendation, the garden furniture made of tropical wood in all K-Group stores is either FSC certified or made of wood species whose cultivation is possible in accordance with the principles of sustainable development. In the car trade, Kesko’s selections include low emission brands. The CO2 emissions of first time registered passenger cars in Finland were 139.70 g/km in 2012. Out of the car brands imported by Kesko last year, the average CO2 emissions of Volkswagen passenger cars, for example, were 130.96 g/km. In 2012, VV-Auto participated in the Recycling Value campaign of Finnish Car Recycling. A total of 65,058 certificates of destruction (CODs) were issued in Finland in 2012. To remove a car from the register permanently, the owner must take it to a take-back point authorised by Finnish Car Recycling where the owner is issued a COD. VV-Autotalot has adopted a voluntary energy labelling scheme for cars, in which the energy label indicates the car’s emission category and fuel efficiency. The scheme corresponds to the energy labelling scheme adopted in the EU member countries for the energy consumption of household appliances. Starting from the beginning of 2014, new trucks must fulfil the requirements of the Euro 6 emissions standards. This will mean significant reductions in the nitrous oxide and particulate matter emissions, which are achieved by exhaust gas recirculation, particulate trap and the injection of an urea-based reagent called AdBlue directly into the exhaust gas to catalyse a cleaning reaction. 90 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Management approach to social responsibility management, LA3 BENEFITS PROVIDED TO EMPLOYEES including the operating principles and monitoring and control The Kesko Group provides its permanent, fixed-term and partsystems is described on pages 71–75. time employees in all its countries of operation with the employee benefits required by local legislation. These benefits include occupational health services, insurance against occupational employment injuries and diseases, parental leave and retirement benefits. Group companies in Finland acknowledge their employees on LA1 TOTAL WORKFORCE BY EMPLOYMENT their various special days. If, for instance, an employee’s 50th or TYPE AND EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND 60th birthday falls on a workday, it is a paid day off. Kesko also LA2 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER supports leisure activities in Finnish companies through the Kesko Staff Club. The purpose of the Club is to create a good team At the end of 2012, the Kesko Group had 24,031 (23,375 in 2011) spirit and promote employees’ sports, cultural and recreational employees, of whom 89.0% (87.4% in 2011) were permanent activities. Some of the companies operating in Estonia and Latvia employees and 11.0% (12.6% in 2011) were fixed-term employalso give financial support to their employees in various situaees. The figure contains 1,491 (1,433 in 2011) people who were tions in life, such as when a child is born, during the child’s first absent for an extended period, such as employees on parental year at school, and in the event of the death of a close relative. leave. Employees absent for an extended period are included in Employees are also provided with diverse shopping benefits that permanent, full-time employees. The proportion of fixed-term apply in K-Group stores and staff shops. A company phone and employees is higher at year-end than at other times due to the car are also provided, if required in the job. Christmas season. Part-time employees (working less than 37.5 hours/week) accounted for 28.7% (28.5% in 2011) of all Group personnel at yearBONUS PAYMENTS AND SHARE OPTION SCHEMES end. The majority of part-time employees work for retail subIn spring 2012, around €13.0 million (€16.2 million in 2011) was sidiaries in Finland. Approximately three-quarters of all Group paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2011 performance bonus employees work in retail. In 2012, the Group recruited 4,949 schemes, accounting for some 3.6% (4.7% in 2011) of the total (5,092 in 2011) new employees in Finland. In Finland 4,339 (4,392 payroll. The performance bonus schemes cover the whole perin 2011) employees left the Group. sonnel, with the exception of sales assistants and jobs covered In other countries, the Group recruited 6,330 employees (4,382 by other types of bonus and commission systems. In 2012, the in 2011), while 5,568 employees (3,969 in 2011) left the Group. total amount of different bonuses paid in operations in Finland The most common reason for the termination of an employwas €13.8 million (€17.5 million in 2011) consisting of bonuses, ment relationship in Finland was a fixed-term contract, which sales commissions and other similar monetary remuneration. explained about 54% (48% in 2011) of departures. Elsewhere, the In Kesko Corporation’s performance bonus system, the facreason for approximately 65% (66% in 2011) of departures was tors contributing to the bonus amount are the total performance the employee’s resignation. of the Group and the division, the sales and performance of the In Finland, 3.8% (166) of the terminated employment relationemployee’s own unit and customer satisfaction. The job satisships and 22.2% (1,236) in other countries were terminated by faction of personnel is another contributing factor in supervithe employer for financial or production-related reasons, or for sors’ bonuses. reasons of the employer’s operational reorganisation, or for other In 2012, the companies outside Finland paid €4.3 million in reasons based on the Employment Contracts Act. The correspondbonuses and other remuneration, accounting for 3.1% of the ing figures in 2011 were 3.5% (155) and 20.5% (814), respectively. payroll. The corresponding figure for 2011 was €10.3 million, See table on page 92. accounting for 8.2% of the payroll. In 2012, Kesko Group companies had 11 employment disputes The Kesko Group’s management – comprising around 100 pending in different courts in Finland. Three rulings were given people – are covered by a performance-based bonus scheme. in favour of the employer and two in favour of the employee. Two The maximum bonus amounts vary depending on the profit disputes were settled and four employment disputes are pending. impact of the person’s job and are equivalent to 3–8 months’ salIn Kesko’s other operating countries, there were no employment ary. In 2012, Kesko operated the 2007A, 2007B and 2007C option disputes with a Group company as the defendant. schemes. More information on the schemes is available at www. kesko.fi/investors. The options had a €0.5 million impact on the Changes in the number of Kesko employees Group’s profit for the financial year 1 January–31 December 2012. 2012 2011 2010 Kesko has a share-based compensation plan 2011–2013 for Finland at 31 Dec. 13,229 13,124 12,720 about 150 Kesko management personnel and other named key Other operating countries 10,802 10,251 9,404 personnel, in which a total maximum of 600,000 Kesko B shares at 31 Dec. held by the company can be granted to people in the target group Total at 31 Dec. 24,031 23,375 22,124 within a period of three years. The share-based compensation Finland, average 10,226 10,056 9,914 plan includes three vesting periods: the calendar years 2011, Other operating countries, 9,515 8,904 8,300 2012 and 2013. A commitment period of three calendar years average following each vesting period is attached to the shares issued Total, average 19,741 18,960 18,215 in compensation, during which shares must not be transferred. 91 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 In February 2013, the Board decided to grant a total of 66,276 included in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, accompany B shares to about 150 Kesko management personnel cording to which the minimum notice period in most cases is and other named key personnel, based on the fulfilment of the one week. vesting criteria of the 2012 vesting period of the share-based Collective agreements cover about 80% of Kesko’s employees compensation plan. (Stock exchange release on 5 February 2013, in Finland. So far, no binding industry-wide collective bargaining www.kesko.fi/media/releases/stock exchange releases.) agreements have been drawn up in the Baltic countries or Russia. A total of 41.2% (38.8% in 2011) of the Kesko Group employees PENSIONS in Finland were members of trade unions, mainly the Service Union United PAM. The statistics include the employees whose In Finland, 154 employees (162 in 2011) retired from the Kesko trade union membership fees are deducted at source from pay. Group. The figure includes employees retiring on part-time penIn Norway, the unionisation rate was 24.2% (25.5% in 2011). sion and on partial disability pension. Rehabilitation allowance Statistics on employee unionisation in the other operating counwas granted for vocational re-training or trials for 20 (16 in 2011) tries are not available. In the Baltic countries, Kesko’s subsidiaremployees with an obvious risk of incapacity for work in the ies have workplace committees composed of management and next few years. employee representatives. The number of disability pensions has remained low throughThe Kesko Group has a company-specific shop steward system out the 2000s. In this period, the Occupational Health Service in place in all of its largest subsidiaries in Finland. Keslog Ltd has has intensively focused on actions targeted at maintaining emsite-specific shop stewards, whereas Anttila Oy and K-citymarket ployees’ working capacity. In 2012, the average retirement age of Oy also have department store-specific shop stewards. employees was 58 years (58 in 2011). The National Works Council meets twice a year. The internaIn the other operating countries, 10 (13 in 2011) employees tional Group-level European Works Council (EWC) meets once retired. a year. In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods specified in local labour legislation. In Finland, the notice period LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS is from two weeks to six months, depending on the duration of the employment relationship. LA4 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES COVERED Employees can ask questions, give feedback or development BY COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS proposals on issues related to the operations of Kesko or its subAND LA5 MINIMUM NOTICE PERIOD(S) sidiaries anonymously via the Direct Line available on the KesREGARDING OPERATIONAL CHANGES konet intranet. Answers are published for all to see on Keskonet. Employees can also send their wishes, comments or proposals In all of its operating countries, Kesko complies with local legdirectly to the President and CEO through the feedback channel islation. The key statutes governing restructuring situations are available on Keskonet. fixed-term and part-time employments at kesko BREAKDOWN OF KESKO PERSONNEL 2012 2011 2010 BY DIVISION AT 31 DEC. 2012, % Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % Finland 13.4 14.7 14.6 Food trade 13.0% Companies in other operating countries 8.0 10.0 12.6 Home and speciality goods Whole Group, total 11.0 12.6 13.7 trade 37.2% Building and home Part-time employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % improvement trade 42.5% Car and machinery Finland 45.4 44.2 43.3 trade 5.2% Companies in other operating countries 8.4 8.4 9.0 Common operations 2.1% Whole Group, total 28.7 28.5 28.7 Kesko’s personnel statistics for 2012 analysed by operating country Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus Russia Sweden Norway Total number of personnel 13,229 554 480 3,553 1,799 2,770 1,121 525 at 31 Dec. Average number of personnel 10,226 573 470 3,211 1,377 2,445 1,032 408 in 2012 Number of new employments1) 4,949 142 164 1,800 1,510 2,088 499 127 Number of terminated 4,339 201 204 1,702 902 1,957 460 142 employments1) Terminated by employer, % 3.8 34.8 30.4 13.5 62.0 6.6 36.5 12.7 Total turnover rate, %2) 23.6 30.5 39.0 47.1 30.2 70.6 19.2 27.0 1) Including summer employees. 2) Excluding summer employees. 92 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Injuries and occupational diseases in Finland TREND IN NUMBER OF SICK DAYS 2012 2011 2010 Fatal injuries 0 0 0 Sick days/million working hours Occupational injuries, excl. commuting 143 154 149 8,000 injuries 7,000 Commuting injuries 53 75 62 6,000 Injury rate*/million working hours 7 9 9 5,000 Average degree of injury severity, days 20.7 17.3 23.3 4,000 5,557 4,339 4,836 Suspected occupational diseases 2 3 3 Occupational diseases 0 3 3 3,000 6,629 6,372 6,758 2,000 Sick days due to injuries and occupational 4,056 3,967 4,495 diseases 1,000 per employee 0.40 0.39 0.45 0 The calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less 2010 2011 2012 than three days, are not included in the figures. Statistics do not include Finland contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Other operating countries Vähittäiskaupan tilipalvelu VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation of Trade. 2011 data of Konsoma JLLC, Belarus and SIA Antti, Latvia not included. * Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual 2012 data of Konsoma JLLC, Belarus not included. working hours. Sickness absences by country in 2012 Finland Estonia Latvia Lithuania Belarus­ Russia Sweden Norway Total number of sick days 130,346 3,108 4,191 32,569 12,031 22,871 10,266 5,747 per employee 12,7 5,4 8,9 10,1 8,7 9,4 9,9 14,1 per million working hours 6,758 2,672 4,414 5,021 4,300 4,724 5,652 8,003 The calculation method: Sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. 2012 data of Konsoma JLLC, Belarus not included. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH nesses are part of the normal operations of the Occupational Health Service. AND SAFETY In Finland, there were approximately 8,500 (6,000 in 2011, the figure has been specified after the previous report was pubLA6 PERCENTAGE OF TOTAL WORKFORCE lished) Kesko Group employees in the sphere of Kesko’s in-house REPRESENTED IN FORMAL HEALTH AND Occupational Health Service. In Finland, Kesko’s Occupational SAFETY COMMITTEES Health Service mainly procures the related services for employees outside the Greater Helsinki area from various service providers. Labour protection activities are arranged separately by each comCentralised procurement and target-oriented management enpany or place of business in compliance with local legislation. able uniform contents and operating practices in occupational Outside the Nordic countries, labour protection matters are dealt health care. In other countries, occupational health care is arwith in the workplace committees. ranged according to local practice and legislation. K-instituutti provides labour protection training for Kesko A total of around €4.9 million (€4.5 million in 2011) was spent employees and K-retailers. Different Group companies also aron occupational health care in Finland in 2012. The Social Insurrange training sessions tailored to their needs. ance Institution of Finland compensated around €2.2 million (€1.9 million in 2011) of this amount. In 2012, Kesko’s OccupaLA7 RATES OF INJURY, OCCUPATIONAL tional Health Service spent €479 (€447 in 2011) per employee on DISEASES, LOST DAYS, ABSENTEEISM AND maintaining employees’ working capacity and providing medical care. WORK-RELATED FATALITIES The statistics on injuries in Finland and the analysis of sickness Kesko’s contribution to occupational absence days by country are presented above. Injury statistics health care, Finland are not yet available for other countries at the same accuracy 2012 2011 2010 level as for Finland. €/person 479 447 435 In 2012, the sickness absence rate in Finnish companies was 4.8% (4.8% in 2011) of hours worked. Around 79% (81% in 2011) of The expertise of the Occupational Health Service Unit is widely the sickness absences were short-term absences (paid sick days). used by Kesko’s retail companies in the development of workIn other countries, the sickness absence percentage was 4.0% place ergonomics. In this context, ergonomics is a broad concept, (3.4% in 2011). The figures for 2012 and 2011 do not include the including chemical and physical, motion-related and psychodata for Konsoma JLLC and the figure for 2011 does not include social factors. the data for SIA Antti and OOO Johaston. Occupational health care interviews involving the employee, the supervisor and a representative of the Occupational Health Service are part of basic operations in occupational health care. LA8 EDUCATION AND COUNSELLING TO Cases in which these negotiations can be conducted include, for ASSIST WORKFORCE MEMBERS REGARDING example, an employee’s reduced working capacity, vocational SERIOUS DISEASES rehabilitation planning, high absence rate, work-related strain or a conflict in the working community. The objective is early At the Kesko Group, the training of employees, counselling, apintervention in situations threatening the individual’s working praisal and prevention of risks, and treatment of serious illcapacity. 93 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 TRAINING AND EDUCATION The Personal Development Programme for potential future management is carried out both in Finnish and English. The LA10 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER Leadership Development Programme, which was implemented for the first time, attracted participants from several countries. EMPLOYEE AND LA11 PROGRAMMES FOR Topical seminars are also arranged for management and potential SKILLS MANAGEMENT AND LIFELONG future management. The theme of their joint 2012 seminar was LEARNING management by changes, and the 250 or so participants came from various divisions of Kesko. The English-language training K-instituutti is in charge of the planning, provision and sourcing event was also implemented as a webinar and was much welof training services for the K-Group in Finland. In 2012, approxicomed by participants. mately 69% (34% in 2011) of training days were implemented As part of the profitability programme, K-instituutti organised through K-instituutti. A total of 32,026 (29,910 in 2011, the figtraining events on outplacement and change security related to ure has been specified after the previous report was published the supportive package offered in connection with the cooperaand includes online training) K-Group employees, including the tion procedure. Coaching helped employees in the process of store staff employed by retailers and all online studies, received finding a new job, preparing an efficient job application and CV training at K-instituutti. and provided information about employee rights involved in K-instituutti is responsible for carrying out the Master Sales change security as well as various tools available when searchAssistant training, one of Finland’s largest adult training proing for a job. Coaching was given to supervisors for challenging grammes. The training package was revised in 2012 and is now situations during the cooperation process. Fifteen training events completely available online for the first time. Access to the Master in all were arranged relating the termination of employment. Sales Assistant training via the training portal allows everyone Training will continue in 2013. to study according to their own schedule and choose the most In-house job rotation provides a wide selection of career alinteresting and useful online courses from among all e-learning ternatives. In Finland, there were around 2,500 (1,200 in 2011) material. The objective is to develop continuously the service atinternal transfers to new jobs, while the corresponding total titude, sales skills and product knowledge of particularly sales figure in other countries was 2,600. assistants in cooperation with suppliers. For the 26th time, the In Finland, recruitment in the K-Group is supported by the Master Sales Assistant training programme was also offered in K-trainee and retailer training programmes. about 100 business colleges and polytechnics. The fourth K-trainee programme was launched in 2012. From In 2012, over 163,00 online courses in the Master Sales Asamong over 500 applicants, 10 K-trainees were selected to the sistant training programme were completed by employees of programme that started in summer 2012. Several revisions were K-stores, while the corresponding figure for various students made to the 2012 K-trainee programme: the machinery trade diviwas over 48,000. Certificates were awarded to 2,346 students of sion is now included for the first time; in the building and home 104 different business colleges and polytechnics across Finland. improvement trade, K-trainees perform part of the programme, Feedback for online training has been excellent. familiarising themselves with the operations of units outside In 2012, 773 (753 in 2011) employees had an apprenticeship Finland; and the case exercises that link practice and theory now contract and 224 (224 in 2011) of them graduated with a vocaform the framework in the K-trainees’ competence development. tional qualification. An essential part of the K-trainee programme is work experience The training programmes designed for K-retailers and store in a K-Group store. managers focus on daily management of the store, business planFuture K-retailers are trained in the retailer training proning and entrepreneurship. K-instituutti also offers training in grammes. The coaching involves online studies, on-the-job customer service and sales for staff working at K-stores. training under a mentor retailer as well as regional and national In 2012, management and supervisory training focused on on-site training periods. Those completing the programme are providing support for immediate leadership. Training in early qualified to start a career as independent K-retailers, which about intervention and short refresher training provided for perfor95–99% of trainees choose to do. Read more about the K-trainee mance and development reviews have both reached every third and retailer training programmes at www.kesko.fi/jobs. Finnish supervisor during the past two years. Coaching events organised by divisions and chains complement the offer available for supervisors, experts and teams. Training days and costs IN 2012 2012 2011 2010 BREAKDOWN BY EDUCATION Training days AT 31 DEC. 2012, % Finland1) 9,498 16,790 17,728 Other countries2) 3) 4) 7,819 15,219 10,558 Training days per employee Finland 0.9 1.7 1.8 Comprehensive Other countries2) 3) 4) 0.8 1.8 1.5 school 18.1% Upper secondary vocational Training costs, € million education 50.2% Finland 2.6 3.0 2.7 Lower university Other countries 1.2 0.9 1.3 degree 11.4% Training costs per employee, € Higher university Finland 255 299 276 degree 20.3% Other countries 121 103 160 Byggmakker, Norway and 1) Reporting principle changed in 2012. K-rauta, Sweden not included. 2) 2010: data for SIA Antti, Latvia not included. 3) 2011: data for Byggmakker, Norway not included. 4) 2012: data for Byggmakker, Norway and Konsoma JLLC, Belarus not included. 94 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Personnel’s job satisfaction, Finland, Sweden and norway (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Own job 3.84 3.82 3.81 3.90 3.93 3.95 3.99 3.91 3.90 Supervisory work 3.89 3.86 3.79 3.73 3.68 3.62 3.84 3.70 3.74 Unit’s operations 3.88 3.86 3.80 3.89 3.88 3.86 3.82 3.71 3.64 Kesko’s operations 3.58 3.65 3.63 3.39 3.47 3.83 3.34 3.42 3.35 Personnel’s job satisfaction, The Baltics and russia (scale 1–5) Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Own job 3.96 3.96 3.95 4.10 4.12 3.95 4.32 4.29 4.12 4.19 4.17 4.18 Supervisory work 3.90 3.83 3.78 4.01 4.02 3.70 4.17 4.38 4.10 4.32 4.30 4.29 Unit’s operations 3.78 3.82 3.79 3.88 3.87 3.53 4.22 4.29 3.95 4.38 4.37 4.40 Kesko’s operations 3.54 3.74 3.73 3.74 3.91 3.65 4.12 4.16 3.83 4.12 4.14 4.44 Personnel’s job satisfaction, average by country (scale 1–5) Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Russia 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 3.87 3.85 3.80 3.83 3.82 3.78 3.88 3.76 3.74 3.88 3.86 3.82 3.99 4.00 3.70 4.23 4.33 4.05 4.30 4.28 4.30 The average is calculated from the results in the categories ‘own job’, ‘supervisory work’ and ‘unit’s operations’. LA12 PERFORMANCE AND CAREER piled a new wellbeing at work index based on the personnel DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS survey responses and used it as one of the wellbeing at work programme indicators. The index is a combination of questions Performance and development reviews and performance asused for monitoring employees’ working capacity and worksessment of key personnel are carried out in all Kesko Group related strain. In 2012, the Group-level wellbeing at work index companies and operating countries. In the performance and rating stood at 3.81 on a scale of 1–5 (3.75 in 2011 and 3.75 in 2010). development reviews, the performance of the past season is evaluated and targets are set for the future season, including a discussion on the development of the employee, supervisory work and the working community. Performance and developDIVERSITY AND EQUAL ment reviews apply to all employees. In 2012, 80% (76% in 2011) OPPORTUNITY of the Group’s employees in Finland and 60% (65% in 2011) in other countries participated in the reviews. In order to ensure the LA13 COMPOSITION AND DIVERSITY OF quality of performance and development reviews, K-instituutti GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEE organises related trainings for those in supervisory positions. CATEGORIES The training events had more than 300 participants in 2012. The level of satisfaction with the reviews was 4.09 (4.07 in 2011) on In 2012, the average age of personnel in Finland was 35.1 (35.1 in a scale of 1–5 for the whole Group. 2011) years. In other countries, the average age varied from 30 (31 The objective of performance assessment is to support emin 2011) years to 42 (39 in 2011) years. ployees’ development and encourage them to improve their perKesko Corporation and its Finnish division parent companies formance. Uniform evaluation criteria enable systematic assessand subsidiaries draw up statutory company-specific HR and ment of key personnel and management resources and support equality plans and define objectives for improvement. The plans job rotation between Group companies. In late 2013, training cover recruitment, career development and training, compensacourses on performance management will be launched for sution, and the reconciliation of work and family life, for instance. pervisors to help them set targets and manage by information. In addition to gender equality, the plans also guide other asCoaching also provides practice in using performance evaluation pects of equality, such as the treatment of people in different tools and giving feedback. age groups or with different cultural backgrounds. Employees’ experiences of equality with respect to age, ethnic origin and gender have been monitored as part of the personnel survey. In PERSONNEL SURVEY these areas, employees’ experiences of equality are good: in the The annual personnel survey plays a key role in measuring and Kesko Group’s operations, the rating for gender equality is 4.18 developing the operations of the working community and the (4.11 in 2011) on a scale of 1–5, age equality 4.15 (4.07 in 2011) and quality of supervisory work. The survey is carried out at Kesko ethnic equality 4.27 (4.19 in 2011). and its chains’ stores. Keslog Ltd, Senukai and OMA did not parAt year-end, 60% (60% in 2011) of the Kesko Group employticipate in the 2012 survey. The response rate was 76% (75% in ees in Finland were female and 40% (40% in 2011) were male. 2011) of the employees in the participating companies. EmployIn foreign companies, the figures were 49% and 51% (44% and ees who are absent for an extended period are excluded from 56% in 2011) respectively. The figure for 2011 does not include the survey. The results of the personnel survey are presented in data for Konsoma Belarus. the table above. In 2012, two of the seven members of Kesko’s Board of DiIn the Group companies in Finland, the results of the personrectors and two of the eight members of the Corporate Managenel survey have an impact on the bonuses paid to supervisors, ment Board were women. In the retailing subsidiaries in Finland, including top management. Since 2010, the Group has comwomen hold a significant percentage of the supervisory posi95 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 AGE STRUCTURE OF KESKO PERSONNEL AGE STRUCTURE OF KESKO PERSONNEL IN THE IN FINLAND IN 2012, % OTHER OPERATING COUNTRIES IN 2012, % under 26 years 28.5% under 26 years 27.4% 26–35 years 27.2% 26–35 years 37.9% 36–45 years 21.2% 36–45 years 20.4% 46–55 years 15.8% 46–55 years 10.9% over 55 years 7.3% over 55 years 3.4% YEARS OF SERVICE IN FINLAND IN 2012, % YEARS OF SERVICE IN THE OTHER OPERATING COUNTRIES IN 2012, % under 2 years 33.7% under 2 years 44.8% 2–5 years 22.6% 2–5 years 26.7% 6–10 years 14.0% 6–10 years 20.8% 11–15 years 9.5% 11–15 years 5.9% 16–20 years 5.8% 16–20 years 1.6% 21–25 years 7.5% 21–25 years 0.0% over 25 years 6.9% over 25 years 0.2% Percentage of women by employee category, Percentage of women by employee Finland category, other countries 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Top management 24.4 28.6 25.7 Top management 0.0* 24.1 32.3 Middle management 17.1 18.9 18.0 Middle management 46.0 36.6 40.4 Supervisors and specialists 46.6 46.0 44.5 Supervisors and specialists 47.0 52.2 52.6 Workers and white-collar employees 63.0 63.0 64.2 Workers and white-collar employees 48.1 40.6 39.8 Total 59.9 59.8 60.7 Total 47.7 43.5 46.2 * Reporting principle has changed. Breakdown by employee category does not include data for Senukai, Lithuania, Byggmakker, Norway and Kesko Food Rus. tions. 81% (81% in 2011) of K-citymarket home and speciality Kesko and K-stores also participate in the Youth Guarantee inigoods’ department managers and 72% (69% in 2011) of Anttila tiative launched at the beginning of 2013 to promote employment department stores’ department managers are women. In Finland, and prevent social exclusion among young people. The initiative 51% of all supervisory positions were held by women and 49% guarantees a training, work experiment or a workshop place or a by men at the end of 2012. job for those who are under 25 or new graduates under 30 within In 2012, the K-Retailers’ Association launched a project called three months from the time a person registers as unemployed. ‘Many kind of performers’ in cooperation with the Finnish AssoThe Youth Guarantee also includes a training guarantee, which ciation on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). ensures a training place for everyone who has recently completed 55 retailers across Finland stated that they were interested in comprehensive school. Kesko’s Board of Directors has granted the project. In 13 cases, employment contracts were signed and €100,000 for building a tailored porgramme for the K-Group to in 29 cases the process is still underway. The project will conemploy young people. The aim is to provide as many jobs as postinue in 2013. sible for young people who are threatened by social exclusion. 96 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS EQUAL remuneration for INVESTMENT AND WOMEN and men PROCUREMENT PRACTICES LA14 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY OF MEN HR2 SUPPLIERS’ AND CONTRACTORS’ TO WOMEN SCREENING ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND H6 The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €35,369 in AND HR7 OPERATIONS WITH A RISK FOR Finland, €39,385 in the other Nordic countries, and €10,536 in INCIDENTS OF CHILD LABOUR, OR FOR the Baltic countries, Russia and Belarus. As the Kesko Group INCIDENTS OF FORCED OR COMPULSORY operates in many lines of business, the average salary is not a good indicator of salary level or structure. LABOUR The wage groups and tables specified in the collective tradNo significant risks related to incidents of child, forced or coming sector labour agreement are applied to jobs covered by the pulsory labour have been detected in Keskos’ own operations. agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse workers. Kesko’s reporting concentrates on supplier assessments. Salaries are affected by job-based responsibility bonuses, work experience and the cost-of-living category, which depends on SA8000 certifications locality. Besides the role and job requirements, the salary of a At the beginning of 2013, Kesko had 14 suppliers with SA8000 senior white-collar employee is determined by competence, work certification. In addition, all bananas in Kesko Food’s selection experience, performance and results. Because of the diversity of have SA8000 and Rainforest Alliance certification, except for job descriptions, it is not possible to comprehensively compare Pirkka Fairtrade organic bananas. the salaries between genders at the Group level. Equality in compensation is considered as part of annual company-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor in determining pay levels, and no significant differences in comparable jobs have been detected. Company-specific equality plans strive to promote pay equality in jobs where comparisons can be made. KESKO’S BSCI RESULTS IN 2012, FULL AUDITS KESKO’S BSCI RESULTS IN 2012, RE-AUDITS Good 22% Good 44% Improvements Improvements needed 39% needed 31% Non-compliant 39% Non-compliant 25% RESULTS OF KESKO’S BSCI AUDITS IN DIFFERENT AREAS IN 2012, % OF AUDITED FACTORIES* Part B, full audits (51) Part B, re-audits (16) Management Practice Documentation Working Time Compensation Child Labour/Young Employees Forced Labour/Disciplinary Measures Freedom of Association/Collective Bargaining Discrimination Working Conditions Health and Social Facilities Occupational Health and Safety Dormitories Environment Good Improvements needed Non-compliant Not applicable * Information from the BSCI database. 97 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 BSCI audits Kesko’s objective for 2012 was to have 45 full audits FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND and 40 re-audits at the factory premises or farms COLLECTIVE BARGAINING of suppliers. The total number of full audits carried out at suppliers’ factory premises or farms during HR5 OPERATIONS IN WHICH THE RIGHT TO the year was 47, while the number of re-audits was EXERCISE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND 14 (information from Kesko’s SUMO database). At the beginning COLLECTIVE BARGAINING MAY BE AT RISK of 2013, a total of 209 (247 in 2012) factories or farms of Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries were in the BSCI auditing proPage 92 reports on the unionisation of Kesko’s personnel. The cess. At the same time, Kesko’s direct purchases from high-risk control of and corrective actions by suppliers are included in the countries also decreased (see page 72). Some of Kesko’s suppliers SA8000 and BSCI audits. are themselves members of BSCI and promote audits in their own supply chains. The results of the BSCI audits of Kesko’s suppliers’ factories for SECURITY PRACTICES 2012 are presented in the picture on page 97. Most deficiencies occur in observance of working time regulations, compensation, HR8 PERCENTAGE OF SECURITY PERSONNEL and occupational health and safety. Experiences gained from TRAINED IN ASPECTS OF HUMAN RIGHTS monitoring work in China are similar, and it has been found that In Kesko, security issues are part of the risk management funcChinese suppliers need time and professional support in order tions. All divisions have a risk management coordinator who to manage the corrective actions required by BSCI. In 2012, the participates in the operation of the Risk Management Steering total number of monitoring visits was 57 (64 in 2011). Group. Security issues are also addressed in the security and real Kesko’ target for 2013 is 17 full BSCI audits and 27 re-audits. estate security teams, which hold regular meetings and have repBSCI members also strive to improve the qualitative level of supresentation from all divisions. Each division in each operating pliers, and accordingly quantitative audit targets alone are not country has nominated people responsible for security matters. reported to BSCI; instead, the targeted audit results must be at In 2011, a separate security team was established with the focus the ‘good’ or ‘improvements needed’ level. on the development of security operations in Russia. The team has representatives from the Group divisions operating in Russia Fairtrade products and the Group’s Risk Management unit. Kesko Food has a comprehensive cooperation agreeKesko uses services provided by the security industry as needment with Fairtrade Finland and a licence for Faired and as considered appropriate. Finland has a law governing trade products in the Pirkka range. The selection the operations of the private security business (Private Security and marketing policies of Fairtrade products are Services Act, 12 April 2002/282). Local legislation is adhered to included in K-food stores’ chain concepts. in the other operating countries. The operations of service proIn 2012, Kesko Food had 215 Fairtrade products (222 in 2011) viders are expected to comply with relevant statutory requirein its selection, of which 39 (38 in 2011) were Pirkka products. ments. The relevant legislation stipulates the minimum training According to the statistics of Fairtrade Finland, Kesko Food had required of guards. The training includes the basics in the use 146 Fairtrade suppliers in 38 countries. The products sold by of force and forcible means equipment, and regular refresher Kesko Food generated over €330,000 in Fairtrade premium for training is also required. social development projects. K-instituutti provides training in security issues to Kesko’s personnel in supervisory, retailer and management positions (around 1,000 attendees each year). The Master Sales Assistant HR3 EMPLOYEE TRAINING ON POLICIES AND training also includes a ‘Threatening customer situation’ course. PROCEDURES CONCERNING ASPECTS OF In 2012, more than 163,000 online courses related to the Master Sales Assistant training were completed in K-stores. Regular HUMAN RIGHTS division-specific training is also provided. Kesko’s buyers were constantly trained in responsible purchasing practices with the focus on the BSCI audit process. BSCI also arranged training events for suppliers in high-risk countries in 2012. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS HR9 INCIDENTS OF VIOLATION INVOLVING RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLE AND NON-DISCRIMINATION ACTIONS TAKEN HR4 TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF No incidents of violation involving the rights of indigenous peoDISCRIMINATION AND ACTIONS TAKEN ples in 2012. Kesko’s operations do not directly impact on the rights of indigenous peoples. At the end of 2012, one case concerning discrimination in recruitment, with a Kesko Group company as the defendant, was pending at the District Court in Finland. In addition, one Kesko Group company was ordered to pay compensation at the Court of Appeal in a case that became pending in 2010. 98 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CORRUPTION SO6 FINANCIAL AND IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL PARTIES, SO2 PERCENTAGE AND NUMBER OF POLITICIANS AND RELATED INSTITUTIONS BUSINESS UNITS ANALYSED FOR RISKS In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal RELATED TO CORRUPTION, SO3 PERCENTAGE opportunities to arrange campaign events at K-Group stores. In OF EMPLOYEES TRAINED IN ANTIaddition, Kesko may participate in economic and tax policy semiCORRUPTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES nars arranged by political parties, at its discretion and without AND SO4 ACTIONS TAKEN IN RESPONSE TO indicating partiality. Kesko does not donate funds to political parties. INCIDENTS OF CORRUPTION In 2012, the seminar attendance fees, advertising in party Risks related to corruption are managed as part of the Kesko newspapers and goods for the events paid by Kesko in Finland Group’s risk management. Key risks, including those related to totalled approximately €4,000. In the table ‘Kesko’s support for corruption, are systematically identified, assessed, managed, the public good’ (page 78) political support is, for the most part, monitored and reported at quarterly intervals as part of busiincluded under ‘Non-governmental and environmental organiness operations at Group, division, company and unit level in all sations’. operating countries. In addition, risk assessments are made of significant projects related to capital expenditures or changes in operations. Rankings of Kesko’s operating countries in the CorANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR ruption Perceptions Index 2012 by Transparency International are presented herein. AND COMPLIANCE Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the ‘Our SO7 LEGAL ACTIONS FOR ANTIResponsible Working Principles’ guide, which was updated in 2012, distributed to all employees and is available on Kesko’s webCOMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR, ANTI-TRUST, site. The annual personnel survey contains a question whether AND MONOPOLY PRACTICES AND SO8 employees feel that they act according to the guide. In 2012, the FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS Kesko Group average was 4.37 on a scale of 1–5. FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND Kesko arranges annual value discussions on responsible working principles in various Group companies. In December REGULATIONS 2012, value discussions were organised in Kesko Food Rus in St. One Kesko Group company was under investigation by the Latvian Petersburg and in Intersport Russia in Moscow, Kesko’s newest competition authorities in 2012. No fines in 2012. subsidiaries in Russia. The themes included responsible working principles, anti-bribery policy and managing the business environment in Russia. In 2012, Kesko was not informed of any corruption-related CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY lawsuits against any Kesko Group company. PR1 ASSESSMENT OF HEALTH AND SAFETY IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AT Rankings of Kesko’s operating countries in the Transparency Corruption Perceptions VARIOUS LIFE CYCLE STAGES AND PR2 NONIndex in 2012 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS AND Ranking Country Score CODES CONCERNING HEALTH AND SAFETY 1 Finland 90 IMPACTS OF PRODUCTS 4 Sweden 88 7 Norway 85 The activities of Kesko Food’s Product Research include assessing the impacts of products on health and safety. In 2012, the 32 Estonia 64 unit audited 37 suppliers (32 in 2011), of which 21 (24 in 2011) 48 Lithuania 54 were Finnish. These companies mainly included manufacturers 54 Latvia 49 of Kesko Food’s own brands, and the audits were conducted in 123 Belarus 31 compliance with Kesko Food’s audit protocol. 133 Russia 28 A total of 11,688 (10,369 in 2011) product samples were analysed. Nearly half of them related to product development of Kesko Food’s own brands. A total of 1,780 (1,712 in 2011) selfPUBLIC POLICY control samples were analysed. In the development of the company’s own brands, Kesko Food SO5 THE ORGANISATION’S PUBLIC POLICY pays special attention, in line with its strategy, to the health aspects of the products. Since 2008, fat, salt and sugar have been POSITIONS, PARTICIPATION IN PUBLIC reduced from the Pirkka products with a high content of these. POLICY DEVELOPMENT AND LOBBYING By the end of 2012, a total of 143 (89 in 2011) Pirkka products had been reformulated. The Finnish Parliament is considering a proposal to amend the Product Research is also responsible for product recalls, which Competition Act to the effect that in the grocery trade a market numbered 82 in 2012 (87 in 2011). Of these, 23 (28 in 2011) were share exceeding 30% would automatically mean a dominant marKesko Food’s own brand products; in the other cases, Product Reket position in purchasing and selling markets. The amendment search assisted the manufacturers in recalls. In 2012, there were would also affect Kesko Food and the around 1,000 K-food retailer no public recalls involving a potential health hazard. entrepreneurs who have signed a chain agreement with it. Kesko There were no lawsuits or fines concerning product health objects to the proposed amendment to the Competition Act beor safety during the year. cause, in Kesko’s opinion, it restricts open and fair competition. 99 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 PRODUCT AND SERVICE MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS LABELLING PR6 ADHERENCE TO LAWS, STANDARDS PR3 PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND VOLUNTARY CODES RELATED TO REQUIRED BY PROCEDURES AND PR4 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS, NON-COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS INCL. ADVERTISING, PROMOTION AND AND VOLUNTARY CODES CONCERNING SPONSORSHIP AND PR7 INCIDENTS PRODUCT AND SERVICE INFORMATION AND OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS LABELLING AND REGULATIONS AND VOLUNTARY In the product labelling of its own brands and imports, Kesko CODES RELATED TO MARKETING complies with Finnish law and with EU legislation. When the COMMUNICATIONS transition period for the EU regulation comes to an end in DeKesko complies with laws and regulations in its marketing cember 2014, changes will be required in consumer information communications. Amendments to legislation and authorities’ on package labelling. For information on nutritional values, the recommendations are monitored on a regular basis, and the deadline is December 2016. In practice, this so-called consumer staff responsible for marketing in each unit are kept informed. information regulation will change all food package labelling Sponsorship is guided by Kesko’s sponsorship principles, availand specify, for instance, new requirements for product names able at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. There were no incidents of and the readability of labelling. non-compliance with legislation or voluntary principles in 2012. In addition to statutory labelling, voluntary product labelling can also be added to the product’s responsibility aspects. Such labelling may include, for example, organic and eco-labelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. The selecCUSTOMER PRIVACY tion of organic products and eco-labelled products is discussed PR8 COMPLAINTS REGARDING BREACHES on pages 89–90 of this report, and product labelling indicating mainly social responsibility on page 74. OF CUSTOMER PRIVACY AND LOSSES OF All Finnish Pirkka products have had the name and location CUSTOMER DATA of the manufacturer indicated on the packaging for over 25 years. In 2012, K-Plus Oy was contacted directly by more than one hunForeign Pirkka products carry the name of the country of origin. dred customers regarding the processing of personal data and Since 2011, the country of origin of meat has been indicated in those the checking of the information concerned. The number of conPirkka products that have meat as one of the main ingredients. The tacts was directly related the media coverage of the processing of country of origin will be indicated on all own-brand products of personal data. Responses to the inquiries were given as part of K-citymarket and Anttila as their selections are updated. normal customer service and they did not lead to further action. In 2012, there were 18 (21 in 2011) product recalls resulting from No data leaks were detected in 2012. defective product labelling, 3 (5 in 2011) of which concerned Kesko Food’s own brands. PR5 PRACTICES RELATED TO CUSTOMER COMPLIANCE SATISFACTION AND RESULTS OF CUSTOMER PR9 FINES FOR NON-COMPLIANCE WITH SATISFACTION SURVEYS LAWS AND REGULATIONS CONCERNING The recognition level and images of Kesko’s chains are regularly PRODUCTS AND SERVICES monitored in brand surveys targeted at consumers in all prodNo fines in 2012. uct lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa customer loyalty programme and the grocery trade’s own brand products. Store-level customer satisfaction is measured by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery shopping method in the food trade and the building and home improvement trade. The chains have different channels for giving customer feedback, and Group-level feedback can be given through the www.kesko.fi website. All messages received via all the feedback channels are responded to. In 2012, Kesko Food’s consumer service, maintained by Product Research, received 22,267 (20,215 in 2011) consumer contacts. Approximately 80% of these were product complaints. The consumer service received nearly 2,300 (2,400 in 2011) product samples or packages, of which the unit analysed almost 50% and sent the rest to manufacturers for analysis. 100 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DEFINITIONS OF TERMS AND THE BOUNDARIES The text and graphs contain terms and indicators whose contents are explained below. The tables and graphs have been created using exact figures and their totals do not always sum due to rounding. (Profit/loss before tax income tax) Return on equity, % = x 100 Shareholders’ equity Operating profit Return on capital employed, % = (Non-current assets + inventories + receivables + other current assets non-interest-bearing x 100 liabilities) for a 12 month average Return on capital employed Operating profit excluding non-recurring items excluding non-recurring items, = (Non-current assets + inventories + receivables + other current assets non-interest-bearing x 100 % liabilities) for a 12 month average Market capitalisation = Share price at balance sheet date x number of shares Profit/loss – non-controlling interests Earnings/share, diluted = Average number of shares adjusted for the dilutive effect of options Primary energy = Available in resources in their natural state; divided into renewable and non renewable energy GWh = Gigawatt hour = a million kilowatt hours (kWh) 1 kWh = 3.6 MJ = 3,600 kJ (in GRI guidelines, the unit for measuring energy is joule, or J) CO2 = Carbon dioxide, causes climate change (‘greenhouse effect’) Carbon dioxide equivalent, the amount of different gases whose combined impact on the CO2e = greenhouse effect corresponds to the amount of carbon dioxide mentioned SO2 = Sulphur dioxide, affects acidification C2H4 = Ethene, affects the ozone content of the lower atmosphere Sickness absence / million Sickness absence from 1 Jan. to 31. Dec. = x 1,000,000 hours working hours Theoretical regular working time from 1 Jan. to 31 Dec. Sickness absence from 1 Jan. to 31. Dec. Sickness absence rate = x 100 (Number of hours worked from 1 Jan. to 31. Dec. + period of absence)* Number of employees left from 1 Jan. to 31 Dec. (excluding summer employees) Total turnover rate = Number of employees as at 31 Dec. Number of injuries from 1 Jan. to 31 Dec. Injury rate = x 1,000,000 hours Number of hours worked from 1 Jan. to 31 Dec. * Calculation formula established at Kesko. For units whose hours worked are not known, calculation uses the theoretical regular working time. 101 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 Independent Assurance Report (Translation from the Finnish original) To the Management of Kesko and perform the assurance engagement • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well Corporation to obtain limited assurance whether any as one site in Sweden. matters come to our attention that cause • Interviewing employees responsible for We have been engaged by the Manageus to believe that the CR Information has collection and reporting the CR Informent of Kesko Corporation (hereinafter not been prepared, in all material respects, mation at the Group level and at the site also the “Company”) to perform a limited in accordance with the Reporting criteria. where our visit took place. assurance engagement on the numeric inIn addition, we have conducted our • Assessing how Group employees apply formation on economic, social and enviwork in accordance with the AA1000 Asthe reporting instructions and proceronmental responsibility for the reporting surance Standard 2008. For conducting a dures of the Company. period of 1 January 2012 to 31 December Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed • Assessing the systems and practices 2012 disclosed in Kesko Corporation’s Corwith Kesko Corporation, the AA1000 Asused for the collection and consolidaporate Responsibility Report 2012 (heresurance Standard 2008 requires planning tion of quantitative information. inafter “CR Information”). and performing of the assurance engage• Testing the accuracy and completeness Furthermore, the assurance engagement to obtain moderate (limited) asof the informaion from original document has covered Kesko Corporation’s surance on whether any matters come ments and systems on a sample basis. adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility to our attention that cause us to believe • Testing the consolidation of informaPrinciples with moderate (limited) level that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, tion and performing recalculations on of assurance. in all material respects, to the AA1000 Aca sample basis. The scope of the CR Information covcountability Principles and that the CR ers Kesko Group. Information is not reliable, in all material Conclusion respects, based on the Reporting criteria. Management’s Responsibility In a limited assurance engagement the Based on our limited assurance engageevidence-gathering procedures are more ment, nothing has come to our attention The Management of Kesko Corporation limited than for a reasonable assurance that causes us to believe that Kesko Coris responsible for preparing the CR Inforengagement, and therefore less assurance poration does not adhere, in all material mation in accordance with the Reporting is obtained than in a reasonable assurance respects, to the AA1000 Accountability criteria as set out in the Company’s reportengagement. An assurance engagement Principles. ing instructions and the Sustainability Reinvolves performing procedures to obtain Furthermore nothing has come to porting Guidelines of the Global Reportevidence about the amounts and other disour attention that causes us to believe ing Initiative (version 3.0). closures in the CR Information. The procethat Kesko Corporation’s CR Information The Management of Kesko Corporation dures selected depend on the practitioner’s has not been prepared, in all material reis also responsible for the Company’s adjudgement, including an assessment of spects, in accordance with the Reporting herence to the AA1000 AccountAbility the risks of material misstatement of the criteria, or that the CR Information is not Principles of inclusivity, materiality and CR Information. Our work consisted of, reliable, in all material respects, based on responsiveness as set out in the AA1000 amongst others, the following procedures: the Reporting criteria. AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. • Interviewing senior management of the Our assurance report should be read in Company. conjunction with the inherent limitations Practitioner’s Responsibility of accuracy and completeness for corpo• Interviewing employees from various Our responsibility is to express a concluorganisational levels of the Company rate responsibility information. This insion on the CR Information based on our with regards to materiality, stakeholder dependent assurance report should not be work performed. Our assurance report has expectations, meeting of those expecused for interpreting Kesko Corporation’s been made in accordance with the terms tations, as well as stakeholder engageperformance in relation to its principles of our engagement. We do not accept, or ment. of corporate responsibility. assume responsibility to anyone else, ex• Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and cept to Kesko Corporation for our work, responsiveness based on the Company’s Observations and for this report, or for the conclusions that documentation and internal commurecommendations we have reached. nication. Based on our limited assurance engageWe conducted our work in accord• Assessing the Company’s defined mament, we provide the following observaance with the International Standard on terial sustainability aspects as well as tions and recommendations in relation Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Asassessing the CR Information based on to Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the surance Engagements Other than Audits or these aspects. AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. These Reviews of Historical Financial Informa• Performing a media analysis and an inobservations and recommendations do not tion”. This Standard requires that we comternet search for references to the Comaffect the conclusions presented earlier. ply with ethical requirements and plan pany during the reporting period. • Regarding Inclusivity: Kesko Corpora102 Independent assurance report tion has a strong commitment to stakesibility programme. We recommend that Practitioner’s independence holder engagement. The company has the Company pays special attention to and qualifications an extensive stakeholder engagement divisional and regional characteristics PricewaterhouseCoopers’ own Global Inprocess in place to ensure the identifiin implementing the responsibility prodependence Policy is applicable to Pricecation of relevant stakeholders as well gramme. waterhouseCoopers Oy, its partners and as their concerns and expectations. We • Regarding Responsiveness: Kesko Corprofessional staff, including all members recommend that the Company further poration is committed to being responof the assurance engagement team. develops the management of stakeholdsive to its stakeholders, which is evident Our multi-disciplinary team of corer engagement, with particular attenfrom the ongoing and wide-ranging porate responsibility and assurance spetion on inclusion of employees in implecommunication on sustainability issues cialists possesses the requisite skills and menting the responsibility programme. in media, forums and other communicaexperience within financial and non-fi• Regarding Materiality: Kesko Corporation channels such as social media. We nancial assurance, corporate responsibiltion has processes in place to evaluate recommend that the Company continity strategy and management, social and and determine the materiality of corpoues the development of multi-channel environmental issues, as well as knowlrate responsibility aspects. In autumn service delivery and makes corporate reedge of the retail sector, to undertake this 2012 the Company has updated materialsponsibility aspects even more visible assurance engagement. ity assessment at the group level in assoin its stores. ciation with the updating of its responHelsinki, 11 April 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Partner Director, Authorised Public Accountant Sustainability & Climate Change Sustainability & Climate Change 103 Kesko corporate responsibility report 2012 CONTACTS Corporate responsibility contacts The list gives contact information on the personnel who primarily provide additional information on different areas of the report. The list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. E-mail address: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi. Name Title Unit Name Title Unit DEVELOPMENT, COORDINATION AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING: FOR EDITING THE REPORT: Marjut Lovio Corporate Kesko Corporation, Matti Mettälä Senior Vice President Kesko Corporation, Responsibility Corporate Human Resources Advisor Responsibility and Stakeholder Relations Matti Kalervo Product Research Kesko Food Ltd, Manager Product Research Satu Kuoppamäki Corporate Kesko Corporation, Responsibility Corporate Helena Frilander Communications and K-citymarket Oy and Advisor Responsibility Responsibility Anttila Oy Manager Marjut Lovio Corporate Kesko Corporation, Responsibility Corporate Antti Ollila Vice President Rautakesko Ltd, Advisor Responsibility Commerce, building, and home improvePirjo Nieminen Communications Kesko Corporation, ment, and agriculture (pirjo.j.nieminen@ Officer Corporate kesko.fi) Responsibility PRODUCT SAFETY: Matti Kalervo Product Research Kesko Food Ltd, ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY: Manager Product Research Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Kesko Corporation, Corporate Controller Corporate Accounting ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY: Satu Kuoppamäki Corporate Kesko Corporation, Tiina Nyrhi Corporate Financial Kesko Corporation, Responsibility Corporate Controller Corporate Advisor Responsibility Accounting Timo Jäske Environmental Kesko Food Ltd, Mari Kärnä Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Manager Commerce Corporate Accounting Jari Suuronen Manager, Kesko Food Ltd, Store Engineering Sites and Real Estate Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy Toni Pelin Environmental and Keslog Ltd, Supply Safety Manager Chain Development HUMAN RESOURCES RESPONSIBILITY: Helena Frilander Communications K-citymarket Oy Jennie Stenbom HR Manager Kesko Corporation, and Responsibility and Anttila Oy Human Resources Manager Susanna Sorvari Project Manager Kesko Corporation, Jesse Mether Sustainability Rautakesko Ltd, Human Resources Manager Retail Services Janna Pirhonen Manager, Wellbeing Kesko Corporation, Harri Jyränkö Development VV-Autotalot Oy at Work Human Resources Manager Päivi Sariola Financial Manager Kesko Pension Fund, Pension Insurance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT and Occupational AND CORPORATE SECURITY: Health Service Anne Leppälä-Nilsson Vice President, Kesko Corporation, Pirjo Anttila Occupational Health Kesko Corporation, General Counsel Legal Affairs Service, Chief Pension Insurance Physician and Occupational Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Kesko Corporation, Health Service Executive Internal Audit and Risk Management Timo Pajala Risk Manager Kesko Corporation, Risk Management Petri Käyhkö Security Manager Kesko Corporation, Risk Management PRIVACY PROTECTION /CUSTOMER LOYALTY SYSTEM: Mika Leiponen Managing Director K-Plus Oy 104 Kesko Corporation Satamakatu 3 FI-00016 KESKO Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 10 5311 www.kesko.fi www.facebook.com/KeskoOyj www.twitter.com/Kesko_Oyj Kesko’s Corporate Responsibility Report for 2012 has been published in Finnish and English. The report can be ordered and read at www.kesko.fi/responsibility. Editors: Satu Kuoppamäki, Pirjo Nieminen, Marjut Lovio, Susanna Sorvari and Mari Kärnä of Kesko. Translation: Pirjo Holm and Taija Mäentaka of Kesko’s Corporate Communications. Photos: Tuomo Manninen, Mikko Käkelä, Mauri Ratilainen, Rami Hanafi, Juho Kuva, Kaapo Kamu and Kesko’s image banks. Visual planning: Bond Creative Agency Oy and Miltton Oy Layout: Miltton Oy Printers: Libris Oy Paper: cover: Cocoon Offset 250 g/m2, inside: Cocoon Offset 100 g/m2. The paper and the printers have been granted the right to use the Nordic Swan ecolabel. The online version of the report: corporateresponsibility2012.kesko.fi Sivu: 0 Kieli: GB Kesko Corporation Satamakatu 3 FI-00016 KESKO Helsinki, Finland Tel. +358 10 5311 www.kesko.fi Business ID 0109862-8
