UN Global Compact Communication of Progress between 2007 and 2012 Responsible Tourism at Lemon Creek Hotel Resort 1|Page CONTACTS Camp Executive A/S Kombo Coastal Airport Road PO Box 3306 Serrekunda Bijilo, Banjul The Gambia www.lemoncreek.net lemon.creek.hotel@gmail.com Contact persons Hanna Danielsson, General Manager lemon.creek.hotel@gmail.com Claus Thomsen, Chairman of the board clausthomsen@youmail.dk Sector Tourism, leisure and holiday Number of employees 70 staff members UN Global Compact signatory since Lemon Creek Hotel Resort registered our support in May 2012 RESPONSIBLE TOURISM AT LEMON CREEK HOTEL RESORT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is an eco friendly resort located on the beautiful beach in Bijilo in the Gambia. We strongly believe responsible tourism can contribute positively to the UN Millennium Development Goals and protect the environment, combat extreme poverty, improve education and share the benefits of modern technologies through outstanding CSR practices. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to minimize our impact on the environment and use the latest green technologies. Solar panel system heats up water for the showers and a sewage system handles all wastewater produced. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort observes the Labor Act of Gambia 2007 and has endorsed the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) declaration on rights to work. All staff is employed on contracts ensuring rights in case of termination and social and medical benefits. We support the local community following the principle of trade, not aid, purchasing local goods and using local supplies. CODE OF CONDUCT • Make use of the latest green technologies and minimize our impact on the environment • Promote environmental responsibility and find sustainable solutions on energy consumption • Ensure decent employment for all staff employed • Assure proper working conditions and respect workers’ rights to join an association 2|Page • Promote gender equality and equity amongst staff employed • Embark HIV/AIDS and Malaria awareness for all staff employed BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is situated on the beach side in Bijilo and offers a laid back resort stay in a family oriented environment to guests mainly from Northern Europe. The resort comprises of 39 rooms in five guest buildings set in the 4ha big garden where the bird life has remained almost the same as before the hotel was built. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to preserve the area that until the hotel was built hosted various wild animals and numerous species of birds. In building the hotel only five trees were taken down in the whole area to make sure nature was as little affected as possible. Striving to use ecological products we have our own kitchen garden where about 50% of our vegetables and fruits come from. The goal is to have 70% of the hotels needs covered from our own garden. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort conducts our business in a manner that benefits the environment, the people working at the hotel and the neighboring community. Our mission is to become one of the most recognized eco friendly hotels in the Gambia and make eco tourism a very successful business imperative in today’ tourism industry. Camp Executive A/S is a Gambian registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a development loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. SCOPE OF THIS COP Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is proud to present our Communication on Progress for the year 2012 to the UN Global Compact. We are reporting on our CSR practices and progress within the principles of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. 3|Page HUMAN RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses COMMITMENT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensure our company is not complicit in human rights abuses. We adhere to the UN Human Rights Declaration of 1966, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and the Constitution of the Second Republic of Gambia of 1997 which declare protection of human rights and how they should be observed in relation to operation of companies. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to ensure equality and freedom from discrimination, freedom from well as slavery servitude and forced labour and further guarantee freedom of association and the right to fair labour practices within our business practices and sphere of influence. We are committed to contribute positively to the Children’ Act and children’ rights to education and proper healthcare for children living in our close vicinity. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED BETWEEN 2007 AND 2012 FREEDOM OF DISCRIMINATION Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to secure that no discrimination takes place in employment related procedures and decisions based on a person’ origin, sex, religion, political or union affiliation, sexual orientations or physical challenges at the workplace. Our employment policy promotes equal opportunities for all candidates who meet the job qualification criteria. With an unemployment rate at 80 percent within the country, we strongly believe we have a great responsibility making sure the local community benefit economically from our presence through promotion of employment opportunities. Gender equality Promoting gender equality is crucial. Poverty is not gender-neutral, but affects men and women in different ways. Women are more likely to be employed in vulnerable jobs – in farming, as unpaid family workers or as own-account workers – with no or little financial security or social benefits. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to promote gender equality. Women and men are given the same employment conditions and salary is paid in accordance to qualifications. Women are also given 6 month of maternity leave, whilst men are entitled to 14 days of paternity leave. Of the 70 staff members, only 16 are women. In other words; we are still lacking far behind securing a 50 percent gender ratio amongst our staff. The reasons are partly due to barriers within the society and educational barriers. Women are therefore strongly encouraged to apply. Health and Safety In 2012 we created a Health and Safety committee comprising of the General Manager, Assistant General Manager and Finance and HR manager as well as one representative from each department. During the year we have been monthly trainings on risk assessment, COSHH (control of substances hazardous to 4|Page health), HACCP (Hazard analysis critical control points), food safety, fire safety and started basic education around malaria, diarrhea, dehydration and the prevention of those. Awareness in regards to Child Sex Tourism At Lemon Creek Hotel Resort we wish to support initiatives and cooperate on local issues that impact or are impacted by our business and Child Sex Tourism is one of these issues. In 2012 we sent staff representative to a workshop initiated by Child Protection Alliance, Ecpat and Gambia Tourism Board on the subject. We then held a workshop with all staff to sensitize them around human rights issues concerning exploitation of children, the legal requirements and how to deal with it in their everyday at the hotel. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from our travel agents and tour operators who are pleased with our Responsible Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Lemon Creek Hotel Resort will focus to attract more women for employment at the resort. We will also hold 1-3 workshops on health and nutrition for all staff. 5|Page LABOUR RIGHTS UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort believes that the private sector has the capacity to alleviate poverty through proper working conditions. We adhere to the Labour Act of 2007, the Labour Organization’s (ILO) declaration on rights to work and have endorsed the labour principles of the UN Global Compact. Being the single largest sector in the world economy, tourism plays a key role for many African countries. Tourism creates jobs and incomes for millions of people. As such tourism is capable of contributing positively to the UN Millennium Development Goals; alleviating extreme poverty and hunger through full and decent employment. Africa is highly dependent on the global economy, but the global economy is not dependent on Africa. Africa accounts for less that 1 percent of annual global capital inflows and for less than 2 percent of the world trade. The entire GDP of Africa (excluding South Africa and Nigeria) is about equal to that of a small country as Ireland. According to the World Bank an estimated 44 percent of the African population will continue to live in extreme poverty with less than 1 USD per day. In absolute terms, the number of poor people has nearly doubled, from 200 million in 1981 to 380 million in 2005. Sadly, the financial crisis has pushed another 65 million people into vulnerable employment. They and their family find themselves living in extreme poverty without a financial stable job, but reliant on casual, seasonal or own-account labour. To beat the poverty line, 11 millions of jobs must be created every year in Africa. Research shows that nine out of ten jobs are created in the private sector; making private sector led economic growth crucial for employment generation and poverty reduction. But tourism must be conducted in a responsible manner, adhering to international accepted standards. Tourism is, unfortunately, a fiercely competitive global market, with incentives for putting short-term earnings before long-term environmental considerations. Protecting the environment, respecting workers’ right, ensuring full and decent employment as well as promoting gender equality is crucial should the tourism industry wish to have a sustainable impact in the developing countries; alleviating extreme poverty through job creation and economic growth. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED BETWEEN 2007 AND 2012 Lemon Creek Hotel Resort employs 70 staff members. Permanent contract for job security From 2012 50% of the staff is working on permanent contracts with a 3 month probation period compared to all being employed on seasonal contracts before. This ensures not only job security, rights in case of termination, but also economic, social and medical benefits. Contracts have been written in accordance with the Labour Act of Gambia of 2007 and in cooperation with the Department of Labour and the Gambia Workers’ Union. 6|Page Worker’s right to join an association and to bargain The International Labour Organization has endorsed workers with the universal right to freely join an association and to bargain. We respect and encourage these rights. All staff is free to join any chosen association. Staff is also able to voice any concern through the recurring staff meetings where the entire staff and the management are represented. In case of any misinterpretation between an individual staff member and the management, the company responds to the Department of Labour with attention to resolve the matter. Salary and leave conditions The salary consists of a base salary, travel and other allowance. Staff works on a monthly schedule with 6 working days per week and holiday based on seniority and in compliance with the Labour Act. Medical security and benefits Medical insurance is important in countries without welfare state funded healthcare systems. Our staff is able to seek medical help at the local Bijilo Medical Centre. Such out-patient activities (consultation fee, test and medication) are paid by the company. In case of extended medical treatment, staff has the option of being referred to other private or national hospitals in Banjul. Dr. Musa from Bijilo Medical Centre, Bijilo, is attached for counselling and monitoring of health for all staff. Dr. Musa also holds workshops at his clinic in regards to health issues where representatives of the staff are invited. Right now we are in the process of organising a workshop addressing Malaria, general hygiene, dehydration and diarrhoea and ways of preventing these very common issues. Social security Social security is provided through the Social Security and Housing Finance Corporation (SSHFC) Benefits when working The canteen serves breakfasts, lunches and dinners. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from our travel agents and tour operators who are pleased with our Responsible Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. 7|Page ENVIRONMENT UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to minimize our impact on the fragile environment. The resort has been constructed to run in the most environmental friendly manner using the latest green technologies. Solar panels are used to heat water for the showers and we are in the midst of a process to install solar panels to run 80% of the operation and a sewage system handles all waste water produced. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED BETWEEN 2007 AND 2012 Green technologies Solar panels water heater Lemon Creek Hotel Resort has solar water heaters for heating water guest showers. Recent development of solar technology now allows sufficient energy from the sun to be captured, even on cloudy days. Wastewater treatment Wastewater treatment is another important matter when running a hotel. Water for guest showers, washing of bed linens, and not to mention flushing toilets, creates wastewater. All wastewater produced are led into the sewage system and directed into the septic tank. From here the wastewater is mechanical treated as it runs through channels of charcoals and sand filters, ending in two huge soak pits. The surface water is collected and used for watering our garden. Strict waste management system for recycling Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to recycle all waste produced. We compost the organic waste and separate the non-degradable waste. We liaise with a private recycling company who collects our waste and whenever possible distribute it to women cooperatives that use it in their production. We will continuously strive to align our business practices with a sustainable purchase policy for reduced waste production. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from our travel agent and tour operators who are pleased with our Responsible Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. 8|Page ANTI-CORRUPTION UN Global Compact principles covered Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to combat corruption in all its form and support the United Nations Convention Against Corruption of 2005, the Council of Europe with the Crime Law Convention on Corruption and The Gambia Anti-Corruption Commission Bill. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2012 Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is training all relevant staff in regards to anti-corruption and do under no circumstances allow for staff members to involve in any form of corruption or facilitating payments. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from the local community in regards to our anticorruption policy. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Lemon Creek Hotel Resort will spread our engagement to also inform and sensitize our business partners on our anti-corruption policy. 9|Page ECONOMIC – TRADE, NOT AID COMMITMENT The tourism industry is often criticized for not ensuring that enough of its revenue goes back to the host community. Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is committed to distribute our revenue in many different ways following the principle trade, not aid, making it possible for the local community to profit from our presence in their area. BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2012 Use of locally produced goods and local suppliers We support locally produced goods and use local suppliers. Shop for development The beautiful souvenirs for sale in the gift shop are made by different women cooperatives as well as female entrepreneurs. Since we wish to promote trade, not aid, prices are negotiated and the gift shop makes a small profit every time a guest buys the souvenirs, the main goal though is for the women cooperatives to get to sell their products as well as getting a display for what they do. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from our travel agents, guests and tour operators who are pleased with our Responsible Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Lemon Creek Hotel Resort will continue our support and allow the local communities to benefit economically from our presence in their home area. 10 | P a g e INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL PARTNERS COMMITMENT Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is partnering with international as well as governmental agencies. NGOs provides expertise and special know-how, whereas our tourism partners and local communities offer network and valuable capacity building BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SYSTEMS AND ACTIVITIES IMPLEMENTED IN 2007-2012 IFU, Investment fund for developing countries Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is a Gambian registered company owned by Danish shareholders. IFU, the Investment Fund for developing countries has granted us a loan, as a part of their objective to promote economic and social growth in developing countries. IFU has invested with Danish companies in Africa for nearly 40 years and is one of the most experienced institutions when it comes to investing in and setting up businesses on commercial terms on the continent. Companies must integrate an ambitious CSR policy to ensure high standards in respect of environment, labour principles, human rights and anti-corruption. Please visit www.ifu.dk for more information on Danish investments in Africa. MEASUREMENTS OF OUTCOME AND VALUE ADDED FOR OUR COMPANY Lemon Creek Hotel Resort is experiencing great support from our travel agents and tour operators who are pleased with our Responsible Tourism practices. We expect to increase our occupancy rate due to travel agents and visitors’ interest in sustainable tourism. ACTIVITIES PLANNED FOR NEXT YEAR Lemon Creek Hotel Resort will continue our partnership with IFU for further development in our CSR policies and the betterment of the local communities. 11 | P a g e COMMUNICATION ON COP WAY OF COMMUNICATING THE COP Lemon Creek Hotel Resort supports the principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Millennium Development Goals. We will make this COP available through our website www.lemoncreek.net 12 | P a g e
