BRAEMAC LIMITED Communication on Progress Prepared by Sara Houghton (Quality Manager) Period Covered: 23rd April 2012 to 23rd April 2013 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director I confirm Braemac Limited’s continued commitment to support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact as part of our day-to-day business activities in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our annual Communication on Progress we describe our actions to ensure continuous integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share the details of this Communication on Progress with our shareholders through primary channels of communication. Sarah Evans Managing Director Human Rights Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or organisations where human rights fail to be respected and unacceptable methods are used e.g. torture, politically motivated disappearances, slavery. Braemac Limited strives to ensure equality to all employees and is committed to zero tolerance of victimisation, bullying or harassment. We have issued a Dignity at Work Policy to support our employees. Implementation As our business grows every effort is made to ensure the countries where our manufacturing and procurement partners are located comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We follow the ACAS grievance procedure guidelines to support our employees when a problem is experienced in the work place. To ensure all Braemac Limited employees are informed of organisational changes staff consultations are completed. This allows employees the opportunity to influence the outcome of the changes prior to implementation. Outcomes In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Braemac Limited COP Page 1 of 3 Labour Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced or child labour. All Braemac Limited employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates, holiday and sickness entitlement. Braemac Limited complies with all relevant Health and Safety legislation and provides various forms of training to employees to perform their job role. Implementation Braemac Limited has an annual company review on a one to one basis with employees for the Managing Director to provide an update of the past business year – giving staff merit for achievements, where the business is going and thanking them for their individual contribution. Braemac Limited has a range of policies supporting best practice in terms of labour and employment including Equal Opportunities Policy, Appraisal Procedure and Flexible Working Policy. Braemac Limited has a Health & Safety Policy and continues to develop company safety procedures. Outcome Annual appraisals are completed for Braemac Limited employees to identify personal development needs and training requirements, where possible these are actioned. Braemac Limited has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. In the past year Braemac Limited has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions. Environment Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited has an Environmental Policy to support our commitment to environmental responsibility. We recycle packaging materials to reduce the impact on the environment. We have reduced the carbon footprint of our company this year by using public transport opposed to company vehicles. In the coming year our main environmental target is to increase our percentage of recyclable waste. Implementation Braemac Limited use environmentally friendly packaging in customer shipments to reduce the impact on the atmosphere. We use a third party organisation for our general waste collections and have it split into recycling groups – paper, plastic, aluminium, etc. Our operating systems are shut down at the end of each business day to support energy saving to reduce the effect on the environment. Braemac Limited COP Page 2 of 3 Outcomes Braemac Limited uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste. We are registered with a WEEE compliance company for disposal of waste electrical and electronic equipment and battery disposal. Braemac Limited has not had any reports of environmental incidents within the last year or been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy & Goals Braemac Limited is compliant with the Bribery Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We do not operate in countries or with organisations that are corrupt. In the next year staff briefings will be given in relation to bribery and corruption to ensure our integrity as an international business. Implementation Braemac Limited ensures all daily monetary values are checked under the responsibility of the Managing Director with a prior check by the Financial Controller. Employees are given training in each business area to support anti-corruption in our organisation. At Christmastime when suppliers send in gifts to specific staff members they are handed in to our Managing Director and all gifts go into a raffle to be shared randomly amongst the employees. Outcomes During the last 12 months Braemac Limited have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. Braemac Limited COP Page 3 of 3
