Introduction Introduction 2 Corporate Activities 11 Environment 17 People 27 Society 35 Results Summary 41 Scope of this Report The Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report covers the operations and employees of Ricoh Europe PLC within the region of Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and is produced annually. This report relates to the fiscal year from April 2012 to March 2013. Ricoh Europe PLC is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ricoh Company Ltd. Ricoh Europe has more than 16,000 employees working in 21 countries in the EMEA region. Ricoh‟s manufacturing facilities in Europe and activities with partners are not included within the scope of this report. Further details of these activities can be found in the Ricoh Group Sustainability Report. Audited financial figures are published in the Ricoh Group Annual Report. Both reports can be downloaded from www.ricoh.com. We have completed a self-assessment of this report against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and have allocated a “B” rating. Further details of this assessment are available in the “Results Summary” section of this report, and full details are available on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com. This report highlights Ricoh Europe‟s performance during the fiscal year ended 31st March, 2013 and previous periods. The Company makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of the data included herein, but undertakes no obligation to update this data subsequent to publication. Your Feedback If you have any comments, opinions or suggestions regarding this report, please contact Ricoh Europe‟s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com. 2 Introduction Chief Executive Officer's Statement Akira Oyama Chief Executive Officer Ricoh Europe PLC Welcome to the sixth Ricoh Europe Sustainability Report which highlights details of our economic, social and environmental achievements during the 2012 fiscal year. It is a challenging and exciting time for business leaders. In addition to technology-led change, they must manage complex regulations and grow their businesses in a competitive landscape. They are also focused upon recovering from the global economic crisis, reducing environmental impacts and adding value in their communities. At the heart of all the changes necessary for an organisation to manage these challenges and to succeed in the future, are its people. People will remain the single most important asset to an organisations success, a belief reflected in our brand and imagine.change. This view was also evident in Ricoh Europe sponsored research conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit, titled Humans and Machines The role of people in technology-driven organisations. Business leaders across 20 different industries took part; including financial services, education, government/public sector, healthcare manufacturing and technology. They were positive about the impacts of technology-led change and its impacts on creativity and innovation but they are concerned about keeping up with the pace of change. Their challenges are focused on system and process issues exposing the need for European organisations to review the way they work and prepare to transform their traditional way of doing things. At Ricoh we are ready to support businesses through better integration of their systems and creating more streamlined business processes that connect their people and their technology. They will in turn benefit from improved employee knowledge sharing, increased responsiveness to client needs and a more agile business infrastructure that is ready to meet the needs of the future. In addition, Ricoh is energised by combining its innovative products and services with a sustainable approach to business. It is embedded into the way we work, right from the beginning when the company‟s founder, Kiyoshi Ichimura, nurtured a unique pool of thinkers, motivated by professional pride, who refused to be limited by tradition. They envisioned a world where information could be copied precisely and distributed at the touch of a button – a world where critical business knowledge was available anywhere, anytime. At the same time, Ricoh views business, society and the planet as interconnected. It strives to be a company people are proud to work for, going beyond compliance to encourage responsible growth wherever possible. By linking its commitment to forward-thinking business strategies, it promotes development that is profitable and sustainable at customer sites as well as its own operations. You can read more about our services, our awards, our strategy and our community activities inside this report. Thank you for your interest. 3 Introduction About Ricoh Europe A truly global company, we help customers Ricoh fosters genuine partnerships with its around the world connect disparate departments, customers through exceptional standards of locations and systems, providing the technology, service. With Ricoh‟s technical ability and IT services and support to meet their changing knowledge on their team, these companies can needs. As their businesses grow, we grow with reduce costs, eliminate waste and streamline them, working hand in hand to reduce costs, processes yielding tangible benefits for their own eliminate waste and streamline business customers. processes. Most importantly, by freeing employees to think Ricoh’s core offerings include: creatively, and making institutional wisdom more readily available, Ricoh promotes business Managed Document Services transformation that is profound and lasting. Streamlining information workflows and managing document processes, saving businesses time and Ricoh is always thinking ahead. It is designing money while ensuring their information security products and services tailored to specific and sustainability goals are met. industries, emerging markets and businesses Production Printing large and small. It is creating solutions that Offering the services, technology and support for answer local needs and breathing new life into commercial and corporate printing markets, established forms of knowledge sharing. enabling them to profit from new business. Office Solutions Through cloud computing, remote monitoring, and Designed to help businesses manage their other innovations, Ricoh is making information document and information workflows, making the more mobile, and personal. Its consumer products process more efficient, productive, secure, are also enhancing the way people interact with sustainable and ultimately, profitable. the world around them, whether through an award IT Services winning line of digital cameras, or online data Covering all aspects of IT support – for end users, storage services. software and hardware – Ricoh frees its customers to focus on their core businesses, To find out more, please visit: managing the IT network for them. www.ricoh-europe.com Key Ricoh Norway Ricoh Finland Operating Companies GR Advanced Materials UK Ricoh Sweden Ricoh Russia Regional HQ Ricoh Denmark Ricoh Ireland Ricoh Products Ltd UK Production and R&D Ricoh Europe PLC Ricoh UK Ricoh Europe (Netherlands), Ricoh Europe SCM, Ricoh Poland Ricoh International, Ricoh Netherlands, ESPC Ricoh Germany Ricoh Belgium Ricoh France, Rex Rotary France Ricoh Luxembourg Ricoh Industry France Ricoh Austria Ricoh Hungary Ricoh Switzerland Ricoh Italy Ricoh Portugal Ricoh Spain Ricoh Turkey Ricoh South Africa Copyright 2012 Ricoh Company, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. Owner: CCO, Ricoh Europe PLC Our locations in EMEA 4 Introduction Ricoh Europe’s Sustainability Strategy The origins of Ricoh‟s sustainability strategy can The Ricoh Group regards the promotion of CSR be traced back to the Corporate Philosophy activities as a growth strategy which aims to solve developed in 1930‟s by our founder, Kiyoshi social issues, while at the same time fostering its Ichimura, in his twin vision: „To innovate on behalf corporate growth. Therefore, we place particular of our customers and to pursue sustainable focus on a concept we refer to as “value-creating business practices on behalf of every life we CSR”. Utilising our resources such as touch‟. Today this vision remains an underlying technologies, products, services, and our principle in our business. We view business, employees, we aim to help solve a range of social society and the planet as interconnected. By issues. linking our commitment to forward-thinking business strategies, we promote development that To facilitate these efforts, Ricoh Europe has is profitable and sustainable for all stakeholders, adopted globally accepted CSR guidelines, e.g. including our own operations, enabling us to be a United Nations Global Compact, ISO 26000, etc. customer driven organisation that is innovative and has enhanced its activities accordingly. In and profitable – both now and for future Ricoh Europe, a working group has reviewed generations. ISO26000 and provided guidelines which show how to apply the standard to the respective Ricoh is engaged in “two-tier” CSR activities European businesses. We now fully recognise the based on the three ideas constituting the standard within Ricoh Europe and use it as a foundation of CSR specified in the chart below: framework to help guide our activities: the first tier involves basic social responsibilities and the second tier involves voluntary social Ricoh recognises ISO26000 as a reference responsibilities. We aim to build public trust document that provides guidance for through our first tier activities and enhance our implementation of its CSR strategy and policies attractiveness through second tier activities and across the organisation. As such Ricoh Operating by achieving these goals simultaneously to Companies across EMEA are committed to increase the value of the company. We develop continually integrating the ISO26000 standard into and implement action plans focusing on the four our business operations. key areas specified in our CSR Charter: integrity in corporate activities, harmony with the environment, respect for people, and harmony with society. 5 Introduction We develop solutions to produce reliable and long term vision to reduce environmental impact innovative products and services for our by 87.5% by 2050. Through our innovative customers that generate profit for our services e.g. Total Green Office Solutions and shareholders. This means we add value as a certified remanufacturing capabilities we are also business partner, provide a secure future for our helping our customers achieve their own targets. employees and preserve the resources of the communities around us. For us, sustainability is about developing a CSR Governance business model that delivers lasting value for all Ricoh Europe has established a decision making stakeholders into the future. Our more recent authority which aims to provide clear direction to products are designed to meet the ever changing all Operating Companies within EMEA. It meets at needs of our populations, catering for all abilities least once per quarter, chaired by a Ricoh Europe with specific focus on the following: board member and representation is made up of  Operating accessibility senior CSR managers and Corporate  Visual accessibility Communications.  Wheelchair accessibility  Aging accessibility The role of this CSR authority is to:  Identify and deliver key CSR work streams Our CSR Strategy is defined in the “Ricoh CSR which will enhance the Ricoh brand whilst Charter” that was established in 2003 and delivering against the Ricoh Group CSR developed to integrate Ricoh‟s core values and strategy the ten principles defined in the UN Global  Assign appropriate resources to make sure all Compact into our daily activities. We take a three agreed actions are delivered effectively „P‟s‟ approach to sustainability: People, Planet  Review, analyse and agree future direction for and Profit. This ensures our business model is Ricoh Europe from a CSR perspective maintained and continuously improved to support  Identify and share good practice from within our CSR, business and environmental objectives. and outside of Ricoh Europe  Align all Operating Companies‟ CSR activities to ensure that a single image and message are communicated both internally and externally Business Excellence Ricoh recognises that being a customer-centric organisation requires an implicit understanding of the needs of customers and how we perform against customers‟ expectations. We conduct selfreflection on a regular basis and as such are in the process of transforming ourselves into a customer focused business. This enables Ricoh to provide customer driven innovation and deliver value from the perspective of our customers. Balance of “3 P‟s” Ricoh makes sure it is an efficient and effective organisation by using a number of world class For ten consecutive years, Ricoh has been frameworks, e.g. EFQM (European Framework for recognised by FTSE4Good for its Corporate Quality Management), Investors in People, etc. Social Responsibility activities. In addition to These are embedded in the organisation at a external recognition, we set tough targets for regional and local level. These are used on a ourselves. We achieved our aggressive target to continuous basis in conjunction with process reduce our CO2 emissions by 20% by the end of improvement tools based on Lean Six Sigma. 2010 and we are on track to achieve our 6 Introduction The Ricoh Way “The Ricoh Way” is a global philosophy and set of Awards in the following categories: Achievement, values shared amongst all Ricoh Group Creativity, Education, Effort, Environment, companies, and is the foundation of Ricoh‟s daily Improvement and Social Contribution. business operations. It consists of Founding Principles, Mission, Vision and Values. The Mission, Vision and Values demonstrate Ricoh‟s drive to provide excellence, innovation, Supporting the UN Global continuous improvement and value to its customers. They define Ricoh‟s commitment, Compact dedication and behaviour as one global company. Ricoh Company, Ltd. signed the UN Global Compact (see below) in 2002 and maintains its commitment to ensuring these principles are The Ricoh Founding Principles observed in all operations globally. To ensure this, The Spirit of Three Loves by Kiyoshi Ichimura, Ricoh has defined the “Ricoh CSR Charter” and Founder: the “Ricoh Code of Conduct”. These have been “Love your neighbour”, communicated to all employees and are expected “Love your country”, to be actively implemented and observed at all “Love your work”. times. In December 2008, Ricoh Europe PLC signed the UN Global Compact to show Ricoh‟s ongoing support and commitment to the development and promotion of a sustainable society. Global Mission At the Ricoh Group, we are committed to providing excellence to improve the quality of living. Global Vision To be the most trusted brand with irresistible appeal in the global market. Global Values To be one global company, we must care about people, our profession, our society and our planet. We must dedicate our winning spirit, innovation and teamwork to sharpen our customer-centric focus, and we must also commit to the highest standards of ethics and integrity. The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Employee Engagement Ricoh continuously seeks to ensure employees are engaged. Ricoh incorporates “The Ricoh Way” values within its performance management process “Power to Perform” and recognises exceptional performance by awarding the Minori 7 Introduction Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Charter To enable us to grow as a respected enterprise, all companies within the Ricoh Group must plan their Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) within a consistent global framework and throughout all operations. To ensure this, the following principles are to be observed, with the proper social awareness and understanding, compliant with both the letter and the spirit of national laws and the rules of international conduct. Integrity in Corporate Activities Respect for People 1. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 6. Every company in the Ricoh Group will develop and provide useful products and maintain a working environment that is safe services, with high quality, safety, reliability and that makes it easier for its staff to perform and ease of use, while maintaining security of their duties, respecting their richly individual information and giving proper consideration to characteristics and encouraging their the environment. autonomy and creativity. 2. Every company in the Ricoh Group will 7. Every company in the Ricoh Group will compete fairly, openly and freely, maintaining respect the rights of all those connected with normal and healthy relationships with political it, and will seek to create a cheerful working institutions, government administration, environment, free of discrimination. citizens and organisations. 8. No company in the Ricoh Group will permit 3. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take forced labour or child labour, and none will responsibility for managing and safeguarding tolerate the infringement of human rights. its own information and that of its customers. Harmony with Society Harmony with the Environment 9. Every company in the Ricoh Group will, as a 4. Every company in the Ricoh Group will take good corporate citizen, actively engage in responsibility, as a citizen of the world, activities that contribute to society. working voluntarily and actively to preserve 10. Every company in the Ricoh Group will the environment. respect the culture and customs of its country 5. Every company in the Ricoh Group, and all or region, and will operate so as to contribute employees of each company, will seek to to their development. implement technological innovations that 11. Every company in the Ricoh Group will reflect environmental concerns and will engage in the fullest possible communications participate in ongoing activities to preserve with society, seeking actively to provide the environment. proper and unbiased disclosure of corporate information. For more information about Ricoh Global CSR strategy, please visit: www.ricoh.com/csr/ 8 Introduction External Recognition We are proud that Ricoh Europe‟s activities in Corporate Sustainability have received the following external recognition: 2013  Ricoh was recognised by FTSE4Good Index for meeting high standards for the tenth consecutive year. The review criteria included environmental management, human and labour rights, supply chain labour standards, corporate governance and countering bribery  Ricoh was selected as one of the World‟s Most Ethical Companies for the fifth year in a row by the Ethisphere Institute  For the ninth consecutive year, Ricoh was rated as one of the “Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World” by Corporate Knights. The recognition is for companies that are best positioned to thrive in a „clean capitalism‟ economy which includes social, economic, ecological benefits and costs 2012  Ricoh was recognised as one of the 2012 Top 100 Global Innovators list by Thomson Reuters, one of the world‟s leading sources of intelligent information for businesses and professionals  Ricoh‟s Private Cloud wins „Project of the Year‟ in Green IT Awards – „Best Cloud / Virtualisation Project of the Year‟ awarded to the Ricoh and Infosys design and implementation team  Ricoh won the Eco-Enterprise Innovation Award at the Oracle Excellence Awards, with recognition also given to business partner Infosys, and the 2012 Chief Sustainability Officer Award. Both awards recognise the efficient and sustainable way Ricoh has built a new IT infrastructure to support its operations in EMEA  Ricoh was recognised by global consulting firm Deloitte as one of the top global organisations ready for a „green and inclusive economy‟ 2011  Ricoh won Sustainability Good Practice Competition 2011 organised by EFQM (European Foundation for Quality Management)  Ricoh was awarded „Prime‟ status by oekom research and recognised as one of the “World‟s Best Office Electronics Companies in Social and Environmental Performance”  Ricoh Europe received Silver Award in the “Best Green Service Innovation” category organised by International Green Awards 2011  Ricoh was selected as a Finalist in The Climate Week Award 2011 in the category “Best Initiative by a Large Business” for Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation Programme  Ricoh Italy was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM 2010  Ricoh Europe achieved a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” award from EFQM. The application covered all our operations in EMEA  Ricoh Netherlands was awarded a 5 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM  Ricoh European Service Parts Centre was awarded a 4 star “Recognised for Excellence” from EFQM  Ricoh Germany was awarded the prestigious Ludwig-Erhard-Preis for business excellence. The accomplishment acknowledges the excellent results achieved by doing business the Ricoh way – an approach that combines economic, social and environmental thinking For more information about Ricoh Awards, please visit: www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/ourprinciples/awards/ 9 Corporate Activities 11 Corporate Activities “Our goal is to achieve the highest standards of global citizenship and compliance, both internally and across our partners and suppliers. We adopt a highly ethical approach to all our business activities, defined in our Code of Conduct, with extensive awareness and training programmes to help all our people understand their role in ensuring we meet these standards. Internal and external audits are used to review and continually improve the processes and controls we have established, in line with changing requirements.” Nicola Downing, Vice President, Legal Division Our Strategy Our strategy is to adopt the highest ethical standards across our business activities and our supply chain, as defined in the “Ricoh CSR Charter” and the “Ricoh Code of Conduct”. These define the standards, ethics and behaviours Ricoh Europe and our people should adopt in our daily business practices. These are supported by awareness training programmes to ensure our people understand how standards apply to their specific role. In addition, we have a rigorous Compliance Management Strategy, based on relevant legislation, regulatory standards and industry best practice. Regular internal and external audits are used to monitor compliance, ensure the validity and robustness of our processes and ensure our Management System is continuously reviewed and improved. Verification of Financial Results Consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC are lodged with Companies House in the UK and comply with the requirements of the UK Companies Act. These are compiled in line with the UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). Ricoh Company, Ltd. accounts are compiled in accordance with the US GAAP. Full details of the financial performance of Ricoh Company, Ltd. are available at www.ricoh.com/IR/financial_data/financial_res ult KPMG conducts an annual audit of Ricoh Europe companies and of the consolidated annual financial results for Ricoh Europe Holdings PLC. In addition, European quarterly results are reviewed by KPMG. To ensure the accuracy and reliability of our financial reporting, all Ricoh Europe companies document their financial processes and map these to meet the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Ricoh Ricoh Europe Headquarters, London Europe has also established controls to effectively manage financial risks. These processes are externally audited by KPMG to ensure compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 12 Corporate Activities Customer Insight Ricoh Europe markets and delivers products and Operating Companies and simplified the services directly through its National Operating complaints processes. Companies (Direct Channel) and through a network of Distributors and Dealers (Indirect As a reflection of our need to recognise the needs Channel). Our customers range from global of customers, it is part of the process to discuss accounts, e.g. Fortune Global 500 companies, to the complaints at the highest level between small businesses. In addition to our daily contact, Operating Company Managing Directors and the we use a range of surveys to gather feedback Ricoh Europe Board of Directors. This is done on from our customer groups to help us to a monthly basis and also at the half year and full understand how we are performing, what year business reviews. additional services we should develop and areas where we need to improve. We also ensure we ask the right questions to the right people. The Enhancing Client Value key surveys include: Ricoh is engaged in a series of transformation activities in order to become more customer Specialist Surveys centric and to deliver enhanced customer value. Our Operating Companies conduct regular There are a number of strategic change projects surveys to gain detailed feedback from IT across the EMEA region which are aimed at Managers, Account Managers and our network of creating new organisational capabilities to deliver Dealers and Distributors. They can provide growth and efficiency during the 17th and 18th additional insight into how our products are mid-term plans. working in practice. A range of research companies and tools are used to collect feedback, depending on the topic, target audience and country. As Ricoh develops its relationships with major accounts, it is essential we understand our performance. An example of this is a recent survey sent out to our top accounts. The feedback from these customers will be used to help develop Ricoh’s approach. Recent surveys focusing on a specific group of strategic accounts highlighted a number of key areas of development. This information is being used to develop added value Three inter-woven journeys towards customer-outcome centricity solutions from a customer’s perspective and ensure we continue to build on customer centric The over-riding theme which underpins these business change projects is the transformation of Ricoh Europe. In addition to our core technologies, we Event Driven Surveys are expanding our service portfolio to help our To fully understand the customer experience of a clients better manage their documents and specific action, we use event driven surveys. One information. As a result, our clients can be more example is the Service Call Survey, conducted by agile, responsive to client needs and ready for the Marketii, an external market research company, workplace of the future. for all our Operating Companies. The survey is Under these transformation projects Ricoh Europe triggered when a customer calls one of our has also built specialist vertical marketing teams Service Centres and is completed within days of who focus on identifying opportunities for Ricoh to the call being made. This provides us with an develop targeted customer value propositions that accurate reflection of the customer experience. can be deployed on a pan-European basis. These newly developed value propositions will Complaints Management bring together a range of product and service We understand that things do not always go right offerings from an integrated services menu to the first time, but we see this as an opportunity to provide high value industry solutions which learn and improve. We have processes in place to incorporate combinations of hardware, software, ensure any complaint is investigated and resolved professional and technical services from across all as quickly as possible, firstly for the customer of Ricoh’s lines of business, Office Solutions, IT reporting the issue and secondly to ensure the Services, Production Print, Managed Document same thing does not happen again. We have Services and Outsourcing. The way in which reviewed the performance of a number of our 13 Corporate Activities these elements are combined is driven by an expertise from across Ricoh Europe. This process “outside-in” view of what the market requires. enables us to annually review the effectiveness of At the same time, other change projects are our policies and strategies, minimise risk and standardising and aligning key business areas to ensure our practices are continuously reviewed, in enable the organisation to function consistently line with the changing business environment. across European Operating Companies to ensure that value propositions can be delivered and Ricoh Europe is committed to delivering an endsupported effectively. to-end service to its customers which includes The main areas undergoing transformation are consulting, ongoing process optimisation, services Sales, Marketing, Solutions Development, and technologies. To ensure a best-practice European Technology Centre and Customer approach, we have developed comprehensive Service and Support. Quality Management Systems. All Ricoh Group These projects will create a new operating model factories and major Operating Companies have for the Ricoh Europe organisation, defining how gained the internationally recognised ISO9001 we will establish ways of working in terms of standard for quality management and Ricoh is Processes, People, Organisation, Tools and unique in having all Operating Companies Geography. certified to ISO27000, Information Security To achieve the overall objectives for the Management, ensuring all dealings with Ricoh are organisation, the commercial business to the highest possible standards. Having reliable transformation teams are working closely with the products is just one factor within the overall IT and HR Transformation programmes, which are customer experience. We provide consultancy, each addressing associated aspects of the target delivery, installation and after-sales services to operating model we intend to establish for Ricoh. ensure our customers get the right products and services at the right time to meet their needs. Total Risk Management To ensure we meet the needs and expectations of Legal Compliance our stakeholders, Ricoh has developed a number To ensure our employees fully understand the of policies and strategies to manage its corporate requirements of European legislation, over the integrity. This includes legal compliance, past five years we have rolled out a maintaining ISO standards, managing business comprehensive training package for managers risks and upholding the Ricoh values and ethics, and sales personnel, specifically focused on defined in our CSR Charter and Code of Conduct. Competition and Contract Law. Our Legal team To coordinate our compliance and risk from across Europe has run workshops on-site to management approaches, Ricoh Group operates explain our obligations under this legislation, with Total Risk Management on a global scale with scenarios and case studies used to illustrate Ricoh Europe contributing to an annual some of the points in more detail. In 2010, we ran programme of risk management and reporting. more than 75 workshops across our European The major risk areas covered in this programme operations, with over 1000 people attending. are: The workshops have been supported by the Ricoh  Violation of compliance (fraudulence in Training Academy through a web-based relation to business operations, bribery and programme. At the end of the training, participants corruption, insider trading, etc.) must complete a test to ensure they have  Natural disasters (earthquakes, typhoons, understood the legal requirements and can apply deluge, etc.)/serious accidents those in a number of scenarios. So far, 2000  Human rights issues employees have received legal training.  Serious Quality Problem (violation of laws, product liability, etc.) New laws governing bribery and ethical dealing  Information security (personal information and data protection are now in force and they protection, leakage of trade secrets, etc.) have a wide-reaching impact in all territories  Violation of export and import related where Ricoh operates. These and other existing legislation pieces of legislation were a key focus for Ricoh in  Administrative disposition, claim for damages, FY2011 as part of our ongoing compliance etc. training programme. We have rolled out policy  Others (harmful rumours, brand devaluation, and processes to ensure our staff are aware of etc.) the new laws and are able to continue to build strong relationships with our customers within The annual Risk Management programme brings together the specialist skills, experience and 14 Corporate Activities acceptable parameters. By the end of FY11, our throughout the region. The central team, based in training programme had captured all relevant our London Head Office, supported and managed employees in all territories. the roll-out programme and is now focused on ensuring the consistent application of Ricoh policy As part of our commitment to global compliance, through programmes of continual improvement, we will audit our policies and standards across our change management, audit and best practice group and our company’s adherence to them. sharing. Our activities for 2013 are:  Achieve greater efficiencies and effectiveness Information Security in deploying Business Continuity Planning With the development of core capabilities in across the region Managed Document Services, Production Printing,  Ensure renewal of BS27001 certification Office Solutions and IT services, Ricoh is during the external audit programme increasingly trusted with the custody of our completing in December 2013 customers’ business information.  Develop harmonised processes to help integrate the management systems for In order to provide assurance of our good Information Security (ISO27001) information security performance, Ricoh has  Environmental Management (ISO14001) and achieved a unique global certification to ISO27001, Quality Management (ISO9001) across the “Information Security Management”. Ricoh’s EMEA region. certification was established in Japan in 2004 (certificate number IS85241). A world-wide audit programme is conducted every year to confirm continuation of certification for Ricoh Group. Product Safety and Security Ricoh Europe, in partnership with our Accredited The health and safety impacts of our products are Certification Body, British Standards International assessed in all life cycle stages, from the (BSI), is continually engaged in maintaining and development of product concept, through improving our Information Security Management manufacturing, marketing, distribution, customer System across the region. This involves change use and finally collection and recycling. Ricoh management activity to ensure that we continue to Europe has developed a “Product Safety Issue protect information as our business evolves. The Handling Manual” and has distributed it to all its annual audit programme in EMEA is conducted as Operating Companies. A self-assessment survey a coordinated operation, with every Operating was issued to make sure the manual was Company being audited either by BSI or a received, studied, understood and applied by all certified Lead Auditor from Ricoh Europe PLC. Ricoh Companies. It is the responsibility of Ricoh Europe, its Operating Companies and Distributors to ensure that this policy is applied by local operations and any third party organisations that provide services on our behalf. In February 2010, Ricoh obtained the world’s first Common Criteria (CC) authentication, conforming to the IEEE 2600.1 Protection Profile, with its imagio MP 5000 SP/4000 SP (released in February 2008). IEEE 2600.1 is an international standard for security functions of hardcopy devices, including multifunction devices and Every company within Ricoh Europe is now printers. To assure our customers of the security registered to the ISO27001 certificate. All of our products, we offer a broad line of CCOperating Companies and the distribution authenticated products that comply with IEEE operation, Ricoh Europe Supply Chain 2600.1. For more information, see the Ricoh Management, have a nominated manager Products Authenticated with CC (ISO/IEC 15408). responsible for developing, maintaining and continually improving the ISMS, in line with Ricoh Group policy. We have deployed common policies, risk management tools and security management techniques to achieve consistent practice 15 Corporate Activities Procurement Whistle-blowing We aim to minimise risk and maximise benefit A whistle-blowing policy has been developed, when undertaking central procurement for the giving all employees of Ricoh Europe access to a benefit of Ricoh. We adhere to Ricoh’s core whistle-blowing hotline. This was developed in values set out in our Environmental, Ethical and order to further comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Act Corporate Social Responsibility policies during all regulations which require companies to provide an procurement activity. We work closely with our anonymous whistle-blowing service for all key suppliers to create relationships of mutual employees to aid the prevention of fraud. trust and respect for the combined benefit of our All employees must have access to at least one respective organisations. method of reporting allegations of malpractice anonymously. The Ricoh Affinity Scheme builds on our supplier Ricoh Europe’s whistle-blowing hotline reporting network to ensure that the benefits of negotiated procedure is available to all Ricoh employees via competitive rates are passed onto our employees the Intranet. It enables employees to report any through employee purchasing schemes where instances of alleged fraud, financial malpractice or possible. other issues that could affect the financial statements of the Company. We have developed a central procurement toolkit containing key processes, template documents and checklists for procurement activity. It ensures that we are meeting our stated procurement objectives throughout the procurement process from initial recognition of customer needs through to post contract award, contract management and benefits reporting. We report activity and benefits to our business through a quarterly newsletter. During the coming year we plan to focus on:  Expanding the categories of commodity falling under group procurement arrangements to realise savings and quality products and services for our business and to support our customers  Negotiating the best deals for Ricoh using existing partners and customers where possible and appropriate which drive clear benefits for Ricoh employees and customers  Expanding our Affinity offering for our employees. 16 Environment 17 Environment Our goals and strategy in EMEA To become a trusted business partner for our customers is our first priority, supporting their growth and increasing efficiency while also reducing environmental impacts. To fulfil this commitment we have set midand long-term environmental impact reduction goals in three areas worldwide:  Energy conservation and prevention of global warming  Resource conservation and recycling  Pollution prevention All Ricoh operations play an important role to achieve the following targets: Ricoh Global Targets 2020 2050 Energy Conservation (from FY2000 level) 30% 87.5% Resource Conservation (from FY2007 25% 87.5% level) Minimise risks of chemical substances throughout the product life cycle by 2020 in compliance with Pollution Prevention (from FY2000 level)* 87.5% the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICM) * In March 2012, we revised the previous goal for pollution prevention, namely, “reducing the impact of chemical substances on the environment by 30% by 2020,” as we achieved this goal earlier than planned, mainly due to faster progress in reducing the use of lead and other substances having a relatively high environmental hazard level. Specifically, we have attained the targets of a 90% reduction (from the fiscal 2000 level) in environmental impact of chemical substances contained in products, as well as 78.5% and 94.8% reductions in PRTR-target substances used at and discharged from production sites, respectively. 18 Environment Ricoh Europe’s environmental management approach At Ricoh Europe all environmental activities fall into one of the two categories: 1. activities designed to reduce our customers‟ environmental impact through Total Green Office Solutions (TGOS), e.g. GreenLine resource re-circulation, Sustainability Optimisation Programme, Carbon Balanced Printing, i-Invoicing, etc. 2. activities designed to reduce our own environmental impact through Environmental Management System (EMS), e.g. Green Office Certification Programme, Environmental Sustainability Management Index, Cloud Computing, etc. At Ricoh we strongly believe that it is our responsibility to minimise the environmental impact from our own operations across Europe, and also to ensure that our products and services contribute to the reduction of the environmental impact by our customers throughout every phase of a product life cycle, i.e. Pre-use, Inuse, and Post-use. Working together with our customers we develop mutually sustainable business. Resource re-circulation Smart usage of precious resources is a key area new Ricoh products. GreenLine devices not only for every industry. One of Ricoh‟s answers to this extend the material‟s lifecycle, but also give a challenging issue is to offer resource re-circulation higher return on the energy initially spent on its products as highlighted in Ricoh‟s Comet CircleTM manufacture. They are an extremely effective concept (see Figure 1). The Comet CircleTM, form of environmental impact reduction. established in 1994 as a catalyst for change, shows how Ricoh reduces its environmental impact throughout the entire lifecycle of its products and services. It incorporates a cradle-tocradle approach to recycling. Ricoh believes that all product parts should be designed and manufactured in a way that they can be recycled or re-used. As a result, Ricoh established the GreenLine series as one of its “resource smart” offerings. Ricoh GreenLine fuser unit for MFP Ricoh GreenLine products feature as an industry best practice in the McKinsey report “Towards the circular economy. Economic and business rationale for an accelerated transition”. McKinsey, a global management consulting firm, has developed the fact base and analytics for the concept of a circular economy, the type of Ricoh products re-entering the market under a resource re-circulating economy that decouples GreenLine label are rigorously tested and updated sales revenues from new material input. to ensure that every GreenLine certified device delivers a reliable and efficient service that a To download the full report, visit customer would expect from a brand-new Ricoh www.thecirculareconomy.org device. GreenLine products are 100% revitalised, they have the same high quality and durability as 19 Environment Resource Smart Return Programme Offering our customers a smart and easy-to-use reviewed platform that combines centrally and collection programme for our toners, cartridges locally managed reverse logistic programmes. and spare parts is a key element to achieve our The web portal is designed to offer the most resource re-circulation objectives and to support appropriate return label or alternative return the global pursuit to a Circular Economy. service for each specific request. Only an efficient collection and sorting programme for our products ensures our ability to recover our materials preferably for inner-loop re-use. At Ricoh we clearly recognise that “efficiency” in this perspective means that it is preferred to sort returns as close to the source (our customers) as possible. This avoids unnecessary CO2 emissions generated by avoidable reverse logistics and ensures that we comply with local recycling regulations. The challenge we face is to combine the wide variety of country specific legislation and collection methods into one uniform end-to-end programme. This requires a “think global, act local” approach. Ricoh ensures that all materials that are returned via this programme will be treated according to The Ricoh Resource Smart Return Programme our zero-waste-to-landfill policy, and our efforts meets this requirement. This web portal provides aim to go beyond this elementary goal. a customer convenient user-interface where Continuous feasibility studies to recover our customers in most European countries have the products for inner-loop re-use are evolving. ability to request a non-warranty return service. The return service portfolio can be adapted to For our Resource Smart Return Programme, visit meet customer needs. www.ricoh-return.com The back-office is a smart and constantly Fig.1 The Comet CircleTM 20 Environment Sustainability Optimisation Programme Many organisations place the reduction of stages (see Fig. 3). First, Ricoh analyses a environmental impacts high on their business business‟s existing document workflows and fleet, agenda. The Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation to understand the baseline TCO and CO 2 Programme is designed to help businesses in energy consumption. Second, a plan is designed their efforts to reduce environmental impact and to reduce TCO and CO2 emissions from paper improve the efficiency of their document and energy consumption, setting clear objectives workflows by offering a „zero carbon footprint‟ in including optimising the fleet, workflows and endprinting, while at the same time reducing Total user behaviour. Third, the plan is implemented, Cost of Ownership (TCO). devices with Eco Mode energy-saving settings installed, workflows optimised, and end users The largest share of environmental impact of educated to enhance their environmental printing is when machines are being used by awareness and to understand how to use the customers, accounting for 62% of the total life devices in the most sustainable way. The fourth cycle impact. Ricoh Sustainability Optimisation stage of the programme involves continuous Programme focuses on the „in use‟ phase where tracking of actual carbon emissions versus goals normally product manufacturers have limited set in the second step. By analysing this data control (see Fig. 2). Ricoh can identify how each printing device is being used and implement improvements to drive Material, parts further reductions in carbon emissions. The final manufacturing step is to neutralise the remaining unavoidable Pre carbon emissions that businesses can offset Production use through carbon credits generated by Clean Transportation Development Mechanism under Kyoto Protocol projects in which Ricoh has invested. On average, Marketing, sales Maintenance reductions of TCO by 23% and CO2 by 36% are In Paper, electricity achieved through this programme. use maintenance Paper Energy The Sustainability Optimisation Programme has Post Recycling use won several prestigious awards and has also renewed its accreditation by the British Standards Fig.2 Impact per life cycle phase Institution (BSI). The Sustainability Optimisation Programme is a continuous improvement cycle consisting of five Fig.3 Five-step process to reduce impact „in-use‟ phase 21 Environment Total Green Production Printing Since launching the Carbon Balanced Printing In addition to the Carbon Calculator, we have Programme early last year, Ricoh has continued also added a Digital or Offset Calculator. This to introduce new initiatives with a common goal new tool, free and exclusive to all members of to improve the sustainability of our customers‟ the Ricoh Business Driver Programme identifies print services by enabling them to offer carbon which print production process is most neutral printing and reduce their impact on the appropriate for a particular job. Using the Digital environment. or Offset Calculator, printers can ensure that Through increased knowledge and an improved their offset and digital presses are used in the sustainable print offering, we enable our optimal and most profitable way. It helps develop customers to gain a competitive advantage and and validate on demand digital printing against give them the confidence to provide expert offset press. It also helps the customer optimise advice to their clients about making sustainable run lengths and reduce print inventory and waste. print choices. We are also providing the Ricoh Resource Smart We are constantly enhancing our offering to print Return Programme to production printing clients service providers and have now created a suite across Europe, extending the services of tools and services available under the “Total previously available for our office based clients. Green Production Printing” banner. The programme is commencing initially with the The Carbon Balanced Printing Programme which recovery and recycling of the Ricoh Pro C series is still core to this offering helps print service toner bottles, which will be collected, cleaned providers reduce the environmental impact of and refilled to go back into the supply chain. printing using Ricoh Pro™ production printing The Ricoh-returns online portal has been set up systems and provides a carbon neutral service to and will allow customers to request their toner their clients. It follows a three step process, bottle return box and arrange courier collection, enabling print service providers to: free of charge. 1. analyse the carbon footprint of each print job 2. optimise it by improving the way they work During customer consultations, we also provide a 3. neutralise the remaining, unavoidable “Certified Print Provider Optimisation Guide”. It emissions through carbon credits. offers a structured way to introduce key improvements in printing processes, and reduce It also includes an online Carbon Calculator for overall environmental impact and CO2 emissions. customers to use on Ricoh‟s Business Driver Programme™ portal. The Ricoh Business Driver Programme is an online source of practical information and tools on production printing, and is designed exclusively for Ricoh production printing customers to help make their business more successful. A wide range of business development services and informative materials are available to help boost production printing business and efficiency. In addition, it provides a unique set of tools to help production printing customers manage and minimise their environmental impacts. Certified Ricoh Carbon Balanced Printing customers can use the Carbon Calculator to determine the carbon generated per print job, optimise new print requests, reduce CO2 emissions of individual print jobs and also generate a certificate for their client to confirm that printed jobs are carbon balanced through the Ricoh programme. 22 Environment Ricoh’s cloud computing Case Study: Sustainable print Cloud Computing is universally considered one of solution drives efficiency the biggest enablers of business growth in Europe today. So much so that Neelie Kroes, Vicesavings President of the European Commission, who is responsible for the Digital Agenda for Europe, Nextprint, a commercial print and communications said that she wanted Europe to be „cloud active‟ company based in Rosmalen, The Netherlands, rather than simply „cloud friendly‟. offers its clients a range of carbon neutral print services. The company uses advanced, energy Ricoh Europe began its cloud journey in 2011. efficient technology supplied by Ricoh and is a Our vision was to create a single pan-European certified „Ricoh Carbon Balanced Printer‟. environment to manage all our information Efficiency savings are shared with clients, helping securely, while also enabling our employees to Nextprint win new business. access enterprise applications securely from anywhere across the region. Our aim was to Responding to an increased demand for short run centralise our IT infrastructure and to reduce colour, Nextprint decided to invest in a digital duplication of data through the provision of a more printing system. The team conducted a detailed efficient IT and business process environment. study, which considered the productivity of Furthermore, at its heart was our drive to competing systems on the market. The study took contribute towards the company‟s sustainability into account downtime related to maintenance goals of reducing its carbon emissions by 87.5 per and replenishment, as well as outright production cent by 2050 compared with 2000 levels. speeds. The weighted „real productivity‟ of each machine was calculated, and Ricoh‟s Pro™ C901 Graphic Arts Edition production printer was the clear winner. The Ricoh press has a fast throughput speed, large paper capacity, uses high yield consumables and has a long service interval. Productivity is supported by Ricoh using its @Remote service management utility. As part of its Carbon Balanced Production Printing Programme, Ricoh analysed Nextprint‟s CO2 emissions and helped implement improvements to reduce emissions from Nextprint production process. Energy hungry servers were, for example, replaced, paper from sustainable sources introduced and toner cartridges recycled. The remaining unavoidable CO2 emissions The success of Ricoh‟s Private Cloud in Europe were offset with Certified Emission Reductions saw it win two Oracle Excellence Awards in 2012, (CERs). the Eco-Enterprise Innovation Award with recognition also given to business partner Infosys, As a participant in Ricoh‟s Carbon Balanced and the 2012 Chief Sustainability Officer Award, Printing Programme, Nextprint is now presented to Ian Winham, CIO and CFO at Ricoh differentiating itself as an environmentally Europe. Both awards recognise the efficient and responsible business. sustainable way we have built a new IT infrastructure to support our operations in EMEA. Our new ERP Platform and Private Cloud implementation resulted in the removal of approximately 1,600 servers, and a related 85% reduction in our carbon footprint and energy consumption equivalent to taking 3,500 cars off the road each year. 23 Environment Green Office Certification Environmental Sustainability Programme Management Index To support our environmental reduction activities As part of our internal Environmental at Ricoh, we developed an internal Green Management, we are certified to ISO14001, Certification Project in 2009. We award a “Green comply with legal requirements (RoSH, REACH, Office Certificate” to our Operating Companies WEEE, etc) and measure our own environmental across EMEA when they improve document impact through our unique Environmental workflow efficiency, through good print Accounting System and Self-Sustainability management. To date, 85% of all operating Assessment Programme. companies and two Head Office locations have been certified. In 2013, we began the reIn order to promote activities to reduce certification of all current certificates with environmental impact internally, Ricoh senior increased criteria. This programme will be management can gain a full understanding of our implemented over the next 3 years. focus areas and the current level of environmental management and create new plans for continuous Our sites in Europe followed the methodology of improvement. To provide detailed insights, we the Sustainability Optimisation Programme. Each have developed our own internal index scheme, site was independently audited by Ricoh Europe Environmental Sustainability Management Index to assess the changes made, evaluate the (ESMI) that has been deployed across our benefits and share best practice. Operating Companies in EMEA as well as Head In addition to overall improvements in document Office locations. ESMI consists of the following workflow efficiency and security, optimisation at eight key criteria: these sites means that each month in Europe, Ricoh is on average:  Sustainability Management Leadership  Using 54% less electricity  Environmental Communication  Emitting 35% fewer carbon emissions  Resource Recovery and Recycling  Printing more than a million fewer pages  CO2 Reduction and Eco Mode of the device  Using 37% less paper  Sustainability Optimisation / TGOS  Saving 27% in energy and paper costs  Biodiversity and Pollution Prevention  Using 512 fewer print devices  Environmental Accounting  Printing duplex 32% more often  Training and Education  More secure, thanks to locked print solution  Using electronic document storage instead of All Operating Companies across EMEA as well as filing hard copies. all Head Office locations complete an annual index assessment, and areas for improvement are highlighted for the following year. This provides an objective view of „as is‟ status as well as give an opportunity to measure, benchmark and improve the environmental management level of each organisation. Fiscal year 2011 showed a 22% improvement over FY2010. i-Invoicing Ricoh Europe encourages businesses to switch from paper to electronic invoicing (e-invoicing). It is a sustainable option that can bring potential cost savings of €243 billion 1 for businesses and €40 billion2 for the public sector if the majority of paper invoices were replaced with electronic ones. Ricoh intelligent invoicing (i-Invoicing) is a Document Process Outsourcing service that allows customers to outsource the receipt and production of all invoices to Ricoh, allowing them . to focus on their core business. This leads to Example of Green Office Certificate 24 Environment productivity gains, enhanced customer experience the GreenLine remanufactured printer initiative and improved business performance. and Recycle through the refurbishment of parts and the recovery of consumables. Ricoh i-Invoicing takes e-invoicing a step further by providing customers with a complete service, We showcased some of our growing eco-based not just a software solution. By mapping technology including the Ricoh Pro L4000 which customer‟s current processes, developing a features next generation piezo-electric print heads transition plan and implementing a service and durable aqueous latex ink that ensures delivery platform, Ricoh steps in to completely minimal environmental impact. We also manage the invoicing process allowing showcased our Aficio™SG 3110DN GelSprinter businesses to make better use of their human fast-drying Liquid Gel™ printer that uses the latest resources. technology for sharp image quality. Customers do not need to invest in equipment to Ricoh‟s Print & Share Eco printer driver helps implement Ricoh i-Invoicing and can therefore reduce paper use, avoid waste and reduce CO2 avoid upfront technical costs and on-going service emissions with one click. It also helps to eliminate fees. unwanted prints, such as pages that contain only a URL, optimise line spacing, and to remove For details, visit unnecessary content such as email signatures or www.ricoh-europe.com/i-invoicing disclaimers, all with the purpose of condensing print to fewer sheets. The Print & Share Eco 1 The European Association of Corporate Treasurers printer driver is compatible with all Ricoh MFPs project CAST (Corporate Action on Standards) and printers. 2 E-Invoicing/E-Billing: The catalyst for AR/AP automation, Billentis, http://www.ricohRicoh's EcoPrint presence was carbon neutral, europe.com/services-solutions/documentoutsourcing/document-process-outsourcing/e-invoicingwith reductions made where possible, and any report/index.aspx carbon generated by travel from visitors that are registered with Ricoh were offset. EcoPrint 2012 Ricoh‟s portfolio of Eco solutions and services for improving the sustainability and printing of document workflows was showcased at EcoPrint Live 2012 in Berlin. Among the technologies and services highlighted were the Carbon Balanced Printing Programme, the GreenLine initiative, the Ricoh Pro™ L4000 large format printer and the Print & Share Eco printer driver. Ricoh at EcoPrint 2012 Ricoh stand at EcoPrint 2012 Visitors to Ricoh‟s stand learnt about our approach to Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. We are helping clients to Reduce by taking advantage of our Carbon Balanced Printing services to minimise carbon emissions, Reuse by embracing 25 People 27 People “Ricoh Europe’s human resources policies and practices reflect the principles of the Ricoh brand imagine.change. and its values which we “Ricoh Europe’s human resources policies and practices reflect The Ricoh communicate internally as the Ricoh Way. It includes our focus upon Way values of customer centricity, innovation, teamwork, ethics and customer centricity, integrity, and innovation, a “winning teamwork, spirit”. We ethics and embrace change integrity, offering and diversity, and a “winning We embrace spirit”.environment a challenging change where employees can beoffering and diversity, a challenging innovative, create value for our customers, environment have a sense where employees of achievement can collaborate, be and grow through innovative, create their work. Learning opportunities are only limited by people’s value for our customers, have a sense of achievement and grow through imagination. Ricoh’s their Academy work. Learning has been consistently opportunities recognised are only limited by by The Institute people’s of IT imagination. Training (IITT). ” Ricoh’s Academy has been consistently recognised by The Institute of IT Greg Holder, Vice President, HR Division Training (IITT).” Greg Holder, Vice President, HR Division Our Strategy Our employees make Ricoh a unique company. Ricoh views business, society and the planet as interconnected, and strives to be a company people are proud to work for, where innovation, teamwork and collaboration promote responsible growth. Ricoh’s vibrant culture provides the opportunity for us to build on our strengths, and continually develop skills to anticipate and provide for the changing needs of our customers. Ricoh employees are encouraged to achieve their full potential, and to have personal development plans that link directly to the organisation’s goals. Through an open culture which embraces diversity and encourages innovative thinking and sharing of ideas, our people are empowered to play their part in transforming Ricoh’s business, and the business transactions of our customers. “The Ricoh Way” provides a framework and principles to promote an inclusive work environment were everyone’s contribution is recognised and valued, and where employees feel supported, developed and motivated. This is Ricoh’s global philosophy and it includes our focus upon customer centricity, innovation, teamwork, ethics and integrity, and a “winning spirit”. Embracing difference enhances our capabilities to meet the needs of an increasingly diverse global environment. The elements of The Ricoh Way form the leitmotif of what we do. 28 People Promoting a holistic approach to learning and development As a truly international company,  develop new techniques, knowledge and Ricoh employees bring a diverse skills in their specialist field, and anticipate range of skills and experiences to trends in the broader environment provide the innovation and ideas to  undertake appropriate training and anticipate and deliver on customer developmental assignments to fulfil their requirements. To maintain our potential. strength and leadership, we offer our people a learning culture where Through the Ricoh Academy, we offer an they can access learning and integrated approach to learning and development, development opportunities to support their which includes online and classroom-based continued professional development. Training, training courses across the EMEA region. networking and various open forums encourage Electronic learning platforms allow employees to employees to share ideas openly and work work at their convenience to develop skills and collaboratively to drive change for the future. knowledge. These learning programmes can also Ricoh employees have access to multiple ways of help employees achieve internationally learning and development. By freeing employees recognised certifications through: to think creatively and making institutional wisdom  dedicated self-learning and online training more readily available, Ricoh promotes business packages for our technical specialists and transformation that is profound and lasting. service engineers to develop their knowledge Through our relationships with leading edge on the latest products, technology and thinkers and institutions and the power of software technology, Ricoh employees have a wealth of  delivery of focused online service and sales information to inform and stimulate innovation and skills interventions to develop product creativity in both work and personal lives. knowledge, interpersonal and other skills We recognise the importance of appropriate Online platforms and tools allow us to address a learning and development as a means of much larger audience with the most current improving employee contribution to Ricoh’s goals, information in a very short time in comparison to and we actively encourage continuous traditional classroom learning. A blended learning improvement and personal development of our approach reduces the need for travel and employees to help them achieve their immediate therefore the overall CO2 footprint. Our eLearning and longer-term career objectives. We support platforms are also available to Ricoh distributors employees to: and dealers to ensure that their service engineers  obtain appropriate professional qualifications can provide the same level of expertise as our and experience to enhance performance and own employees. grow in their current role, or for their further development 29 People Ricoh’s Learning and Development professionals have a broad range of external accreditation and qualifications to ensure that the highest standards of development and delivery are maintained. To keep pace with the opportunities provided by technological change and innovation, our Learning and Development professionals work closely with professional organisations to meet the changing needs and demands of our business, employees and customers. We have been working in partnership with the IITT in developing our standards and have accreditation, as well as other professional organisations to provide qualifications in services management, consulting, project management and change management. Ricoh Academy’s blended-learning approach, including online and classroom based training for our people and partners, has been recognised by the Institute of IT Training (IITT) as amongst the best in the industry. Engaging our employees through multiple channels A variety of communication activities help us to inform and engage with each other, and with our “Power to Perform” customers and communities. This includes Our “Power to Perform” programme sharing of ideas and innovation via many is being rolled out to all Ricoh channels including town hall meetings, face-toEurope employees across the face briefings, intranet updates and blogs, EMEA region. Based on the collaborative web portals such as the iEngage principles and values of The Ricoh platform, and social media such as Facebook and Way, the Power to Perform programme links the Twitter. As well as supporting organisational activities and behaviours required to drive Ricoh’s change programmes across the RE group, our vision, strategy and business goals. Through communications aim to increase engagement reviews and discussions with their managers, through greater communication and employees can plan for activities and continued understanding of our values, sharing of professional development through integrated information and ideas, and by recognising the learning and development programmes, work contribution employees make to our commercial assignments, and social activities. success. 30 People Embracing “The Ricoh Way” To be one global company, our approach customer centric focus, and Ricoh people embraces our people, our profession, our society, commit to the highest standards of ethics and and our planet. By dedicating a winning spirit, integrity. innovation and teamwork to sharpen our In addition to recognising the value of meaningful and independently. You can see the correlations work, Ricoh supports work-life balance and between Diversity Promotion and Work-Life community activities, providing opportunities for Balance Management in the illustration below. employees to pursue these through the company 31 People Attracting and Developing Talent established the European Employee Forum in Through acquisitions and other 1996 under the 1994 European Works Council strategic consolidations that Directive. This allows senior management to expand its business, the Ricoh share the plans for the future, and ensure our Group has become a corporate people understand Ricoh’s business strategy and group with 100,000 employees, with goals. It gives our employees an opportunity to over 16,000 in the Ricoh EMEA region. With the share their views and concerns through qualitative development of “one Ricoh”, and since October feedback directly to European senior 2011, through its global Ricoh Group Human management. This approach underpins our Resources Management Policy, the company has overall objective of being “an employer of choice” been implementing measures on a global basis to and to attract and retain talented and motivated provide opportunities for each Group employee to people. grow, particularly those with higher capabilities Employees are nominated or elected by their and motivation. In addition, a global business peers to become members of the local Employee leadership programme was initiated with the goal Forum or Works Council, based on local of defining a global pool of leaders, and a talent requirements, meeting a minimum of twice per and leadership development programme through year. In the majority of EU-based Operating the organisation. Priority themes for promoting the Companies, this provides a forum for dialogue management of global human resources are: 1) and consultation between senior management wide dissemination of The Ricoh Way, 2) training and employees. Employee representatives from for global top talent, 3) promotion of global each country are invited to sit on the European mobility, 4) visualisation of global human Employee Forum, which meets annually with resources, and 5) adoption of a global common senior management. As Ricoh Europe has system of personnel management. expanded, newly acquired companies have been invited to establish local arrangements – or To help promote and foster our business goals, continue with existing arrangements – and to also maintain our competitive edge and move join the European Employee Forum. progressive ideas forward, we are always looking Outputs of the employee forums are shared with for creative, innovative and talented people by employees through a range of communication providing opportunities for our employees to apply channels, including the Ricoh Europe intranet. for internally advertised roles through the panSenior management appreciates the opportunity European job posting process, and through the and the value of appropriate consultation, and the development of talent through country two-way dialogue is encouraged. As a result, apprenticeship programmes and graduate there are many examples where initial plans have schemes where available. As Ricoh drives been improved following employee feedback. business transformation, we will seek and develop people who are:  Driven by the desire to move ideas forward  Motivated by sharing ideas and knowledge Ricoh Code of Conduct  Optimistic when faced with new challenges The Ricoh Code of Conduct and opportunities provides basic standards to ensure  Creative when finding new solutions and that officers and employees of the ways to do business better company shall act in accordance  Mindful about the environment and adopt a with social ethics and in full socially responsible attitude compliance with the law when conducting business on behalf of Ricoh. It defines the behaviours, values and ethics required of all Ricoh employees in their day to day activities, and Ricoh Europe Employee Forum governs how we, as a business, manage our We promote an open dialogue with global activities in a sustainable and responsible our people, through forums like our manner, in accordance with the universal European Employee Forum and principles defined in the UN Global Compact. Employee Survey, and use this Respect for human rights on the basis of mutual input to actively engage our people understanding and inclusiveness is a foundational in continuously reviewing and improving our principle, and Ricoh will not tolerate any form of people management strategies and processes. To discrimination on the basis of race, religious faith, encourage an open dialogue with our employees gender, social position, citizenship, sickness, and their representatives, Ricoh Europe handicaps, nor any actions either of its employees 32 People within a company and we recognise that it is important to actively engage our people in these activities. Our employee survey includes topics such as leadership, communications, working conditions and personal development, focusing on what it feels like to work for Ricoh. The online questionnaires are distributed in 14 different languages to ensure everyone is able to participate in their native language. Rewards and Benefits We celebrate and reward successful employee contributions and results through competitive benefits and rewards programmes. Ricoh offers a competitive total compensation approach, including benefits that ensure the wellness of or suppliers that ignore human rights such as employees and their families, and create a discriminatory language, violence, sexual positive working environment. Whilst recognising harassment, power harassment, etc. country variations, Ricoh aims to provide for variable health coverage, gym/fitness centre Employees joining the company are introduced to memberships, volunteering leave, retirement the Code of Conduct through their induction. All savings and more. Total benefits packages employees are regularly reminded of its depend on position, location and years with the importance as a way of doing business through company. The range of benefits available the intranet and employee handbooks. To includes: reinforce Ricoh’s commitment to ethical business  Company-sponsored health insurance and employment activity, a question is included in  Life and accident insurance the Employee Survey to check that people  Long-term illness protection understand how the Code of Conduct applies to  Retirement savings plan with a company their job. Any infringement of the Code of Conduct contribution is dealt with through our disciplinary process, in  Product discounts line with local legislation.  Gym / fitness centre discounts  Transportation allowance/discount Ricoh employees can feel proud of their work in this regard, as for the fifth year in a row, Ricoh has been honoured for promoting high ethical standards by Ethisphere, a leading international Health and Safety organisation dedicated to the creation, We promote and manage a healthy and safe advancement and sharing of best practices in working environment for employees. We offer business ethics, governance, anti-corruption and employee-benefit plans, sponsorship for gym sustainability. memberships, wellness programmes, and life/work flexibility, according to local country practices. We provide health and safety training to employees based on the type of job they do Employee Engagement and the level of risk associated with their job Research shows that employees can be satisfied function. without being engaged. The term “satisfaction” implies a level of contentment with the current situation; a passive state. The term “engagement” If you would like more information about working implies active involvement. Employees who are at Ricoh, please visit: http://www.ricoh“engaged” with the organisation will actively europe.com/about-ricoh/ricohcontribute new ideas, innovative ways of working overview/careers/ and drive the business forward. They want to learn and improve; both themselves and their surroundings. At Ricoh we are focused on generating a culture of continuous improvement 33 Society 35 Society Our Strategy contributing to solving social challenges Our society faces an increasing number of challenges on a global scale that are diverse in nature, across various aspects of society, the economy and the global environment. These issues are too intertwined by multiple factors to be addressed by the public sector alone, including national governments, international organisations and the social sector. Against this background, expectations are rising for private companies that possess a wide range of global resources to contribute to solving these complicated social concerns. The Ricoh Group works to meet these social challenges, clarifying its stance under two principles: “contribution to resolution of social issues through business activities” and “commitment to and responsibility for social contribution”. The contribution to resolution of social issues through business activities constitutes a pillar of our “valuecreating CSR”, a concept promoted as our growth strategy aimed at simultaneously achieving both social contribution and corporate growth. More specifically, we intend to accurately understand factors involving global issues, and identify new business opportunities for providing effective solutions. We are utilising our technology, products, services and other resources as well as organising cooperation with related parties. With these efforts, we expect to tap into new markets, find new customers and drive innovation that can resolve or alleviate global concerns as part of our ongoing and future business activities. We place importance on commitment to and responsibility for social contribution. This represents our firm determination that we will continue social contribution activities in a steady responsible manner, within or outside of our business functions. These activities include initiatives led by the Group and its employees as well as support to social non-profit organisations. To facilitate these efforts, we encourage our employees to volunteer to raise awareness and sensitivity toward social issues, thereby fostering a corporate culture that can contribute to solving social challenges. Global Policy for Social companies globally have a more consistent Contribution Activities approach to CSR activities, focusing more The Ricoh Group has set fundamental principles towards our business activities and less to on social contribution by which all Ricoh unfocused areas of interest. companies around the world abide. We believe The Ricoh Group, mindful of its responsibility as a that by conducting social contribution activities corporate citizen, respects the cultures and based on a common concept, we can maximise customs of all countries and regions, joining in the effects of our contributions toward solving active partnership with like-minded people and social challenges. The Global Policy for Social inspiring employees to contribute to the Contribution Activities ensures that all Ricoh development of a sustainable society and planet. 36 Society Reflecting a deep understanding of social issues priority areas: Raising the Next Generation, in various parts of the world, Ricoh companies Community Development and Global carry out social activities focusing on the following Environmental Conservation. Employee involvement Global Eco Action Month 2012 Ricoh takes a proactive approach to encouraging For the eighth time Ricoh supported the annual its employees to become involved in the United Nations World community. As a result, Ricoh Operating Environment Day to raise Companies and Head Offices are engaged in awareness of its local projects that allow employees to use their commitment to reducing skills to make a noticeable difference in the local its environmental impacts area. By involving our people we are also and to encourage positive increasing employee engagement and team change behaviour among working. We have worked for a number of years employees, suppliers, and with local and national partners across Europe on customers. Global Eco projects that benefit the local community. We Action Month activities encourage our people to use their skills, energy planned around Europe throughout June focused and ideas to make an active contribution to upon conserving natural resources, reducing CO2 society through these projects and activities. emissions, supporting biodiversity, and While we also provide funding for many encouraging behavioural change. Ricoh also community projects, we recognise that the celebrated the first birthday of its European Ecoinvolvement and engagement of our people has a Board. The eco-board is located on the M4 far greater impact on the local community than motorway which runs from London to Heathrow financial contribution alone. 37 Society airport. It is powered by 96 solar panels and 5 introduced in the canteen. An “Eco Drive” individual wind turbines and forms a key part of manual was produced to promote efficient Ricoh‟s overall commitment to raising driving to save fuel, money and minimise environmental awareness in the region. Travellers impact on the environment. 39 employees across Europe journeying into the heart of London participated in the “Ricoh Italy Olympic will pass the eco-board which carries Ricoh‟s Games 2012” which were organised to Managed Document Services message – the encourage people to cycle or walk to work. company‟s sustainable approach to streamlining business processes and document workflows. Its aim is to also remind passers by to act in a sustainable way and think beyond the obvious when it comes to protecting natural resources. Ricoh Italy Olympic Games 2012  Ricoh Belgium stopped the lifts and encouraged everyone to take the stairs on 5th June. Also a „tyre pressure‟ checking service was offered to the employees. In cooperation with Natuurpunt, a national nonprofit organisation, Ricoh volunteers created Ricoh eco board in London a bee hotel, a flower field and a butterfly Global Eco Action Month activities fully align with garden in the Millennium Park located next Ricoh‟s environmental commitment to reduce CO2 to the office in Vilvoorde. emissions by 1% per employee per year. All Ricoh companies across Europe organised their own environmental initiatives designed to save energy and promote environmental awareness among employees and their families, such as switching off the lights, lifts, air-conditioning, biodiversity volunteering, etc. Some examples of Global Eco Action Month activities include:  Ricoh‟s neon billboards in Brussels, Barcelona, Warsaw and Vienna were switched off for the day of 5th June.  Ricoh Europe Supply Chain in the The newly created bee hotel in the Millenniumpark Netherlands organised a bike to work campaign, and in cooperation with “Green  In Germany, various environmental activities Garage” tyres of all vehicles on Ricoh took place, e.g. free bicycle safety check up, premises in Schiphol-Rijk and Bergen op a three-month “cycle to work” campaign Zoom were checked. during which 70 employees cycled to work  Ricoh Russia increased its air-con every day, etc. temperature during summer months to 25C  Ricoh Norway held an Eco Quiz every in order to use less energy and minimise Friday during the month of June in order to CO2 emissions. Keeping the inside increase awareness about environmental temperature closer to the outside issues among its employees. temperature requires less energy from the  Ricoh Europe organised a visit to the local air handling units. recycling facility that treats all waste from the  Ricoh Italy carried out “Km 0 Day” campaign London office during which employees learnt during which a special menu including only how to best manage waste both in the office seasonal products from local suppliers was 38 Society and at home. Also a Team Day was were donated and reprographic centres were set organised when 28 volunteers worked up to help schools deal with the shortage of together to help regenerate a community educational materials. To create local employment playground in East London. Some of the opportunities, in 2007 a service company was set activities included: gardening, painting up with support of Ricoh Netherlands, which benches, assembling bird boxes. became an official Ricoh distributor in 2012. Gardening in the community playground Mohammed Wasseli, Ricoh employee in a school in Kabul  Ricoh France organised a collection of electric, electronic or household waste as well as a collection of glasses, bottle caps Educational project, Ricoh and cork for various charities. Also organic Switzerland products from the local farm were sold to Since 2010, Ricoh has supported YES, Young increase awareness among the employees. Enterprise Switzerland, a non-profit organisation During “Clean the Forest” activity twelve that develops economic education programmes Ricoh volunteers collected 550kg of litter for students with the aim to connect the economy from the Forest of Verrières. with schools. Ricoh employees volunteer at schools to teach children about the community and economy. Once a year YES students from all over Switzerland spend one day working at Ricoh headquarters and meet the Management Board. Ricoh France “Clean the Forest” activity Some of other projects carried out across the EMEA region include: Annual “Management meets future generation” event Copiers for Kabul, Ricoh Solidarity month, Ricoh Spain Netherlands At the end of 2012, Ricoh Spain organised a Over ten years ago, Ricoh started supporting Solidarity Month and held a number of activities in educational bodies in Kabul by donating copiers support of a charity project selected by employees, and printers to schools and Ministry of Education. “Social Aid Kit” by Red Cross, which focuses on This project was initiated by Ricoh employee, family nutrition and baby needs. Activities Mohammed Wasseli, who moved from included a solidarity race, food and toy collection, Afghanistan in 1993 and wanted to help his waretc. In total, over €16,000 was raised for charity torn hometown. A few hundred Ricoh machines 39 Society which helped the affected population in Krymsk, Gelendzhik and Novorossiysk. Social Day, Ricoh Germany Over 100 employees from Ricoh offices across Germany participated in “Social Day”, volunteering for various charities in support of the local community and environment. Biodiversity Team Day, Ricoh Hungary 53 volunteers from Ricoh Hungary participated in Solidarity race in Spain the cleaning of Geyser Cones of Tihany, removing overgrown plants from rocks preserving these Supporting orphans, Netherlands unique geological sites. Ricoh companies in the Netherlands organised a collection of clothes and mobile phones in support of SOSA Foundation (Support Orphans in Southern Africa) which helps orphaned children affected by HIV virus / AIDS. SOSA was established by a Ricoh employee, JP Skinner, and provides food, care, education and demand-driven assistance such as psychiatric consultation. In total, 2,995kg of clothes and mobiles were collected. Preserving Hungarian geyser cones Tree planting, Ricoh UK Over the course of two days, 71 Ricoh employees planted nearly 2,000 trees on land owned by the Marston Vale trust in order to create new green spaces for people and wildlife in Bedfordshire, turning the land back into its natural habitat to help increase biodiversity within the local area. Pick-up of collected clothes from Ricoh Netherlands in Den Bosch Supporting children, Ricoh Sweden Ricoh Sweden raised funds for the Children Cancer Association through various fundraising activities, e.g. handball matches, “Spin of Hope” cycling event in which 37 employees in four offices participated cycling for 53 hours. Support for the Krasnodar Planting trees Region Flood, Ricoh Russia Following the flash floods flood which devastated Krasnodar region of Russia in July 2012, Ricoh To find out more about our social actions globally, Russia donated over 50 printers, MFPs and digital please visit: duplicators to support the charity organisations www.ricoh.com/csr/activity/soc_harmony/inde x.html 40 Results Summary 41 Results Summary Key Sustainability Indicators The following results are the key indicators used by Ricoh Europe to measure the progress of our sustainability strategies and the initiatives described in this report. Integrity in Corporate Activities 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 GRI Turnover (€ Billion) 3.5 3.3 3.4 3.5 3.6 3.7 EC1 Committed customers 47% 51%* 56%** 45% -*** PR5 Customers who would repurchase -*** 59% 62%* 67%** 68% PR5 from Ricoh Customers who would recommend -*** 62% 61%* 68%** 67% PR5 Ricoh Overall customer satisfaction (TRIM -*** 60 61 68 68 PR5 Index) **** * The study included 9 countries ** The study included 10 countries *** As a result of strategic business transformation projects, which are aimed at adapting Ricoh for the future, it was decided not to conduct a pan-European customer survey. However, specialist and local surveys are ongoing in order to assess our developing relationships with our customers. An example being a survey in the UK, France and Germany, conducted by IPSOS, focusing on specific segments of the market. These will continue in order to provide Ricoh customer insight in the most efficient and effective manner. **** TRIM Index is a composite measure of: 1. customers’ intention to repurchase, 2. customers’ recommendation, 3. customers’ competitive advantage in using Ricoh’s products and services, 4. customers’ overall rating of Ricoh’s products and services. Harmony with the Environment 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 GRI Total recycled & reused items (parts 210,427 228,692 247,576 297,049 410,148 302.539 EN26 + toners) Paper used at RE offices (Reams) 137,340 161,578* 147,005 147,087 181,824 131,749 EN1 General waste (tons) 1,247 1,288* 1,291 953 1,748 965 EN22 Toner cartridge – recycling ratio 94.0% 94.3% 95.26% 95.02% 96.3% 97.38% EN2 Copiers / MFPs – recycling ratio 97.0% 97.8% 93.53% 97.64% 93.68% 96.11% EN2 Total CO2 emissions (tons) 56,530 63,819* 53,423 57,503* 61,190* 59,901* EN16 Year on year reduction of CO2 (tons) 2,939 -7,289 10,396 -4,080 -3,687 1,289 EN18 * 2008 figures have been updated following the integration of Infotec * 2010 figure has increased due to Ricoh acquisitions *2011: our global CO2 reduction of 1% per FTE achieved *2012: our global CO2 reduction of 1% per FTE achieved Respect for People 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 GRI Employees satisfied working for 70% 68% 67% -* ** Ricoh Employee resignations 12% 2% 6% 8% 6% 7% LA2 Staff receiving appraisal 91% 56% 64% 90% 81% 85% LA12 Training days per FTE 4.4 3.6 2.8 3.4 2.6 2.8 LA10 Accident rate 1.0% 1.4% 1.3% 1.08% 1.3% LA7 Registered LMS users (direct) 4,614 5,259 5,889 6,338 11,014*** 15,815 LA11 * Delayed ** Ricoh Company Ltd is developing a global employee engagement survey that will be published in the future *** Numbers reported for 2010 and before relate to technical training database only. 2011 numbers show all Learning Management System users. Harmony with Society 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 GRI Number of employees involved in 1,660 2,861 3,478 3,887 3,626 community volunteering Total volunteer hours spent in the 6,702 9,983 10,591 13,354 11,942 EC8 community (during working hours) Total charitable donations €424,715 €683,737 €590,591 €1,053,401 €470,494 EC8 42 Results Summary GRI Assessment This report has been self-assessed by Ricoh Europe’s CSR Steering Committee and meets the “GRI B” criteria, as it includes more than 20 relevant indicators. Full details of this assessment are available in the CSR section on our website, www.ricoh-europe.com/about-ricoh/our-principles/csr/sustainability-reporting/ Level C Level B Level A Self-Declared Yes Third Party Checked No GRI Checked No About Our Brand Every day, all over the world, Ricoh helps people harness the power of collective imagination to enjoy a more productive, fulfilling and sustainable quality of life. We are always moving forward with new ideas and new ways of improving lives. Change is driven by imaginative thinking. That is the proposition of the Ricoh brand. For those who want to transform their business and leverage the collective knowledge and imagination of their people, the solution is as simple as imagine.change. These two words describe the way we work with each other, the way we bring value to our customers’ businesses, the way we interact with the market. They express our belief in the creative potential of individuals and organisations, our emphasis on forward thinking and positive results. It is more than just a new tagline. It’s the essence of the Ricoh brand experience. www.ricoh-europe.com Feedback If you have any comments or questions about this report, please contact Ricoh Europe’s CSR Division at csr@ricoh-europe.com About Ricoh Ricoh is a global technology company specialising in office imaging equipment, production print solutions, document management systems and IT services. Headquartered in Tokyo, Ricoh Group operates in about 200 countries and regions. In the financial year ending March 2013, Ricoh Group had worldwide sales of 1,924 billion yen (approx. 20 billion USD). The majority of the company's revenue comes from products, solutions and services that improve the interaction between people and information. Ricoh also produces award-winning digital cameras and specialised industrial products. It is known for the quality of its technology, the exceptional standard of its customer service and sustainability initiatives. Under its corporate tagline, imagine.change. Ricoh helps companies transform the way they work and harness the collective imagination of their employees. For further information visit www.ricoh-europe.com www.facebook.com/ricoheurope www.twitter.com/ricoheurope www.youtube.com/ricoheurope 43 Corporate Social Responsibility Division Ricoh Europe PLC 20 Triton Street London, NW1 3BF United Kingdom csr@ricoh-europe.com www.ricoh-europe.com
