ÖSSUR HF. Corporate Social Responsibility Progress Report 2012 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT & CEO We at Össur are extremely proud of being in a position our employees to take social, ethical and environmental to help change the lives of our customers. Our products challenges beyond our legal obligations. are the single largest contribution we can make to assist people in need. In fact, our employees are reminded We at Össur believe that by integrating the aspects and every day of the courageous and inspirational people ideology behind CSR into our day-to-day business we are that make our jobs look easy. What drives our design creating a stronger foundation for our Company and for and innovations is that our products help people future growth. We believe this will help us to be better overcome hurdles in their everyday lives. prepared to make the right decisions and take on future challenges, and will help us not to lose sight of what we This is our first progress report on the Company’s stand for. We are excited to continue building on our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We are excited commitment to CSR and look forward to sharing our to make social responsibility a part of our day-to-day experiences, goals and progress in the years to come. business activities. We started to work on CSR plans in 2008 and have since gradually built awareness among Jon Sigurðsson our employees and initiated projects to support our Össur President and CEO CSR goals. In December 2011 we joined the UN Global Jon Sigurðsson Compact initiative, committing to the 10 principles in Össur President and CEO the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. It was a natural step for Össur to join the initiative. As a global Company, it’s important for us to work on these matters in a structured way and report on them in a recognized manner. Össur has strong core values: honesty, frugality and courage. These values serve as the foundation for Össur’s success and will continue to guide us on our journey. In addition, our values help us adapt to the various cultures with which we interact. Operating in 13 countries it is important for us to respect and learn from each other, as only together as a team will our company remain successful. Through our values we ask csr report 12 2 Össur strives to be responsible for its impact on society and the environment. 3 csr report 12 About össur Össur is a global leader in the non-invasive orthopaedics The Company was founded in 1971 as a prosthetic market. The Company focuses on improving people’s clinic and has since then grown through innovation and Össur’s three business segments mobility. Össur delivers advanced and innovative acquisitions in both prosthetics and bracing and supports. Bracing and supports solutions within the fields of bracing and supports, Today Össur has a strong position in the industry and in Bracing and supports products are used primarily prosthetics and compression therapy. key markets and is in a good position to leverage on future to support joints and other body parts, both for growth opportunities. therapeutic and preventive purposes. Össur is known as a technical leader in the field of prosthetics and is one of the leading companies in bracing Össur has been a listed company since 1999 and on Prosthetics and supports. The compression therapy products are only NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen since 2009. The Company has Prosthetic products include artificial limbs and related sold in France. operations in 13 countries and 1850 employees. products for individuals who were born without limbs or have had limbs amputated. Compression therapy Compression therapy is a preferred treatment for venous ulcers and edema. Össur is headquartered in Reykjavik, Iceland. The BY GEOGRAPHY BY SEGMENT Company’s sales are diversified by segments and 52% Americas 52% Bracing and supports geography. Sales in 2012 amounted to USD 399 million 43% EMEA 43% Compression therapy and were split as follows: 5% Asia 5% Prosthetics csr report 12 4 5 csr report 12 mISSION VALUES The Company’s core values ensure successful At Össur, a passionate commitment to innovation and quality cooperation and partnerships, and are the has been driving successful customer and business outcomes for foundation for our strategy and success. decades. HONESTY Our mission is we improve people's mobility We show respect by adhering to facts and reality, fulfilling promises and claims, and admitting failures. We nurture honest communication throughout the Company by sharing information and respecting each other’s time and workload. VISION FRUGALITY We use resources wisely. The Company aims to minimize costs Össur's vision is to be a leading Company in the non-invasive across all areas of its business through effective communication, orthopaedics market. The Company focuses on improving preparedness, planning and optimized processes. people's mobility by successfully commercializing innovative technologies within the fields of bracing and supports, prosthetics COURAGE and compression therapy. We are open to change and constantly strive for improvement. We challenge unwritten rules, show initiative and take calculated risks, while at the same time, take responsibility for our ideas, decisions and actions. csr report 12 6 7 csr report 12 CSR AT ÖSSUR In 2011, Össur reached a milestone by formally to identify critical areas and aspects to work on, focus committing to the Global Compact making its principles has been on identifying promoters within the Company. a part of the Company’s strategy, culture and day-to-day Össur’s strategy, when it comes to CSR, is to make it operations. Therefore this is the first progress report on as natural and integrated part of day to day activities as the CSR activities Össur publishes and first separate possible and therefore the Company is in the process of report on CSR activities. identifying strong promoters and educating employees. Since 2008 Össur has been monitoring and focusing on The content of this report reflects the areas identified various aspects of CSR and reported on main projects as important for Össur to monitor. Össur has used and milestones every year in the Annual Report. In materials issued by the Global Compact to develop the 2012 Annual Report there is a chapter about CSR and structure strategies to work with CSR initiatives. activities, progress and key focus areas including key In addition Össur has used GRI indicators (Global measurements. Reporting Initiative) to measure status and performance as well as internal measurements. In the beginning Össur focused on two areas within CSR: environment and fair operating practices. Since The report is split into the four areas of concern within Össur committed to Global Compact the CSR activities Global Compact: Human Rights, Labor practices, have been expanded to other areas of the business, in Environment and Anti-corruption issues. line with the Global Compact principles. In addition csr report 12 8 9 csr report 12 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR PRACTICES THE WORK PLACE headcount by functions Össur consists of 1850 employees in 13 countries and five different functions. The functions are Corporate headcount fte Finance, Global Marketing, Manufacturing and Operations, Research and Development and Sales and Marketing. Responsibility for how the Company 787 769 656 634 manages its greatest resource, the employees, is extremely important and in this chapter two essential matters are of interest: safety and diversity. 133 124 86 82 gender ratio Corporate Manufacturing Research and Sales and 53% Finance and Operations Development Marketing 53% 47% 47% Female Female Male Male SAFE WORKPLACE At Össur, safety is the number one priority in the Incidents are defined as accidents where employees education workplace. Over the past few years, Össur has increased are injured. 8% 46% its focus on safety, and has shown great progress 8% 46% in minimizing incidents and, most importantly, One of the projects initiated in 2012 is to encourage University Degree University establishing a safety mindset within the company. employees to send in suggestions for improvements in Degree Vocational or the workplace. Every month, three employee suggestions Technical Training Vocational or Other Technical Training Several projects have been established to support safety are selected at each location and implemented. Other in the workplace and significant progress has been This initiative has been successful, and every month made, such as reducing the rate of safety incidents hundreds of suggestions are received and evaluated. 46% which have decreased from 91 in 2011 to 27 in 2012. This project is important to nourish the mindset within 46% the workplace, which is the premise for continued csr report 12 10 Helgi Gunnarsson Agnar Jon Gudnason Lesley C. Wales fixed the cables under the table, they were on the puts a tray under the vices to receive leaking Her idea was to put a power socket above floor and formed accidents for employees. threading oil that would otherwise spill on the floor. the packing table. measurements on safety success in safety matters. The goal of this project is to Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 Goal 2015 invest more in employee training and keep encouraging employees to suggest improvements. Labour practices Incident rate Internal KPI 27 17 At the same time as the Company wants to reduce Labour practices Incidents per 100 employees LA7 (GRI) 3,4 2,1 incidents, Össur realizes the importance of developing a management system that does not penalize the 58% 50% organization if an incident occurs. This helps to make Labour practices Incident Rate Improvement Internal KPI (improvement improvement sure injuries are reported. Therefore the KPI metric from 2011) in Iceland called “Incident Rate Improvement” was established Labour practices Incidents causing a lost day Internal KPI 12 0 rather than going by “Number of accident free days.” 11 csr report 12 DIVERSITY In a global company like Össur, employees interact with one out of five members is a woman or 20%. However, both employees and other stakeholders who come from candidates for the board that will be elected at the many different cultures and backgrounds. Therefore, Company’s 2013 Annual General Meeting suggest that diversity must be addressed. To build a strong and the split will be 40% women and 60% men. No woman successful team of employees in a global company is at an executive level and few are at a director’s level. diversity in its broadest sense is important. Össur’s challenge has been to attract and retain women in middle management positions. Different functions of the company require different kinds of skill sets on behalf of employees. No employee Össur wants to be an attractive workplace for both has the same capabilities and roles are influenced by the genders and to reach that goal the Company needs to individual person. For each and every employee to thrive create an environment where both men and women have and add value to the company it is essential for them to the ability to perform and contribute to the Company’s be assigned appropriately challenging tasks, and to be success. This is how Össur can build a strong group of trusted to take on responsibilities. talented employees that have the ability to grow and become the future leaders of the Company. To increase Encouragement of diversity in the workplace is beneficial the number of women, Össur will establish a woman’s because it helps in gaining diverse perspectives in leadership program in 2013. By committing to a policy which to base decisions, which in turn can lead to of equality in order to create a workplace where both better results. Össur does not have an equality policy as genders are expected to take on responsibilities, Össur requested by Icelandic law; however, developing such a believes it will increase the number of women working policy will be a focus in 2013. On the Board of directors for the Company. MEASUREMENTS FOR EQUALITY Aspect Measurement 2012 2013 equality Equality policy Not in place In place Audit on salaries for same equality Not started Finished in Iceland responsibility csr report 12 12 SUPPLY CHAIN Össur is constantly striving for increased efficiency in on components set forth in the Global Compact’s guide measurements. A table below shows the indicators manufacturing and operations (M&O). The Company’s on supply chain sustainability. Four main categories selected and the performance for 2012. M&O activities take place in five main locations: Mexico, identified are: Product, Service, Stability and Human Iceland, the US and two locations in France. In addition, Resources. The Össur-Asia M&O division consists of a team of 11 Össur has suppliers in Asia manufacturing bracing and people, two of which are located at Össur Headquarters supports products and is a co-owner of a manufacturing Since Össur started conducting supplier audits and and nine located in Asia. Össur’s initiatives in Asia are to facility in Thailand. began increasing engagement with its Asian suppliers, continue with regular audits. Annually, a large supplier both effectiveness and product quality has increased. audit is performed, involving both Össur employees and The manufacturing facility in Tijuana, Mexico, was Actions taken include education and implementation the supplier’s employees. In addition, a mid-year audit established in 2011. It’s focused on bracing and of processes, increased focus and control on forecasts, is performed. However this is not as comprehensive as supports products, previously manufactured in US and and a different approach to quality inspections. Already, the annual audit. Canada. Since its inception, Össur has been focused the Company has seen substantial improvements, on creating a state of the art manufacturing facility in such as faults or nonconformities are now discovered To follow up on the 2012 results for the GRI indicators Mexico with lean manufacturing processes. Other earlier in the process. This has resulted in reduced the following items have been added to the mid-year and bracing and supports products are manufactured at the costs for Össur, as quality inspection at the Company’s annual audits: Company’s facilities in France and Thailand, in addition warehouses is no longer needed. In addition, delivery 1. Incorporate review of human resource records on to suppliers in Asia. Manufacturing of prosthetic performance has improved significantly and cooperation working hours, hazardous environment and training and products takes place mainly in Iceland, however a small with the suppliers is on a different level. written health and safety guidelines to annual and midamount of products are manufactured in Michigan, year audits. USA. About 25% of manufacturing is outsourced to Asia. There are total of 11 suppliers located in Asia that make 2. Incorporate audit on workers age and workers prespecially designed bracing and supports products for requirements to prove age of employees. SUPPLIERS OF BRACING AND SUPPORTS Össur. In 2012, Össur started to use the GRI (Global 3. Össur-Asia M&O employees have to undergo training PRODUCTS Reporting Initiative) to help employees to select relevant on labor and safety laws, etc. Össur has outsourced part of its manufacturing to Suppliers in Asia Asia since 2005. During this time, Össur has focused on ethics to establish and maintain good relationships Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 Goal 2015 with its partners. Össur and its suppliers are instructed to follow a specific code of conduct, and all contracts Number of agreement with Asian Investment and suppliers that include clauseson human HR1 (GRI) 81% 95% with suppliers include clauses on human rights, hours Procurement Practises rights concerns of work, compensation and health and safety. Since 2009, Össur has performed supplier’s evaluation and Number of suppliers audited regarding Child Labour HR6 (GRI) 91% 95% child labor audits on its partners in Asia to further engage with the suppliers and to identify opportunities for improvement. Number of suppliers audited for human Assessment HR10 (GRI) 91% 95% The critical categories for the audits were selected based rights 13 csr report 12 ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY QUALITY ENVIRONMENT Össur is a source of innovative, high-quality, noninvasive The Company’s environmental policy was developed in the table are not derived from GRI, but have been orthopaedic products and services. Quality is extremely in the beginning of 2012. In order to achieve the identified as KPI for Össur and are being monitored on important and that applies to all parts of the Company’s Company’s goals it was decided to implement the a regular basis. value chain. A certified quality management system ISO14001 environmental management system. Össur’s has been in place since 1993 and is based upon ISO first location in Reykjavik became certified according management standards. Össur is currently certified to ISO14001 in May 2012, and since then the office with ISO9001:2000, ISO13485:2008 and most recently in Uppsala, Sweden, has been certified. A total of 10 ISO14001. Products sold in Europe are CE-marked as locations are included in the current implementation they meet the requirements of the European Economic plan, and it’s expected that by the end of 2013 all will Area. In the United States, the Company’s products have been certified. With certification of the Reykjavik Quality policy adhere to FDA standards. In 2012, the British Standards location, a large part of the company has been certified Institution (BSI) conducted 12 external audits, all of as a great share of the Companies’ production takes Össur strives to provide products which concluded with positive results. place in that location. and services to exceed customers’ expectations. An effective quality management system and employees The implementation of ISO14001 affects the whole that are focused on continued improvements are the company and the key focus areas are: Strongly focused on biggest contributors when it comes to product quality. • Avoid waste in operations. continuous improvement, we • Prevent pollution by avoiding, reducing or monitor and respond to needs, Össur’s efforts in terms of quality management are controlling pollutant or waste. complying with all regulatory noticed and valued by the Company’s customers. • Take environmental issues into account when requirements. According to the most recent customer survey, 97.4% selecting materials and suppliers. of the customers either agree or strongly agree that the Company’s products are of good quality. • Focus on continuous improvements via annual environmental objectives. Össur holds certificates for the Various measurements have been established to following ISO standards: monitor the progress and to support the Company • ISO13485 in being accountable for the impact it has on the • ISO90001 environment. Some of them have a direct reference to • ISO14001 GRI measurements. Other measurements included csr report 12 14 15 annual report 12 On a global level, the goal for the next two years is to successfully implement the ISO14001 environmental management system. The two locations that already have implemented the system have established goals for their locations. The goals take into account the factors that have the greatest impact on the location in question. For Iceland the goal is to increase the amount of waste that is recyclable on the cost of waste that is considered trash. In Uppsala where no production takes place the company has more impact on the environment with the cars operated. Therefore the goal for that location is to increase the usage of diesel oil instead of gasoline for company cars. Environmental policy measurements on environment Össur’s goal is to be accountable for the Aspect Measurement Indicator 2012 Goal 2015 Company’s impact on the environment. Total weight of waste by type and disposal EN22 (GRI) method • Össur is committed to working in Environment Increased accordance with relevant laws, regulations • Recycled waste 36% • Trash 47% portion of and other requirements. recyclable • Hazardous waste 16% • Össur strives to preserve the environment waste and prevent pollution. Environment Total number and volume of significant spills EN23 (GRI) 0 0 • Össur emphasizes continuous improvements focusing on environmental impact. • Össur recognizes that its operations impact Environment Progress in the implementation of ISO14001 Internal KPI 20% 100% the environment in a number of ways. annual report 12 16 17 annual report 12 ANTI CORRUPTION CODE OF CONDUCT Whistleblowing scheme Össur’s values—Honesty, Frugality, and Courage—are The Company also performs audits on a regular basis The Company provides employees with ways of reporting a foundation of the Company’s corporate culture. The to make sure that manufacturers honor the Code of conduct that they reasonably believe violates applicable values are guidelines for how employees should behave. Conduct. laws, regulations or the Company‘s policies. The These values are considered when hiring, enabling Össur Company treats all reports as confidential and any issue to build a company with employees who are responsible Össur does not have an Ethical Policy in place and will be discussed only with those individuals who have a citizens and strong representatives of Össur. that will be one of the main projects in 2013. The task “need to know”. The Company’s policy strictly prohibits is to get an approved ethics policy in place, including any retaliatory action against a person reporting actual Össur has always placed a great emphasis on fair education and training about the importance of or potential compliance issues in good faith, whether or operating practices. Since 2005, Össur has outsourced ethics to the Company’s success, as well as possible not the reports ultimately prove to be well founded. part of its manufacturing to Asia. Össur and its preferred consequences for both the Company and the employees manufactures are instructed to follow a specific Code if these ethics are not met. Next year the Company will of Conduct, and all contracts with manufactures also introduce measurements to be used to track current include certain clauses the manufacturers have signed status and progress. to honor and respect the specific standard of conduct. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As a listed Company, Össur complies with various rules • A description of the main aspects of internal controls and regulations. The Company has chosen to follow the and risk management systems in connection with Danish Recommendations on Corporate Governance preparation of financial statements. because the Company’s shares are traded on NASDAQ • A description of the Company’s organizational OMX Copenhagen. structure and the role and composition of each function. The Corporate Governance statement includes information on the following items: A complete report on the Company’s compliance with • A reference to the corporate governance each recommendation is available on the Company’s recommendations the Company follows and how website. the Company addresses the recommendations, including any deviations and explanations thereto. csr report 12 18 REDEFINING ABILITY For Össur, 2012 was about “Redefining Ability” and awareness of the true potential of people with limb THESE ARE A FEW OF THE COMPANY’S LARGER ensuring that the products we create make a positive and loss and impaired mobility to lead active and fulfilling INITIATIVES: recognizable contribution to society. It is a philosophy lives. Össur is delighted to recognize their work and to Amputee Coalition of America (ACA) Through the epitomized by Team Össur, an amazing group of elite sponsor and support them in the constant pursuit of Life Challenged Athletes Foundation Össur has helped athletes and sporting role models whom we are proud Without Limitations. These individuals have been on the amputees with grants, training, prosthetics and and privileged to work with. The talents and dedication forefront in showing the world that you should follow equipment. The partnership opens doors for athletic of the Team have enthused a whole new generation to your dreams. Athletes like these are important for our greatness. follow their dreams, on and off the track. community to demonstrate to others that they should follow their dreams and not look at their condition as a Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF) A national U.S. In September, Team Össur took center stage at the disability. non-profit formed in 1989 to offer continued education, Paralympic Games held in London. Blazing a victorious mentoring, peer support and consumer advocacy. trail through the track and field events, they captured 21 medals (six Gold, seven Silver and eight Bronze), and set Emotional Well-Being Initiative A partnership with six new world records. Team Össur athletes set the Amputee Coalition of America and Johns Hopkins 6 new world records University Medical School. These three organizations Yet, these incredible athletes have done much more than at the 2012 Paralympic Games. will be working together to create a new, nationwide win medals. They have helped to transform perceptions program to help prosthetists address the emotional of what ‘disability’ is, in a way that goes far beyond They also captured 21 medals: needs of people with limb loss. The program is an sport. Hopefully, this transformation will create a ripple 6 Gold • 7 Silver • 8 Bronze example of the type of innovative partnerships that effect, motivating others whose own mobility has been are needed to better address the health care needs of challenged and encouraging them to play more active amputees. roles in society with even greater confidence. COMMUNITY SUPPORT Iceland Sport Association for the Disabled Össur has TEAM ÖSSUR Össur supports and partners with a wide range of been a proud supporter of the Iceland Disabled Sports Team Össur is an accomplished group of elite organizations around the globe. As a leading orthopaedic Association for almost 20 years. international athletes and sporting role models. The manufacturer, it is the Company’s responsibility and Team Össur members include people like world class privilege to champion the industry and serve patients Stand Tall The charity foundation based in Hong Kong triathletes to accomplished track and field athletes. and practitioners in every way possible. In fulfilling this provides high-end prosthetic devices and rehabilitation mission, we believe it is our obligation to provide not to victims of the Sichuan earthquake, which devastated Importantly, the talents and charisma of all of these only world-class products but also lend support to those the Chinese community in 2008. exceptional individuals are helping to raise public relying upon them. csr report 12 20 Flex-Foot® Cheetah® When the Flex-Foot Cheetah running foot made its debut at the 1996 Paralympic Games, it was a groundbreaking development, nothing like it had ever existed in the prosthetic world before. Today, the Cheetah design is recognized the world over and a prominent feature of any amputee sprinting event – more Paralympic medals for sprinting have been won on a Cheetah than on any other foot. cheetah® Xtreme cheetah® Xtend cheetah® Standard GOALS AND KEY FOCUS FOR 2013 In 2013 the weight will be on continuing monitoring current projects and work further with the selected KPIs. The goal is to engage further CSR standards and work on increased awareness within the company. Establishment of an ethical policy, including hospitality guidelines, is on the agenda. For CSR to become an integral part of the Company’s business model it is vital to identify more CSR champions within the company and invest in internal education on the topic. csr report 12 22 ABOUT THE REPORT In this report, Össur discusses the various aspects within social responsibility and how the Company approaches these matters. Össur has identified its critical areas to focus on and addresses these projects in this report, the success and also the challenges the Company faces and is working on. When working on the implementation of CSR, Össur used a number of points of reference, such as the ISO 26000 standards, the Global Compact and the GRI guidelines. Measurements used in this report are internal measurements, which are important for the Company as well as GRI measurements. össur hf. head office Grjothals 5 110 Reykjavik, Iceland Tel. + 354 515 1300 www.ossur.com
