UN GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2013 Grandi Lavori Fincosit SpA is proud to announce its affiliation and partnership with the United Nation’s Global Compact network as of 2009. We support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We intend to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. ‐ Human Rights and Labor Standards are key factors in our daily operations through a provision of equal employment opportunity to all persons without regard to their race, color, religion, sex, disability or national origin, and promote the full realization of equal employment opportunity through a positive continuing program. Accentuating these efforts, we created a Scholarship at Florida International University in Miami, FL, where deserving and/or minority students can enjoy the benefits of their hard work. Several students were the recipients of this scholarship last year. We also participate in partnering agreements with all the Departments of Transportation, Counties & Cities with positive outcomes. The impact we have on the environment today is making a big difference on the world of future generations. Our projects are given our outmost care and efforts in reducing the impact on sensitive environmental areas and we have proved that policy in several projects in Italy and the United States of America. GLF holds the Environmental Management System ISO 14001:2004 Certificate, which complies with the strictest requirements in this field to ensure a safe and positive outcome on all our projects. GLF works forcefully against anti-corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. We share with our employees the fundamental values, honesty, integrity and transparency that support GLF’s growth in Italy and abroad. GLF remains committed to adhere to the UN ten principles for responsible business and is open to participate in any program necessary to achieve that goal.
