Moving toward a more sustainable enterprise Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report | Published September 2013 What is inside Who we are  3 Our approach  9 Energy and  14 Client service  19 resources  excellence Green buildings  23 Community and  27 Workplace, well 31 Addendum  37 supply chain being and diversity  and data Note to reader Image reference (cover): During 2012, Jones Lang LaSalle advised the Asian School of Business in their pursuit of LEED Gold certification at a This PDF utilizes interactive elements. Click on To return to this page click on the page number site in Trivandrum, India. The nearly 80,000 square feet complex includes the following green features: high performing, solar controlled glass; hyperlinks for easy navigation to external documents (bottom right) or the colored bar (top left). demand controlled ventilation; building envelope enhancements; water or web pages. efficient fixtures; and innovative lighting design and control strategies. The Jones Lang LaSalle team consisted of cross-functional experts from our Energy and Sustainability Services team and our Project and The section titles at the bottom of each page can also Development Services group. be used to navigate through the document. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 2 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Who we are Jones Lang LaSalle is a leading financial and professional services firm specializing in real estate with a portfolio of 2.6 billion square feet worldwide. We offer comprehensive, integrated real estate and investment management expertise on a local, regional and global level to owner, occupier, developer and investor clients in 70 countries and from 224 corporate offices in 54 countries. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx In conversation with our CEO Colin Dyer, Jones Lang LaSalle’s How does sustainability underpin Jones Lang LaSalle’s strategic priorities in the short, medium flooding damage to buildings we manage for clients and disrupted our business operations. Jones Lang “Sustainability presents Chief Executive Officer and President, discusses how the firm and long term? LaSalle’s business continuity processes enabled us to mitigate the negative impact, but there are further an opportunity to We structure our business activities around five global is moving forward on sustainability. priorities, which we call the G5. The first G focuses on improvements to be made. differentiate ourselves extending our competitive position in the world’s key real estate and capital markets. The next three address Clients increasingly expect us to anticipate legislation, climate risk and other market drivers and to advise from competitors by global opportunities in outsourcing, investment sales and institutional investment management. them on best practices. This is why we are embedding sustainability across our service offering and continuing providing innovative The fifth G reflects our intent to connect our people, our provision of specialist Energy and Sustainability Services, which range from the development of services and services, technologies and clients globally to best serve the changing needs of our clients, and to successfully sustainability strategies to the provision of sustainable facilities management services. maintaining credibility manage the enterprise risks we face. It also means embedding sustainability in our transactions, services Finally, sustainability presents an opportunity to by implementing the same best practices and operations, enabling us to lead the transformation differentiate ourselves from competitors by providing of the real estate industry by making a positive impact innovative services and maintaining credibility by Colin Dyer CEO and President both in and beyond our business. This focus ensures we have a sustainable enterprise that clients, investors implementing the same best practices for ourselves. This in turn helps us retain and attract talent, maintain for ourselves.” and employees can rely on for the long term. a satisfied workforce and ensure a return for our Across the globe, our colleagues shareholders. We recognize, too, the positive gain to consistently provide innovative solutions Which global trends and key drivers have our brand, reputation and financial performance from that drive value for our clients. It is an influenced your sustainability program? leading sustainability practices. honor to be recognized for the corporate citizenship, integrity, superior client service and Across the world, governments are responding to What were the highlights of your sustainability integrated global platform that enable the threat of climate change with efforts that target achievements in 2012 and what new sustainability them to deliver valuable results energy use and carbon emissions. For the property goals have you set? sector, this is being expressed through legislation such as the EU Energy Performance of Buildings We fully achieved 15 of the 17 targets that we set Directive that requires mandatory disclosure of ourselves for 2011-2012, including two of LaSalle energy performance certificates when buildings are Investment Management’s 2012-2013 targets that constructed, sold and rented out. While such legislation were achieved early. Our achievements were strong poses potential risks to our business, it also creates in 2012, as in previous years, in the areas of ‘Energy major opportunities with clients. and resources’, ‘Client service excellence’ and ‘Workplace, well-being and diversity’. However, I Another key driver is the impact of extreme weather consider the areas of exceptional progress in 2012 to be: events on our business, the buildings we manage and the value of real estate investments we make on n G  reen buildings: We recently achieved the most behalf of clients. In 2012, Hurricane Sandy reinforced LEED Accredited Professionals of any organization the significant nature of this driver as it caused in the world and held several industry-leading roles, Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 4 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx “These achievements and incorporate sustainability principles into client supply chains. For example, we worked with the Lang LaSalle is a concept that is not yet applied or deeply understood by all our 50,000 employees. they are dealing with organizations that really will put their interests first and will be there for them over the are thanks to the efforts Ethisphere Institute to develop an innovative approach to evaluating the integrity and enterprise Embedding sustainability across all that we do requires extensive change management. Since long term. and enthusiasm of our risks of the suppliers we use for our clients and for our own firm, which we subsequently have launched establishing our formal sustainability efforts less than a decade ago, we have made solid progress in Which international partnerships position Jones Lang LaSalle for success as a employees, and of our in 2013. For our own offices, a third of our spend on office and kitchen supplies in 2012 was for items laying the foundation for sustainability leadership. This remains a challenge, but it is an evolutionary sustainable enterprise? leaders around the with social and environmental criteria and this has continued to rise each year. process we feel well-equipped to lead, given our historical roots and the depth of experience that We remain committed to the highest standards of responsible behavior and continue to align our efforts world who proactively These achievements are thanks to the efforts and our existing efforts have provided us. Our collective with internationally recognized standards such as the United Nations Global Compact. We are very proud ability to thrive for more than 250 years suggests we support a strong enthusiasm of our employees, and of our leaders around the world who proactively support a strong have always had people who know what it takes to to have been named by Ethisphere six years in a row to its list of the World’s Most Ethical companies, an sustain a company over time. Our challenge today sustainability agenda.” sustainability agenda. is dealing with unprecedented change in the world accomplishment few other companies have achieved. Through our relationships with outside organizations As for areas to improve, we did not achieve our target around us that gives new meaning and urgency that have sustainability agendas, we seek opportunities to incorporate green building / fit-out principles or to the sustainability agenda. We will continue to with high impact. Our participation enables us to certifications into all of our 30 new corporate offices in embrace this challenge unequivocally by focusing on remain at the forefront of emerging trends, while also 2012, despite our substantial progress in doing so for training our employees; incentivizing performance expanding our influence and reach. The examples a large majority (80 percent) of our offices. Also, our related to sustainability; leveraging the strength of below provide a snapshot of such activities: target around best-in-class occupancy strategies was our governance bodies to develop and manage partially achieved. our strategies and our enterprise risks; engaging n In 2012, we became a member of the International with clients, shareholders and employees; and Integrated Reporting Council’s pilot program, Rather than issue updates for the 17 targets that capitalizing on opportunities to shape the industry. which aims to develop a global reporting framework expired year-end 2012, we have instead decided that integrates sustainability into long-term to focus on delivering our new reduction targets for n Q  uantifying the positive impact of sustainability decision making. energy, GHG emissions and workplace density for and holistically defining a causal relationship Jones Lang LaSalle’s global operations by 2017. This between our sustainability activities and the n  e work closely with numerous local green W is our priority for improved sustainability performance. strong performance of our company. As we work building councils worldwide that actively contribute Complementary to these targets, we will prioritize our to embed sustainability across all transactions, to influencing sustainability in the property sector. five material issues in the revised Global Sustainability services and operations, it becomes harder to  e are a lead sponsor to the CDP Cities program, W quantify the positive impact of our efforts due to n Commitment. These commitments, along with the a long-term initiative to improve sustainability in strategic objectives in the LaSalle Global Sustainability the increasingly integrated but still decentralized such as infusing sustainability into the heart of our the world’s largest cities, and thereby enhance Report 2013 and our Global Strategic Priorities (G5) nature of our business. This is compounded by the involvement with the 2012 London Olympics. Across their economic viability. serve as a suite of goals that ensure we progress in fact that, while we recognize sustainability is good our own portfolio, we improved on several green the short, medium and long term. business, it can be difficult to translate its value into The many awards we receive from external bodies building metrics, including the proportion of total meaningful and accurate financial or quantifiable offer another measure of our position as industry offices with green building principles or certifications, What are the main challenges of Jones Lang terms. However, we do see significant returns in the leader. A sample of the sustainability awards we and the adoption of alternative workplace strategies LaSalle’s sustainability strategy and how do you form of intangibles like brand differentiation, external received in 2012 is provided on page 7 of this report. in 62 percent of our offices (up from 46 percent plan to address them in 2013 and beyond? recognition, business referrals and lower costs in 2011). We look forward to your comments on this report of reducing litigation matters and ethical lapses. Embedding and formalizing sustainability across as we work to increase our accountability and  ommunity and supply chain: Jones Lang LaSalle C Additionally, our sustainability efforts help maintain n n all transactions, services and operations. With transparency to our stakeholders around the developed a strong focus on supplier sustainability competitiveness and are often a factor in winning a few exceptions, such as widespread adoption of world. We greatly appreciate your interest in in 2012, including how we can significantly influence new business as clients increasingly want to know our global ethics program, sustainability at Jones Jones Lang LaSalle. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 5 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx About us Revenue by segment 2012 (%) n Americas 7 Where we have corporate offices 2012 Worldwide employees n EMEA n Asia Pacific 48,000 22 44 n LaSalle Investment 2012 Management 45,500 27 Americas EMEA Asia Pacific 2011 83 8 78 32 63 14 40,300 Revenue by service line 2012 (%) Offices Countries Offices Countries Offices Countries 2010 n Leasing Services 7 n Property & Facilities Management Across our three geographic As of December 31, 2012, we had 224 corporate Key financials 10 offices across 54 countries worldwide and operations 32 n Capital Markets business segments – the Americas; in more than 70 countries. Our employee count & Hotels Europe, Middle East and Africa 3,933 surpassed 48,000 in 2012. This increase resulted 12 n Project & primarily from mergers and acquisitions in each region, Development Services (EMEA); and Asia Pacific – we as well as organic growth. During 2012, we completed 2012 n Advisory, Consulting deliver a complete array of real 30,500 transactions for landlord and tenant clients, 13 & Other 3,585 representing 618 million square feet of space. We 26 n LaSalle Investment estate services. provided capital markets services for $63 billion of Management client transactions. 2011 We are an industry leader in property and corporate 2,926 facilities management services, with a portfolio Revenue by market 2012 (%) of approximately 2.6 billion square feet worldwide. Key financials and statistics In 2012, we generated record-setting revenues totaling n United States Our fourth business segment – LaSalle Investment 2010 n United Kingdom $3.9 billion across our four business segments, a 10% 3 32 Management – is a wholly owned member of the n Other Europe increase over 2011. Revenue (million $) 4 Jones Lang LaSalle group and one of the world’s 4 n Australia largest and most diversified real estate investment The following financial highlights should be read 5 n Greater China 2010 2011 2012 43 management firms with more than $47 billion of in conjunction with our consolidated financial (inc. Hong Kong) Net income (loss) 154 164 208 6 assets under management. statements and related notes, as well as the n Other (million $) ‘Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 7 n Japan We are incorporated under the state of Maryland laws Conditions and Results of Operations’ included in Earnings (loss) 3.48 3.70 4.63 n France as a publicly owned company, governed by a board of 10 our Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ($ per diluted share) n Germany Directors. Shares of Jones Lang LaSalle are traded on 13 ending December 31, 2012. n India the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: JLL) and our EBITDA 320 339 391 global headquarters is in Chicago, Illinois. (million $) n Singapore Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 6 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our sustainability awards One of our most important Global business goals is to maintain our position as a leader – one of the Sustainability awards 2012 best – in our industry. Workplace, We regularly receive recognition for our sustainability well-being and 18 diversity efforts through high profile awards, and 2012 was no exception. Our leadership position in sustainability Client service 7 was recognized in 2012 by 29 awards, of which a excellence majority related to our most important asset: our Energy and 3 people, or put another way, our material issue resources ‘Workplace, well-being and diversity’. Green 1 buildings A Best Corporate Citizen and a Data note: Client service excellence includes awards related to ethics and our corporate sustainability efforts. Trustworthy Company For the second year running, Jones Lang LaSalle was named by Corporate Responsibility (CR) Magazine within the Financial, Insurance and Real Estate sector of its annual list of “Industry Sector Best Americas Asia Pacific EMEA Corporate Citizens”. In 2013, we were listed on the overall “100 Best Corporate Citizens” list, improving our performance from prior years. CR Magazine’s Industry Awards for Excellence listing, which ranks organizations by broad industry 2012 sectors, is based on its survey of large-cap Russell A U S T R A L I A 2012 2 1000 companies that covers more than 300 data SERVICE PROVIDER OF THE YEAR points of disclosure in seven categories: environment, climate change, employee relations, human rights, governance, finance and philanthropy. In addition, the firm was also named by Forbes as one of “America’s Most Trustworthy Companies”. Forbes partnered with GMI Ratings (GMI) to compile this list by assigning quarterly accounting and governance scores to more than 8,000 companies traded on the Best Workplaces 2012 U.S. exchanges. Ireland in association with Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 7 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Piloting integrated reporting – how our business model creates value As pilot program members of the Enterprise sustainability Our financial position International Integrated Reporting Council, Jones Lang LaSalle Inputs Value drivers Outputs Outcomes and our reputation continues to test and incorporate Brand / reputation Corporate Mission and vision Advisory and Other g Clients for integrity, strong elements from the Integrated sustainability Enterprise risk Enterprise risk management Ethics ● Governance ● ● Capital Markets governance and Reporting (IR) Framework, mangement Professional standards LaSalle g Employees transparency, give our Investment which is primarly targeted toward Investment Client relationship management Mangement clients confidence in methodology Integrated global business model long-term investors. Marketing / comms u Industry-leading research capabilities u Leasing u g Global community our long-term ability to Our people Consistent & trustworthy worldwide Project and service delivery Development Our first steps this year focused on: Productivity Ability to deliver innovative solutions Property and meet our obligations Research / market Strong brand and reputation g Shareholders Facility n  efining how our business model creates value, D knowledge Strong financial position Management High employee engagement levels which we seek to explain in the following text to them. Supply chain Strong sustainability leadership and diagram. Technology g Suppliers n  nsuring that our suite of annual reporting E Re-investment of financial and non-financial results documents address both the principles and content requirements of the draft Integrated Reporting framework. You can find further information on page 41. Our financial position and our reputation for integrity, own organization as well as to our clients, for whom strong governance and transparency, which we we serve a significant intermediary role. By expanding We have designed our business model to (1) create believe are the strongest in the industry, give our employment, we stimulate the locations in which we value for our clients, shareholders and employees clients confidence in our long-term ability to meet our operate and increase the opportunities for those we and (2) establish high-quality relationships with the obligations to them. employ or engage with to participate in community suppliers we engage and the communities in which we services and other activities beneficial to society. operate. Based on our established presence in, and The ability to create and deliver value to our clients intimate knowledge of, local real estate and capital drives our revenue and profits, as well as intangible markets worldwide – and supported by our investments benefits such brand value, which in turn allows us in thought leadership and technology – we believe that to invest in our business. In doing so, we enable we create value for clients by addressing their local, our people to advance their careers by taking on regional and global real estate needs as well as new and increased responsibilities within a dynamic their broader business, strategic, operating and environment. We are also increasingly able to expand financial goals. and develop our relationships with suppliers to our Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 8 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our approach The pace of economic, societal and environmental changes continues to present our business with significant risks and opportunities. At the heart of our sustainability strategy is developing a robust understanding of where we can have the biggest impact in relation to these risks and opportunities. Transparency and accountability are also core features of our approach and we remain focused on the highest standards of governance and ethics in all our business dealings. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 9 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our sustainability strategy Jones Lang LaSalle aims to Two pillars for delivering Our strategic approach to sustainability lead the transformation of the our commitment real estate industry by making a Our sustainability strategy focuses on two pillars: Sustainability (1) Services and (2) Operations. The first pillar positive impact both within and includes the services we provide to clients through Global Priorities (G5) ● Global Sustainability Commitment ● LaSalle ESG Policy beyond our business. our Energy and Sustainability Services business and our LaSalle Responsible Investing program. We are also increasingly focused on integrating sustainability Global Sustainability Commitment principles across all of our real estate services, thereby Services Operations providing embedded sustainability advice. The second We hold ourselves accountable for our material pillar focuses on operational efforts related to our own Energy and Global Corporate environmental, economic and social impacts. We people and offices that ensure we ‘walk the talk’ as a Sustainability Services, Sustainability, regional continually develop policies, business practices and sustainable corporation. embedded sustainability and local groups & services to embed sustainability principles across advice & LaSalle ACT: A Cleaner our firm and the wider industry. Revised in 2013, the Although we view both pillars as critical to our responsible investing Tomorrow Global Sustainability Commitment defines our sustainability strategy, we are aware that the potential sustainability objectives relating to five key issues: positive impact through our services to clients can be substantially greater than our own direct activities n  nergy and resources: Significantly reduce the E Enterprise risk management ● Ethics ● Governance ● Professional standards and operations. environmental impact from real estate It is encouraging to note that our employees also n C  lient service excellence: Deliver the highest recognize the value of sustainability to the business: in I feel positive about this stakeholders and engage This company shows a Our 2010 materiality Leadership assessment identified is committed fivea clear I can see key link standards to our clients worldwide our 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey, 76% company’s commitment with each group. commitment to ethical issues.to These form the basis providing high-quality for the themes we between my work and n G  reen buildings: Integrate sustainability within of our staff responded favorably when asked if he or to sustainability business decisions and subsequently service toaddress external in this report (see pageand the vision 11).objectives We did not extensively all real estate decisions she felt positive about our commitment to sustainability (formerly CSR). conduct. clients. of the company. review our material n C  ommunity and supply chain: Extend our (formerly CSR), as compared to 74% in 2010. impacts during 2012. Shift from CSR to sustainability sustainability values to enable widespread change However, we did witness We recently shifted our terminology from corporate Material sustainability issues shifts in our priority issues social responsibility (CSR) to sustainability. This n  orkplace, well-being and diversity: W We recognize the importance of reporting on the issues in response to stakeholder change better reflects our current focus on the totality Foster a growing and inspiring place for our 76% 87% 86% employees to work that are most significant to our business, as well as 74% requests and 85%wider trends. 85% of our environmental, social and economic72% activities;74% those of greatest concern to our clients, shareholders We have therefore made achieves consistency in the communication of our In addition to these stretching commitments, we are and employees. some changes, such as internal and external programs; and more clearly publishing three milestone targets in the areas of re-structuring themes and asserts our long-term vision to be a sustainable ‘Energy and resources’ and ‘Green buildings’, which In 2010, we developed a methodology to identify modifying material issue enterprise in all aspects of our services and are detailed later in this report. material sustainability issues that reflect both the 2010 2012 2010 changes content. These 2012 2010 2012 2010 2012 operations. Although this initiative does not change direct impacts of our operations and indirect impacts Favorable responses from Global primarily ensure Favorable thatfrom responses waste Global Favorable responses from Global Favorable responses Employee Engagement Survey. Employee Engagement Survey. the Employee nature ofEngagement our existing activities, Employee Survey. as a from it servesEngagement Global Survey. Fa E arising from actions taken on behalf of clients. You can and water issues are progressive step in our future-oriented strategy. find more on this process in our 2010 CSR Report, more directly addressed and that we emphasize the We believe “CSR” implies an add-on; doing including information on how we identify our key importance of sustainability in our supply chain. something because it feels good or morally right to do. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 10 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Sustainability is about how we approach our business E  nergy and Sustainability Services (ESS) Material issues Themes covered in this report Services: Operations: Indirect impact Direct impact overall, and this more appropriately articulates overview to JLL via clients to JLL Jones Lang LaSalle’s intentions. Energy and resources n n Energy/GHG emissions Renewable energy n Sustainable IT n n Waste Water 3 3 Our sustainability teams We consider sustainability to be part of every 116 129 157 2010 2011 2012 employee’s role and responsibilities, so thousands Client service Ethics Technology are actively tackling sustainability challenges. There excellence n n Public policy n n Innovation 3 3 are, however, several positions that have a functional Sustainability professionals n Industry collaboration n Sustainability thought n Sustainable cities leadership responsibility for sustainability. As seen in the bottom 2010 2011 2012 left graphic, we have not included all embedded ESS clients 196 334 366 Green Green building certifications n Alternative workplace roles; volunteer or champions networks; executive buildings n and portfolio management strategies 3 3 sustainability sponsors; ethics officers; or governance ESS revenue (million $) 17.0 19.4 21.8 n Accreditations n Green leases committees that may, in some instances, spend some, ESS revenue/global revenue (%) 0.6 0.5 0.6 n Sustainable occupancy strategies but not all, of their time on matters related to our Data note: These figures include all known sustainability activity, sustainability. primarily related to the Energy and Sustainability Services Community Charitable contributions  upply chain S business. It also includes activity within our other business lines and supply n n Volunteering n engagement 3 3 Reflecting on the largest component of our dedicated such as Property and Facilities Management. n Sustainable procurement employees, there was a 10% rise in Energy and chain Sustainability (ESS) clients and a 22% increase in sustainability professionals (including a majority from Generation takes a greater stake Workplace, Diversity and inclusion Compensation and well-being n n Employee satisfaction n benefits 3 3 ESS) from 2011-2012, mostly due to growth in Asia in Jones Lang LaSalle and diversity and engagement n Health, well-being and Pacific. This is consistent with the growth in ESS n Training and development safety Generation Investment Management is an investment revenue of 13%. The increase in these indicators manager founded by former U.S. Vice President Al Enterprise risk management l Ethics l Governance l Professional standards demonstrates our commitment to providing clients Gore, David Blood and others, which focuses on with industry-leading expertise areas. long-term sustainable investing on behalf of its clients. Dedicated sustainability roles Beyond this, we are increasingly integrating In 2012, it publicly reported that it had increased its stake in Jones Lang LaSalle to 5.3% (2.3 million sustainability into the services we deliver across shares). Generation states: “Sustainability issues can the firm such as the sustainability experts in Project impact a company’s ability to generate returns and and Development Services who work on green therefore must be fully integrated with fundamental Services Operations building certifications and the creation of central equity analysis”. Sustainability Sustainability Global Corporate sustainability roles to embed sustainability throughout professionals Sustainability the advice we give. Global Priorities (G5) ● Global Sustainability Commitment ● LaSalle ESG Policy 157 2 Our sustainability programs increasingly benefit Services Operations LaSalle Responsible Local sustainability roles our business development and recruitment efforts, Energy and Global Corporate Investing Sustainability Services, Sustainability, regional embedded sustainability and local groups & (UK, Mexico, Australia) which serve as a measure of how effectively we are advice & LaSalle ACT: A Cleaner 2 2.1 responsible investing Tomorrow integrating sustainability into our company. We are U.S. Diversity and inclusion Enterprise risk management ● Ethics ● Governance ● Professional standards doing so in the areas of greatest financial impact: 2 when compared against revenue, the 44 countries Services and UK Sustainability Sustainability University that utilize our internal sustainability program account Operations: 2 1 for 96% of global revenue in 2012, compared to 87% in 2011. Data note: LaSalle Responsible Investing and local sustainability roles include part–time functions. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 11 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Governance We comply with the corporate Independent third-party shareholder advocacy groups have consistently recognized the strength of Our 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders resulted in a 98% approval of a non-binding resolution on executive The Board of Directors governance laws of the world’s most stringent regulatory our corporate governance. Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. (ISS) has given us a “1” for governance, compensation. Each of our independent Directors received more than a 99% positive vote for election takes an active authorities. These include the meaning that we are in the top decile of all companies for low governance risk. GovernanceMetrics to a one-year term. role in overseeing New York Stock Exchange, the International (GMI) has given us an overall global rating of 9.5 on a scale of 1 (lowest) to 10 (highest) Sustainability governance the company’s U.S. Securities and Exchange based on criteria including board accountability, The Board of Directors takes an active role in sustainability efforts. Commission and financial services financial disclosure, internal controls, and corporate overseeing the company’s sustainability efforts, behavior. drawing on progress updates from the following authorities in the UK, Japan, two bodies that represent the pillars of our Hong Kong, Singapore and The following section provides details of our governance structure, including how sustainability sustainability strategy: Australia, among other countries. matters are governed. Additional information n S  ervices: The Global Energy and Sustainability about our corporate governance may be found in Services (ESS) Board is the main governance our Transparency Report and in the Proxy body responsible for developing and implementing Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders, a consistent global ESS offering. The Board is all of which are available on our website. made up of regional heads of ESS and is led by the global Head of ESS. Complementary to this Board, LaSalle governs its activities through the The Board of Directors Global Sustainability Committee. Chaired by Our Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility the non-executive Chairman, the Committee for overseeing our business. The Board elects consists of senior leaders from all businesses our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief worldwide, ensuring that we remain up-to-date Financial Officer, as well as other senior officers. on sustainability topics and that we share our The management team, with the Board’s oversight, practices company-wide. is responsible for conducting the company’s business n O  perations: Our internal programs are governed to enhance its long-term value. As of September by the Global Operating Committee (GOC), which 2013, the Board had 10 Directors, eight of whom are includes our Global Chief Financial Officer, our independent Directors. Our Board is diverse in terms business segment Chief Operating Officers and of gender, ethnicity and national origin. leaders of our principle corporate staff groups, Over the years, we have implemented measures as seen in the diagram below. The Committee designed to provide shareholders with the highest coordinates its enterprise risk activities with our level of governance: separate Chief Executive Officer Internal Audit function, whose leadership attends and Chairman of the Board roles; annual voting for GOC meetings and performs an annual risk Directors; majority voting for Directors; enhanced assessment of our business. abilities to call for special meetings; and annual advisory voting on executive compensation. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 12 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx One strength of our Corporate governance: A lens on sustainability internal programs is Committees of the the local and regional Board of Directors Board of Directors governance through Nominating and Governance Committee various groups. We are Chief Executive Officer Compenstaion Committee expanding our focus on Audit Sheila Penrose Chairman of the Board internal sustainability, Committee Over many years Jones Lang LaSalle as demonstrated by the Global Executive Committee Chair: Colin Dyer (Chief Executive Officer; Chief Financial Officer; Global Operating Committee (Leadership from Corporate Functions: Chief Operating Officers; HR; IT; has been a leader in good corporate governance. We continue to do so by increase of countries Regional Chief Executive Officers) Finance/Accounting/Tax; Marketing/Research; Legal/Compliance; Ethics; Risk Management; Professional Standards; Internal Audit; Corporate Sustainability) reflecting the increasing importance of sustainability issues in our governance structures. This ensures that with formal programs. LaSalle Global Sustainability Committee Global ESS Board Global Carbon Footprint Network Regional and local groups we are held accountable for our social, environmental and financial performance; and that we have built a sustainable enterprise that GSC regional ESS leads in COO Ethics ACT: A Cleaner clients can rely on for the long term. leaders businesses/countries Network Officers Tomorrow Sustainability University Each of these groups regularly updates our n Board / CEO n Services n Operations ...... Comprised of champions with Board of Directors. They are in place to deliver non-dedicated sustainability roles our Global Sustainability Commitment and the LaSalle Environmental, Social and Governance Policy. Countries with formal internal sustainability programs (%) One strength of our internal programs is the local and regional governance through various groups. We 2012 24 9 18 49 are expanding our focus on internal sustainability, as demonstrated by the existence of countries with formal 2011 18 3 23 56 programs, which have increased from 25 in 2011 to 28 in 2012, or over half of the countries surveyed. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Another recent enhancement includes the 2013 n Plan and committee n Plan only n Committee only n No plan or committee publication of our new Transparency Report which is designed to give our stakeholders a transparent view Data note: Formal programs are defined as having management oversight, annual written plans/objectives, committee or green team. of our governance structure and what we do to protect it in various ways. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 13 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Energy and resources Energy savings in buildings hold great potential for our clients and own firm to reduce carbon emissions and save money. We have a significant opportunity to make a meaningful impact on climate change while also generating profits for our shareholders. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 14 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our commitment: Significantly reduce the environmental impact from real estate Client energy and GHG emissions Client renewable energy Our targets: Significantly reduce our own environmental 913,000 283 596,000 impact through best in class workplace strategies that: -10% Reduce building GHG emissions* per employee by 10% by end of 2017 against 2012 baseline -10% Reduced 913,000 metric tons CO2e for our Doubled the number of assets that LaSalle Total estimated GHG emissions averted Reduce building energy* per U.S. clients, equivalent to removing roughly 190,000 Investment Management submitted to Greenprint from from our advisory on installed and operational, or employee by 10% by end of 2017 cars annually from the road. This is up from 587,000 137 to 283. consented, renewable projects was 595,894 metric against 2012 baseline metric tons CO2e in 2011. tons CO2e. * Includes directly billed and estimated energy for Jones Lang LaSalle’s global portfolio. Our energy and GHG emissions Our renewable energy -4% 72% 16% Collaborative partnership delivers A reduction of 4% on a building emissions 72% of our offices have video and web 16% of our offices procure renewable energy, per employee basis from 2011 to 2012. However, conferencing facilities, which help to reduce emissions compared to 10% in the prior year. savings in the healthcare industry Jones Lang LaSalle’s total GHG emissions increased associated with business travel. Jones Lang LaSalle’s sustainability experts are slightly from 48,500 metric tons CO2e in 2011 to actively helping the Beaumont Health Systems 49,300 in 2012. reach ambitious goals across its 38-building, 8.25 million square foot portfolio. In 2012 Beaumont implemented 15 energy projects anticipated to generate $1.3 million per year in energy savings Challenges For our own operations, we continually face the challenge of how Furthermore, business travel constitutes an important part of how we that pay for themselves in two years, plus eight to improve our understanding of the environmental impact from our engage with clients and the communities in which we work, and despite water-related improvements that will save another activities. We occupy leased space, which means nearly a third of our our efforts to reduce these activities, there is still much to do. $300,000 annually. Beaumont’s Green Teams total emissions are estimated. One of the aims of our reduction target and monthly sustainability kaizens have produced Related to water and waste, we are in the very early stages of is to lead the industry in how this challenge is addressed and to further suggestions that cost little or nothing, save over addressing these resources, which again is limited due to our $60,000 in annual utility costs, and engage engagement between landlords and tenants. occupation of leased space and lack of influence. enthusiastic employees. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 15 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx We recognize the complexity of Renewable energy for clients Client energy savings Jones Lang LaSalle total GHG emissions the climate change challenge We continue to advise clients on a range of 2010 2011 2012 49.3 renewable technologies including photovoltaic 48.5 and that government action (largely in the U.S., but increasingly in Europe), Monetary savings (millions) $128 $105 $176 50 43.4 alone cannot provide the urgent wind and biomass (both largely in the UK). Our 40 Thousand metric tons CO2e Energy savings 912 963 1,663 solutions required. capabilities in renewable energy allow us to provide local as well as worldwide solutions designed to (millions kWh) GHG emissions 563,000 587,000 913,000 30 meet each client’s unique objectives. Our specialist For this reason, we invest significant resources reduction Renewable Energy Capital group – established in into developing energy and carbon management (metric tons CO2) 20 2011 – helps to raise development capital, identify services for our clients, alongside efforts to manage Data note: All figures relate to our U.S. managed portfolio and are investment opportunities and provide commercial our own footprint. based on extrapolated data from ENERGY STAR . 10 and financial advice to clients across every major Energy and climate risks directly impact our own renewable technology project type. operations as well, whether because of rising fuel Client renewable energy 2012 0 In 2012, total estimated GHG emissions averted 2010 2011 2012 prices or legislative changes. And these risks continue from our advisory on installed and operational, or n Americas n Asia Pacific n EMEA to increase. The material risks that we face as a 5 consented, renewable projects was 595,894 metric 4.6 business are discussed in our Annual Report on tons CO2e. A further 5.8 million metric tons could Form 10-K and include climate change risks. be averted, assuming all remaining wind, social 4 J ones Lang LaSalle building GHG emissions Million metric tons CO2e and biomass projects that we advised on last year per employee Energy management for our clients achieve planning consent or successful development. 3 As we manage approximately 2.6 billion square feet of In previous reports, we presented cumulative 2.0 real estate for clients, the greatest contribution we can figures and have since changed our methodology. 2 1.7 make to mitigate climate change is to work with our Annual figures will help us better understand our 1.5 1.7 clients to help them reduce their energy and carbonperformance trend. 1 1.6 Metric tons CO2e generating activities. 0.08 An integral part of our Energy and Sustainability Understanding our own emissions 0 1.0 Wind Solar Biomass Services offering is to help clients develop energy and reporting performance management programs that provide measurable Jones Lang LaSalle’s total GHG emissions were  MW capacity: 0.5 savings and results. This approach considers not just approximately 49,300 metric tons CO2e in 2012, n Planning and feasibility  3,137 how facilities are built, operated and maintained, but compared to 48,500 and 43,400 metric tons CO2e n Consented  388 also their location and employee behaviors. 0 in 2011 and 2010 respectively (as seen in the chart n Installed and operational  0.1 2011 2012 Responsible management of energy is one of the most above right). While our total emissions increased by cost-effective climate change mitigation strategies, 2% from 2011 to 2012, our business also grew Data note: These figures reflect active advisory through our UK Data note: This intensity metric includes Scope 1 natural gas, and as more clients (as well as our own people) see during this period: we increased our revenue by and U.S. renewables services. Jones Lang LaSalle does not Scope 2 electricity, and Scope 3 estimated leased building carbon. own or operate any renewable energy installations. economic and environmental value in measuring and 10% and corporate office employees by 4%. This Corporate office employees are as of year-end. For former King Sturge offices, which became a part of our operations at the end of improving energy usage, then we expect the savings is strongly correlated to our rise in emissions, May 2011, we multiplied employees by 7/12 to reflect the emissions which stemmed primarily from increased energy Our Mobile Engineering Services fleet, which within our responsibility. Additionally, we have applied criteria for to continue rising. For example, the impact of our accounted for 88% of emissions from company-owned consumption in our corporate offices and more excluding anomalous data points, including: missing data; a change programs for U.S. clients in 2012 was equivalent to vehicles in 2012, achieved a reduction of from estimated to actual data (or vice versa) where the estimations removing roughly 190,000 cars annually from the road. business travel. Positively, GHG emissions from are deemed inaccurate; and energy consumption that relates to company-owned vehicles decreased by 10% from 700 metric tons CO2e during this same period. a full building with employees that relate to a part building (e.g. The ‘Client energy savings’ table (above right) is an We have implemented various emissions reduction where we sublet floors). These each lead to a misleading trend in overview of these achievements since 2010. 2011 to 2012. GHG emissions per corporate office employee. With exclusions, the measures, including renewing the fleet with more analysis incorporates 93% of offices occupied in 2012. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 16 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Source of Jones Lang LaSalle GHG emissions fuel efficient vehicles, adopting a shared services Jones Lang LaSalle offices with renewable energy 2012 (%) model, bundling multiple work orders together, and assigning maintenance mechanics and technicians to smaller vehicles. 2 4 n Americas 20 Business travel is one of our most challenging20 areas to 1 3 reconcile with business 6 n Asia Pacific 29 29objectives, including maintaining 0.5 active relationships with our clients. Our emissions from0.5 n EMEA 2011 2012 business travel increased by 3% from 2011 to 2012. n LaSalle Investment 25 offices 38 offices We encourage video and web conferencing to reduce 4 Management 14 travel, as described on the next page. 23 24 We normalize our building-related GHG emissions by corporate office employee to compare our 29 27 27 performance over time. From 2011 to 2012, this metric decreased by 4% (see data note on Data note: Our renewable energy is based on where the supply is certified renewable by national regulations. previous page related to accounting for acquisitions n Scope 1: Company-owned vehicles and exclusions) from 1.7 to 1.6. Our internal n Scope 1: Natural gas sustainability programs have contributed to energy for the benefit of the CDP investor signatories, some 70% * n Scope 2: Electricity reductions in numerous corporate offices, with of whom are our shareholders. Our measurement n Scope 3: Business travel Asia Pacific accounting for the largest contribution and reduction efforts led to a disclosure score of 70 to reducing our GHG emissions. For example, in and a performance score of D in 2012. The disclosure n Scope 3: Estimated leased building Australia, the firm introduced an energy metering score falls into the ‘high category’, and according to project that monitors consumption quarterly at CDP, this means “senior management understand Data note: Scope 1 includes natural gas consumption where Jones Lang LaSalle directly obtains energy. It also includes eight of its offices. This, among other efforts, the business issues related to climate change and Energy and greenhouse gas company-owned vehicles. Scope 2 includes electricity consumption where Jones Lang LaSalle directly obtains energy or where our resulted in a 26% decrease in Australian energy are building climate related risks and opportunities emissions initiatives landlord obtains it, then provides the energy data to us. Scope 3 consumption from 2011 to 2012 (equating to 300 into core business.” Additionally, our disclosure and includes estimated building-related consumption where Jones Lang performance scores compare positively against the Americas In the U.S., placed signs on all task LaSalle’s landlords obtain the energy, but there are no sub-meters metric tons of CO2e). lights, monitors, and switches to and Jones Lang LaSalle does not receive energy data. We therefore supply chain program average of 48 and D respectively. estimate consumption based on floor area. Scope 3 also includes In 2012, energy consumption in our corporate offices encourage switching off when not employee business travel. in use. Occupancy sensors used in accounted for 53% of our total emissions, with a Reducing our own carbon footprint conference rooms and low traffic areas. further 27% from business travel and 20% from company-owned vehicles (see chart left).The majority ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’ is our internal Asia Pacific Encourage employees in China of our emissions relate to Jones Lang LaSalle’s environmental program that seeks to reduce our to adopt environmentally friendly occupation of leased office space where we do impact primarily through employee engagement and commute practices (e.g. walking or communication efforts. We have an increasing number cycling) for at least one day per week. not directly purchase energy in many cases. While we engage with our landlords to obtain energy of energy and greenhouse gas emissions initiatives, EMEA Moved offices in Portugal to improve consumption data where possible, we did not obtain many of which originate from the ACT program. energy efficiency and reduce costs. any data for 40% of our corporate offices in 2012. 70% of offices have at least one initiative and we Introduced new video conferencing documented 207 initiatives in 2012, up from 170 in facilities and reduced domestic travel In these instances, we fully estimate our consumption ACT: A Cleaner Tomorrow 2011. These types of efforts have been implemented by nearly 20%. based on rented area. This continues to be a major challenge as we seek to better understand and each year since 2008; many have grown to be a part EMEA LaSalle UK reduced energy reduce our carbon footprint. of our standard operating procedures and are not LaSalle consumption through use of occupancy formally reported. Examples of local initiatives are sensors for lighting. Each year, we voluntarily participate in the CDP supply detailed in the table on the right. * Percentage of offices with at least one energy and GHG chain program at the request of our clients and also emissions initiative in 2012. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 17 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Related to our impact from travel, 72% of offices have video and/or web conferencing facilities and we have a recycling program. In future, we aim to better understand our impact in this area as we are at Much like the advice approximately a third of offices ran awareness campaigns during 2012. In Portugal, for example, we the beginning of our data collection efforts for waste and water. we give to clients, we have reduced domestic business travel by around 20% through the addition of video conferencing facilities in Despite having little control over most waste contracts, take advantage of the Lisbon office. We have also continued to expand our video conferencing capabilities in the U.S. During our employees engage in initiatives to encourage waste reduction and recycling. In 2012, 69% of offices opportunities to green New video conferencing network 2012, we installed new equipment in our Houston, reported at least one waste initiative, a slight increase from last year. Examples of the diverse range of our energy supply, thus aims to reduce business travel Vienna (Virginia), and Philadelphia offices. Much like the advice we give to clients, we take waste initiatives we implemented are shown in the table (below left). lessening the impact of In an initiative to help reduce business travel while also saving time, Jones Lang LaSalle launched a new video conferencing network in Europe called advantage of opportunities to green our energy supply, thus lessening the impact of our own operations. As We are increasingly engaging with our employees our own operations. around water, as 25% of offices reported at least ‘On Air’ during 2012. The network involves the use 2012, 16% of our offices procure renewable energy, one water initiative in 2012, as compared to 13% of of sophisticated new technology that replicates a compared to 10% in the prior year (see chart on page 17). offices in 2011. This reflects the growing importance highly realistic face-to-face meeting environment. It of water as a sustainability issue that we have allows virtual inter-office meetings and a connection Greening our IT observed worldwide. to other video conferencing systems at client offices and elsewhere. ‘On Air’ rooms were initially set up in As is the case with all large professional services the firm’s Amsterdam, Frankfurt, London, Paris and firms, IT is a significant contributor to our overall Stockholm offices, with more planned in future. carbon footprint. We have established a best practice IT sustainability program to reduce energy consumption from technology and to increase connectivity through IT solutions that reduce the need 69% * to travel. We implemented various initiatives in 2012, including server elimination; increasing the operating temperatures of data centers; decommissioning tape libraries and associated hardware; replacing desktop computers with laptops; and replacing and Alan Robertson Waste initiatives consolidating printers with multi-functional devices. CEO Middle East and North Africa We estimate that server elimination due to virtualization Americas LaSalle U.S. provides an option for or consolidation has resulted in an annual savings of LaSalle employees to not print a cover sheet on We are proud to pledge our support 480 metric tons CO2e and $68,400. for Earth Hour this year along with all print jobs. our global offices. Our participation in Americas Extended our efforts to increase recycling Lessening our environmental impact this campaign reinforces our internal environmental of alkaline batteries and cans in Mexico. through waste and water management program, ACT: ‘A Cleaner Tomorrow’, which aims Asia Pacific In Australia used corporate Keep Cups to educate our employees on sustainability and instead of paper cups and a waste As a tenant, Jones Lang LaSalle manages the waste encourages and supports them in adopting greener contract for IT recyclables. contract in 7% of our offices, giving us little control ways of working. Our firm is committed not only to over waste in a majority of our portfolio. However, in observing this event but to go “Beyond the Hour” to EMEA Removed desk side bins in our Sweden an additional 7% of offices we do not manage the make our firm and our clients more office to encourage recycling at central energy efficient throughout the year. segregated waste units. waste contract, but engage with our landlords. In all * Percentage of offices with at least one waste initiative in 2012. offices where we do manage the waste contract, Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 18 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Client service excellence Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to maintaining a corporate culture that puts its clients first and embraces strong principles of business and professional responsibility in everything we do. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our commitment: Deliver the highest standards to our clients worldwide Ethics Integrity Industry collaboration 94% 253 56 94% of employees agreed they fully understood Conducted 253 investigations related to Participated in 56 industry initiatives New technology improves working their obligations under the Jones Lang LaSalle Code integrity concerns, of which 194 led to disciplinary or worldwide, a significant increase from the year prior. and sustainability practices of Ethics. other actions. Jones Lang LaSalle in Turkey has made significant strides to ensure that technology is an integral part Technology Innovation Sustainability thought leadership of new work practices, which contribute to improved client services as well as the greater efficiency and sustainability of day-to-day operations. Established 153,600 11,500 27 in 2012, the Turkish Innovation Committee has been at the forefront of promoting the latest and best technology solutions, such as the introduction of iPads and a range of apps that will enhance data usage, workflow, presentations and communications. This program will also begin to move Turkey closer to Monitored and managed data for 153,600 11,500 unique readers of our Green Blog Produced 27 sustainability thought its goal of becoming a paperless office. buildings across our proprietary sustainability platforms globally, up from 7,500 in 2011. leadership publications during 2012. globally in 2012. Challenges As a firm with over a decade of sustainability expertise, we now have with more connectivity; more training; and more communication – all of the challenge of ensuring this expertise is more deeply embedded which align with our global strategic goals and put us in a good position throughout our core real estate services around the world. This will help for long-term success as a sustainable enterprise, but which will take us meet growing expectations and keep pace with the rapidly evolving many years to implement fully. sustainability agenda. It is requiring a change management program Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 20 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our mission is to deliver Ethics by 90% over 2011. Our ability to substantiate the Focusing on sustainability in the allegations that were raised was at 77%, comparable city landscape exceptional strategic, Our Code of Ethics outlines our commitment to to last year. maintaining the highest standards of ethics and fully-integrated services, integrity in all of our business dealings. We are If you interested to learn more, please visit our We are a lead sponsor to the CDP Cities Program, best practices and innovative determined to enhance the global reputation that we Ethics Everywhere website. a long-term initiative to improve sustainability in the world’s largest cities, and thereby enhance their solutions for real estate owners, have established for ethical conduct, a reputation recognized by the independent Ethisphere Institute, Public policy and industry economic viability. Jones Lang LaSalle is using occupiers, developers and which in 2012 has named Jones Lang LaSalle in its collaboration its global expertise to help refine the CDP Cities reporting criteria and to educate and consult with cities investors worldwide. ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ list for the fifth year As a diverse global organization whose constituencies as they look to tackle the sustainability challenge. in a row (sixth in 2013). will inevitably have very different views of social and Complementary to this partnership, Jones Lang Our sustainability services form a key part of this. We also take pride in how our employees perceive our other issues, our political and lobbying activities LaSalle once again played a vital role in the 2012 Our culture of connectivity and integrity enables us commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct. are intentionally very restricted, and are limited to London Olympics, integrating sustainability practices to deliver consistently high levels of service to all of In our Global Employee Engagement Survey, 94% of supporting specific issues that would clearly benefit our where possible. You can read more about our strong our clients wherever they are. 86% of our employees employees said they fully understood their obligations business and our shareholders. As any lobbying efforts track record with the Olympics on our website. affirmatively agreed business leadership is committed under our Code of Ethics. 87% of employees would be managed on a highly decentralized basis we to providing high-quality services to external clients, affirmatively agreed that Jones Lang LaSalle shows a do not centrally track relevant expenditures, but we compared to 85% in 2010. commitment to ethical business decisions and conduct, believe they are insignificant. an increase from 85% in 2010. In part, this is due to our focus on ethics training and education. In 2012 We do, however, engage in many close relationships ws a Leadership I feel committed this positive isabout This company I can see a clear shows linka Leadership Overall, I is am committed extremely I we gave in-person training to 3,858 employees (8%I am can extremely clear see a satisfied link with leading industry Overall, organizations suchI am I am extremely as extremely numeroussatisfied ical company’s to providing high-quality commitment between mytowork commitment ethicaland to providing satisfied high-quality with this between that compensation of staff) in ethics, HR and anti-corruption policies and my work plans and local green building satisfied with councils this worldwide. In that 2012, we plans compensation and toservice sustainability to external business the vision decisions and objectives and service company as a place to external the visionoutstanding reward and objectives company as a place reward outstanding procedures, which is in addition to other on-line training participated in a total of 56 industry initiatives, including (formerly clients. CSR). conduct. of the company. clients. to work. ofperformance. the company. to work. the following global efforts: performance. and communications efforts that comprise our Ethics Everywhere philosophy. Central to promoting our n C DP Cities Program ethical conduct is the requirement for all employees to C DP Supply Chain Program Katie Kopec n reaffirm their commitment to our Code of Ethics when submitting their annual performance objectives. n C eres European Director of Strategic Consulting 7% 85% 74% 76% 86% 85% 72% 87% 74% 85%71% 86% 75% 72% 47% 51% 74% 71% 75% 47% 51% During the past seven years, there have been no legal n C oreNet Global actions taken against Jones Lang LaSalle for antiThe Olympics spirit comes with global n C orporate Board Member scrutiny. Being able to demonstrate a competitive behavior, anti-trust or monopoly practices. n E thisphere Institute clear and simple path to sustainable Furthermore, there have been no significant monetary activity is essential for all involved parties and is 12 2010 2010 2012 2012 2010 2010 2012 2012 fines or non-monetary 2010 2010 2012 2012sanctions for non-compliance 2010 2010 2012 n 2012 G lobal Real Estate Sustainability 2010 2012 Benchmark 2010 2012 almost expected. Jones Lang LaSalle has remained m Global Favorable Favorableresponses responsesfrom Global fromGlobal Favorableresponses Favorable fromGlobal Global responsesfrom with laws Favorableresponses Favorable and regulations responsesfrom (including Global fromGlobal environmental Favorableresponses Favorable responsesfrom fromGlobal Global n G lobal Reporting Favorable Initiative responses from Global Favorable responses from Globalcommitted to leading the global real estate industry in Survey. Favorable Employee Employee responsesSurvey. Engagement Engagement from Global Employee Survey. Employee EmployeeEngagement Engagement Engagement Survey. Survey. Survey. laws)Employee Employee the same period. over Engagement Engagement Survey. Survey. Employee EmployeeEngagement EngagementSurvey. Survey. Employee Engagement Survey. Employee Engagement Survey. creating and showcasing best practice sustainability n G reenprint Foundation standards. We are proud of this expertise and have In 2012 we conducted 253 investigations related to been vigilant to ensure sustainable drivers are, where n International Integrated Reporting Council integrity concerns, of which 194 led to disciplinary or possible, incorporated at the heart of other remedial actions. Our investigations resulted n  nited Nations Global Compact U our involvement with Olympic projects. in 61 employment terminations, an indication of our n  nited Nations Principles for Responsible Investment U commitment to take significant action in order to protect and promote an ethical environment. The number of n  rban Land Institute U investigations we conducted during 2012 increased n  orld Economic Forum W Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 21 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx We invest heavily in Using technology to advance our Lang LaSalle research publications and on using social media more than traditional media. We continue Thought leadership publications sustainability services offer research to guide our Our in-house online technology platforms such as to develop influential sustainability research that supports our clients and contributes to the wider 40 38 clients’ real estate OneView Energy and Sustainability Analytics help us manage an ever-increasing volume of sustainability industry. Our global publications serve as good examples of our progress in 2012 despite the lower 35 30 28 investment and 27 data on behalf of our clients around the globe. This, number of outputs: 25 among other examples of technology platforms, such occupation strategies as Portfolio Energy and Environmental Reporting System, Environmental Sustainability Platform and n G  lobal Sustainability Perspective – 3 editions 20 G  lobal Transparency Index with a new 15 – in line with our other n IntelliCommand, demonstrate our global expertise in Real Estate Sustainability Transparency Index 10 the provision of technology solutions. With more than activities, sustainability 153,600 buildings on our proprietary sustainability n G  reen Blog 5 platforms, we help our clients measure and improve 0 is a key focus. The Jones Lang LaSalle Green Blog, launched in 2010 their environmental impact in a significant number 2010 2011 2012 to comment on topical issues, has continued to draw of buildings. large number of readers. In 2012, we posted a fewer n Americas n Asia Pacific n EMEA number of blogs than last year, but these attracted n Global Promoting innovation more unique readers with 11,500 in 2012 and 7,500 in 2011. We have revised these figures from previous Our da Vinci Awards aim to inspire new and reports. The Global Sustainability Perspective had differentiating ideas among our employees that 21,500 unique page views in 2012, a slight decrease result in successful outcomes for our clients. The from 2011 while still yielding an impressive ranking as Awards program drives collaboration and showcases the 19th most accessed page on joneslanglasalle.com. forward-thinking among Jones Lang LaSalle’s people; individuals and teams are rewarded with cash prizes, In addition to our client-focused sustainability thought and winning innovations are presented to senior leadership, we are active on corporate sustainability management. In 2012 the Awards drew an impressive topics such as governance, transparency and 86 submissions, with seven winners that demonstrated enterprise risk management. Some of our articles Infusing our research with great originality and innovation. They included a feature in publications such as International In-House sustainability expertise program that assesses the physical condition of Counsel and Ethisphere Magazine, examples of commercial real estate assets and provides cost which you can find on our sustainability website. The Global Transparency Index, a biennial Jones estimates for component, equipment and systems We recently issued a Transparency Report that Lang LaSalle survey that calculates transparency replacements to maintain or enhance a building’s details the way in which we govern the organization in 97 real estate markets worldwide, revealed in efficiency and reliability. for the long-term benefit of clients, shareholders and 2012 that 90% of markets had made advances in employees and reinforces that we incorporate strong transparency, a clear sign of a renewed impetus following a slowdown in progress during the Sustainability thought leadership principles of business responsibility in all that we do. financial crisis. In this issue, a separate Real Estate We invest heavily in research to guide our clients’ real Sustainability Transparency Index for 28 of the estate investment and occupation strategies – in line markets was introduced for the first time, scoring with our other activities, sustainability is a key focus. areas such as energy efficiency, green building ratings system, energy benchmarking, green lease In 2012, we produced 27 sustainability thought clauses and carbon reporting. The top ranked country leadership publications. This is a 29% decrease since was the UK followed by France and Australia in joint 2011 due partly to changes in resources and a greater second place. focus both on embedding sustainability in core Jones Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 22 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Green buildings Green buildings are more than just energy efficient. They are sensitive to local habitats, protect the health and well-being of occupiers, and use sustainably sourced materials. As a world leader in real estate, the success of Jones Lang LaSalle is closely entwined with the evolution of green buildings. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 23 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our commitment: Integrate sustainability within all real estate decisions Client green building certifications and portfolio management Accreditations Our targets: Significantly reduce our own environmental 59 28% 1,414 impact through best in class workplace strategies that: -8% Reduce rented area per employee by 8% by end of 2017 against 2012 baseline Helped our clients achieve 59 green building Enabled better sustainability performance Reached 1,414 energy and sustainability certifications, including 53% to LEED and 44% to in 1,351 buildings through our advice, a 28% increase accredited professionals, up from 1,075 Green Globes standards. compared to 2011. professionals at year-end 2011. Our green building certifications Sustainable occupancy strategies Alternative workplace strategies 15 95% 62% Achieving LEED Platinum for HSBC in Mexico City In Mexico City, Jones Lang LaSalle played a pivotal role in achieving a LEED EB (Existing Building) 15 of our offices had a green building / fit-out 95% of revised occupancy strategies 62% of our offices employed an alternative Platinum certification for Torre HSBC in 2012. As one certification such as LEED, BREEAM or RICS Ska considered reuse of recycling materials in 2012. workplace strategy, up from 46% in 2011. of the first large office buildings in Mexico seeking as of year-end 2012 with an additional 89 offices that the highest LEED rating, HSBC looked to Jones incorporated green principles without certification. Lang LaSalle to lead the project within specific time and cost parameters. As the existing facility manager (FM) of the 498,955 square feet tower, our intimate knowledge of the building and special structuring of Challenges As our target review on page 39 illustrates, we can improve the uptake this area requires a greater number of local teams who can apply green our FM and LEED teams enabled Jones Lang LaSalle of green building / fit-out principles or certifications, in line with our building practices in our own space. Our efforts will not necessarily to target a large number of LEED credits, ultimately original goal to assess all new offices against green standards. Our entail a certification in all cases, thus it is also a challenge to ensure we exceeding the client’s goal of a Gold certification. portfolio consists of around 30 new offices on average in any given effectively communicate the value of implementing green building or year around the world. Ensuring that we improve our performance in fit-out principles without necessarily obtaining the certification. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 24 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our services address the complete Leading the way with green building An aspect of this is our strong track record in helping Accreditations for green building certifications and improvements owners and occupiers achieve targeted LEED and skills lifecycle of a building – beginning other green certification levels; in several cases, our with the design and planning, We are improving the performance of our clients’ teams have helped clients attain certification levels Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University buildings and our impact is growing. In 2012, our beyond their original goals. During 2012, Jones Lang educates our people in technical aspects, focusing through to construction, occupation advice enabled better sustainability performance in LaSalle’s advice helped our clients achieve 59 green primarily on the delivery of green building services to and management, refurbishment, a total of 1,351 buildings, a 28% increase compared building certifications, including 53% to LEED and our clients such as LEED certification projects. to 2011. 44% to Green Globes standards. and ending with a sale. We reached 1,414 energy and sustainability accredited professionals (or 1,496 accreditations) by the end This ‘property lifecycle’ underpins our green building Client green building certifications 2012 of 2012, up from 1,075 professionals at year-end services and, in many ways, everything we do that is 2011, demonstrating our commitment to lead the real sustainability-related at Jones Lang LaSalle. While estate industry through our sustainability expertise. our focus on green buildings is predominantly on our LEED 31 The initiative has expanded the reach of accredited clients’ real estate portfolios, we are also committed professionals to more than 30 countries. These to ensuring that our own office space has the smallest achievements culminated in a milestone during possible impact on the environment. Green Globes 26 early 2013, whereby Jones Lang LaSalle became the World’s Top Employer of LEED Accredited Professionals and Green Associates according to the Green Mark 1 LEED Professional Directory. Greening our own office portfolio BREEAM 1 Jones Lang LaSalle strives to create work environments that reflect our corporate culture. We Data note: Client service excellence includes awards related to Ethics and our corporate sustainability efforts. seek an environment that is efficient and collaborative and we use marketplace best practices to help us Energy and sustainability accreditations improve workspace utilization. We implement green building practices where possible. 15 of our offices Stephen Conry Accreditation type 2010 2011 2012 had a green building / fit-out certification such LEED, CEO Australia LEED (U.S. and world) 585 906 1,257 BREEAM or RICS Ska as of 2012; this is a slight Green Star (Australia) 10 94 87 increase of two additional offices from last year. A This investment [in WorkSmart – Green Globes (Canada) 54 73 56 further 89 offices incorporated green building or fit-out see page 26 for details] is about being ahead of the pack in how we Association of Energy Engineers: Not recorded 31 26 principles, but did not obtain a certification. run our business and support our staff, which Certified Energy Manager (global) Although our overall portfolio consists of a relatively translates into better outcomes for our clients. Association of Energy Engineers: Not recorded 20 19 low percentage of green buildings with a certification, Each new tenancy looks brilliant and is working Other AEE accreditations (global) we feel the decisions made regarding new and revised well for us. You can see the difference in our team spirit and attitude. Other accreditations 1 16 26 occupancies reflect our increasing commitment to NABERS Energy (Australia) 9 12 10 sustainability and a growing trend in the wider market. BREEAM (UK and Europe) 1 10 9 In 2012, we occupied 30 new offices for the first time. AIEMA (UK) 5 9 6 Of these, 10% had a green building certification, which is a slight decrease from 2011. However, we are Total 665 1,171 1,496 increasing our occupation of green certified new offices Data note: The total accreditations exceeds the number of accredited professionals because some professionals have multiple credentials. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 25 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx at a higher rate than total offices, which demonstrates Jones Lang LaSalle offices with green building practices 2012 (%) that we incorporate sustainability into occupancy decisions where the impact is greater and the timing is right. 6 37 57 We use four sustainability criteria (see chart, middle 0 20 40 60 80 100 right) to guide our occupancy decisions. Positively, a large majority of the 37 revised occupancy strategies Green building/fit out with: n Certification n Principles n No certification or principles in 2012 considered minimizing office size and reuse or recycling of materials; both aspects have increased Worksmart delivers an improved from 2011. However, a lower proportion of strategies J ones Lang LaSalle revised occupancy J ones Lang LaSalle leases with corporate office than the previous year considered building location strategies that considered sustainability green language (%) In last year’s report, we shared highlights from our and its impact on the employee commute; or a green during 2012 (%) proprietary ‘Worksmart’ program in Singapore. Jones building/fit-out certification. Revised occupancy Lang LaSalle introduced this concept to its Sydney 40 strategy describes efforts to optimize our space due 100 HQ office at 420 George Street in 2012. Worksmart is 39 to changing business needs, such as an office move 95 Jones Lang LaSalle’s Alternative Workplace Strategy or fit-out. 80 86 30 34 34 Program, characterized by an integrated approach to the work environment that considers how people, Revolutionary thinking through 60 20 places and technology tools enable all of our staff to work at their best. alternative workplace strategies 40 420 George Street has been designed to the highest We are constantly looking at ways we can enhance 10 environmental standards. It surpassed its target the performance of our people, places and technology, 32 of a five-star Green Star Office Interiors rating and 20 so that teams and individuals can work at their best. achieved a six-star rating, which is the highest Some of this thinking is channeled through alternative 11 0 possible. The office includes a monitoring system workplace strategies (AWS) for our clients, while we 0 2010 2011 2012 for energy and water consumption, indoor plants Building Minimize Reuse or Green are also setting an example in our own space. In 2012, to improve air quality, and work stations certified to location and office recycling building/ Good Environmental Choice Australia standards. This 62% of our offices employed an alternative workplace employee size materials fit-out Data note: Leases with green language contain at least one commute certification approach is being replicated in offices around the strategy, which is healthy progress from the 46% of environmental condition such as capital expenses, renewable world, with the most recent adoption in Sweden. energy, or recycling. Total number of leases were 383, 306 and offices we recorded in 2011. Alternative workplace 292 for 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively. strategy describes our efforts to move away from traditional offices through things like flexible, home We also apply this knowledge to Jones Lang LaSalle’s Jones Lang LaSalle offices with an alternative workplace strategy or mobile working. own occupied portfolio. There was a reduction in the percentage of leases with green language in our 5 Experts in green leases occupied space, from 39% in 2011 to 34% in 2012. This reduction is primarily due to activity in EMEA: 3 n Americas Our network of leasing and sustainability experts, in 2012, this region had a greater number of leases 19 40 n Asia Pacific along with leading edge tools such as our Green following the King Sturge merger. Many of these did 2012 n EMEA Facilities Assessment Tenant Module, OneView not include green lease language. Overall, green 9 2011 Lease Administration Database, LaSalle Investment 107 offices 148 offices n LaSalle Investment lease language is not as widely applied in Asia Pacific 85 Management’s Green Lease Guidelines and Portfolio Management relative to the other regions. 76 Energy and Environmental Reporting System, 18 help Jones Lang LaSalle’s clients to maximize environmental and financial savings in their leased portfolios. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 26 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Community and supply chain Jones Lang LaSalle is a global business with approximately 50,000 employees in more than 70 countries around the world. Wherever we operate, we are committed to being a responsible member of the community, supporting a range of programs and activities to deliver a positive impact at a local and regional level. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our commitment: Extend our sustainability values to enable widespread change Total charitable contributions Corporate charitable contributions Volunteering $3.8 million 1.1% 1,749 Recorded total charitable contributions of Our corporate spend of at least $3.1 million Gave 1,749 recorded days to volunteering at least $3.8 million, including corporate and employee accounts for 1.1% of pre-tax profit. projects in work time by employees. Jones Lang LaSalle alleviates donations. local hunger and waste In 2012, Jones Lang LaSalle teamed up with Feeding Sustainable procurement Supply chain engagement Hong Kong, a member of The Global FoodBanking Network (GFN). GFN is a non-profit organization committed to alleviating world hunger and reducing 33% 8,000 33% 71% food waste by creating and supporting food banks around the world. Along with a donation of more than HK$300,000, we participated in Feeding Hong Kong’s quarterly ‘Bread Run’ – a collection of surplus bread from retailers Increased our spend on supplies with a lower Partnered with Ethisphere Institute to develop a A survey of Jones Lang LaSalle sourcing managers for redistribution to those in need. Each Bread Run involves approximately 80 Jones Lang LaSalle environmental and social impact from $1.2 million to survey for around 8,000 suppliers that rates their showed that 71% felt that supplier sustainability is employees along with clients and local celebrities. $1.7 million during 2011-2012, amounting to 33% of ethical character and quality, enabling improved growing in importance to their clients. Thanks to the efforts of these volunteers, the Bread total spend on items with sustainability credentials supply chain transparency and governance. Runs provided the equivalent of more than 1,100 in 2012. meals for the hungry and saved more than 650kg of food from going to waste. “Jones Lang LaSalle has been an invaluable partner Challenges Jones Lang LaSalle recorded a decrease in the number of volunteering Related to our supply chain efforts, we began a partnership with to Feeding Hong Kong and GFN,” said Jeff Klein, days from 2011 to 2012. However, we are conscious that the Ethisphere in 2012 and because it is our first time executing this type GFN’s President and CEO. “We hope others around decentralized nature of our organization means we are unlikely to of effort, there will be a learning curve around the survey distribution, the world are inspired by your generosity, dedication, record volunteering days fully and that the actual total is likely to be assessment, and how we use the results to influence decision-making. and global citizenship. We can achieve great things significantly higher. when organizations like yours come together to help us fight hunger through food banking. Thank you Jones Lang LaSalle for making a difference.” Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 28 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx While the reputation we earn Our business activities impact local communities through the direct and indirect employment we create, We have a strong 1,749 * for the advice and services we provide to our clients is central the payments we make to suppliers, the advice we provide to clients around their community interactions culture of community to our continued success, we and taxes we pay to governments. An increasingly important part of this impact also comes in the form of investment and also place great value on the our voluntary donations of funds and time, as well as other in-kind contributions. Volunteering initiatives in 2012 engagement and wider reputation of our business regularly use our Our community strategy addresses the local needs Americas In Mexico we developed a new as a responsible and positive real estate expertise, of communities, capitalizing on the talents and volunteering program that matches our contributor to the community. interests of our diverse workforce. We have made a employees' professional experience to charitable causes. conscious effort to broaden the nature of our charity partner relationships to such an extent that we now Asia Pacific Our team in Shanghai, China has been financial resources Total charitable contributions and our employees to involved in the redevelopment of an often provide in-kind support (namely, IT, office orphanage into the Nest Gongxi Xintiandi furniture, staff time or real estate advice) as well as deliver a positive impact 5 Social Innovation Park Project as part of financial contributions. an on-going community initiative. 4.3 4 3.8 Making a global impact EMEA Participated in a one day event in South Africa to build a house in an in the communities In 2012, we recorded total charitable contributions of underprivileged area with Habitat for where we do business. USD millions 3 Humanity. at least $3.8 million, which includes both corporate and 2 1.9 employee donations. Our corporate spend of at least * Number of volunteering initiatives in 2012. $3.1 million accounts for 1.1% of pre-tax profit and 1 aligns with the London Benchmarking Group’s Supporting local communities average of 1.2%. Charitable contributions increased in the Americas and Asia Pacific during 2012, but Our community engagement programs in the Americas, 0 2010 2011 2012 spend from our centralized source, Global Firm EMEA and Asia Pacific are varied and inspiring, Management, was significantly higher in 2011 due to as illustrated by some of the examples listed here. n Americas n Asia Pacific n EMEA We have a strong culture of community investment n Global Firm Management a $1.3 million contribution to the Red Cross following the Japanese tsunami. and engagement and regularly use our real estate expertise, financial resources and our employees to Data note: The large increase in the Americas from 2010 to 2011 Despite a significantly positive trend from 2010 to is partly due to better tracking. In 2011, our Global Firm deliver a positive impact in the communities where Management spend included $1.3 million to the Red Cross 2011, our 2012 volunteer days amounted to around we do business. following the Japanese tsunami. 1,750 recorded days, which is a 22% decrease from the year prior. This is primarily due to less Engaging with our suppliers recorded volunteering activity in larger countries such as the U.S. and India. Given our systems and We have a significant impact through our global processes currently in place, it is a challenge to record supply chain: for example Jones Lang LaSalle spends volunteering days accurately through a cost-effective billions for maintenance on behalf of client investment method. While we have continued to improve our properties and on our corporate facilities in the U.S. monitoring systems for community activities in 2012, alone. We do not have specific policies that require we still feel these figures underestimate our charitable local sourcing nor do we always stipulate preferred contributions and volunteer days. vendors, but many are locally-based small and medium-sized enterprises. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 29 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx We are committed to improving the sustainability of Ethisphere Institute among other activities in 2012 Working towards a more diverse our procurement practices and those of our suppliers. (see left). We are evaluating the extent to which we and ethical supply chain We expect that each of our suppliers, meaning any can also audit compliance by suppliers, but that will firm or individual providing a product or service to inevitably be challenging given the diversity and Our firm engages thousands of suppliers around the Jones Lang LaSalle or indirectly to our clients as a geographical dispersion of our supply chain. world, spending billions annually on behalf of clients. contractor or subcontractor, will share and embrace the We recognize the opportunity to influence suppliers on a large scale, while also mitigating supply chain spirit of our commitment to integrity. While suppliers Procuring green office and kitchen risks and ensuring the integrity of the suppliers we are independent entities, their business practices may supplies contract for ourselves and our clients. significantly reflect upon us, our reputation and our brand. Accordingly, we expect all suppliers to adhere We apply sustainability criteria to our procurement In 2012 we partnered with Ethisphere Institute to practices, focusing on the top items by spend: office to the Jones Lang LaSalle Vendor Code of Conduct develop a survey that rates the ethical character and which we post on our public website in some and kitchen supplies. Positively, we have increased quality of suppliers, enabling improved supply chain transparency and governance. The questionnaire 15 languages. our spend on supplies with a lower environmental and gathers information on, among other issues, social impact from $1.2 million to $1.7 million during Compliance with our Vendor Code of Conduct is a 2011-2012, amounting to 33% of total spend with suppliers’ programs and policies related to ethics, requirement in some contracts, but we do not formally sustainability credentials in 2012. compliance and environmental impacts, including targets and objectives related to their performance. audit or review adherence to this policy. To strengthen It will be sent to more than 8,000 suppliers globally our activities in this area and to improve sustainability Our IT procurement policies specify the selection of which the majority are our customers’ suppliers, in our supply chain, we established a Global Supply of energy efficient PCs and printing equipment with separate versions for large and small suppliers. Chain Working Group and began working with the where possible. While we track the procurement We will use the findings to develop our suppler engagement strategy going forward. of printing equipment with environmental attributes in some regions, we cannot report a company-wide We are committed Other key developments in 2012 included: measure. to improving the – E stablished a Global Supply Chain Working Group to document current practices; review S  pend on office and kitchen supplies with sustainability of our supplier audit programs; and enhance communications among procurement teams. sustainability credentials (% of total spend) procurement practices and those of our – H ired a role dedicated to Supplier Diversity 35 who manages aspects such as the $150 million annual spend with minority suppliers and 33 suppliers. We expect 30 contractors as well as our Supplier of 30 Distinction awards. Chris Browne 25 – S urveyed Jones Lang LaSalle Sourcing COO Corporate Solutions 20 that each of our suppliers will share Managers where a majority (71%) felt that Jones Lang LaSalle is committed to 15 17 supplier sustainability is growing in importance to their client. being the sustainability leader in the – P artnered with Phillips to deliver innovative facility management industry. That means not only reducing our own 10 5 and embrace the spirit lighting solutions and energy savings to our clients with initial client savings of 13% on energy and the environmental impact as a service provider to the world’s leading companies, but also helping them 0 of our commitment 2010 2011 2012 to integrity.. potential for $300,000 savings over 10 years. develop supply chain and procurement processes that integrate sustainability factors with traditional cost and quality criteria. Data note: Total reported spend, in millions, on office and kitchen supplies was $4.1M, $3.9M and $5.0M in 2010, 2011 and 2012 respectively. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 30 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Workplace, well-being and diversity We aim to establish a work environment that values the richness of our differences and reflects our diverse world. By cultivating a dynamic mix of people and ideas, we enhance our company’s client service capabilities, the lives of our employees and the communities in which we operate. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Our commitment: Foster a growing and inspiring place for our employees to work Diversity and inclusion Employee satisfaction and engagement 34% 75% 76% Globally, women comprise 34% of total 75% of our people are extremely satisfied 76% of our employees feel positively about employees and 25% of Directors. Despite our growing with Jones Lang LaSalle as a place to work according Jones Lang LaSalle’s commitment to sustainability Embedding sustainability skills employee numbers, these proportions have remained to our Global Employee Engagement Survey, an according to our Global Employee Engagement across the UK business similar year-on-year. increase from 2010. Survey, an increase from 2010. In the UK, Jones Lang LaSalle instigated a new sustainability training program in 2012 that focused Training and development Health, well-being and safety on up-skilling staff in core service lines to enable the firm to more seamlessly provide sustainability advice to clients. Involving a blend of in-person 46% -20% 184 and online training, as well as a tour of a green building, a total of 60 senior client-facing employees undertook the UK Green Building Council / College of Estate Management Course and achieved the continuing professional development accredited qualification. The success of the program has Achieved 46% more Sustainability University Our recordable incidence rate (RIR) 184 health, well-being and safety stimulated the creation of a network for collaborating training hours in 2012, an impressive increase from decreased 25% from 0.7 in 2011 to 0.6 and our initiatives were recorded in 2012, as compared on sustainability projects and also the decision to 3,853 in 2011 to 5,616 in 2012. days away and restricted time (DART) decreased to 105 in 2011. roll out a similar program in Europe for a further 200 employees. from 0.5 in 2011 to 0.4 in 2012. Challenges Despite several positive measures on employee engagement, the whole, it will be an area of improvement for us to ensure the results of overall response rate to our 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey the survey are reviewed, communicated and then implemented more decreased slightly from the last time it was issued in 2010. Some of this holistically than they were in 2010, as only half of respondents said they was due to less engagement from our most tenured employees. On the were involved in a feedback process. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 32 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx We strive to be the employer of E  mployees by age (%) 44% * choice in our industry. We promote a work environment that attracts, welcomes and retains highly 35 talented and diverse individuals. Diversity and inclusion initiatives 35 We 26 encourage and enable them to in 2012 26 succeed,22 treating 10 our people fairly Americas In the U.S., we established Diversity 22 10 and rewarding their contributions. and Inclusion Councils to engage 7 Todd Burns our workforce and to provide insight President Americas Project and Development to leaders. Additionally, LaSalle Services –34 Diversity 34–44 45–55in our>55business Investment Management hosted a Women’s Summit in 2012. We are partnering with historically black Under Ages Ages Ages Over colleges and universities to recruit young Diversity is a part of our value system. We are Asia Pacific Australia has a Diversity Leadership committed to having the best people with different 25 25–34 34–44 45–55 55 talent. We are working with a variety Team that holds responsibility for of Employee Resource Groups within Jones Lang perspectives and experiences working at our firm so recommendations relating to diversity 2012 LaSalle to help with inclusiveness in the that we have a culture that empowers them to meet initiatives. organization and to bring new ideas to their fullest potential. The Americas region champions EMEA In South Africa, a diversity and the firm to make this one of the best strong diversity and inclusion (D&I) efforts focused on equality survey was completed by all places to work. the three areas below. Progress against each can be employees. An action plan was then 25 47 47 found in the first-ever D&I Annual Report 2012. developed to ensure recruitment, 22 19 19 staff development practices and the 34 of women grows each year in line with the growth We track the number of diversity and inclusion 12 business culture embrace diversity. 7 8 7 of our firm. Globally, women comprise 34% of total initiatives around the world. This activity stayed employees and 25% of Directors. These proportions * Percentage of offices with at least one diversity and inclusion roughly the same from 2011 to 2012 at around initiative in 2012. have remained largely unchanged since 2010.They 80 initiatives, whereas the percentage of countries 2010 2011 comprise 33% of our Global Executive Committee. 19 19 that reported at least 7 one D&I initiative decreased We continue our focus on ensuring women enjoy from 49% to 44% due to less activity in all regions successful and long careers and on continuing except the Americas. We will continue to try to better to encourage people from a diverse range of understand why this trend occurred. Despite this backgrounds to join our business. And we continue to year-on-year change, the table below illustrates the employ diverse employees across all ages. In 2012, increasing importance of D&I across the firm. In some aspects of diversity, we have made substantial Talent Culture Supplier we had a larger percentage of employees age 35 and above relative to 2011 with a little under half of progress: most of our country operations are now led by local leaders, which was not the case ten years Great diverse talent at all An inclusive environment Diversity employees age 34 and below. ago. Within our operations in China, Japan and India, levels of the organisation where employees can reach Expanding partnerships that Board-level diversity for example, diversity has meant hiring and promoting their full potential make us more effective Not only do we advocate diverse employees and 4 more nationals into the highest leadership positions. at winning management teams, diversity within our Board of In many respects, the composition of our workforce Directors enables Jones Lang LaSalle to champion 25 reflects the lack 22 of diversity 10 in the property industry varying perspectives and to better understand the generally and we make every effort to counter this global world in which we operate. In 2013, three standard. We are pleased to see that the number out of ten members of the Board are female, Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 33 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Employee turnover one of whom serves as Chairman. Eight are either As the regions and businesses analyze survey results, E  mployees with agreed performance non-U.S. based and/or are diverse in terms of cultural they will develop plans to address topics of specific objectives 2010 2011 2012 or ethnic backgrounds. The age of Board members relevance to them. New starters 13,225 15,067 14,476 ranges from 40 to 72 years old. 25 In 2012, we had a 21% turnover rate, which is slightly Voluntary leavers 7,548 7,549 7,036 lower than the 2011 rate of 23% and there were fewer Involuntary leavers 2,891 2,507 2,998 Employee satisfaction and new starters in 2012 compared to 2011. Turnover 20 21.4 20.6 Turnover rate 27% 23% 21% engagement rates were slightly higher for females in 2012, but have decreased from the year prior. 15 17.4 Thousands Data note: Turnover rate accounts for the number of voluntary and We conduct regular surveys to understand how involuntary (dismissal, redundancies, retirement or death) leavers our employees view the future of the business. We out of the total number of employees at year-end. use an outside expert in employee surveys to help Training and development 10 us conduct the survey, which also allows us to Employees review their progress and revise their Employee turnover by gender 2012 benchmark the results against large databases of 5 performance objectives with their managers every Female Male responses from other companies. In the most recent six months. There were an increasing number of 0 Voluntary leavers 2,648 4,388 Global Employee Engagement Survey conducted employees with agreed performance objectives from 2010 2011 2012 in 2012, we achieved an average response rate around 20,600 in 2011 to 21,500 in 2012. Most who Involuntary leavers 1,002 1,996 of 70%, down from 74% in 2010. Our Employee do not create objectives are site staff and use a Total employees 16,208 31,312 Engagement Index – which measures the percentage different system. Turnover rate by gender 23% 20% of survey respondents reporting high levels of T  raining and development spend (million $) engagement with the firm and their work here – Our employees are generally required by their reached 73% in 2012, compared to 71% in 2010. professional bodies to undertake Continuing This is an important measure of our progress in Professional Development (CPD) as part of their 10.5 10.7 making our organization a great place to work. In qualification for on-going professional status. We addition, the 2012 overall results revealed: support the development needs of all staff through a range of approaches including: in-house seminars n Manager effectiveness increased: This measure on technical and topical issues within the real estate, increased to 70% up from 64% in 2010. financial and related industries; enabling staff to n Performance enablement is best in class: attend similar events run by other organizations; Engaged employees have the internal support, formal training programs for personal development tted mitted I can I canseeseea clear a clear linklink Overall, Overall, I am I amextremely extremely I am I am extremely extremely satisfied satisfied resources and tools to do great work. and technical advancement; and supporting lity uality between between mymywork work and and satisfied satisfied with this with this that that compensation compensation plans plans membership of wider professional organizations. thethevision vision and andobjectives objectives company company asasa place a place n ereward reward W have outstanding outstanding room to improve: While engagement thethe of of company. company. to to work. work. performance. for performance. new hires increased, scores for our most We increased our total spend on training and tenured employees declined. Additionally, our development from $10.5 million to $10.7 million communication and response to survey feedback 2011 to 2012. However, we recorded a slightly could be better – only 50% of respondents said lower spend per person due to our increasing 2011 2012 they saw and discussed our 2010 results. number of employees. 6% 72% 72% 74% 74% 71% 71% 75% 75% 47% 47% 51% 51% Related to employee satisfaction, we improved on two key measures: 74% of our employees see a clear link between their work and the objectives of this company, 2 12 2010 2010 2012 2012 2010 2010 2012 2012 compared2010 to 72%2012 2010 2010. Additionally, 75% of our in2012 people are extremely satisfied with Jones Lang LaSalle Global Global m Favorable Favorable responses responses Favorable responsesfrom from Global Global from responses responses Favorable Favorable Global Employee Engagement from from Global Survey.Global Favorable responses responses Favorable from from Global Global urvey. Survey. Employee Employee Engagement Engagement Survey. Survey. Employee EmployeeEngagement Engagement Survey. Survey. asEmployee a placeEngagement Employee to work, up Engagement from 71% in 2010. Survey. Survey. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 34 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Training hours from Jones Lang LaSalle Sustainability University There continues to be a large variation in training per employee across each region ranging from $94 per percentage of favorable employees increased when asked about satisfaction with benefits (from 53% We provide incentives employee in Asia Pacific to $913 per employee in in 2010 to 55% in 2012) and if compensation plans for the management 5,616 LaSalle Investment Management. It is likely that not all reward outstanding performance (from 47% in 2010 training is accounted for and that our recording efforts, despite our improvements over the years, continue to 51% in 2012). of climate change 2012 to underrepresent actual activity given the systems currently in place. Incentives for sustainability-related issues, as well as other teams and at Board level 3,853 Sustainability training We provide non-financial and financial incentives for sustainability-related 2011 In addition to these activities, Jones Lang LaSalle’s the management of climate change issues, as well as other sustainability-related activities. Some members issues. Some bonuses are tied to achieving our 1,602 Sustainability University offers a training platform for of our Energy and Sustainability Services (ESS) teams those around the firm who want an understanding of are paid on a base salary plus bonus (with this bonus 2010 sustainability, from basic to sophisticated. We achieved 46% more Sustainability University training hours in representing up to 50% of total compensation), which clients’ goals such as is tied to achieving our clients’ goals such as meeting 2010 2011 2012 2012, an impressive increase from 3,853 in 2011 to an emissions reduction target. meeting an emissions 5,616 in 2012. Sustainability Sessions are held monthly Sustainability Sessions 918 1,036 2,513 and feature a range of topics from energy management, Outside ESS, our property and facility managers are paid on a base salary plus bonus basis. Achievement reduction target. LEED accreditation training ® 55 866 3,048 to an update on the Energy and Sustainability Services business, to a focus on internal programs. of their bonuses results from meeting specific goals Other sustainability training 629 1,952 55 to improve the energy and sustainability performance We continue to develop our employees’ sustainability of the properties they manage. Additionally, these knowledge and skills through formal training programs. employees are eligible for awards at our annual In addition to Sustainability University training, our conferences in recognition of outstanding energy employees participated in 7,025 sustainability training performance at their property or portfolio. hours in 2012. At Board level, the compensation we pay to our Executive Officers takes into account their leadership Employee compensation and benefits in sustainability practices, including third party verall, I am extremely I am extremely satisfied atisfied with this that compensation plans Total Reward is a concept at Jones Lang LaSalle that achievements such as the ‘World’s Most Ethical ompany as a place reward outstanding represents a variety of programs and plans designed Companies’ award. You can find more details of these work. performance. to reward, recognize and motivate employees. The incentives on page 49 of our 2013 Proxy Statement. emphasis of Total Reward is placed on the whole package offered by the firm, both from a financial Maintaining a safe and healthy as well as a non-financial perspective. We use working environment for our clients this concept to attract and retain the best talent, maintaining our position as an employer of choice and ourselves 71% 75% 47% 51% around the world and in local markets. While the Jones Lang LaSalle considers safety a top priority and concept and philosophy is fairly similar across the firm, practices a global health and safety mandate. Our goal Total Reward is customized at a local level. is ‘No harm to people or property’ and all employees are responsible for contributing towards achieving this ‘Goal We identified recognition and rewards for employees 2010 2012 2010 2012 Zero’. We eliminate risks at an early stage by applying as a challenge in our prior reports. Positively, the best practice health and safety procedures and policies orable responses from Global Favorable responses from Global Global Employee Engagement Survey shows that the loyee Engagement Survey. Employee Engagement Survey. and have had zero fatalities over the last decade. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 35 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Health and safety – RIR To enhance the health and safety of our staff, our Integrated Facilities Management division operates 71% * under a health and safety management system Days away, restricted duty and transfer (DART) rate 0.8 0.8 based on the international OHSAS 18001 Standard. 0.7 33 0.7 The Global Health and Safety Policy has also been Recordable case incidence (RIR) rate 0.7 adopted by our Property and Asset Management group 0.6 0.6 0.6 in Asia Pacific and in the UK. Health, well-being and safety 0.5 0.5 We 0.5 significantly improved our health and safety initiatives in 2012 Advancing a global commitment to 0.4 0.4 performance measures in 2012. Our recordable 0.3 0.3 0.4 incidence rate (RIR), a measure of recordable injuries Americas In the U.S. we implemented a 10 week ‘Safety First’ team-based competition that used 0.2 0.2 and illnesses per 100 full-time employees per year, goal setting, group accountablity and As part of its ‘Safety First’ culture, Jones Lang decreased from 0.7 in 2011 to 0.6 in 2012. Days away, friendly competition to promote good LaSalle continued to organize efforts in 2012 across 0.1 0.1 restricted duty and transfer (DART), a measure of exercise habits. The program had over the world that were designed to generate even 0.0 0.0 recordable injuries and illnesses per 100 full-time 2,000 participants on 300 teams. stronger employee awareness and attention to health 2011 2012 2011 2012 employees per year that resulted in days away from and safety. For example: the Integrated Facilities work, decreased from 0.5 in 2011 to 0.4 in 2012 (see Asia Pacific Organized an annual well-being day Management (IFM) group undertook its first ‘Global Data note: These figures represent the Integrated Facilities Manin Hong Kong. agement business globally and all employees in the U.S. left). These metrics follow Occupational Safety and Health and Safety Week’ which involved interactive Health Standards and greatly outperform industry EMEA Portugal developed incentives to walk surveys, best practice sharing, and the launch of benchmarks. The 2011 U.S. RIR and DART industry to meetings instead of using vehicles new online tools; Project and Development Services Health and safety – DART and offer annual health check-ups to in Asia Pacific held its first ever ‘Safety Awareness averages are 3.7 and 1.9 (respectively) for Facilities all employees. Week’ with staff and contractors participating in Support Services, and 3.0 and 1.8 for Real Estate EMEA activities across the region; and the IFM group in Days away, restricted duty and transfer (DART) rate 0.8 Property Managers. UK LaSalle encourages cycling LaSalle through a cycle to work scheme and EMEA conducted its annual Stress Survey, which 33 0.7 Our efforts also extend to support for work-life balance by privision of showers and lockers. registered improvements across virtually all of its 0.6 and improvements such as desk side ergonomic target areas. * Percentage of offices with at least one health, well-being and 0.6 assessments to ensure our employees are content safety initiative in 2012. 0.5 0.5 in the workplace. In 2012, 71% of countries reported 0.4 at least one health, well-being and safety initiative as 0.4 0.3 compared to 61% in 2011. The average number of 0.2 initiatives per country also increased. The table right provides a few examples of the health, well-being and To enhance the health and safety of our staff, our 0.1 0.0 safety initiatives we have implemented. Integrated Facilities Management division operates 2012 2011 2012 Labor standards and labor relations under a health and safety management system Data note: These figures represent the Integrated Facilities Management business globally and all employees in the U.S. We have strong policies against forced or compulsory labor. Our employees are not members of any labor based on the international OHSAS 18001 Standard.. unions with the exception of approximately 1,860 directly reimbursable property maintenance employees in the U.S., as compared to 1,228 in 2011. Jones Lang LaSalle has always maintained a healthy relationship with union employees, supported the right to exercise freedom of association, and complied with the provisions expressed in collective bargaining agreements. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 36 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Addendum and data In line with leading standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative, we understand the importance of a balanced, transparent and comparable disclosure of the issues that are most material to our business and our clients. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated 2012 Sustainability Report 37 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx LaSalle Investment Management At LaSalle Investment Management, asset classes. Further, we continue to believe that our n  1. Greenprint portfolio: Continue to track energy G n  3. Enhance our global data tracking platform. G ESG commitments are consistent with our fiduciary and carbon for as many of our global assets as we Collection enhancements will mainly center on we remain committed to the growth commitment to our investors to deliver superior can. Over time, we will include water and waste streamlining and automating data from our property of our global sustainability platform investment returns. metrics where information is available. managers. We will work with Greenprint to achieve this goal. as an integral part of our global LaSalle Investment Management’s n G  2. Development of non-public energy / carbon reduction targets. The Global Sustainability G  4. Development of social and governance business. future ambitions Committee will consider, and if appropriate, make n (S&G) guidelines. This will complement our In 2011, LaSalle Investment Management set its recommendations to the Global Management Environmental (E) metric tracking and help us LaSalle’s Policy on Sustainability and Committee for setting global reduction targets. integrate ESG principles into our internal investment Responsible Investing is consistent with our belief global strategic targets over a two year period 20122013. Since half of these were met by end of 2012, The Greenprint report will be used to identify low decisions, as well as into the approaches taken by that environmental, social and governance (ESG) performing assets and target improving the energy our third party partners, managers, consultants and factors can have a positive impact on investment G1 and G3 were refreshed, while the focus for G2 and G4 remained the same. LaSalle’s 2013 strategic performance at these assets. These will likely not be vendors with whom we do business. performance across companies, sectors, regions, and public targets initially. objectives include: Additionally, LaSalle focuses its activity around three on-going initiatives: United Nations Principles of Responsible Investing (UNPRI): Global Real Global strategic goals Engagement Annual action plans Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB); and ESG education and training as detailed above. 2 fully achieved 3 industry bodies 2 progress updates Further information can be found in LaSalle’s Global Sustainability Report. Progressed all four 2012-2013 global strategic Engaged with UNPRI and GRESB on sustainability Regional leaders from LaSalle’s Global goals with two fully achieved, as detailed in the ‘Target reporting. As of Q1 2013, LaSalle is a signatory to the Sustainability Committee (GSC) set annual ESG action review’ on pages 39–40. CDP Investor Program. plans. The regions report back progress bi-annually to the GSC. Overall, they are citing good engagement by the regional asset management teams. Challenges Data access and availability: Our tenants directly pay and control the Reporting requirements: The pace for sustainability engagement and utilities at most of our global assets. Our ability as landlord / owner to reporting in the industry continues to increase. The GSC regularly access or control utility data is limited and/or prohibited. The collection considers the benefits of participating in new reporting requests to of data remains challenging, and will remain so until global markets ensure that we maintain focus on our major strategic initiatives. begin to insist on greater overall transparency and access to data by both owners and users. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 38 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Target review Key: Fully achieved Partially achieved In progress Not achieved A majority of Jones Lang LaSalle’s targets spanned 2 years from 2011-2012. We assessed performance using 2010 data where available. LaSalle Investment Management’s targets are included below the first-time this year and span 2012-2013. Energy and Client service Green resources 4% excellence Most Trustworty buildings 1,414 4% reduction in building emissions per employee. Most Trustworthy Company in America as named by Forbes. Achieved 1,414 accredited professionals. Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability targets Target Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability targets Target Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability targets Target status status status Deliver carbon savings for clients that exceed 10 times our global Achieve external recognition for sustainability leadership Assessing new corporate office accommodation using local carbon footprint (annually 2010-2012) (annually 2011-2012) green building standards and incorporating green fit-out standards – The ratio of our carbon savings for clients to our global carbon footprint held true – In 2011 and 2012, we achieved: lead sponsor of CDP Cities; ENERGY STAR into all new offices (annually 2011-2012) in 2010 (13 times); in 2011 (12 times) and in 2012 (18 times). Partner of the Year; Ethics Inside Certification; FORTUNE World’s Most Admired – Only 70% of new corporate offices occupied for the first time during 2012 had For example, in 2012, our total emissions were 49,344 and U.S. client emissions Companies; and Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies. During 2013 we green building or fit-out principles (i.e. where we use green standards, but do not savings were 913,000 (both in metric tons CO2e). achieved two new, additional external recognitions: we were named Corporate obtain a certificate) and 10% had certificates, slightly down from 13% in 2011. Responsibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens and one of Americas – Positively, we are increasing our occupation of green certified new offices at a Continue reducing the energy consumption/carbon footprint of higher rate than total offices. Most Trustworthy Companies by Forbes. our own corporate offices (by end of 2012 against 2011 baseline) – Due to our business growth, we evaluate the success of this target by looking Conduct JLL Green Tenant Module for all U.S. corporate offices at a relative measure of buillding GHG emissions per employee. Based on greater than 10,000 square feet (by end of 2011) this measure, we achieved a 4% reduction from 2011 to 2012 (see page 16 – 8 9% of offices underwent the Module in 2011, with the remaining offices completing it for details). in early 2012. This did not affect the program’s success, so we assessed this as fully achieved. Improving accuracy of carbon data metrics (by end of 2012 against 2010 baseline) Revise corporate office standards to move toward a best-in-class – 45% of energy data was actual consumption in 2012, up slightly from 43% occupancy strategy (annually 2011-2012) in 2010; the proportion of estimated emissions out of our total decreased from – We did not improve two of our six measures, including: 32% of revised 35% in 2010 to 29% in 2012. occupancy strategies in 2012 considered building location and employee – Established 2012 as base year for new reduction targets due to more robust commute, while 11% considered a green building or fit-out certification, down data and processes. from 39% and 41% in 2011 respectively. – Positively, we improved on: revised occupancy strategies that considered reusing Implement energy efficiency initiatives in our corporate offices or recycling materials or minimizing office size; and on building GHG emissions (annually 2011-2012) per rented square foot and rented square feet per employee. – Implemented approximately 170 energy and GHG emissions reduction initiatives across our offices during 2011 and 207 in 2012 with hundreds Achieve 1,000 energy and sustainability accredited professionals more on-going efforts. (LEED, CEM, BREEAM, Green Star, etc.) by end of 2012 – As of 2012, 70% of our offices have at least one initiative in place. – Achieved 624 energy and sustainability professionals by end of 2010 and 1,075 by end of 2011. This number increased to 1,414 by the end of 2012. Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 39 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Key: Fully achieved Partially achieved In progress Not achieved Community Workplace, LaSalle and supply $3.8 m well-being 76% Investment 283 chain and diversity Management $3.8 million recorded charitable contributions. 76% of employees feel positive about our commitment to sustainability. Submitted 283 assets to Greenprint. Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability targets Target Jones Lang LaSalle sustainability targets Target LaSalle Investment Management targets 2012–2013 Target status status status Measure and assess community activity by spend and participation Expand internal employee engagement program (ACT) with Double LaSalle’s Greenprint portfolio asset submission globally; link activity with relevant local community objectives annual written plans of key goals and activities for each country (from 137 to 275 global assets) where possible (annually 2010-2012) where possible (by end of 2012 against 2011 baseline) – Submitted 283 assets to Greenprint in Q3 of 2012. – We recorded $3.8 million in charitable contributions (including corporate and – Increased proportion of countries with formal internal sustainability programs, employee) and 1,749 volunteering days in 2012; and recorded $4.3 million in including ACT, from 44% in 2011 to 51% in 2012. Develop non-public energy/carbon reduction targets charitable contributions as well as 2,228 volunteering days in 2011. This was – In 2012, researched the external market to understand options. In 2013, Achieve higher rates of participation globally for training an improvement from the $1.9 million in charitable contributions and 534 the Global Sustainability Committee will consider, and if appropriate, make received through Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability University volunteering days in 2010. recommendations to the Global Management Committee for setting global (by end of 2012 against 2010 baseline) – Since 2010, we have improved opportunities for employees to support their reduction targets. communities. As one example, in Mexico, we developed a volunteering program – A chieved 5,616 training hours from Jones Lang LaSalle’s Sustainability that matches employees’ professional experience to charitable causes. University in 2012, up significantly from 3,853 in 2011 and 1,602 in 2010. Enhance our global data tracking platform – The combined proportion of participants from Asia Pacific and EMEA increased Integrate and document sustainability criteria into the procurement from 1% in 2010 to 11% in 2012. – A ligned our data tracking platform in 2012 with the global environmental tracking process for pre-selected consumable goods where we have software systems developed by Greenprint. Actively promote and capture safe working practices and centralised control (annually 2010-2012) Develop social responsibility (S) & governance (G) guidelines healthy lifestyles (annually 2010-2012) – Identified kitchen and office supplies as pre-selected consumable goods, which – R  ecorded 184 health, well-being and safety (HW&S) initiatives in 2012, a – Started to develop guidelines in 2012 with further progress to be made in 2013. were our top items by spend. Sustainability credentials are now integrated and considerable increase from 105 in 2011 and 69 in 2010. documented into the procurement process. – As of 2012, 71% of countries have at least one HW&S initiative in place. – Having gone through this process of integration, we have now achieved 33% of total spend on office and kitchen supplies with sustainability credentials in Achieve an incremental improvement from 74% of those who 2012, up from 17% in 2010. feel positive about JLL’s commitment to CSR (by end of 2012 against 2010 baseline) – 7 6% of respondents stated that they felt positive about JLL’s commitment to sustainability (formerly CSR) in the 2012 Global Employee Engagement Survey, an increase from 74% in 2010. Jones Lang LaSalle has not issued revised targets for 2013 and beyond, improved sustainability performance. Complementary to these targets, we our Global Strategic Priorities (G5) serve as a suite of objectives that with the exception of ‘Energy and resources’ and ‘Green buildings’ where will continue to focus on the goals across our five material issues in the ensure we progress in the short, medium and long term. we have set quantitative reduction targets for energy, GHG emissions and revised Global Sustainability Commitment. These aims, along with the workplace density in our own operations. These are our priority areas for goals laid out in the LaSalle’s Global Sustainability Report 2013 and Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 40 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx About this report Contact us Our Sustainability Report (formerly represents a true and fair reflection of our performance We encourage our stakeholders to contact us for more information about at the time of publication. As our sustainability efforts CSR) presents our efforts to address evolve, we will explore the possibility of seeking sustainability at Jones Lang LaSalle, to give suggestions on how we the material social, economic, external assurance for future reports. can develop our sustainability programs, and to learn more about our environmental and governance Global Reporting Initiative and sustainability services. matters that confront our firm. United Nations Global Compact This report comprises three business segments Jones Lang LaSalle has elected to report in line with reflecting the global reach of our real estate services: the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainability the Americas; EMEA; and Asia Pacific. It also covers reporting guidelines, according to a self-declared the activities of LaSalle Investment Management, Level C. GRI is recognized as the leading sustainability which is a global business and represents our fourth reporting framework. Additionally, we adhere to the business segment. principles of the United Nations Global Compact Our Sustainability Report is released annually, covering (UNGC) throughout this report. A detailed GRI and the prior calendar year. This document relates primarily UNGC content index can be found on our website. to 2012 activities. We last published a report in September 2012. Integrated Reporting Dan Probst Sarah Nicholls Chairman Energy and Sustainable Services Head of Global Corporate Sustainability As one of the pilot companies participating in the Data coverage International Integrated Reporting Council, we Jones Lang LaSalle Jones Lang LaSalle Each year we attempt to include 100% of our offices support the general principles designed to promote 200 East Randolph Drive +44 20 7399 5244 and countries in our Corporate Sustainability Survey. communications about how an organization’s strategy, Chicago, IL 60601 sarah.nicholls@jll.com However, this has not been achieved to date due to governance, performance and prospects lead to the +1 312 782 5800 www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/ a lack of information and/or non-participation from creation of value over the short, medium and long term. dan.probst@am.jll.com sustainability.aspx some countries. We measure data coverage as the This Sustainability Report focuses our sustainability www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/ total number of corporate offices that participate in the strategy and performance. Our Annual Report EnergyandSustainability.aspx Corporate Sustainability Survey out of the total number focuses on our business strategy and our financial of corporate offices within our carbon management performance. Our governance and remuneration practices are reported primarily in the Proxy Communicating with our Board of Directors or the Chairman of any of our Committees), please system. This report covers 96% of our corporate Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. An note this on your e-mail. Alternatively, you may send a offices, while in 2011 we reported on 98% Shareholders and interested parties may communicate assessment of our adherence to the draft Integrated communication by mail to any or all of our Directors, or of our corporate offices. For more details, please see directly with our Board of Directors. If you wish to do Reporting Framework can be found on our website. specifically to any or all of our non-executive Directors, the data summary section of this report. so, please send an e-mail to boardofdirectors@am.jll. care of our Corporate Secretary at the address of com, which our Corporate Secretary will forward to our principal executive office set forth above, and our External assurance all Directors. If you wish to communicate only with Corporate Secretary will forward it unopened to the our non-executive Directors, or specifically with any We have chosen not to undertake a formal external intended recipient(s). Director individually (including our Chairman of the assurance for this report. However, we have applied Board, who serves as the Lead Independent Director, strict procedures in regards to the compilation of facts and data and are confident that our report Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 41 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Data summary Performance indicator overview Performance indicator overview Who we are 2012 2011 2010 Energy and resources 2012 2011 2010 About us Energy management for our clients Portfolio size of managed properties worldwide (billion square feet) 2.6 2.1 1.8 Client monetary savings U.S. managed portfolio (million $) 176 105 128 Private and public property equity investments managed by LaSalle 47 48 41 Client energy savings U.S. managed portfolio (million kWh) 1,663 963 912 Investment Management (billion $) Client emissions reduction U.S. managed portfolio (metric tons CO2e) 913,000 587,000 563,000 Corporate offices 224 221 183 Renewable energy for our clients Countries (with a corporate office) 54 52 46 Capacity of client renewable energy installed and operational; or 388 Not available Not available Countries (with a presence but no corporate office) 70 70 60 consented (MW) Employees 48,000 45,500 40,300 Capacity of client renewable energy sources planning and 3,137 Not available Not available Corporate office employees 16,093 15,468 12,867 feasibility (MW) Key financials and statistics Averted emissions from client renewable energy installed and 595,894 Not available Not available operational; or consented (metric tons CO2e) Revenue (million $) 3,933 3,585 2,926 Averted emissions from client renewable energy planning and 5,798,946 Not available Not available Net income (million $) 208 164 154 feasibility (metric tons CO2e ) Earnings (per diluted share $) 4.63 3.70 3.48 Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EBITDA (million $) 391 339 320 Total emissions (metric tons CO2e) 49,344 48,493 43,399 Sustainability awards Emissions from energy (natural gas, electricity, estimations) 53% 51% 62% Workplace, well-being and diversity 18 Not available Not available consumed in Jones Lang LaSalle offices (%) Client service excellence 7 Not available Not available Emissions from company-owned vehicles (%) 20% 23% 19% Energy and resources 3 Not available Not available Emissions from business travel (%) 27% 26% 19% Green buildings 1 Not available Not available Building-related emissions (metric tons CO2e) 26,201 24,628 26,871 Community and supply chain 0 Not available Not available Building-related emissions intensity (metric tons CO2e/corporate 1.6 1.7 Not available Our approach 2012 2011 2010 office employee) [with exclusions] Sustainability strategy Rented area (square feet) 2,756,416 2,449,436 2,274,703 Employees who feel positive about this company’s commitment to 76% No 2011 74% Building-related emissions intensity (kg CO2e / square feet / year) 9.7 9.8 11.3 sustainability (formerly CSR) (%) survey Workplace density (square feet per corporate office employee) 172 176 203 Our sustainability teams Emissions from business travel (metric tons CO2e) 13,163 12,776 8,170 Dedicated sustainability roles Services 161 Not available Not available Countries that report business travel (%) 57% 56% 51% Dedicated sustainability roles Operations 8 Not available Not available Reducing our own carbon footprint Sustainability professionals (including a majority from ESS) 157 129 116 Energy and greenhouse gas emissions initiatives 207 170 171 Energy and Sustainability Services clients 366 334 196 Offices with energy and greenhouse gas emissions initiative(s) (%) 70% Not available Not available Energy and Sustainability Services revenue (million $) 21.8 19.4 17.0 Offices with video and/or web conferencing facilities (%) 72% 88% Not available Energy and Sustainability Services revenue / global revenue (%) 0.56% 0.54% 0.58% Offices that promoted video and/or web conferencing (%) 35% 64% Not available Revenue from countries where JLL's internal sustainability program 96% 87% 87% Offices with renewable energy (%) 16% 10% Not available benefits business development or recruitment (% of total revenue) Disclosure score from CDP Supplier Program 70 79 80 Countries where JLL's internal sustainability program benefits business 44 35 40 Performance score from CDP Supplier Program D C Not available development or recruitment Greening our IT Sustainability governance Carbon savings from server elimination (metric tons CO2) 480 Not available Not available Countries with formal internal sustainability programs (%) 51% 44% Not available Monetary savings from server elimination ($) $68,400 Not available Not available Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 42 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Performance indicator overview Performance indicator overview Lessening our environmental impact through waste and water management Energy and sustainability accreditations (cumulative to year-end) 1,496 1,171 665 Offices with water initiative(s) (%) 25% 13% Not available Greening our own office portfolio Offices with waste initiative(s) (%) 69% 68% Not available Offices with a green building or fit-out certificate (%) 6% 5% 5% Offices where we manage waste contract (%) 7% Not available Not available Offices with a green building or fit-out principles (%) 37% Not available Not available Offices where we do not manage waste contract, but engage with 7% Not available Not available New offices 30 30 Not available landlord (%) New offices with a green building and/or fit-out certificate (%) 10% 13% Not available Offices where we manage waste contract and recycle (%) 100% Not available Not available New offices with a green building and/or fit-out principles (%) 70% Not available Not available Client service excellence 2012 2011 2010 Revised occupancy strategies 37 54 Not available Providing high-quality services to clients Revised occupancy strategies that considered sustainability (%): Not available 72% Not available Employees who feel leadership is committed to providing high86% No survey 85% Building location and employee commute (%) 32% 39% Not available quality services to external clients (%) Green building / fit-out certification (%) 11% 41% Not available Ethics Minimize office size (%) 86% 61% Not available Ethics investigations (% of total employees) 0.53% 0.30% 0.19% Reuse or recycling materials (%) 95% 69% Not available Actions taken from ethics violations (% of total investigations) 77% 77% 68% Revolutionary thinking through alternative workplace strategies Employees who believe Jones Lang LaSalle shows a commitment 87% No survey 85% Offices with an alternative workplace strategy (%) 62% 46% Not available to ethical conduct (%) Experts in green leases Employees who received in-person training on anti-corruption 3,858 3,753 Not available policies and procedures Number of green leases 383 306 292 Industry collaboration Leases with green language (%) 34% 39% 34% Industry initiatives related to sustainability 56 18 Not available Community and supply chain 2012 2011 2010 Using technology to advance our sustainability services offer Making a global impact Buildings on Jones Lang LaSalle's sustainability data platforms 153,610 Not available Not available Total charitable contribution, including corporate and employee 3.8 4.3 1.9 (million $) Sustainability thought leadership Corporate charitable contribution (million $) 3.1 Not available Not available Thought leadership publications 27 38 28 Corporate charitable contribution (% of pre-tax profit) 1.1% 1.9% 0.9% Green Blog posts 98 158 130 Volunteering days 1,749 2,228 534 Green Blog unique readers 11,564 7,570 907 Procuring green office and kitchen supplies Unique page views for Global Sustainability Perspective 21,543 23,500 23,081 Spend on office and kitchen supplies (million $) 5.0 3.9 4.1 Ranking (by page views) on joneslanglasalle.com of Global 19 16 17 Sustainability Perspective Spend on office and kitchen supplies with sustainability credentials 1.7 1.2 0.7 (million $) Green buildings 2012 2011 2010 Spend on office and kitchen supplies with sustainability credentials 33% 30% 17% Leading the way with green building certification and improvements (% of total spend) Existing buildings where Jones Lang LaSalle has enabled increased 1,301 1,027 415 Workplace, well-being and diversity 2012 2011 2010 sustainability performance Diversity in our business New buildings where Jones Lang LaSalle has enabled increased 50 31 27 sustainability performance Total employees by gender (% female) 34% 34% 34% Client green building certifications 59 Not available Not available Directors by gender (% female) 25% 26% 25% LEED 31 Not available Not available Employees under 25 (%) 7% 8% 7% Green Globes 26 Not available Not available Employees age 25-34 (%) 35% 47% 34% Green Mark 1 Not available Not available Employees age 35-44 (%) 26% 19% 25% BREEAM 1 Not available Not available Employees age 45-55 (%) 22% 19% 22% Accreditations for green building skills Employees over 55 (%) 10% 7% 12% Energy and sustainability accredited professionals (cumulative to 1,414 1,075 624 year-end) Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 43 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Performance indicator overview Performance indicator overview Diversity in our business (continued) Corporate office employees represented by carbon management 16,093 15,468 Not available Diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiatives 83 84 Not available system (King Sturge)* Countries with at least one D&I initiative (%) 44% 49% Not available Countries from Corporate Sustainability Survey responses (LaSalle)* 55 55 Not available Average D&I initiative per country 1.5 1.5 Not available Corporate offices from Corporate Sustainability Survey responses (King Sturge)* 239 246 Not available Corporate office employees represented by Corporate Sustainability 15,981 15,289 Not available Board-level diversity Survey responses (King Sturge)* Board members by gender (% female) 27% 27% 27% * (LaSalle) = including separate LaSalle responses, (King Sturge) = including former King Sturge Employee engagement and satisfaction Employee turnover (%) 21% 23% 27% Ethics Everywhere data summary New starters (% of total employees) 30% 35% 34% Type of concern investigated 2012 2011 2010 Employee turnover (% males) 20% 23% Not available Improper employment practices or behavior, including unprofessional conduct 155 72 39 Employee turnover (% females) 23% 24% Not available Employee theft, personal conflicts of interest or other employee fraud 50 31 16 Completion rate for Global Employee Engagement Survey (%) 70% No survey 74% Improper vendor payments or conflicts of interest, or other improper conduct to 10 10 6 Employees who can see a clear link between their work and the vision 74% No survey 72% or by vendors of Jones Lang LaSalle (%) Improper client payments or conflicts of interest, or other improper conduct to 4 1 0 Employees who agree that overall, they are extremely satisfied with this 75% No survey 71% or by clients company (%) Inappropriate use of the Internet or business computer 5 4 3 Training and development Training and development spend (million $) 10.7 10.5 7.1 Inappropriate entertainment 0 0 0 Training and development spend per employee ($) 225 248 182 Compliance with competition laws / broker requirements 2 5 1 Employees with agreed performance objectives 21,467 20,626 17,401 Falsification of books and records 3 2 5 Sustainability training Illegal drug use at work; inappropriate use of alcohol 6 1 1 Training hours from Jones Lang LaSalle's Sustainability University 5,616 3,853 1,602 Employment health or safety issues from ethics perspective 5 0 4 Sustainability training hours outside of Sustainability University 7,025 Not available Not available Privacy issues 7 0 0 Employee compensation and benefits Miscellaneous matters 6 7 2 Employees who are extremely satisfied that compensation plans 51% No survey 47% Total investigations 253 133 77 reward outstanding performance (%) Ethics investigations (% of total employees) 0.53% 0.30% 0.19% Maintaining a safe and healthy working environment for our clients and ourselves Action taken 2012 2011 2010 Recordable cases incidence (RIR) rate for Integrated Facilities 0.6 0.7 Not available Management globally + all employees in U.S. Terminations of employment 61 50 4 Days away, restricted duty and transfer (DART) rate for Integrated 0.4 0.5 Not available Job changes or transfers; changes to procedures 10 13 8 Facilities Management globally + all employees in U.S. Employee arrests and criminal matters referred to prosecutors 2 3 1 Health, well-being and safety (HW&S) initiatives 184 105 69 Formal warnings, deferred promotions and/or reduced bonuses 35 15 5 Countries with at least one HW&S initiative (%) 71% 61% Not available Matters referred to government agency or other legal actions taken 0 0 2 Average HW&S initiatives per country 3.3 1.8 Not available Either (1) additional ethics awareness training sessions, (2) training on being better 86 32 32 Labor standards and labor relations managers or (3) training on better communications skills Design Employees who belong to a labor union 1,860 1,228 990 Total actions 194 113 52 Addendum and data 2012 2011 2010 Actions taken from ethics violations (% of total investigations) 77% 77% 68% LaSalle Investment Management Assets submitted to Greenprint 283 Not available 137 Detailed data notes About this report As a part of our efforts to increase transparency, we have documented definitions, re-statements and Countries from carbon management system (LaSalle)* 50 50 Not available methodologies in a separate document. Corporate offices from carbon management system (King Sturge)* 248 250 Not available Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service buildings and supply well-being and data 44 Read more at www.jll.com and excellence chain and diversity www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx GRI content index Key: Fully reported Partially reported The following table outlines our compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 and the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRESS) Guidelines (2011). Based on this analysis we self-declare that this report achieves GRI Application Level ‘C’. Please note that GRI disclosures identified as ‘not material’ have not been listed in the table below. Furthermore, a number of indicators – while material – have not been reported due to the unavailability of data. A full list of GRI disclosures can be found on the GRI website. Profile disclosures GRI disclosure Status Where to find it Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO statement In conversation with our CEO Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization About us 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services About us 2.3 Operational structure About us 2.4 Location of headquarters About us 2.5 Countries of operation About us 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form About us 2.7 Markets served About us 2.8 Scale of organization About us 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership About us 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Our Sustainability awards; In conversation with our CEO Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period About this Report 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its contents Contact us Report scope and boundary 3.5 P rocess for defining Report content, including: Determining materiality, Prioritizing topics Our sustainability strategy: Material sustainability within the Report, Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the Report issues; Piloting integrated reporting 3.6 Boundary of the Report About this Report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the Report About this Report 3.8 B asis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Energy and resources: Understanding our own and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or emissions and reporting performance between organizations 3.10 E  ffects of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for Data notes (throughout); Data summary: Detailed such restatement data notes 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or About this report: Data coverage measurement methods GRI content index 3.12 GRI Content Index GRI content index Governance, commitments and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure Governance; Workplace, well-being and diversity: Board-level diversity 4.2 Indication of whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance 4.3 Number of Board members that are independent and/or non-executive Directors Governance Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service excellence buildings and supply chain well-being and diversity and data 1 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx 4.4 M echanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the Governance; Workplace, well-being and diversity: highest governance body Employee satisfaction and engagement; Contact us: Communicating with our Board of Directors Stakeholder engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Our sustainability strategy: See our 2010 CSR Report 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Our sustainability strategy: See our 2010 CSR Report Performance indicators Economic Status Where to find it Economic performance EC1 E  conomic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee About us; Jones Lang LaSalle 2012 Annual compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and Report: Financial statements and supplementary payments to capital providers and governments. (Core) data; Community and supply chain: Making a global impact EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 response; Jones to climate change. (Core) Lang LaSalle 2012 Annual Report: Environmental liabilities and regulations: Climate change risks EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. (Core) Jones Lang LaSalle 2012 Annual Report: Financial statements and supplementary data; Environmental Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core) Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 response; Energy and resources: Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) Energy and resources: Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. (Additional) Energy and resources: Energy management for our clients; Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Energy and resources: Energy management for our reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional) clients; Renewable energy for clients EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. (Additional) Energy and resources: Reducing our own carbon footprint; Energy management for our clients Emissions, effluents, and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core) Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 response; Energy and resources: Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. (Core) Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 response; Energy and resources: Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. (Core) Carbon Disclosure Project 2012 response; Energy and resources: Understanding our own emissions and reporting performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. (Additional) Energy and resources: Energy management for our clients; Reducing our own carbon footprint Products and services EN26 Initiatives to enhance and mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Green buildings: Leading the way with green extent of impact mitigation. (Core) building certifications and improvements; Training our employees on green building skills Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonClient service excellence: Ethics compliance with environmental laws and regulations. (Core) Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Energy and resources: Understanding our own used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. emissions and reporting performance (Additional) Social: labor practices and decent work Employment LA1 T  otal workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by About us; Workplace, well-being and diversity: gender (Core) Diversity in our business LA2 T  otal number and rate of new employee hires turnover by age group, gender, and region. Workplace, well-being and diversity: Employee (Core) satisfaction and engagement Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service excellence buildings and supply chain well-being and diversity and data 2 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx Labor / management relations LA4 P  ercentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. (Core) Workplace, well-being and diversity: Labor standards and labor relations Occupational health and safety LA7 R  ates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Workplace, well-being and diversity: Maintaining a work-related fatalities by region and by gender (Core) safe and healthy working environment for our clients and ourselves Training and education LA10 A  verage hours of training per year per employee by gender and by employee category. Workplace, well-being and diversity: Training and (Core) development LA11 P  rograms for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Workplace, well-being and diversity: Training and employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. (Additional) development LA12 P  ercentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Workplace, well-being and diversity: Training and by gender. (Additional) development Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 C  omposition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Workplace, well-being and diversity: Diversity in our according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of business diversity. (Core) IIRC content index Key: Full Partial As one of the pilot companies participating in the International Integrated Reporting Council, we support the general principles designed to promote communications about how an organization’s strategy, governance, performance and prospects lead to the creation of value over the short, medium and long term. This Sustainability Report focuses our sustainability strategy and performance. Our Annual Report focuses on our business strategy and our financial performance. Our governance and remuneration practices are reported primarily in the Proxy Statement for our Annual Meeting of Shareholders. An assessment of our adherence to the draft Integrated Reporting Framework can be found below. Integrated Reporting What is needed to achieve full compliance? Level of guiding principle compliance* Strategic focus and future Insight into strategy and how it creates value in the short, medium and long term and its use of and effects on orientation the capitals. Connectivity of information Show the combination, inter-relatedness and dependencies between the components that are material to ability to create value over time. Stakeholder responsiveness Insight into the quality of relationships with key stakeholders and how the organization understands, takes into account and responds to their legitimate needs, interests and expectations. Materiality and conciseness Concise information that is material to assessing ability to create value in the short, medium and long term. Reliability and completeness Include all material matters, both positive and negative, in a balanced way and without material error. Consistency and Present information on a basis that is consistent over time and enables comparison with other organizations. comparability Integrated Reporting What is needed to achieve full compliance? Level of content element compliance* Organizational overview & What does the organization do and what are the circumstances under which it operates? external environment Governance How does the organization’s governance structure support its ability to create value in the short, medium and long term? Opportunities and risks What are the opportunities and risks that affect value creation over the short, medium and long term, and how is the organization dealing with them? Strategy and resource Where does the organization want to go and how does it intend to get there? allocations Business model What is the organization’s business model and to what extent is it resilient? Performance To what extent has the organization achieved its strategic objectives and what are outcomes in terms of effects on capitals? Future outlook What challenges and uncertainties are encountered in pursuing its strategy, and what are the potential implications for its business model and future performance? * Based on an assessment of Jones Lang LaSalle’s 2012 Sustainability Report; 2012 Annual Report and Proxy Statement Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service excellence buildings and supply chain well-being and diversity and data 3 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx UN Global Compact content index The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC or UN Global Compact) is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their sustainability strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Jones Lang LaSalle is a signatory to the UNGC and is committed to adhering to its ten principles. The following table provides references or commentary to help readers navigate to sections of our Sustainability Report where we discuss relevant UN Global Compact principles. This Sustainability Report represents our annual Communication on Progress submission to the Compact. For more information on this initiative please visit the UN Global Compact website. UN Global Compact Principles Where to find it commentary Human rights Principal 1 Businesses should support and respect the At Jones Lang LaSalle, we value and respect the rights of all our workers, and we are committed protection of internationally proclaimed human to the protection of human rights. Our approach to protecting human rights is embodied by our rights Code of Ethics and our commitment to integrity. We are committed to aligning our policies with Principal 2 Businesses should make sure that they are international conventions and declarations. We also observe internationally-recognized standards not complicit in human rights abuses for the protection of human rights. Employees at Jones Lang LaSalle must comply with our human rights policies, as well as our principles against harassment and discrimination. Additional information about our human rights policies can be found in our Code of Ethics. Labor standards Principal 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of Generally, our employees are not members of any labor unions with the exception of a relatively association and the effective recognition of the small number of directly reimbursable property maintenance employees in the United States. right to collective bargaining Jones Lang LaSalle has always maintained a healthy relationship with union employees, supported the right to exercise freedom of association, and complied with the provisions expressed in collective bargaining agreements. Additional information within this report can be found in the ‘Workplace, well-being and diversity’ section: Labor standards and labor relations Principal 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all We have strong policies against forced or compulsory labor. Please view additional information in forms of forced and compulsory labor our Code of Ethics. Principal 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition We have well-established practices against child labor. Information about our child labor policies of child labor can be found in our Code of Ethics. Principal 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of Information about our anti-discrimination policies can be found in our Code of Ethics. discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Additional information within this report can be found in the ‘Workplace, wellbeing and diversity’ section: – Diversity in our business; – Board-level diversity Environment Principal 7 Businesses should support a precautionary Information about our proactive approach to the environment within this report can be found in approach to environmental challenges the following sections: Principal 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to Our sustainability strategy: promote greater environmental responsibility – Two pillars for delivering our commitment; Principal 9 Businesses should encourage the development – Material sustainability issues and diffusion of environmentally friendly Energy and resources (within most sub-sections) technologies Client service excellence (within some sub-sections) Green buildings (within most sub-sections) Anti-corruption Principal 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Information about anti-corruption policies can be found in our Code of Ethics. its forms, including extortion and bribery Additional information within this report can be found in the following sections: Client service excellence: – Ethics Data summary: – Ethics Everywhere data summary Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated Who Our Energy and Client Green Community Workplace, Addendum 2012 Sustainability Report we are approach resources service excellence buildings and supply chain well-being and diversity and data 4 Read more at www.jll.com and www.joneslanglasalle.com/Pages/sustainability.aspx
