VIP Packaging | Leader of the Pack | www.vippackaging.com.au 1. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals VIP seeks to uphold universal human rights, including accessibility, discrimination and labour rights, across all of our sites. VIP’s EEO Policy states that discrimination, harassment, victimisation and bullying will not be tolerated within our company. Our Code of Conduct requires the fair and equitable treatment of all employees, contractors and customers, and establishes the responsibilities of all employees in this regard. Implementation Our Human Resources team is responsible for protecting human rights in conjunction with our line managers. VIP has an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) awareness campaign which involves training of all staff every two years in the areas of legal compliance and policy breaches and advises our people on taking action and seeking action about issues relating to equal opportunity. We are committed to giving back to the communities upon which our growth depends and to undertaking community involvement activities that are both relevant to our business and focussed on assisting others. We acknowledge the link between a healthy community, a thriving environment, a growing economy and the success of our business. We actively participate in our local communities through corporate donations, sponsorship, fund raising and employee participation and are always looking for new ways to contribute. We strive to support the social issues, causes and groups identified by our people through the employee survey process as much as possible. Measurement of outcomes No prosecutions relating to equal opportunity or other human rights issues have been recorded against VIP Packaging for the period covered by this report. Any incident involving a human rights violation would be addressed by site management and our Human Resources team. 2. Labour Rights Assessment, policy and goals VIP is committed to the principles of fair and equitable labour relations demonstrated through the diversity of our teams, sites and operations. The right to freedom of association and collective bargaining are upheld in all of our Australian and New Zealand operations, with over 75% of our permanent workforce covered by these agreements. Contractual agreements observe statutory minimums in relation to termination and redundancy processes and, in some cases, exceed these provisions. To ensure that we equip our business with sufficient human resource, we track changes in the makeup of our VIP Team. Implementation Our Human Resources team is responsible for protecting labour rights in conjunction with our line managers. Workplace Health + Safety Workplace health and safety is a fundamental requirement of the company. VIP is committed to training our people in safety practises, with a key focus on educating people on the role that we all play in maintaining safe places to work. Read our Occupational Health & Safety Policy at http://pactgroup.com.au/wp-content/uploads/WorkplaceHealthSafety.pdf Equal Opportunity, Harassment + Bullying The provision of fair and equitable workplaces is a legal obligation. Our Human Resources team is responsible for protecting employment rights and does so throughout all VIP divisions. VIP runs an Equal Employment Opportunity awareness campaign. The program addresses legal compliance and policy breaches and advises our people on taking action and seeking advice about issues relating to equal opportunity. The program continues to be run at site level every two years. No prosecutions related to equal opportunity have been recorded against VIP. Read Equal Opportunity, Harassment + Bullying Policy at http://pactgroup.com.au/wpcontent/uploads/EqualOpportunityHarrassmentBullyingPolicy.pdf Employee Training + Skills Development Employee training and development is managed at a site level by direct managers, with Corporate Compliance Programs being managed by head office. These programs cover training across safety, equal employment opportunities and lean manufacturing initiatives. Employee Wellbeing Service Through PPC Worldwide we provide an Employee Assistance Program to give our people and immediate family members’ access to counselling and support services. PPC Worldwide counsellors are all professionally qualified psychologists or social workers who provide services throughout metropolitan and regional Australia. Counsellors help employees manage a variety of issues including relationship and family concerns, work life balance, depression and stress. Performance Review Process Every year, monthly employees participate in the performance review process. This is designed to allow our people to set goals, measure performance and provide feedback. Employees and their managers use this to establish and measure indicators of employee performance and development. These reviews also allow our people to raise any concerns and to discuss topics such as career aspirations and development needs. Measurement of outcomes The 2013 staff survey is scheduled to take place in October 2013. We undertake annual staff engagement surveys where staff can have their say on their workplace. Survey responses are used to fine-tune workplace leadership, communication, performance recognition, ethics and safety in the workplace. A Safety Awareness Week was held for both Australian sites in October 2012 and New Zealand sites in August 2012. In May 2013 an Employee Health and Wellbeing Week was held for all sites. This addressed sleep, cholesterol, exercise & back pain by supplying relevant and up to date information to employees. A Health & Wellbeing program has been rolled out to the business in 2012/2013 and included on-site health checks and business participation in the Global Corporate Challenge (May-Sept 2013). 3. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Reducing the environmental impact of our operations and services has been a long term commitment at VIP Packaging. We consider our reputation as an environmentally engaged supplier as one of our greatest assets. At each of our sites, we work hard to conserve energy, minimise waste, prevent pollution, save water, use raw materials wisely, and monitor our transport fleet in line with our Environment Policy. Read about this at http://pactgroup.com.au/wpcontent/uploads/EnvironmentalPolicyPact.pdf . Implementation Our Environment team is responsible for protecting the environment at our sites in conjunction with our site managers and site-based environment representatives. As our business grows, so too does our capability to identify, monitor and reduce our environmental impact. Each VIP site adheres to an environmental management system (EMS) aligned with the international standard ISO14001:2004. Every year, actions and targets for improving eco-efficiency are set for all sites with a view to continuously reduce our environmental impact. Each site is audited against the requirements of the system annually and these results are an Executive Key Performance Indicator. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is an internationally recognised approach to assessing the environmental impact of products and services across all phases of their life cycle. LCAs help VIP’s designers and customers to identify specific areas on which to focus to reduce the environmental impacts of a package. These services can assist our customers to determine how best to reduce environmental impacts of packaging, measure progress on reducing impacts and identify green marketing opportunities. VIP Packaging is a signatory to the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) and has its own specific actions including the signatory requirement of reviewing all current and new consumer packaging against the APC’s Sustainable Packaging Guidelines. These guidelines focus on meeting the following 12 criteria in order to optimise consumer packaging to make efficient use of resources and reduce environmental impact without compromising product quality and safety. The 12 Criteria of the Sustainable Packaging Guidelines can be found on their website: http://www.packagingcovenant.org.au/. VIP Packaging is a member of the Packaging Product Stewardship Scheme, a voluntary agreement to meet the requirements of the Waste Minimisation Act 2010 New Zealand. The scheme requires members to adopt the Code of Practice for Packaging Design, Education and Procurement which focuses on packaging functionality, resource efficiency, use of low impact materials and end-of-life options. Measurement of outcomes In F13 environmental management system audits continued to be undertaken at our sites with an average score of 85% and two awareness months were held in Australia and New Zealand covering the areas of chemical handling and manufacturing waste. Awareness months usually involve staff taking part in toolbox talks which give information on how the topic affects them at work and actions they can take to improve their environment. In F12 VIP commenced energy auditing at four sites with a 5 year program developed to audit 90% of our energy consumption. This is still in progress. A best practice guideline for energy efficiency at our sites was developed including: Changing to more energy efficient lighting Power factor correction improvements Implementation of infrared imaging Fixing of compressor leaks Focus on turning off machinery and lights when not in use. 4. Anti-corruption Assessment, policy and goals Corporate governance, compliance, risk management and ethical conduct are essential features of an organisational commitment to sustainability as a market leader in our sector. At VIP, we uphold governance processes that support our focus on the longevity and success of our business. We are a privately owned company with 17 sites in Australia and three in New Zealand. General Managers meet quarterly to address economic, environment and social performance. A balanced scorecard is issued weekly and circulated amongst General Managers and Site Managers. Legal governance is also key to the ethical business practices of VIP Packaging. As a member of the Pact Group, VIP Packaging is ultimately governed by the senior management team, which consists of our Chairman and Director, CEO, CFO and General Counsel. In addition to this senior management team, Pact Group also has an Advisory Board consisting of three independent (non-executive) advisors and convened by our Chairman and owners. This provides guidance to the company and meets quarterly. Our company has a confidential disclosure/whistle blowing policy and hotline. Implementation As part of our ongoing competition law training program, certain employees are required to complete face to face and online Self-Administered Legal Training (SALT™). Employees in Australia and New Zealand with responsibilities relevant to either the Competition & Consumer Act (AUS) or Commerce Act (NZ) undertake the training and are provided with information relevant to corporate and individual legal compliance. Our legal team arranges this training. All nominated employees undertake SALT™ training every two years or more frequently when there are major changes to the law. Measurement of outcomes Legal governance is also key to the ethical business practices of VIP Packaging. We are pleased to disclose that no prosecutions took place in the financial year F13 for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices.
