Sustainability Report Relacom 2011 Contents 3 CEO’s statement 4 Sustainable business 7 Our values and Code of Conduct 8 Dedicated employees 11 Our environmental responsibility 12 Our involvement in society 13 About Relacom 14 About the Corporate Sustainability Report 15 GRI Cross-reference Index Corporate Sustainability Relacom performs installation and service on networks and equipment in five countries, and our employees make over one million assignments for our customers every year. We often constitute the link between operators, power companies, end users and suppliers. With this role, we also have an opportunity to influence processes so that they are sustainable for customers, employees, suppliers and society at large. It is a role which is closely linked to responsibility. How we design our processes, manage our production and create tools to meet customer demands affects our imprint. In order to take charge of this responsibility we launched a long-term sustainability effort in 2011. We set clear and precise goals for our commitment through our Sustainability Programme and decided, at the same time, to update our Code of Conduct, sign the United Nations Global Compact and document our sustainability work through this Sustainability Report. By demonstration how we work with sustainability we send an important signal to the market, our customers, suppliers and not least, to our employees. We want everybody that has a relationship with Relacom to be able to trust that we are performing our services with the highest competence and safety, and that we are constantly working to reduce our impact on the environment and climate. By having a long-term attitude and respect for our world we want to “By demonstration how we create an attractive workplace, reduce our environmental load and help our customers to achieve their goals, relawork with sustainability we ting to sustainability. send an important signal to Thomas Körmendi the market, our customers, President & CEO suppliers and not least, to our employees.” Thomas Körmendi, President & CEO Relacom CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 3 Sustainable business Relacom builds, installs and maintains telecom, electricity Data security and data networks and equipment. Our employees make Relacom manages large quantities of end consumer inover one million assignments for our customers every formation, such as residential addresses, telephone numyear. We are the link between this technology that susbers and what time the customer is at home. To safetains our societal functions and the people who use the guard the integrity of our end consumers Relacom takes technology. Safety, data security and environmental cona number of precautions e.g. we have a clear IT policy sideration are always in focus when we design our prowith rules for passwords and approval for computers. cesses, manage our production and create tools to meet customer demands. Efficient transportation – for our customers as well AS EMPLOYEES Our customers shall be able to have faith that we are minimizing our environmental impact from transportation. We prioritize efficient logistics systems in order to reduce “With a holistic approach and the number of journeys. We also offer our customers effective planning of journeys through services for integrafocus on sustainability, we want ted data and telecom solutions, which reduces the envito help our customers to reach ronmental impact of our customers. their sustainability goals.” Consideration of the environment: a strategic customer commitment In order to contribute to reduced global environmental and climate impact we ensure that our customers shall receive high class service from Relacom when we install Lotta Lindgren, Head of Communications energyand environmentally smart solutions such as solar power and heat pumps. This is in addition to our conSafe services stant work for improvement on environmental issues. For Relacom’s trustworthiness is built on our prioritization of example, Relacom has a great opportunity to exert influthe safety of our customers and end consumers. Our ence when we plan our work, so that construction and services are always performed with extensive safety remaintenance shall have as small an environmental imquirements and in accordance with applicable safety repact as possible. Relacom is participating in driving the gulations. The technicians that perform installations and development towards the greatest possible environmenservice assignments are licensed and trained to execute tal consideration. Here are a few examples of investthe work. Risk elements include working at heights and ments made in 2011: with electricity. Installation service for solar energy In 2011, Relacom invested in installation services for solar cell energy in Denmark and Relacom’s solution has a life expectancy of over 30 years, with minimal maintenance. After approximately two years in operation, the solar power plants in Denmark has produced the same amount of energy that was used to construct the facilities. We are evaluating this service in order to introduce it to other markets. 4 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 “With our installation service for solar energy, we are demonstrating that we are at the forefront by offering our customers solutions for climatesmart energy. That is something of which I am proud.” Morten Bønnelykke, CEO Relacom Denmark Microtrenching Relacom has invested in microtrenching in Sweden and Norway. Microtrenching means that in the process of installing fibre we only need to plough a trench of a few centimetres’ width in the asphalt, instead of having to dig up the street. This method reduces energy usage and Our services decreases the effect on the local environment. Telecom networks – Fibre expansion, Assessing wind power stations installation and maintenance services of Relacom is assessing services for building wind power stations as a backup to base stations. The wind power fixed and mobile networks station goes into operation if the power supply is disrupElectricity networks – Installation and ted because of e.g. a storm. maintenance services for electricity Installation service for heat pumps networks Relacom has invested in the installation and supply of heat pumps in Norway. A heat pump can reduce energy M2M (Machine to Machine) systems consumption for heating and hot water with up to 50-60 – Service, installation and product sales per cent. of equipment Technical consultation services – Competence enhancement, project assignments and functional commitments CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 5 Customer dialogue How our customers perceive us is an important part of our “Relacom has demonstrated development and that of our services. We are in regular great commitment and the will dialogue and close cooperation with our customers. In order to systematize our work, we decided to perform to develop at pace with Fortum. regular customer surveys from 2012 onwards. Key individuals at Relacom Relacom’s Customer Service-unit has received the Best have displayed qualities like Customer Service and Switchboard award six years in a row, in the Swedish Championship of Telephony and openness, clarity and honesty Customer Service. The competition is based on professi– always striving for a solutiononal interviewers calling companies in order to get an idea of how the customer perceives the company. Relaorientated approach – which com has achieved top placings in all the years it has taken part in the competition. has generated a positive professional atmosphere for us In 2011, Relacom received the award of Supplier of the Year from Fortum. all. In addition, our partnership with Relacom has helped to promote Fortum Customer Relations’ function as a buyer.” Fortum’s motivation for the award ”Supplier of the year” 2011 6 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 Our values and Code of Conduct During 2011, Relacom’s sustainability work was systemized into a sustainability programme, where our fundamental values form the foundation. The sustainability work was established in Sweden, to then be implemented throughout the group. The programme describes Relacom’s key issues and quantifiable goals within the area of sustainability, with focus on consideration to customers, employees and the environment. Relacom’s Code of Conduct which is based on the company’s fundamental values was updated during 2011 and work was initiated to implement it throughout the organization. The Code of Conduct provides responses for how Relacom acts towards customers, employees and suppliers. It also provides clear guidelines with regard to our environmental and social responsibilities. We want every employee to set a good ethical example. During 2011, we commenced work to give all employees training about human rights issues and corruption and we also introduced a whistle-blowing function, through which employees anonymously can report violations of the Code of Conduct. Relacom also signed the United Nations Global Compact. The commitment entails working in accordance with the UN’s ten fundamental principles for responsible business. The Global Compact includes principles for human rights, labour conditions, environment and anti-corruption. A report, Communication on Progress, will be submitted to the UN on a yearly basis. CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 7 Dedicated employees Relacom wants to be the standard bearer in the industry with regard to safety, satisfaction and dedication of employees. In a safe and congenial working environment, our employees are given the preconditions to develop and deliver quality service to our customers. “Issues related to motivation competence development, Relacom gathered all training under one roof, Relacom Academy. The range of Relaand competence are among our com Academy’s training is based on customer demands, our overall strategies in our business plan and the input highest priorities.” of managers from conducted appraisals. With Relacom Academy, we want to make it simple for our employees to receive the training that they need for their work. Thord Hansson Rivedal, Head of Human Resources Health and safety Relacom has strict safety procedures and complies with the legislation of each country. In addition, the work eleLA10 Total ments associated with risks have detailed work and proHours of training 58,020 cess descriptions for technicians to follow. Men 49,220 Women 5,226 The accidents which occurred during 2011 consisted alThe average number of hours of training is 11 for men and 10 for women most entirely of tripping and falling. The injuries were often limited and temporary. We are working for constant Competence development improvements in order to prevent injury and health risks. Our operations require employees with high competence All injuries are reported, even smaller incidents. This enand quality awareness. Competence development is theables us to quickly make corrections if we see that it is refore highly prioritized. As part of ensuring continual necessary. SE FI DK PL Number of accidents (Sweden) (Finland) (Denmark) NO (Norway) (Poland) Accidents 32 35 2 26 87 Incidents 10 7 2 8 19 Accidents are related to a person. Incidents refers to a situation which could generate an accident 8 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 Employee satisfaction An important tool for improving the employee dialogue Men and women, youth and seniors shall flourish and and individual development is the annual appraisal. In have the same conditions for development with us. Our 2011, employee appraisals were conducted with 27 per industry is male-dominated, and Relacom has a dominacent of personnel for evaluation and development. From ting share of men in the total workforce as well as in 2012 onwards, employee appraisals will be conducted leading positions. We are working actively to recruit with all employees in all countries. female technicians and to increase the proportion of women in leading positions. SE DK NO PL Workforce (Sweden) FI (Finland) (Denmark) (Norway) (Poland) Total Number of employees 1,581 669 96 1,886 735 4,967 Men 1,351 616 86 1,739 665 4,457 Women 230 53 10 147 70 510 Proportion that has collective agreements: 73 % Proportion of men and women at board and Group manManagement Management Management Management Management management level Board agement SE FI DK NO PL Number of men 3 8 9 6 6 13 11 Number of women 0 1 1 3 0 1 1 Age distribution -29 0 0 0 0 0 30-49 5 7 7 5 3 10 503 4 3 2 1 11 2 SE DK NO PL Employee turnover* (Sweden) FI (Finland) (Denmark) (Norway) (Poland) Total number who have started 232 135 27 132 108 Number of women who have started 28 11 1 7 12 Total number who have left 236 259 49** 160 81 Number of women who have left 24 24 1 10 9 * Includes structural changes ** Close down of a customer contract CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 9 10 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 Our environmental responsibility Environmental consideration is part of our commitment to employees and customers. Premises “As leading supplier of network Relacom initiated a comprehensive effort to reduce enerservices, we feel great respongy consumption on our premises. The energy efficiency measures which were implemented during 2011 encomsibility for the environment. We passed, among other things: work daily to minimize our envi• Negotiations concerning green electricity to premises • New energy-smart printers for larger offices ronmental impact.” • Progressive change to energy-smart lighting Work on land and water We affect the immediate environment when we perform Anders Bylund, Environmental Coordinator, Sweden our installations. We are therefore collaborating with customers, suppliers and authorities by choosing enviEnergy and climate ronmentally adapted chemicals, machines and working Our service vehicles materials. Our work routines include environmental reReducing the environmental impact from our own vehicquirements during the planning and work les is a top priority since this is the area where we can in sensitive areas. create the greatest environmental benefits. Planning assignments with efficient logistics is the single most imWaste portant way of minimizing car emissions. Relacom has Relacom manages materials such as lead cables, batteinvested in a market-leading production system in order ries, oil, fluorescent lamps and electronics. Waste and to shorten driving distances. hazardous waste is managed efficiently and with consideration of the environment. We can often offer our Climatic impact from service vehicles customers environmentally adapted waste management Direct energy which ensures the best recycling available. consumtion m3 MWh Petrol 300 2,800 Diesel 10,900 106,700 Vehicle gas 600 6,600 Climate impact: approximately 31,000 tonne CO2. CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 11 Our involvement in society Relacom plays an important role in society. The networks we install and maintain are a precondition for electricity and communication. Our technicians ensure that the networks are installed and function, that fibre networks are connected to areas and that electricity, telephony and data is quickly restored after storms and bad weather. When functions we take for granted electricity, telephony and data communication are knocked out, it beco“When it really counts, it feels mes obvious how fundamental these societal functions are. Relacom is well prepared to manage disruptions rewarding to be contributing on caused by bad weather, and other external forces. During periods of crisis, Relacom manages reserve posite. It is motivating to work for wer and local energy supplies, and we take responsibility Relacom, that has the ability to for general information dissemination to local media. Relacom’s experience with swift mobilization of our orgaeffectively mobilize help during nization for fault clearance and communication is essencatastrophes.” tial in order to restore important community functions. Kjell Karlsson, Technician, Sweden 12 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 About Relacom Relacom’s services are divided into four segments: OrbiFinancial effect related to climate change on Consulting, Telecom, Power Supply and M2M System For Relacom, who build, install and maintain networks Services. and equipment, climate change means financial risks and opportunities. In the event of extreme weather we Relacom is both a Northern European supplier of network play a big role both in restoring communication and in services to world-leading operators and a local partner to offering alternative communication solutions, so as to companies, municipalities, electricity companies, network reduce travel and thus impact on climate. The big storms owners and consumers. With this range of our core comand bad weather that have hit northern Europe in recent petences Relacom can offer everything from the conyears have also had a positive financial effect. struction of nationwide mobile networks, servicing electricity and telecom networks to connecting fibres to Other factors that positively affect Relacom’s competitihousing areas and securing wireless communication in veness include our ability to develop and offer communiworkplaces and homes. With Orbion Consulting in our cation solutions without any physical travel, e.g. videocompany group, Relacom also offers project manageconference equipment. ment, network planning and functional commitments. Financial risks related to climate change can derive from Our organization and management increased investments in vehicle fleets in order to meet Relacom has operations in Sweden, Norway, Finland, environmental requirements. Denmark and Poland. The countries are independent results units with executive management and staff. In the group management team, besides the CEO there are also heads of Finance, Economy, HR, Communications and the countries’ executive directors. Relacom has a decentralized organization with local offices in order to be able to best meet customer needs. At the same time, an industry dimension within the organization ensures uniform working methods and quality regardless of country and segment. The local offices are responsible for the local production and supplies to customers. Relacom’s total workforce is approximately 5,000 throughout the five countries. Relacom is a limited company and is owned by a bank consortium consisting of Nordea Bank Norge, Svenska DNB Bank and the Copenhagen branch of HSH Nordbank. Shareholders influence the board of directors and management via shareholder meetings. There are several channels for employees to exert influence, among them employee appraisals and surveys. The Chairman of the Board is Mats Lönnqvist, and the President and CEO is Thomas Körmendi. CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 13 About the Sustainability Report This report encompasses Relacom Group’s sustainability work during the 2011 calendar year. The report is Relacom’s first sustainability report in accordance with GRI guidelines, Level C. We have chosen to include indicators which are relevant to the operations, even though they are not complete for this year. The process of determining report content is based on GRI 3.0 guidelines and important events in Relacom’s operations. This includes our responsibility for our most important interested parties: our customers, employees and owners. Our environmental responsibility is an essential part of our sustainability work. Our interested parties are identified on the basis that they are influenced by and have influence upon our sustainability work. 14 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RELACOM 2011 GRI Cross-reference Index Indicator Description Page Indicator Description Page Strategy and analysis Role in society 1.1 Statement from management 3 Reported cases of corruption and related SO4 7 2 Organizational profile 13 measures 2.1 Name 1 Fines and sanctions related to violations of SO8 the law or regulations. No fines or sanctions 2.2 Significant products, services, brands 5 2.3 Organizational structure 13 Financial effect related to environmental changes 2.4 Head office’s address 16 EC2 Direct energy consumtion 11 2.5 Countries were operations are run 13 2.6 Ownership structure and corporate form 13 Employment conditions and working conditions 2.7 Markets 13 LA1 Total workforce 9 2.8 Organization size 13 Number of employees that have left and LA2 9 Significant changes during the reporting employee turnover 2.9 period. No significant changes Proportion of workforce covered by LA4 9 2.10 Distinctions 6 collective agreements LA7 Scope of accidents and incidents 8 Information about the report Average number of hours of training per LA10 9 3.1 Reporting period 14 employee 3.2 Date of latest report 14 Proportion of employees that receive LA12 9 regular evaluation of their performance 3.3 Reporting cycle 14 LA13 Employee structure 9 Contact information for questions about the 3.4 16 report Product safety 3.5 Process for definition of the content 14 PR 8 Integrity or loss of customer data 4 3.6 Limitations for the report 14 3.7 Limitations to the scope of the report 14 Principles for the report. No significant 3.8 changes 3.10 Explanation of changes 14 Significant changes relating to scope, 3.11 14 limitations and measurement methods 3.12 Table of contents 2 Management, commitment and interest relationships 4.1 Corporate governance 13 4.2 Chairman of the Board and CEO 13 4.3 Board independence 13 Possibility for shareholders and employees 4.4 13 to have influence 4.14 Interested parties 14 4.15 Principle for identifying interested parties 14 Financial results Financial effect related to environmental EC2 13 changes CORPOR ATE SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT REL ACOM 2011 15 This report has been produced in cooperation with TripleB. For inquiries about this report, please contact: Lotta Lindgren, Head of Communications Relacom AB Årstaängsvägen 1c SE-11780 Stockholm Phone: +46 8 553 90 000 Email: kundservice@se.relacom.com
