2012 Sustainable Development Report Emirates Integrated Telecommunication Company, PJSC P.O. Box 502666 Dubai, United Arab Emirates Tel: + 971 (4) 360 0000 Email: CSR@du.ae Sustainable Development October 2013 Printed on Scheufelen FSC Code: FSC–C009951 150 and 400 g/m2 Report 2012 Contents 0.1 Our Approach 7 0.2 Our People 29 0.3 Our Customers 43 0.4 Our Environment 53 0.5 Our Community 63 GRI Index Chairman’s Statement our accountability and make good be open in all that we do, allowing Let us be transformative on our responsibility to society, while all of our stakeholders access to our continuing to deliver a good service. organisational processes and figures. “Consume less; share better.” Four words from author and journalist Hervé Kempf that Our Board of Directors guides the As we forge forward into the future, we will sum up our attitude and approach towards company’s direction and strategy, continue to empower Emiratis, in support sustainability and an apt way, I feel, to open using strong corporate governance our second Sustainable Development Report. of the UAE leadership’s vision and mission, policies to satisfy the triple bottom line and the Absher Initiative, as launched by of people, planet and profit. We have Our journey towards sustainability has established very clear goals in each of His Highness Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed been through a series of transformative these categories, with sustainability well Al Nahyan, President of the UAE. We will Ahmad Bin Byat do this by continuing to providing them initiatives, in keeping with the environment embedded into our business operations. Chairman with postgraduate education possibilities, of constant change that we find ourselves in. We are consuming less by employing Adhering to corporate governance essential work skills training, and, of course, energy-saving technologies that reduce standards is an especially pertinent by creating worthwhile career opportunities the amount of fuel and electricity used, matter, as it is becoming an increasingly within our company, in which they can hone important factor in the success of and enhance their skills to reach their full thereby cutting back on emissions. We are companies globally. A look at the World’s sharing better by providing easier access potential. Our sights are set on becoming Most Reputable Companies, as compiled to health care, fairer pricing and by working the telecoms employer of choice for UAE by the Reputation Institute, shows that innovatively and with more transparency. nationals, and our goal is to increase our delivering in the governance dimension is key to earning stakeholder trust; it Emiratisation level by 3% year on year. As a relatively young company, we had the is a vital component in shaping any opportunity to incorporate sustainability into brand’s image, and we aim for it to be a To quote United Nations Secretary-General the very core of our operations from the very defining element of what we stand for. Ban Ki-moon at the World Business Council beginning. As such, sustainable practices for Sustainable Development in 2012, are an intrinsic part of everything we do, The members of our Board of Directors “business as usual no longer works.” We driven by the dedication of everyone from are well aware of the responsibility they must continue to adapt to deliver on the the Board of Directors down. We all share a have to improve customer experience bottom line, playing our part in fostering common goal: to be a responsible, successful while refining operational efficiency and sustainability within our business, and and sustainable company while exceeding empowering our employees, to drive for the UAE. We understand that it is our the expectations of our stakeholders. sustainable growth and productivity. To responsibility to contribute to the changes empower our employees, we will continue that will define our sustainable future, and Given the dynamism of the industry to offer them fulfilling careers with the opportunity for constant development, we are poised, as a company and individuals, that we work within, and the constant learning and engagement, allowing them to seize the opportunities that will help us to change of technologies, business models, to achieve their utmost potential. make the difference that our world needs. customer behaviour, knowledge and And, in an effort to achieve further lifestyles, it is essential that we remain fluid in our approach. We must retain transparency, we will continue to 2 3 CEO’s Statement We are also proud of our achievements on By continuing to provide our customers For our shareholders, we aim to propagate the environmental front. By installing hybrid with the services that add life to their lives sustainable business growth. power and smart energy management in the most meaningful ways – such as solutions in our base transceiver sites, we innovative data solutions and superior Throughout our Sustainable Development have cut our diesel fuel consumption and, segmented offerings – we will improve Report, you will see examples of the ways as a result, reduced our CO2 emissions customer experience, while attracting and in which we strive to achieve our goals, proving that environmental sustainability retaining high value customers. in line with the principles of the United is an achievable possibility for a Nations Global Compact, to which we have telecommunications company. Our operational efficiency will continue to been a signatory since 2008. Our report improve as we further refine our systems, follows version G3.1 of the Global Reporting Given the fast pace at which our industry by transforming our end-to-end customer Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Osman Sultan is changing around us, from technological service capabilities, and enhancing the accompanied by an external assurance. CEO advancements to evolving customer habits performance of both our network and IT We have been completely transparent in and requirements, sustainability – in terms services and systems. showing those areas in which we have of our network, our products, and our excelled, and those that we are still working Value. Efficiency. contributions to society – is how we will Responsible companies must set on improving. Your feedback and suggestions ensure longevity for our business. a precedent that can be aspired are, of course, warmly welcomed. Satisfaction. to and emulated. As a corporate We live in a digital era in which connectivity governance pioneer, we ranked first in The road to sustainability is by no means Environmental activist and author has become a basic human right, and MENA’s Standard & Poor/Hawkamah an easy one, nor is it an overnight effort – Derrick Jensen said, “We cannot hope to innovation is the key to not only staying Environmental, Social and Corporate but we will persist in seeking new ways to create a sustainable culture with any but relevant, but to delivering upon our promise Governance Index in 2011. The efforts that implement sustainable practices throughout sustainable souls.” As an organisation and to our customers and community. In our went into our first green shop, located in our organisation, while streamlining and individuals, we are dedicated to achieving role as a telecommunications operator, it is Fujairah City Centre shopping mall, earned optimising our existing processes. sustainability. It is a top priority for us to our responsibility to deliver solutions that it a five star LEED Platinum certification, Through innovation and imagination, we will inspire a desire in our employees and all correspond with the increasingly mobile, the highest possible. Our shop was the not only achieve sustainability for ourselves, aspects of our multifaceted, multicultural increasingly data-hungry demands of our first retail outlet in the UAE to receive such but we will inspire our community to follow in community to join us on our journey to a customers, and so we implement innovative a ranking. We’re also proud holders of the our footsteps. more sustainable future. solutions that have a sustainable impact on Dubai Chamber CSR Label. the UAE’s society. To close, I would like to quote Mostafa Tolba, Achieving sustainability is crucial to the Additionally, our pioneering approach to Chairman of the Commission on Sustainable future of our company, our community, Take, for example, our Emirati Plan – the business, carving a niche for ourselves Development: “Achieving sustainable and beyond, and there are myriad ways first mobile plan to be tailored specifically to in a saturated marketplace and achieving development is perhaps one of the most in which we are working towards this the needs of UAE nationals, with 5% of the almost 50% market share in just six years difficult and one of the most pressing goals goal. To choose what I believe is our most monthly tariff automatically set aside into a of operation, is proof that we are on the we face. It requires on the part of all of us powerful example of this, we support the social fund. And then there’s Alo, our unique right track to add life to life across the UAE. commitment, action, partnerships and, local entrepreneur ecosystem not only prepaid mobile plan specifically designed sometimes, sacrifices of our traditional life through tailored telecommunications for the UAE’s expatriate labourers, allowing Naturally, this phenomenal growth and patterns and personal interests.” solutions, but by creating initiatives such them to keep in touch with loved ones success is in line with our responsibility to as ‘The Entrepreneur’, the reality television at home at prices that are affordable for our stakeholders and our shareholders show we launched in 2012. Entrepreneurs them. Our mHealth suite, too, improves alike. For our stakeholders, including contribute significantly to the UAE’s GDP sustainability by providing our customers our employees, customers, investors, and generate a considerable number with round the clock access to licensed, the Telecommunications Regulatory of jobs, and in cultivating their potential experienced medical professionals with just Authority (TRA), our Chairman and Board we are helping to empower the spirit a phone call through ‘Physician Helpline’, of Directors, we will continue to deliver of entrepreneurship while developing a one of just many services within the products and services that deliver to stronger economy. growing bouquet. customers’ expectations. 4 5 0.1 Our Approach Who we are We launched our brand identity in 2006. We offer mobile and fixed telephony, broadband connectivity and IPTV services to individuals, homes and businesses. We also provide carrier services for businesses and satellite up/downlink services for TV broadcasters. As a rapidly-growing enterprise, we have about 1,910 employees working to enhance and expand our bouquet of service offerings. Our people come from over 60 countries we mirror the rich cultural diversity of our nation, while being able to serve our customers in a variety of languages. Over 40% of our senior management team are UAE nationals, and we remain committed to providing fulfilling opportunities for quality talent in a cosmopolitan working environment. By the end of Q4 2012, more than 50,000 businesses had chosen to use our services. In a survey conducted by ARC Chart, we were named the Best Mobile Broadband Network 2012 in the Middle East and Africa region. We also ranked first in MENA’s Standard & Poor’s/Hawkamah Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 Index in 2011. Our Our Our Our Our Approach People Customers Environment Community 7 0.1 Our Approach Our vision Where we are Our financial To enhance your life; anytime, We are proud to be a ‘UAE company’, performance anywhere. operating in the UAE with our headquarters at Al Salam Tower in Dubai and several We have benefited from the stability 2012 year in review Our mission other offices and storage warehouses across and economic momentum of the UAE Revenue: 14.7% growth to AED which, combined with the capabilities We want to delight our the country. Our customer interactions 10.16 billion. we’ve built in offering innovative and customers, be the employer of are facilitated through a network of 48 attractive customer propositions, have choice for the best talent, create franchised and owned retail shops. Our EBITDA: 37.1% increase to AED resulted in an even greater number of best value for our shareholders Fujairah Contact Centre, staffed with 100% 3.99 billion. customers placing their trust in us. through business excellence UAE nationals, was also inaugurated in late This has led to increased traffic on our and innovation, and proudly 2011, providing 24-hour customer support. world-class infrastructure, which has Mobile revenues remain key driver of contribute to the transformation in turn led to a very strong financial growth (29% increase year on year) of our community. We do this Net profit: growth before royalty performance, aided by increased by using our talent, skills and of 55.8% from AED 1.8 billion in 2011 operational efficiency. Emirates energies to connect, inspire and to AED 2.8 billion in 2012; our net Integrated Telecommunications Company reward all we touch, every day. profit after royalty was AED 1.98 PJSC (‘du’) financial results for the year billion. The royalty charge for 2012 is 2012 showed a sixth year of strong Our brand promise levied at 17.5% of net profit and 5% performance across all areas of the of revenue. business. With more than six million Add life to life. subscribers, we are now focusing on Mobile market share: Further Our brand values improving the average minutes of use and average revenue per user (ARPU), increase to 48.7% (6.5 million active mobile customers). Confident: We take responsibility which was AED 119 in 2012, down and have the courage to trust our slightly from AED 124 in 2011. Postpaid segment growth: 56.73% judgement. our headquarters in Dubai. of the growth in mobile revenues Growth in data revenue is steady, attributed to this part of customer base. Friendly: We relate to everyone Our offices representing 24% of mobile revenues in in a human way, by being • Al Salam Tower, Dubai 2012. This is attributed to the continued Growing data usage: Data usage approachable, respectful and • Academic City, Dubai penetration of smartphones and tablets. increased to 23.8% of total mobile compassionate. • Lotus Plaza, Dubai Our financial strategy progressed well revenue (end Dec 2012). • Dubai Outsource Zone in 2012: we secured financing totaling Honest: The basis of any • Hamdan Street, Abu Dhabi $700 million to meet short and medium Free Cash Flow: AED 1.75 billion up successful relationship is trust, and • Fujairah Call Centre/Back office term capital expenditure requirements; from AED 1.4 billion in 2011. that starts with the simple and we invested in infrastructure, cemented straightforward truth. managed services agreements and Proposed second dividend outsourced non-core IT and network payment: AED 0.30 per share, up Surprising: We find new, different activities. from AED 0.15 per share in 2011. and better ways of doing things, no matter how small. For this report, information has been collected from our operations across the UAE, specifically : 22 leased retail outlets and office operations (Al Salam tower, Lotus Plaza, DOZ, DIAC, Abu Dhabi Business Center), UAE call centers (DOZ, Fujairah), technology operations (all base stations, Mindscape, IMPZ, Business Bay, Dubaitech, Falcon cable landing, Fujairah Cable landing, Sharjah Data Center, Samacom, Musaffah, Dubai Knowledge village, and other technical premises), a data centre and warehousing (Dubai Investment Park, Al Qusais warehouse). Safety data has been collected from all sites except Fujairah call centre, Al Qusais warehouse, technology and technical operations. Energy data has been collected from technology operations (including a small number of other technical premises). Waste data has been collected from all sites except the Fujairah call centre, Abu Dhabi Business Center, Al Qusais warehouse and technology and technical operations. 8 9 0.1 Our financial performance Our governance We have been involved in several corporate governance initiatives in the UAE, promoting best practice through a In 2011, we were placed first in Standard number of workshops, sponsorships and & Poor’s Hawkamah (the Institute for more. We also sponsor the Hawkamah2823 Corporate Governance for the MENA 10,157 OECD 6th annual regional corporate region) Pan Arab Environmental and governance conference. 8.855 1812 Social Governance Index. The ranking 1226 comes as a result of our sustained 7,074 efforts to enhancing corporate 5,339 Our improved ranking is a reflection “ 528 governance standards within the 3,951 of the level of corporate governance company and community. The purpose of the ESG Index is to raise the profile of and compliance excellence that our 8 those companies that perform well along colleagues have striven towards in the three parameters of environmental, the past year. We are extremely 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 social and corporate governance practices proud that our efforts have when compared to their market peers. improved our ranking in the S&P/ Total Revenue Net profit before royalty (AEDm) Hawkamah Environmental, Social Information disclosure has been a key and Corporate Governance Index, focal point for us in the past year. In addition to the publication of our first and we have reached the very top. Sustainable Development Report last We founded our company with a How we work • Dubai Holding, through its ownership of year, we also upgraded our website strong desire to make a difference. ECT, indirectly owns 19.5%. to better disclose our sustainability Through our extensive work with • The remainder of the shares are held information. We revamped our We believe that best practice and good the government, community and corporate governance are at the core of by Public Shareholders comprising sustainability policy, produced a new environment of the UAE, we have a sustainable business. Our goal is to individuals who are UAE and non-UAE sustainable procurement policy, and nationals and companies established in created a positive impact on the create shareholder value by combining improved the corporate governance and ” the UAE. investor relations web pages. To wide community that we serve. responsible business practices with the highest standards of business integrity acclaim, we published our customer and accountability. service reports – complete transparency 20.08% strengthens trust! Recognition for all this Ahmad Bin Byat came in the form of the Dubai Chamber Chairman 19.50% Shareholder’s 39.50% CSR Label in December 2011, establishing structure us as one of the most progressively 20.92% sustainable companies in the region. We are also a member of Dubai Chamber • The UAE Government, through its Sustainability Network and led two of five Mubadala Development Company (Mubadala) ownership of the EIA, indirectly owns task groups, volunteerism and corporate Emirates Investment Authority (EIA) 39.5%. Emirates Communications & Technology Company LLC (ECT) wellness, in 2012. • The Abu Dhabi Government, through its Public Shareholders ownership of Mubadala, indirectly owns 20.081%. Shareholder’s structure 10 11 0.1 Various policies have boosted the We hope that in the autonomous, committed and engaged We want our level of transparency and efficiency and performance of our company’s board. These include Directors’ Access to Independent Professional Advice policy and Board of Directors Evaluation and Communications with Shareholders and Disclosure policy. “ future, our company will become synonymous with best practice in corporate governance, as a leading example Board of Directors who enforce a strict code of business ethics and compliance standards. The Board maintains three committees to assist it in discharging its oversight responsibilities: an audit committee, an investment committee disclosure to the market to be the best in the region. The Board is chaired by our Chairman, Ahmad Bin Byat, and meets once every two months in line with ESCA requirements. In 2012, the Board of Directors met nine times during the year We also have policies on Share Dealing, and a nomination and remuneration exceeding the minimum ESCA requirement. Related Party Transactions, Whistlethat sets the benchmark committee; each committee is chaired In line with best practice, the roles of Blowing, and Anti-Harassment and for the region. Good by independent directors. According to Chairman and CEO are separate, with Bullying. Further efforts to improve corporate governance our Corporate Governance Manual, all a clear division of responsibilities. corporate governance include training is essential for good members of our Board are non-executive, The Board, holding overall responsibility for and development, such as participation corporate performance, a provision that is consistent with our sustainable development performance, in a workshop by KPMG and another Ministerial Decision No. 518/2009 on the receives a formal update on this each year. one titled ‘Key Trends in CG’ organised and we have proved that Principles of Governance and Criteria of Of note, the sustainability department by Capital Advantage. Our Corporate our organisation is able to Corporate Discipline. The Board consists has an independent budget allocated by Governance Manual – available to create sustainable value of eight non-executive and independent senior leadership with a two-way flow all employees – also provides more while achieving our goals members and two non-executive of information. information and guidance on this aspect. members. Along with the Executive through effective and Management team, the Board defines our We are committed to a best practice efficient management. business objectives, which in turn align approach to corporate governance, as The dedication, countless with the nation’s growth strategy. we continuously endeavour to exceed efforts and the degree the recommendations by ESCA/DFM of passion that has been (Emirates Securities and Commodities exerted towards the roll • Reporting on sustainability KPIs, Authority), and meet the expectations of international stakeholders. Our approach out and implementation progress and performance. is based on three of our brand values: of corporate governance • Suggestion of initiatives, activities friendly, honest and confident. The across our company has and organisastions to align with system of corporate governance that (eg: GRI, UN Global Compact etc.) been phenomenal, and we we aim for is one that is nurturing, with responsible business practices and the look forward to further highest standards of business integrity investing in corporate Corporate Vice President, Executive CEO, Chairman and accountability, to enable us to build governance best Sustainability Corporate VP, Brand & & Board of Manager ” Communications Communication Directors a sustainable business. As we grow and practices. develop as a company, we know that our processes and arrangements for Osman Sultan • Setting of objectives and KPIs in corporate governance must also evolve. That is why we have in place an CEO line with corporate strategy and Balanced Scorecard. • Directives on specific organisational objectives. 12 13 0.1 Our annual Corporate Governance Risk factors for the specific identification, analysis, Our identified risks and risk register are report includes information on Directors’ recording and monitoring of: kept confidential due to their sensitive interests in the share capital of the We consider risk management as a core nature. Company as well as senior management competency throughout the organisation. • Harmful effects that our activities may remuneration. The 2012 report is publicly We are committed to maintaining risk have on the environment; During 2013, we plan to provide additional accessible on our website. management systems and enhancing the • Health and safety hazards and risks training on business ethics for our Board, organisation’s ability to manage uncertainty and the associated impact it has on its as part of our ongoing actions to mitigate by protecting our assets and safeguarding staff and visitors. these risks. Risk is therefore closely aligned Ethics at work shareholders’ interests whilst ensuring with the company’s strategic objectives; compliance with applicable laws and We use a risk rating matrix, depicted it is reported to the Audit Committee and Our governance section regulations. below, to determine the level of risk with action plans are in place to address the describes our approach to any activity, which is calculated as a risks identified. business integrity, privacy Our Risk Management function is score of the frequency (probability) and and security. The Code of accountable to the Board and Audit severity level. Ethics and Statement of Committee for developing, maintaining General Principles is a public and implementing the Risk Management document which fully commits framework, strategy and high level policy, us to the highest standards in addition to communicating the key risk of ethical conduct in running management issues and recommendations Severity our business and in the for improvement to the Audit Committee personal business behaviour and the Executive Management. Our 1 2 3 4 5 of employees, members of Risk Management framework is based on the Enterprise Risk Management 1 1 2 3 4 5 the Senior Management Group and members of the Board Framework (ERM) of the Committee of 2 2 4 6 8 10 Probability of Directors. It guides us all Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission. 3 3 6 9 12 15 on how to deal with conflicts of interest, for example, 4 4 8 12 16 20 The Board is ultimately the ‘Executive confidentiality, regulatory 5 5 10 15 20 25 Sponsor’ of Risk Management and offers compliance, competition, and advice to the Executive Team. Annually, personal conduct. the CEO and Executive Management team evaluate the potential risk exposures facing We communicate with our ≥ 1 but ≤ 3 low risk level NOT SIGNIFICANT the organisation. Board and Shareholders via a corporate governance email A number of corporate risks relate to ≥ 4 but ≤ 8 average risk level SIGNIFICANT RISK address (askboard@du.ae). sustainable development, such as business ≥ 9 but ≤ 25 high risk level In 2012 all emails sent to this continuity, compliance with international as low as reasonable address related to quality of standards, anti-corruption, security or ≤1 ALARP practicable service. operational risk. Our internal HSE, audit and Risk Management teams compile and Risk rating matrix maintain a risk register 14 15 Executing our strategy: In regards to data protection: With the National “ We defined 14 strategic objectives across 0.1 the four layers of the BSC (Financial, Emergency Plan for the the Balanced Scorecard Customer, Operations/Processes, and • Our Customer Protection Centre team Telecommunications Learning and Growth). These are then monitors and helps prevent any attacks Our corporate strategy is executed tracked through Key Performance Indicators or malicious activity affecting customer Sector in place we through our Balanced Scorecard (BSC) (KPIs) and associated targets. These are data. have all the necessary which outlines our key themes and the cascaded through the organisation, with a • Our Security Monitoring Centre helps measures to ensure the corresponding strategic objectives prevent fraud. monthly review. We have cascaded the BSC telecommunications and and actions. through the company and performance • Our Security Incident Response team is reviewed on a monthly basis. Further, is responsible for technical security on information technology Our strategic priorities are shown as 14 the Performance Appraisal System used our network, reacting quickly to any services across the UAE. Strategic Objectives over four layers of a to assess staff performance is directly instances of revenue fraud, abuse Some of our finest talent Balanced Scorecard (BSC). The Objectives linked to the Balanced Scorecard and the or spam. manage our dedicated are grouped into three themes. The CEO achievement of the 14 Strategic Objectives communicates a review of progress on Disaster Recovery of the company. the BSC to all staff annually. We are Business continuity and Business Process reviewing how to embed sustainable Continuity unit, the nerve development priorities such as energy Privacy and security Thanks to our Business Continuity, centre responsible for management into the overall corporate scorecard. (data protection) Technology Recovery and Emergency Response programme we can provide compliance with the Plan. all our stakeholders assurance of the Telecommunications The themes that we focused on in The basis for any successful relationship resilience of our business. Run by our service continuity is vital to is trust. Hence customers’ privacy and 2012 are: Technical Security, Facilities and community safety and we security is paramount to us – we win awards for the way we protect our Risk & Fraud Management (TSFRM) will work closely with the 1. Enrich Customer Experience division, this programme assesses customers! When we launch a new product, exposure to business risks, such as TRA and other operators in 2. Improve Profitability and Productivity 3. Create a High Performing Organisation we test it to ensure it provides a secure cyber security, disaster recovery and the UAE to achieve the best experience for our customers, and that national crisis. Our programme also results for the country, its data is well protected and traceable. people, and businesses. ” covers onsite vendors, regulators, offshore partners and contractors to minimise customer disruption. Ananda Bose To enhance your life anytime, anywhere We have certain national security Chief Corporate Accelerate shareholder value creation obligations to the government and the Affairs Officer Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (TRA). These relate to international Financial Improve profitable growth Maximise cash flows standards such as BS25999 Business Continuity Management (to which we are Improve cutomer experience and operational efficiency accredited), and ISO27001 Information civil services, and are fully compliant with Live our brand values Security Management. We work with NCEMA and TRA National Emergency plan Operations/ Provide superior segmented Attract and retain highOffer innovative data the National Crisis and Emergency for the sector. customer experience value customers solutions to customers Management Authority (NCEMA) via the processes Customer TRA; for example we carry out regular We have also signed a Memorandum Transform end-to-end Improve availability and performance of of Understanding (MOU) with Emirates practice drills on security. customer service delivery capabilities network and IT services and systems Telecommunications Corporation (Etisalat) The NCEMA also requires that all telecom to work together in the event of a national Create a high performing organisation companies here ensure service levels emergency. This ensures that in any Growth & Improve employee are maintained in the event of a national adverse event both companies co-ordinate Empower & delegate Transform IT systems Learning engagement crisis. We have a responsibility to provide to share resources and services to ensure resilient and rapid support to certain essential telecommunication services Strategic themes and objectives can continue. 16 17 0.1 Awards and accolades: • Osman Sultan named CEO of the Year – Telecommunications at the 4th CEO Middle East Awards 2011. Business excellence • First UAE company to release results on awards the XBRL e-filing platform • Best Security Deployment award by Network World Middle East. • Best Corporate Governance Award from the World Finance Magazine UK; we are the only regional company to receive this award in 2012. Sustainability • Placed first in Standard & Poor’s accomplishments Hawkamah (the Institute for Corporate Governance for the MENA region) • “The M+Health Award” for the Best Pan Arab Environmental and Social Health Care Initiative by a Telecom Governance Index. Provider at 2012 Hospital Build and • Broadband Operator of the Year at the Infrastructure Awards. TMT Finance Middle East 2012 Awards. • Excellence in GIS Implementation Award at GISWORX 2012. • Named Best Mobile Broadband Network in the Middle East and Africa 2012 by ARC Chart, an independent • Fujairah City Centre shop awarded LEED® research and consulting firm. Green Building Certification. • Best Enterprise Service Award for the • Received the CSR Label from Dubai Executive Plan at The Telecoms World Chamber in recognition of CSR efforts Awards. and community involvement. • Telco Broadcast Project of the Year award at Broadcast Pro ME Awards for datamena, our carrier-neutral transit and content hub. Certification • Palladium Balanced Scorecard Hall of • ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification Dubai Cares honours us for our contribution Fame Award for Executing Strategy; as a sign of excellence in health, safety we are the first telecom company in the and environmentally friendly practices Middle East to be honoured with this prestigious award. • BS-25999 Certification for Business Recognition • Honoured by HH Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, UAE Minister of Continuity Management • Top Middle East Operator award by • TL9000 certification for Network Higher Education and Scientific Research CommsMEA Magazine. • Honoured by HH Sheikh Hamdan bin Development Department; du is the for our support for the Annual Regional • Named Best Local Content Provider Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, first Middle East telecom provider to be Audit Conference for the third of 2011 by SAMENA. Crown Prince of Dubai for our support awarded consecutive year. • Employer of the Year in the semifor the Dubai Award for Sustainable • Honoured by HH Sheikh Majid bin government organisations category. Transport (DAST). Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, • Supporter of the Arts trophy from Chairman of Dubai Culture and Arts HH Sheikh Maktoum bin Mohammed Authority, for the Stars of the Future bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Deputy Ruler at the Majid bin Mohammed Youth of Dubai. Media Awards. 18 19 0.1 About this report du is highly responsive This is our second annual Sustainable Development report, covering activities between October 2011 and December 2012. “ to the needs of the TRA and immediately acts on our ” Sustainable growth is core to our efforts to requests. create shareholder value from commercial achievement and demonstrate responsible Saif Bin Ghelaita business practices such as business integrity Director Technology and accountability. We are committed to Development Affairs, measuring progress and impact, in building TRA a workforce that is happy, rewarded and empowered and in delivering a superior, segmented customer experience. Our priority topics for Our stakeholders this report From our last report (2011), we have continued to evolve our process to • Employees identify and prioritise the material • Investors issues covered in the report. Topics are • Chairman & BOD represented in order of significance on • Customers a materiality matrix, ensuring that the • TRA emphasis placed on different topics is in accordance with the significance level • Other regulators/control attached to them. Of note, topics that are bodies: SCA, DFM not sufficiently material for inclusion in • Government • Main business partners the report are still managed accordingly. • Media Our Board of Directors takes ownership • Community of the materiality process; they validate • International ICT and assess the wider context as well as Stakeholder engagement organisations the completeness of the assessment. Their aim is to ensure that the report provides a reasonable and balanced We have identified three prioritised tiers picture of our sustainability performance. We engage with stakeholders on the managing such issues, where we manage of stakeholder groups, shown above, This is done during a minuted Board materiality session on an annual basis. issues well, and also about challenges through an advisory process started in meeting, facilitated by external Stakeholders are selected based on over the coming years. We ask them 2011. We assess stakeholder views using consultants (DNV Two Tomorrows expertise, capacity to engage and influence, how easy it is to engage with us and direct sources such as interviews and facilitated this in 2012). At the same time vested interests, objectivity and availability. how responsive they feel we are on key customer feedback, as well as indirect the Board also agrees on the scope of Taking these and other criteria into issues. means such as surveys, employee the different parts of the company to be account, a balanced judgment, including feedback, Customer Advisory Board represented in the report. external advice, was made on who to invite In September 2012, we engaged in an (CAB) events, industry projects, regulator to our engagement process. interactive face-to-face discussion with meetings, policy development processes, The content for this report has been a number of stakeholders from the technology reviews, and risk assessment guided by GRI reporting principles, The interviews with stakeholders are identified groups specifically on material work. We also consider the ‘voiceless including ‘materiality’ and ‘stakeholder designed so that we listen to their views in topics for the report. The various topics stakeholders’ such as ecosystems and inclusiveness’, based on stakeholder a structured way. We ask them about their of interest to the various groups are future generations in an implicit manner. feedback. key sustainability issues, our approach to depicted overleaf. 20 21 0.1 We then applied our judgement on issues and attached significance level, stakeholder group stakeholder topics of focus what is important and relevant to our which was then translated into report business through sources such as senior content • Technology for personal identity management, strategies, future financial • Sponsorship protection predictions, policies, programmes, Upon compilation of the report, it was • Pricing Regulator (TRA) • Content standards procedures, corporate governance reviewed by senior management and • Electro-magnetic radiation • Mobile spam processes and our risk register. commented on by a third party assurance • emissions • ‘Green’ ICT provider before formal approval. Finally, Combining these two sources, we were this was sent for registration and approval • Economic sustainability able to arrive on our ‘materiality matrix’ for the B+ level by the GRI. See page 76 Chairman & Board • Employee wellbeing • Customer satisfaction which provides an overview of the key for further details. of Directors • Identity protection • Business integrity • Aligning sustainability and • Skills shortages in UAE Investor (NBAD) commercial strategies • Privacy and security • Long term value • Innovation in ICT for sustainability (data protection) Very High High • Economic contribution • Business ethics, • Emiratisation • Customer protection code of conduct • Customer satisfaction (e.g. feedback • Customer satisfaction Level of concern to stakeholders mechanism • Corporate governance Enterprise customer • Privacy and security • Online service quality (e.g. billing, connection speed) • Training and development • Employee engagement • Waste management • Recruitment and retention High • Sustainable business • Innovation and R&D • Customer care • Radio frequency fields • Supply chain model Business partner • Leadership • Connect to UAE vision 2020/2030 • Innovative offerings (supplier) (DEWA) • Transformative engagement in • Alternatice energy sources infrastructure development • Privacy and security • Four community pillars* • Diversity • Conservation of natural • Employee wellbeing Medium resources** • Offers for special • Process efficiency • ‘Green’ ICT • Direct and indirect positive categories in the • Future proofing network capacity • People management environmental impact of community Business partner • Competitiveness • Business integrity communication technology. • Responsible marketing (supplier) (NSN) • Customer experience • Health & safety • Growth of customer base • Compliance Low • Recruitment & retention • Customer satisfaction Low Medium High Very High • Employee satisfaction & • Community e.g. youth enterprise, empowerment mHealth • Health, safety & wellbeing • Progressive, value-adding CSR Current potential impact on our business Employees • Preserving traditional family • Energy efficiency *Four community pillars: **Conservation of natural resources: customs • Values & business integirty • Entrepreneurship • Energy • Executive accountability • Communication and visibility of • Social development • Water • Privacy and security CSR efforts • Education • Consumables • Heritage and culture • Impact on climate change Media • Transparency, openness • Customer service reports • Radio frequency fields NGO (EEG) • Health and telephony • UAE National Development 22 23 Modern industry, modern issues The world spins, lives are lived, we pray for good and resist the bad. As various important issues heighten in their intensity, we have to keep track of what’s hot and what’s not with our colleagues and other stakeholders out there. We must avoid losing sight of the context in which we operate, so here we explore three issue areas. Seed of business, juice forming new businesses. This statistic of industry: Supporting is comparable to the results of a similar survey in the US (73%) and the UK (71%). entrepreneurship in What’s more, the number of female Emirati the UAE entrepreneurs is increasing; approximately 13,000 women own approximately 20,000 companies, largely operating in the retail Have you ever wondered where in and service sectors. Higher education has a the world is the best place to start a strong role to play in business success too; business? From as long ago as AD 810 57% of female entrepreneurs have degrees, and the invention of ‘zero’ – a simple whereas just 3% succeed in business number which has since become the without a university education . cornerstone of mathematics, counting, trade and development – since centuries, To do our bit to promote budding the Arabic world has nurtured some entrepreneurs at grass roots levels astonishing inventors, academics and we have been busy promoting SME entrepreneurs. 21st Century UAE is no development. Take for example our different: the region is a key growth encouragement of entrepreneurs through market and it has positioned itself at the the annual Young Entrepreneur competition vanguard of a global entrepreneurship since 2010. In 2012, we went further movement. The government is thinking and created UAE’s first reality television long-term and is committed to providing show, The Entrepreneur! (see page 66). a fertile terrain for the growth of small Alternatively, take a look at our partnership and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) with Shelter, a unique, non-profit business by investing heavily in initiatives to incubation project (page 66). We also encourage young people to innovate, take provide technical support to Emirati risks and launch their own businesses. entrepreneurs by advising Dubai SMEs on procurement and contracting procedures These efforts are paying off: in the (page 65). UAE around 75% of young respondents consider their communities to be good places to live for entrepreneurs 24 It is an honour to have had our extensive “ efforts recognised by LEED. We applied leading techniques and technologies to reduce the environmental impact of this shop. The true reward, however, is in demonstrating that it is possible to open, and run, a successful, environmentallyconscious retail outlet in the UAE. Abdulhadi Alalyak Vice President Asset Management and Corporate Administration ” An applet a day… the nation. Our mission is to create Green retail shoots • Lighting power is reduced by 41% • 24.5% recycled materials used in forward-looking mHealth solutions grows mHealth that promote health and wellness, help the project In line with our efforts to improve customers have better access to quality • 28.5% regional materials used in the The use of ICT and mobile technologies the sustainability of our business, healthcare and assist in the management project to improve health and wellbeing is our retail outlet in Fujairah city centre of chronic diseases. • Space is 30% more ventilated for becoming increasingly prominent all over became UAE’s first Leader in Energy improved air quality the world, and the UAE is no exception. and Environmental Design (LEED) In response to the need for action, and • High quality indoor environment for Based on the premise that prevention is Platinum Certified retail outlet. It’s the recognising the role we can play, we have occupants is produced by using lowbetter than cure, mobile health (mHealth) highest LEED ranking possible. Whilst developed our Smart Health initiative emitting adhesives, paints, flooring aims to overcome obstacles on the road shoppers won’t notice it, such change to bring together all of our mobile and wood to health by sharing knowledge, tools is a quiet revolution in buildings. communication technologies delivering • HVAC equipment are highly efficient with and experience, and by making health It touches sustainable design and healthcare services. These services appropriate zoning and controls and medical care accessible to people of construction methods, such as energy enable a range of great content and • Renewable Energy Certificates (RECs) are all ages and geographical locations via management,ventilation, lighting and disease management opportunities for provided for green power ICT, such as mobile phones and tablet indoor air quality. our customers. • Estimated reduction of 48 tonnes in computers. Smart technology could carbon dioxide emissions (compared to mean better communications between LEED certification recognises outstanding A quick overview of the Smart Health our standard stores) healthcare professionals and their projects that achieve the highest portfolio: patients, therefore helping to reduce environmental ratings for water and As you can see, our team of experts the cost and enhance the quality of energy efficiency, materials and resources • Health text: SMS – based lifestyle and has been busy! Our asset management medical care. efficiency and indoor air quality. Amongst health content, approved by the Ministry project team worked hard to achieve the sustainable features of our project: of Health. LEED certification. Engineers from the The UAE faces an increasing problem • Health call: in partnership with Mobile department are either certified or now in with chronic diseases, and there is • 100% lights controlled by motion Doctors 24/7, a 24/7 Physician Help the process of gaining LEED qualifications very low awareness among its general sensors Line service with over fifteen thousand so that future certifications can be able to population of the adverse health effects • 100% Energy Star Rated equipment customers and 20 corporate partners. be led internally. This success has led to of current lifestyles. For example, UAE • 100% of wood used in the project is • Health link: real time vital signs plans for all new retail outlets as well as is currently ranked tenth in the world for FSC certified monitoring technology and services using refits of existing retail outlets and even diabetes but will rise to third by 2030 • 92% of construction waste was diverted wireless M2M devices. development of offices and warehouses to if no action is taken. We recognise the from landfill • Health App: for personal health records, follow the LEED design criteria and, where role of ICT and telco’s in particular and is • 42% furniture and furnishings are thus building the mobile hub for wellness possible, to be LEED certified. committed to helping the health of up-cycled and personal health information access. 26 27 0.2 Our people We seek to retain the best staff to deliver the highest levels of customer service. Over the last six years, the benefits of looking after our people is self-evident! Our long term aims are to: • Be the employer of choice for the most talented UAE Nationals; • Promote safety and wellness as a routine practice for everyone As an ‘employer of choice’ we seek ways to provide our people with internal stakeholder engagement tools, stress management support, volunteering for social causes, empowering call centre agents to arbitrate small-scale billing disputes, personalised training, confidential in-house medical services and facilitating an appropriate work-life balance. 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 Our Our Our Our Our Approach People Customers Environment Community 29 0.2 Our people (at Grade 18 or above). We are also a At a glance targets & progress Facts and figures young workforce, with most of us between Headcount 1,910 full time equivalent 25 and 35 years. We said we would... How we did... What next? permanent employees (Dec 2012). 17% Emiratisation 28% of our staff is female, 31% is 8% Emirati. Achieve 28% Emirati workforce by 2012. 38% Emiratisation by 2015. 31% 6% 31% achieved 6% The top five nationalities after Emiratis Training, learning, growing 5% continue to be Indian, Pakistani, Jordanian, Filipino and Egyptian Emirati Personal Development Plans for all employees Continue to work towards automating data Estimated 400 estimated (share of total workforce) . by end 2011, extended to 2012. collection. Indian in 2012 Pakistani Jordanian Introduce ‘collaborative learning’ to build an Implement collaborative courses for all comNo fatalities occurred at any operations Filipino organisational culture of learning. petencies and functions. under our control, 2006-2012. Egyptian Top nationalities Maharaat training for all competency levels Improve accessibility to training. We foster a workplace with opportunities and functions. for all and free from harassment while championing the values of respect, trust, Staff volunteering 2012: targeted 700 hours 1,100 hours in 2013. in total. Achieved 1,036 hours support and accountability. Security and discretion is core in this super%14 5.1% Expect to achieve a score in the Global Top competitive business, but we also provide %14 7.4% Employee engagement. 3.39 Gallup score Quartile in engagement. for the health, safety and wellbeing of 0.5% our employees. We want our employees 32.8% Safety and wellbeing to aspire and flourish, and, achieve their professional goals through our Launch e-learning courses October 2012. Report outcomes in 2013 report. performance management process. 54.3% Identify H&S training needs and complete risk Complete risk assessments at 100% of sites We are also improving employment assessments at 50% of sites by end of 2012. by end of 2013. opportunities for physically disadvantaged UAE Nationals in Health risk matrix in place by end of 2011. Delayed. Matrix to be completed in 2013. association with Dubai Community in progress Development Authority. For the second Below 25 25-35 Testing completed periodically to maintain consecutive year, we won the ‘Employer Ensure safe food and safe drinking water. safety levels. 35-45 Achieved of Choice’ award by Dubai Women’s 45-55 College. In 2012, we attended four career Above 55 Security risk assessment in all retail and offices fairs, delivered 19 guest speaker events New assessment in 2013. Workforce age by end of 2011. and increased the participation in our work skills training programme to 233, Incident response completed for least 20% of New assessment in 2013. up from 68 in 2011. Key issues • Emiratisation incidents reported, by end of 2011. • Diversity Monitor Emirati nationals turnover (grades 11-15) Review reasons for increase in Emirati turnoAt a quick glance, we had a total of 1910 • Training & development In progress 2011 figures: 12.23%. ver for these grades. employees as of December 2012. Of • Safety and wellbeing 2012 figures 18.07% these, 28% were female. Of note, 6% of • Employee engagement Increase the number of students in the Work • Recruitment & retention 150 students. women held senior management roles Skills Training Programme. 68 students in 2011. 260 students 3 3 Complete company-wide customer experience training by end 2011, extended to 2012 – KPI being revised 30 31 We are also a diverse workforce. We are Pakistan, Philippines, Jordan and Egypt has 0.2 1. Emiratisation 31% interested in your brain and your heart more remained largely stable. (see p. 30) At the 28% 28% than your colour, gender, marital status, executive level, the distribution of nationalities 26% age, religion, political belief, physical disability has remained unchanged since 2011. Our Masar programme helps us build 23% 23% or status. The distribution of nationalities careers, share knowledge and prepare 20% 20% in our workforce continues to reflect that We comply with UAE law on equality and future talent. In 2012, 146 Emiratis of the UAE in general. We employ a good we are pleased to report zero discrimination graduated from this programme and range of nationalities and since 2011 the cases in 2011 and 2012 on grounds of race, our Fujairah customer care centre has proportion of nationalities from India, ethnicity, disability, or sexuality. doubled in size to 120 Emirati specialists. As a UAE company, our responsibility 2009 2010 2011 2012 The imaginary glass ceiling is to benefit our host community. In line Planned with national policy and our Balanced Actual “Opportunity for all” is an important part of the way we do business and thus, we believe in advancing Scorecard, the Emiratisation of the women’s economic opportunity. Our 28% female employment figure is a reflection of this commitment. Emiratisation rate company continues to grow as planned. This year we note the following achievements by women in our organisation: 31% of all our employees are Emirati (28% in 2011), as is 41% of our executive 29 • Hala Badri, Executive VP, Brand and Communications: nominated onto the Board of Directors management team. of Dubai Media Inc. and named as Marketer of the Year in the recent GEMAS awards. 27 Our Emiratisation covers recruitment, • Anneliese Reinhold, General Counsel and SVP Legal & Regulatory Affairs won two titles: Middle East 15 career progression, graduate training, In House Lawyer of the Year and Most Influential Female Lawyer of the Year in the ‘The Brief Middle talent management, moving Emirati 13 East Legal Awards 2012’. The Brief Magazine is the leading legal magazine in the region. talent throughout the organisation and 7 maintaining the strength of our brand. In the UAE, HH Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum honours the efforts of working mothers. We organised distribution of certificates signed by His Highness to acknowledge the contribution of 190 Our five year Emiratisation programme working mothers at du. was rolled out in 2010. This has been proactively implemented through internal Further, as part of our Mawaed Al Rahman initiative for Ramadan 2012, we employed local Emirati 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 training courses on recruitment strategies women in Al Ain to prepare the iftaar meals. Not only did this help them financially, but they received and partnerships with universities certified training from the Food & Health Safety Authorities, thus, adding to their skill set for future UAE National student interns and Higher Colleges of Technology. employment opportunities. The universities include Sheikh Zayed University, Khalifa University and 2. Diversity the Mohamed Bin Rashid School for Women’s economic empowerment our Fujairah customer care centre Communications at the American The way we manage diversity is driven by University of Dubai. We are pleased our National Development programmes. Opened in 2011, our Fujairah call centre is managed and operated entirely by Emiratis the to operate this work in a context of As a UAE-born company, our responsibility first of its kind in the UAE. It is part of our drive to create 220 jobs in the Emirate of Fujairah and improving UAE National performance is to give back to our host community. surrounding Emirates. ratings. Our training programme known as Masar prepares Emirati employees as part of As well as regional economic development in this historic maritime Emirate, the call-centre offers a Our talent management system is also our multi-cultural team. At the day-to-day good degree of economic independence to female employees, who make up 90% of its staff. designed to accelerate the entry of UAE level we have policies in place to guide Of course, running a call centre is not without its challenges! In such a historic Emirate, family values Nationals and push their succession to the management of various people on are strong, and whilst this may help explain the deep-rooted hospitality of Emirati people, it also supervisory grades. At junior grades, we related issues such as equal opportunity, presents some staff scheduling challenges in the face of different expectations of work-life balance. provide a clear development process with whistleblowing and freedom from As we work through these we are monitoring employee well-being and customer satisfaction and strong performance and a focus on our harassment. All the policies are listed on our open door managerial approach. Fujairah call centre. our intranet. “du has set a leading example for other businesses in the private sector as it empowers the local youth, demonstrating the true spirit of Emiratisation.” H.E. Mohammed Al Zeyoudi, Director General, Fujairah Human Resources Department 32 33 0.2 3. Staff engagement Our employees and senior management We invited 20 orphaned children aged management team for lunch. The children both participate in our volunteering 4 15 to our staff Iftar in Dubai. Our dressed up in traditional clothing, received and volunteering initiatives, which are led either by the graduates planned and organised the gifts, and collected nuts and sweets from employees or the community partner. entire event, instilling the importance employees. We work in a competitive sector! So of volunteering amongst our youngest we want our people to be happy and Our Senior Management Executives employees. The kids participated in Drop of Life productive at work. We commission volunteer their time to lecturing college and story-telling, creative workshops and 256 employees donated their blood in Gallup research studies on levels of staff university students. In 2012, 19 managers balloon sculpting! September 2012 as part of our annual engagement, the results of which show delivered lectures, donating 38 hours of Drop of Life campaignan increase of that our engagement index has improved their time, down from 28 managers and Give and Gain Day almost 13% since 2008! The event was from 3.32 in 2008 to 3.39 in 2012. The 56 hours in 2011. Quizzes and competitions, poetry and organised in association with the Blood overall average index score improved by lunch, are all part of the fun of ‘Give and Donation Centre and ran at 3 of our office 3.7% since 2010. By the end of 2013, we During the reporting period, our employees Gain Day’ celebrations that we provided locations: Dubai International Academic expect to achieve a score in the Global contributed 1036 hours to community to 30 elderly Emiratis from the ‘Elderly City, Dubai Outsource Zone and our Top Quartile in engagement. volunteering across various initiatives Rehabilitation Centre’. Thirty of our headquarters at Al Salam Tower, including: employees, including senior leadership Dubai Media City. We will continue to improve on staff and graduates, volunteered 90 hours engagement, where empowering our Ramadan of their time to help honour those who Internet security educational session staff is a first priority. For instance, we Our Mawaed Al Rahman (Iftar distribution worked to make the UAE what it is today. for children have now made a provision for our callcentre) initiative was a great hit with We think it’s of utmost importance to centre staff to waive disputed bills, within employees providing 163,000 meals, Hag Al Leilah celebrations ensure the safety of children on the agreed guidelines. up from 150,000 in 2011. 70 volunteers Hag Al Leilah is a festival of love, family internet. As part of the Dubai Police Safety devoted 278 hours, helping mosques cater and community bonding. In association Week, we held workshops to educate 1,500 We also want our employees to be for those performing the evening with Human Appeal International we children between the ages of 6 to 12 on the inspired by our community and take an Maghrib prayer. welcomed 15 orphaned children to join dangers of the internet. active part in our community. our CEO, Osman Sultan, and executive 34 35 0.2 4. Training, learning, Knowledgeable employees are the career endings) are shown in the Masar and our graduate training backbone of a great customer experience. Maharaat training calendar and online for Emiratis growing Our customer satisfaction scores increased courses and videos offer more than 400 Through our Masar programme, we offer to 95% in 2012, helped by a ‘Product and learning opportunities for competency a unique experience for talented UAE Ours is a competitive market, and our Knowledge Certification’ programme for and management development across Nationals to grow and develop a career. people must be equipped with the right all call centre and sales staff. Monthly all levels from associate to executive. The programme is focused on hiring, knowledge tests show a call centre average Job specific training is offered through developing and retaining National talent knowledge and the latest skills to serve of 87% and a retail sales team average internal, online, or external channels as our ultimate aim: to be responsive to it targets young, degree educated UAE of 95%. 92% of all customer care agents required. Examples include the popular market change. We have grown quickly in Nationals who have the potential to be and 97% of retail sales executives are now Seven Habits programme, Great Manager a dynamic environment and such growth future community leaders, and within our ‘du Knowledge Certified’. Our brand and launched in 2011, and the new Manager’s brings mobility which, in turn, needs to culture programmes aim to keep the focus Toolkit about HR policies and effective team organisation. It comprises six modules be underpinned by training. Since 2010, on customer experience and include the management. These programmes are part relating to technical, management and 800 of our employees have moved up at ‘We are du’ programme across five call of every manager’s learning path. marketing skills. Its success is supported least one grade (figure excludes graduate centre sites and the introduction of quality by partnerships with all accredited colleges trainees). programmes to ensure the effective release Upwards and sideways career movement is and universities across the UAE. of over 176 marketing initiatives in 2012. supported through “Development for All”, a Our employees are empowered to take Lifelong learning opportunities (including career planning framework which develops Our 18 month Graduate Trainee charge of their development and have technical, development, management programme is central to Masar and has the option to learn anytime, anywhere. 31 and leadership training for all employees. again created a positive impact. Training Leadership capability is specifically picked and coaching are complemented well by We offer the quiet of a physical library to 27 up via our talent management programmes study, an interactive classroom approach wider interpersonal skills to help graduates 28 Qiyada, Nukhbah and Mustaqbal. At the as well as e-learning. In 2012, we delivered compete in today’s challenging telecom 24 end of September 2012, there were 54,019 hours of developmental and environment. We increased our intake 97 employees in the talent pipeline. operational training to 3,525 employees 24 Personal leadership and competency year-on-year and our monitoring shows and contractors via 80 courses and 1,395 development for all employees are that trainees stay at it – the programme courses. Programmes included the online supported through a variety of resources remains attractive. Masar, including the Summer Learning Festival, the Managers including classroom, online, informal GT programme, will stretch candidates, Executive Senior Managers Specialists Associates Toolkit and other accredited technical Managers and learning and external partnerships. but its appeal is lasting. Suervisory courses. Around 5% (5,622 hours) of the learning was conducted online; around a Average hours training In great company – training with INSEAD and Hult Business School third of employees completed at least one Note: 1,921 employees, overall average is 28 hours, (13 hours for men, 10 for women) excluding 3 hrs of online module. e-learning training per year4 University agreements exist with INSEAD, Hult Business School, Manchester Business School and The University of Liverpool for discounted academic studies. The American University in Dubai (AUD) scholarship programme for our employees has been increased by 50% to 25 employee placements and 15 corporate social responsibility scholarships for UAE Nationals. In 2011 we, along with Dubai Holding, DUBAL and First Gulf Bank formed a consortium of UAE companies and launched an Executive Leadership Programme (ELP) in collaboration with INSEAD, the renowned business school. The aim of the ELP is to provide executives, from this consortium, the opportunity to hone their leadership, coaching and training skills through academic modules, jury panels and case studies. The initiative successfully completed its first year in 2012. In collaboration with the Hult Business School (Dubai Campus) we run executive coaching, action planning, peer mentoring and development programs. A reward scheme on community outreach helps to build capacity at the senior and mid-level management levels. We and Hult also share common aims to nurture social entrepreneurship and the Business School created the world’s largest student movement for social good. 4 The headcount here is the figure at the end of our ‘training calendar’;a small variance therefore exists when compared the end-of-year figure 36 37 0.2 5. Safety and wellbeing employees, we do not collect safety and wellbeing data relating to them. The The health campaign at the Dubai Outsource Zone frequency of accidents under our control Ours is a competitive market, and our is negligible: in 2012, our lost time incident people carry out their professional duties The Doctor was in the house in July 2012 at the DOZ Contact Centre. The two-day health campaign rate was 1.18 (2.75 for women; 0.75 for with health and safety top of mind. We involved health check-ups with a focus on blood pressure and body mass index, vision tests, men), up from in 0.92 in 2011. Typically, the have in place the necessary management cholesterol and blood sugar tests. A stress questionnaire was also circulated to all staff. severity of accidents is low, such as minor arrangements to ensure that everybody scratches, cuts or bumps to the head. In goes home safe every day. Examples Also, Dr Abdulla Al-Redha, a highly respected ear, nose and throat (ENT)specialist, gave a short 2012, fifteen incidents (seven male, eight of this include our HSE policy, training, seminar about health issues related to the use of headsets. Health campaigns will be seen in other female) required first aid; seven required surveys on stress and our wellbeing parts of du shortly in 2013. attention at hospital (two male, five female). helpline. Only one incident involved a male having to stay overnight in hospital. Health and safety are paramount to a productive and happy workplace, and we 2012. Finally, our resident doctor chairs We are also working to improve the tracking Whilst we are not legally obliged to keep the Wellness task group at the Dubai of absences from work. Whilst we do not continue to monitor and provide training data on contractor safety, we plan to Chamber of Commerce, which compares formally track absenteeism, we have noted on these aspects. Facilitated through revise our incident categorisation, injury wellness best practice amongst its 18 an increase in average sick days taken online and classroom sessions, these and occupational disease data collection members. per employee of 50% since 2011. We are focus on hygiene, proper ventilation, systems for employees, employeereviewing what, if any, occupational factors healthy work environment, manual contractors and outsourced associates From time to time work life can be have contributed to this. The ultimate aim is, handling, travel safety, causes of stress (in call centres, for example) by 2015. We stressful. Many people thrive on the of course, to retain our people. and general office safety risk. We have encourage outsourced operations to adopt buzz of a busy schedule, but for others a helpline for health and safety advice good practices in safety and wellbeing and it can take its toll. Colleagues tell us that and also provide information on our Patient confidentiality “ require all partners to be compliant with work-life balance is important, so we are intranet. In each retail outlet, at least one employee is trained in first aid, for the our HSE policies. We also plan to raise focused on finding a way of working that runs right to the core of further awareness about incident reporting accommodates our colleagues’ needs benefit of staff as well as customers. procedure for 2013. a medical professional. including policies on flexi-time and annual We note that none of our workforce leave. In 2013, we will complete projects At du, the basis of any is represented in any formal joint management-worker health and safety Keeping our employees with us and that assess conditions and promote successful relationship is committees. keeping them healthy wellbeing. trust. You come to see us The workplace of today must contribute to in the clinic: you can be the wellbeing and happiness of employees. Our clinicians are exploring how to Our fire safety procedures dictate that We are known for being the only telecom assured that all personal we track fire alarms activations (including manage stress at work. Our first sector company with an in-house clinic survey of call centre staff at the Dubai information relating to false alarms). We also encourage our staff to recognise and report personal and gym. Our clinical team also runs Outsourcing Zone revealed that 17% of the consultation and security incidents such as lost property, a variety of initiatives such as a health respondents experienced stress at work. treatment is securely helpline, training and seminars on topics theft and access card violations. Finally To ensure accuracy, we assured our held here. That is ” such as the heart, nutrition, smoking, employees that these surveys would not in the interests of security, our facilities travel health, mental health, vision, breast reflect in their performance appraisal. our oath. team tracks incidents that did not lead cancer, diabetes, back health and a special We are now looking to analyse stressful to injury or medical treatment, such as water leaks or other spillages. wellbeing campaign during Ramadan. Also, situations and alleviate them. We are Dr. Mansoor the team provides influenza shots and likely to focus on work-life balance, other vaccinations; in 2011 we vaccinated Anwar We collect data on accidents for our nutrition, hydration, mentoring, health Director Medical & 250 employees and their family members check-ups and structured breaks. 1,910 permanent employees, but, whilst Occupational Health against influenza which rose to 400 in Services our policies cover our 206 contractor38 39 0.2 When it comes to taking parental leave, we want our colleagues to feel that their employment security, remuneration and career path are not at stake if they want to start a family. All of our employees are entitled to take parental leave. In 2012, 157 parents took parental leave, only 27 of whom were women. 95 Our records do not currently track the number or rate of those who returned to work after parental leave ended. 171 In 2012, we recorded a 16% employee turnover rate, up from 11% in 2011. Between October 2011 and December 2012, we recorded a total of 361 leavers and 326 new hires. The charts below depict the split 155 by gender and age band. We attribute the increased attrition due to the challenging global economic 266 environment. However, we are also working with our clinicians to identify any occupational reasons. 100 Female Female 83 Male Male 80 79 76 Total hires Total leavers (Oct 2011 Dec 2012) (Oct 2011 Dec 2012) 60 12 40 40 30 20 6 0 45-55 The graphs below represent the comparison between different employee groups – Emirati / Expatriate Below 25 25-35 35-45 and Men / Women. Total hires by age Female Male 100 106 16.8% 99 14.5% 10.7% 80 8.8% 12.8% 16.1% 60 9.7% 11% 40 45 27 27 20 26 22 Men Emiratis Expatriates 8 Women 1 2011 2011 0 2012 2012 Below 25 25-35 35-45 45-55 above 55 Attrition rate Men vs Women Attrition rate Emiratis vs Expatriates Total leavers by age Female Male 40 41 0.3 Our customers We want our current and future customers to feel safe, confident, included, informed and satisfied. The key to attracting and keeping customers are innovative and dynamic offers and a superior customer experience. Our long term aims are: • 100% customer satisfaction. • Zero breaches of customer privacy and security standards. • Zero breaches of content or cyber-bullying standards. • Acknowledged as the key provider of responsible and innovative telecom services in the UAE. In 2012, we had over 6.5 million mobile customers. Mobile and fixed line subscriptions were up 78.6% and 5.6% respectively since 2011; our current share of the mobile market is 48.7%. We also publish customer service reports – a first in the sector. An independent survey by ARC Chart cited us as the ‘Best Mobile Broadband Network in the Middle East and Africa’ in 2012, based on an assessment of upload and downloads speeds, coverage and lag. Recent independent research in the wireless communications sector ranked us ahead of 72 other operators in a region serving almost a 1.5 bn people. Key issues • Customer satisfaction • Offers for special 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 • • Privacy and security Customer protection categories in the community • Innovative offerings • Responsible marketing Our Our Our Our Our Approach People Customers Environment Community 43 0.3 Our customers The reports include information such as: How we did... Customer Satisfaction 2011 2012 • The efficiency and effectiveness at which SMS direct to the CCO problems are addressed by customer In May 2012 we introduced an escalation channel called ‘Direct to the CCO’. Customer satisfaction contact centre (mystery caller) 91% 95% service staff. • Contact centres’ helpfulness and This provides customers with the chance to escalate their complaints to Customer satisfaction retail 84% 86% answering time. the Chief Commercial Officer, if they are not given a satisfactory resolution shops (mystery caller) • The number of inquiries handled via by our customer service team within promised timelines. This is enabled Contact centre average wait social media channels. through a special SMS short code (1515) and email communication. This escalation channel is currently available to our home services customers, 20 sec 13 sec time • Customer satisfaction and mystery shopper ratings. and will be expanded to the rest of our customer base. First call resolution 72.66% 70.79% 1. In touch with quality Whilst our customerThrough our customer call centres in the to our UAE Nationals, Premium and VIP “ UAE, India and Egypt, we strive to cater customers. These multi-language centres to promote customer service department is to our diverse customers’ needs. We’re reflect the diversity of cultures in the outperforming industry satisfaction particularly proud of our new customer UAE and with our passionate skilled staff, standards there’s always contact centre in Fujairah, which is 100% we truly aim to embody the essence of Improving customer experience and room for improvement managed and staffed by UAE Nationals customer satisfaction. For full details please and provides differentiated services see page 33. operational efficiency is one of the in customer service. strategic priorities within our Going forward, and Balanced Scorecard. As our customer base grows so does our engagement with the quarterly Fujairah City Centre with them: from installing new call centres release of a “Customer and fresh retail outlets to publishing Service Report”, we are service reports. Our engagement with introducing an entirely staff and customers has become a lot new way of customermore personalised in 2012. business relationship for Customer satisfaction reports a more transparent and We manage our engagement with sustainable approach. customers through various channels After all, we believe that including our call centres, our retail it only takes one idea to outlets, web based feedback, social spark real change. ” media, the online shop service lines and even offer the option to SMS our senior management directly. In a move to Farid increase transparency we began sharing customer satisfaction figures in 2011 and Faraidooni Chief Commercial committed to reporting these quarterly. Officer 44 0.3 customer automatic and manual spam (lCF) policy. In doing so, we have also bots’ compromising our operations. Our blocking free of charge. This follows the found investment savings through the Technical Security, Facilities and Risk & launch of our anti-spam filter (including use of more efficient configurations of Fraud Management (TSFRM) team seeks How to become our mobile spam) in 2011 as per TRA specialist server equipment. The cost environmental savings as well as cost customer requirements. and environmental savings, equivalent to efficiencies. AED 4.6m, are an additional bonus and It’s easy! Visit one of our stores or Through our message of ‘Be Aware, the solution won many awards including A safety net for young and vulnerable authorised dealers across the UAE. Be Safe’, we are promoting anti-fraud the ‘Green IT’ award from the Ontario customers You may need to provide a few and security awareness amongst our Centre for Excellence, the Network World Threats evolve quickly online! As part of documents and our advisors will take customers. Our experts have developed ‘Middle East Award for Best Security customer protection, we constantly review care of the rest. a web page providing useful advice to all Deployment’ and the SAMENA award for the safety aspects in our services. We See http://www.du.ae/en/support/ employees and customers and further ‘Best Local Content Provider of 2011’. educate parents on safe social networking, how-to-join-us advice can be sought via a new illegal content, cyber-bullying, and the risk of email besafe@du.ae. Anti-cyber crime personal identity fraud. We provide parental When a hacker tries to disrupt our lock options in our TV broadcast services We enforce the AUSP by mitigating services, we’re ready for them! and movies on our video-on-demand Network Services Security issues (such as Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) platform are censored in accordance to spam emails, malware/infections, hacking) attacks are now more frequent than UAE guidelines. 2. Ensuring customers’ in order to protect our customers, us, ever, making protection against them peace of mind, privacy and the internet community in general from irresponsible use and illegal network essential. A DDoS attack attempts to make a device or network unavailable We regularly meet with the National Media Council to keep abreast of their advice; and security activities. Relevant security incidents, to its intended users by interrupting receive approval on all new content and complaints and violations of the AUSP or suspending the services of a host agree all censoring with the TRA; all Customer protection and privacy are can be reported by emailing abuse@du.ae. connected to the internet. In 2012, we competitions and promotions are approved our top priorities. We aim to protect Our team investigates these and responds launched DDoS protection for business in line with Dubai Economic Department our customers, the wider internet to the complainants in a timely manner. customers, a system supported by a guidelines and Islamic content is checked community and our business! Eliminating team of technical experts available 24 with the Islamic Affairs and Charitable irresponsible use and illegal activities National content filtering project hours a day. This service is intended to Activities Department. makes the customer experience better, The TRA internet access management help other companies manage their own safer and more secure. This is achieved policy in the UAE outlines 13 categories of business continuity risks. As part of the Dubai Police Safety Week in through customer engagement, compliant content that must be filtered by internet 2012 we held workshops to educate 1500 resolution, and the Acceptable Use of providers. They include content involving We use ‘honey pot’ servers that attract children aged 6 to 12 on the dangers of Service Policy (AUSP). sex, gambling, defamation of religion, hackers to try and compromise them. the internet. Sixteen employees donated offence to public order, and national We work with our suppliers to do this 97 hours of their time to this initiative. Content, spam, hacking and cracking security; politics and social criticism are as it improves system integrity. CyberOur work to combat inappropriate not included. crime is a threat that is increasing content across our networks and and we constantly monitor risks of services continues. We continue to offer Since 2009, we have been compliant phishing, spam, and other ‘cyberevery consumer and enterprise mobile with the TRA’s Internet Content Filtering 46 47 0.3 3. Product innovation Mobile health is evolving integrating business models and creating Hospital Build & Infrastructure Congress Telecoms companies around the world partnerships. We have grown our key 2011. We also hosted the 1st Health understand that high quality healthcare mobile health services since 2011; critical 2.0 Regional Meetup supporting the We have made significant investments in services should be served by costto their success are good content, GSMA mHealth & Diabetes initiatives for our LTE network; in 2012, we launched efficient, reliable and interconnected relevant services, suitable technology and Connected Life. the LTE services commercially, taking delivery systems. Already 5% of all Google strong connectivity. fast, efficient and reliable connectivity to searches are health-related, and the impact the next level. Furthermore, we are proud of the internet and other technologies will Our credibility is secure: we are delighted to have led the way in the launch of the continue to increase to have won The Mobies for the ‘Best latest generation of 4G LTE networks, Mhealth App’ at the The Mobile World making UAE one of the first countries to Mobile or online collaboration between Show 2012. We were also awarded the deploy this technology in the region. healthcare professionals and patients is M+Health award for the ‘Best Healthcare likely to improve and smartphones, with Initiative by a Telecom Provider’ at the Our research teams work flat out on their apps and real time synchronisation cyber-security technology, working with capabilities, will be central to this. Mobile the government, hackers, the police health technologies (mHealth) deliver this and software vendors to ensure zero through pervasive connectedness and Smart Health disruption to customer and corporate offering information choices that encourage systems. We also operate a small fleet personal responsibility and help in the long of rapid deployment transmitting cars term improvement of lifestyles and health. to service our network assets in case of Health Text Health Cell Health Link Health App In the UAE, there are worrying levels of man-made or natural interruptions. obesity and heart disease as a result of poor nutrition and inactive lifestyles the Similar to our ‘Smart Health’ technology, SMS-based MD247 Chronic Care Personal Health UAE is ranked 10th on the International Wellness & Lifestyle Around The Clock we apply innovation to provide other Remote Health Record for Diabetes Federation (IDF) list of nations Content Services Physician Helpline Monitoring Smart Phones social services. For instance, we offer at risk from diabetes prevalence. an up-link, free of charge, of the Dubai International Holy Qur’an Awards each year via the Arabsat Badr 4 satellite. Fact Launched and live with Commercial service du & technology partners offer sensor, Building the mobile hub 4. Responsible multiple segmented operational with more More than 71% of the Emirati wellness channels and than 100K customers & application & 3G NW for wellness & personal based kit and health success adult population is obese. approved by Moh high potent satisfaction marketing service in pilot We adhere to the regulations and code Not only are we providing life-saving of conduct specified by the Telecoms information over the fastest network in Regulatory Authority (TRA), and is the region but we have also invested in a Smart Health is the utilisation of mobile communication technologies to deliver healthcare services. It is our portfolio of all mobile health and eHealth services. These services will enable a range of detailed in our Privacy and Acceptable healthcare contact centre, costing AED 5.6 value added content and disease management opportunities for our customers. Use of Service policies. In line with the million (USD1.5m). The aim is to support TRA’s policy on Unsolicited Electronics access to quality healthcare anytime, Communications, our customers have anyplace. the choice to opt in or opt out from receiving text messages on our offers We facilitate communities in owning a and plans. We treat customers’ personal stake in their wellness and prosperity as information as confidential, and this can building blocks of a modern Arabia. We only be disclosed in accordance with are connecting the dots in a complex UAE laws on privacy rights, or if it is healthcare system by using traditional required for compliance with UAE law telecom assets, investing smartly, enforcement agencies. 48 49 0.3 The alo card and International We also offer specially adapted offers for Identity protection in action Labour Day expatriate labourers and others from India, Imagineit’s been a hard day’s work Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and Nepal. In line with the UAE Telecommunications Regulatory Authority’s on-site, you pull out your phone and call Known as WoW More International, those ‘My Number, My Identity’ campaign, all mobile users are required to home. No fuss, your family is on the line. missing loved ones at home can call them register their mobile number with an Emirates ID or passport with a for around one fils per second. valid UAE Visa. To help facilitate the registration, we inform our customers For many expatriate labourers living in by SMS when they need to register, and then guide them to our 250 the UAE this has been a luxury, but no The UAE Ministry of Labour runs various conveniently located stores or through our authorised dealers including longer. Through our partnership with the sporting and cultural events each year with Axiom, Jumbo, Eros, Jacky’s, E-max, Plug-ins to update their details. Permanent Committee of Labour Affairs, us as a sponsors. The aim is to improve We have endeavoured to make the process as speedy as possible. we now offer the ‘alo’ prepaid service. the working live of labourers, especially With no joining fees or renewal costs, the those working away from home, by making SIM is designed with a labourer’s pay in it easier and cheaper to contact families. With our continuous efforts to protect UAE mobile users from the pitfalls mind. We also sell the SIM card right on of using handsets with unauthorised IMEI numbers and in line with their doorstep! our customer protection measures, we offer an automated IMEI check. Beginning in May 2012, we announced our second IMEI and started We ran a week-long celebration in May alerting customers using handsets with duplicate (illegal) numbers; 2012 providing special international calling any duplicates were subsequently blocked. rates on the Alo calling card which works on regular mobiles through any UAE service provider. We gave away gifts such as water bottle cooler bags and set-up booths at labour sites to sell alo cards. Our alo customers are from Philippines 3% Nepal 31% 4% India 15% Bangladesh Pakistan 19% Others 28% 50 0.4 Our environment Building on some great results in 2011 we have a stronger understanding of our operational energy efficiency and carbon emissions. Our aims are to: • Pursue strong management approaches, improve energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and minimise waste in the long term. • Focus on consolidation of data collection systems in energy and waste in the short term. We have come a long way on our journey to establish robust environmental management practices. Environmental improvement comes not just from policies, programmes, audits and accolades, but it is the people in the organisation that make it happen. From the simple, ‘doing-yourbit’ gestures of printing less to the inspirational hard work in setting up a comprehensive performance improvement system; it is the changes in how we do things that count. We are reviewing our day-to-day projects to inspire 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 change, as well as formal management approaches that allow for compliance and overall improvement. We are certified to the international environmental, Our Our Our Our Our health and safety standards ISO 14001 and Approach People Customers Environment Community OHSAS 18001. 53 0.4 Our environment Key issues exhibitions as well. Importantly, we We said we would... How we did... What next? • Supply chain. spread the word on waste to customers • Waste management/recycling. via four million text messages, and Natural resources • Conservation of natural through social networking sites. Hybrid power and smart energy management resources. controllers in at least 100 of our base 60 more sites in 2013. • Go Green. Through a 12 day awareness achieved • Environmental benefits of transceiver stations. communication technology. campaign, we collected 209 ‘Green Ideas’ from our employees in 2012. Of these, Install solar power systems in four remote offContinue installing solar systems in sites grid mobile sites. where possible. 32 were accepted for implementation Initiatives in 2012 achieved by business units! Examples included included the following: replacing paper application forms with Reduce our fleet energy use and carbon dioxide Continue the reduction and report outputs of emissions by switching vehicle types hired. in progress vehicle tracking monitoring. digital alternatives; using QR codes for brochures rather than paper copies; SIM • The retail environment. Recycled and packs made from recycled materials; and To obtain a baseline level of energy A specialist will be appointed in Q1 2013 to FSC certified paper was used in our eco-fonts for improved printer efficiency. consumption for office facilities. in progress collect data and provide a report. carrier bags and information leaflets. • Printer Efficiency. We use our Waste management/recycling • Desert Clean-Up. Along with school manufacturer’s ‘managed printer We have been able to reduce the number of children and other volunteers, we services’ where we lease our printers print cartridges consumed by 43% from 2011 participated in a ‘Desert Clean-Up’ and pay on the basis of printed pages. To recycle at least 50% of old printer cartridges. in progress and are now working to instill more robust initiative organised by the Dubai recycling and reporting procedures. They also take care of the maintenance Municipality in February 2012. The and cartridge return, thus helping to To implement recycling programme for wastes We are working with a business vendor Director-General of the Municipality reduce our footprint. Our printers are to implement this aspect with significant (paper/plastics, cans, bottles etc.). achieved opened the event in the desert area also set to automatic double-sided and success. of Al Warqa, which included cultural grayscale printing. Our efforts in recycling our paper wastes and entertainment programmes and have increased by 36% from 2011 which To attain at least a 50% recycling of paper constitutes all forms of paper consumption. waste for office facilities and warehouse. in progress We are now working to improve our reporting mechanisms. Supply chain/procurement Achieve responsible waste management To identify and establish a mechanism to handle practices by 2015. Assess suppliers’ e-wastes/hazardous wastes generated, by compliance with our environmental in progress recycling or safe disposal methods. procurement requirements. We will monitor progress made and report performance. All vendors must confirm their compliance HSE compliance for all vendors. with our HSE regulations and submit any in progress relevant documentation. All vendors must now register on our online E-tender system. achieved portal to submit tenders, invoices etc. 54 55 0.4 1. Buying into This policy applies to relevant teams in We are pleased to say that both As a result of this, suppliers now need to our wholly owned and operated business editions of our Sustainable Development agree to our HSE policies and submit proof responsible units and premises, not to our teams in Report have been printed responsibly. of their own policies when they register procurement our outsourced call centres or warehouse operations. The aim is to collect records of In 2012, we started phasing out our old with us. In this way, we are advocating best practice and helping these companies quantities of recycled products purchased, retail carrier bags by replacing these with comply with UAE regulations on HSE. We purchase goods and services from and the existence of environmental options those made from FSC certified paper. over 700 active business partners, and in vendor quotes, and publish the results. Also evaluated were various size options The next phase of this roll-out will include have sourced over AED 13m (US$3.5m) Finally, the policy encourages waste to ensure that the bags were produced performance measurement through from them since 2011. As part of this minimisation practices. with minimal waste. We are proud that all regular checks, audits and inspections with continuing commitment, we have targeted of the bags in circulation are made from reporting on conformity and performance. to source AED 12m from SMEs in 2013. On this basis, the following considerations FSC certified paper. double-sided and guide our procurement decisions: grayscale printing. We continued our pursuit of excellence Our new environmental “ and thought leadership with the release of our new Environmental Procurement • Raw material sourcing is environmentally Furthermore, all suppliers are now procurement policy and Policy in April 2012. responsible. invited to submit registration and tender our revised HSE vendor • Reduction of substances harmful to documents through an online portal. As procedures strengthen human health and environment we operate in the telecoms sector, this Through this policy, we aim to direct the (eg: CFCs, mercury, lead, phthalates). has ensured a sizeable reduction in the the work with suppliers purchase and use of environmentally • Recycled content and recyclability or quantity of printed paper, for us and our on waste management sustainable products. It is also a management tool to promote more biodegradability. suppliers. Additionally, it has made the considerations at the ” efficient use of natural resources, • Shipped with minimal packaging made of procurement process more efficient and end of a product’s life. recycled/recyclable materials. transparent. Unfortunately, as we have which has been identified as one of • Eco-efficient production, operation, and no record of the paper quantities received our material issues. The purpose is to make purchasing decisions based disposal. earlier, we cannot estimate the paper and Rashid • Locally or regionally sourced, where ink savings. However, we are working to on economic as well as environmental El Sheikh possible. secure some anecdotal data in order to EVP, Corporate factors, evaluating the entire product life • Use of alternative (less polluting) fuel estimate this. Services cycle; from raw materials, manufacturing, sources where possible. packaging, distribution, operation, maintenance and disposal or recycling. Making suppliers HSE compliant The policy states a preference for We revised our ‘Health, Safety and certified products, such as Forest Most importantly, the policy assures Environmental Requirements for Vendors’ Stewardship Council (FSC) certified and a preference for environmentally procedure in January 2012. Ultimately recycled paper. The policy directs a responsible products when performance its goals are to protect our people and minimum of 30% recycled fibre (preor and price are comparable to the environment during service delivery, post-consumer waste) in products such conventional products. Of note, the ensure compliance with the law and, as stationery and marketing materials. financial cost is reviewed across the where possible, international HSE best Elemental Chlorine-Free paper is required entire life cycle, including initial price, practice. by the policy at a minimum. maintenance costs, operating costs, replacement and disposal cost. 56 57 0.4 2. Waste management agents, switchgear, toner cartridges and 3. Conservation of This has reduced our average annual diesel fuel consumption and equivalent – consolidating our paints are also hazardous. natural resources CO 2 emissions by 11%, saving around approach Our response to the challenge of this Energy – good progress to report one million litres of diesel and removing 2,500 tonnes of CO 2 emissions! Our sites waste stream comes in the form of our We constantly search for ways to running on mains electricity are 6% more We are currently focusing on measuring new Hazardous Waste Management reduce our energy consumption. Our efficient than 2011 (3.6% since 2010). waste quantities and recycling proactively, policy that was published in 2012. This ‘Green du’ initiative includes our efforts By the end of 2014, we intend to increase with the long term aim of reducing the underpins our commitment to safely and to improve energy efficiency and the the number of sites using these solutions waste produced by our business and responsibly manage our electronic and use of renewable energy at our mobile to 250 across the UAE, with an anticipated our customers. As part of the latter, hazardous waste and report the data transceiver stations. Our data centres are saving of 6.8 million litres of diesel and we would also like to positively influence by 2015. Our new policy commits us to not currently included in our energy data consequent reduction of carbon emissions the behaviour of our customers and procedures relating to compliance, handling, collection process, however, we expect by 17,000 tonnes. employees and make them part of testing, and recycling options, contractor to include these in our energy data our journey. selection, and destruction of sensitive collection procedures by 2015. data in electronic devices. It is compliant 70 63.88 63.42 Our recycling rates over 2011 and 2012 with the UAE Federal Law No. 24 (1999) We endorse the purpose of the World are depicted below and we are pleased to for the Protection and Development of 60 Energy Forum to move towards cleaner, say that our efforts have been successful the Environment and is influenced by the 53.91 safer and more sustainable energy 50 and we will continue to improve on this. European Directives on Waste Electrical and thus, we sponsored and attended and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) the forum in Dubai in 2012. In our role 40 A new hazardous waste policy and Restriction of Hazardous Substances as a telecommunications provider, we Hazardous waste takes many forms; it’s directive (RoHS). recognise the need to develop innovative 30 not all chemical slurry! 22.12 21.57 and viable sustainable practices to 20.79 All electronic waste is first assessed for 20 conserve energy, and encourage efforts Some common hazardous waste include reuse, or resale value. All staff involved to further explore the possibilities that will fluorescent lighting tubes, lead acid in handling hazardous waste are made 10 promote energy efficiencies. batteries, fire retardants, diesel, PVC aware of the special handling requirements cable insulation and scrap electronic involved, such as wearing protective 0 Smart energy base stations 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 equipment. Some types of cleaning clothing or labelling bagged waste. In line with the UAE Government’s diesel generator & hybrid power strategy on sustainable energy, and mains electricity with the objective to reduce our diesel CO2 intensity base transceiver consumption and CO 2 emissions, we have stations (tonnes per site) started to convert our diesel sites to smart-energy hybrid systems. In addition to the achieved benefits in Fuel 90.93 and CO2 reduction, the reduced generator From 1780 base transceiver station runtime by 60% leads to less generator 66.69 (BTS) sites in 2010, we have increased maintenance requirements, as well as less 51.62 43.67 this to 3,050 in 2012. 7.5% of these noise pollution. 40.71 are powered by diesel or hybrid diesel/ 34.01 battery systems. In 2011, we committed Following the success of our very first to using hybrid power and smart energy solar power project at Sir Bu Nair Island management controllers at 137 of BTS in 2011, providing mobile coverage to the sites, which we have now achieved. The entire island with zero emissions, we have 2011 2012 hybrid power system via the Smart replicated this at other four sites in the UAE. Paper Cardboard Energy Manager reduces the generators Plastics, sim/scratch cards run time from 24 hours a day to only 10 hours, while the power supply to the cell Tonnes of waste recycled station is maintained through batteries. 58 59 Also and as a result of an employee 0.4 suggestion – new insulation was installed take the form of low-carbon substitution so we invested in our own infrastructure. to improve thermal insulation at mobile such as video-conferencing in place of The benefits include a more secure stations, towers and commercial buildings. face-to-face meetings. ICT can help and robust system, ownership of its improve energy distribution and management as well as cost savings Vehicle efficiency energy use patterns through ‘smart’ of AED 2.1million and energy efficiencies. We work with an accredited business transmission grids or intelligent electricity partner to ensure that our fleet of meters or even ‘smart homes’. Other Virtualisation at work vehicles has the minimum environmental examples include more efficient transport Our technology and security experts impact. We have started to use vehicles logistics coupled with software to monitor data centre infrastructure at du with a lower engine capacity and lower improve transport networks design. for opportunities to save cost and improve resultant environment emissions. We process efficiency. A normal by-product is receive mileage, fuel consumption and Closer to home, we are developing our energy efficiency. carbon emissions related data from own improvements, led by our experts in our partner on a regular basis. This, our Technical Security, Facilities and Risk Our Security Monitoring Centre (SMC) combined with the installation of vehicle & Fraud Management (TSFRM) division. ‘virtualisation’ programme aims to make tracking devices will help us monitor our existing systems more compact, by literally fleet usage and consumption to better Retail consolidation removing kit and replacing it with virtual manage our impact. My eBill We operate 22 stores in the UAE, technologies. This is a bit like using the Did you know that 45% of all printthe final-stage connectivity for which ‘cloud’ to store your photos rather than Since 2010, there has been a slight outs and photo copies are thrown previously involved our competitor’s IT a hard drive. Data centres can be smaller, increase in tonnes of CO 2 relating to infrastructure, including firewalls. The cabling requirements are lower, and power away before the end of the day? petrol and diesel use. Over the next final-stage is typically the bottleneck in savings are clear. The system also allows few years, we hope to record a general telecommunications where the bandwidth a greater agility to respond to business Our online billing service offers limits the data that can be delivered needs by simply adding new virtual decrease in these emissions through the above measures. customers easy access to their to the customer. Overheads for the machines on the spot. bills as PDF files. This helps technologies required have been high Water management customers manage their bill online The usage of water is minimal and save time. They are accurate throughout the organisation and and accessible and of course, is used in bathrooms at our office the environmental benefits are locations. Currently, we do not have any substantial. No paper bill: no waste! mechanism to measure or report on the amount of water used or discharged. The online billing initiative, which However, we have started implementing was launched in 2009, is currently ‘smart’ fittings, such as low flow taps, to minimise usage and waste. We have also used by 65% of our customers, run internal campaigns to educate our and we recorded a 40% reduction staff on water conservation. in printed page volume in 2012. In total, we recorded 1.76 million consumer printables in 2012 versus 4. Environmental 4.21 million in 2011. benefits of communication astonishing benefits of awareness raising technology through modern communications, the devices themselves can help create the Can energy-hungry ICT devices and change we all wish to see. The biggest infrastructure really help promote gains are in smarter power supply, eco-efficiency? Leaving aside the buildings and transportation. Examples 60 0.5 Our community Along with our policies, programmes, technologies and services we would be nothing without our healthy programme of community and social development projects. Our long term aims are: • Acknowledgement as a successful focal point for nurturing youth entrepreneurship. • Maintaining the position of a key contributor of education development. • On-going positive contribution to social programmes. • Contribution to the preservation of traditions and traditional values. • Maintaining our positive contribution to UAE economic development. • Compliance with UAE regulations and international best practice for base station electromagnetic fields. 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 Our Our Our Our Our Approach People Customers Environment Community 63 0.5 Our community Our community programmes are focused on root causes of community issues. We like to ensure our support is focused and effective to consistently improve our projects and encouraging our partners to innovate. At a glance Key issues Community: four pillars • Entrepreneurship • Education Economic contribution Awarded as the best supporting partner for SMEs 2012 • Developing our society We are proud of this “ • Heritage and culture Radio frequency fields Entrepreneurship partnership and to be What we did... Level of investment able to contribute as Flagship projects According to the UAE Ministry of 2011 2012 (% of budget) a national company in Economy, small and medium enterprises (SMEs) contribute 60% to the nation’s nurturing the SME sector Mawaed Al Rahman (Iftar distribution) 90,000 meals served. 161,630 meals served. 19% gross domestic product and generate especially with regard to Emirati entrepreneurs. ” two thirds of employment . This makes published 26 stories, published 36 stories, them an important part of the country’s Kalimat 9% economic fabric, and supporting them is Fahad AED 1.5m in sales AED 2.5m in sales vital to the future growth and economic Shelter 1.000 benefeciaries, 3,800 benefeciaries, 9% stability of the UAE and its people. Al Hassawi 3,500 emirati registered users 4,532 emirati registered users Chief HR Officer Maraya We support SMEs and entrepreneurs in 840 attendees 4,487 attendees 20% a number of different ways. Along with the creation of engagement initiatives, we Feekom Al Khair wa Al Barakah 10.3, AED (target 10m) have also provided ‘tailor made’ mobile (Housing renovation projects) solutions, such as the ‘Her Business 2012 was the third consecutive year that we Super Plan’ and ‘The Entrepreneur Plan’, supported the ‘Majid bin Mohammed Youth for these specific groups. Following the Media Awards’. By supporting this intiative, we Four pillars, many success of our first franchise-licensed are proud to give the UAE’s future journalists and media professionals a head start! store in Dubai set up in 2010 through the initiatives Mohammed Bin Rashid Establishment for Young Business Leaders (MBRE), We also continue to support initiatives such It is with passion and commitment we signed an agreement in 2011 to as the ‘Young Entrepreneur Competition’ that we push forward projects and give MBRE members priority with an and we were a Lead Partner at the ‘Global partnerships in the four principal areas Education Entrepreneurship agreed percentage of selected purchases Entrepreneurship Summit Entrepreneurial of our community work. Highlights for sourced from them. Having sourced more Ventures of Arabia (GES-EVA’) held in this year are the stronger partnership than AED 2 million from them to date, we December. We are also a sponsor of the with Shelter, high-speed internet and have been recognised by the Department ‘Grow Your Business – Regional SME multimedia programmes for universities, of Economic Development as one of Competition and Awards,’ which offers Heritage increased guest speaker slots, and Developing our regional SMEs the opportunity to showcase and the fastest growing supporters of this ongoing success with initiatives such society their competencies, gain international Culture programme. as Kalimat, Pink Ribbon campaign, Iftar exposure and win cash prizes to support distribution and Red Crescent. their business growth. Our four pillars 64 65 0.5 We are an Emirati “ marketplace looking to create jobs in the premier retailer of vintage watches. an Arabic-language song dedicated to the company to the core, MENA region. Specialising in the trade and preservation UAE by the people of the UAE. Together, of watches, Momentum is now based and we take pride in these initiatives provided an unprecedented As of December 2012, the website had in Dubai International Financial Centre opportunity for people in the UAE to be an being able to give the 5,000 registered users, with 90% marketing (DIFC), after beginning life as a start-up advocate for community spirit and capture next generation of their skills and the rest hiring. Almost 70% at Shelter. the spirit of the nation through their words UAE leaders the of the users are based in the UAE, followed and deeds. support that they by Lebanon and Egypt. We are also proud of an up-and-coming venture, Barzh, that will highlight the need to succeed. ” The celebrations concluded with a ceremony Shelter Dubai – the entrepreneur’s hub unique aspects of the UAE’s cuisine. 28 November at Zayed University Campus, Hala Badri Since our inception, we have been a keen Founded by three Emirati entrepreneurs, in Abu Dhabi, including a performance of Executive Vice supporter of up-and-coming businesses this start-up is about to launch an exciting the ‘Written by the People’ song, a forum President Brand and in the UAE. In May 2012, we renewed our portal providing information about Emirati on social media and the presentation of the Communications partnership with Shelter, continuing to food and connect the general public with Social Media Awards. The ceremony was support hundreds of UAE’s entrepreneurs, Emirati cooks. attended by Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed small businesses and creative professionals. Al Nahyan, the UAE Minister of Foreign Bokra Affairs and the Minister of Higher Education Shelter is a unique, non-profit business Legendary music producer Quincy Jones and Scientific Research. The Entrepreneur TV show incubation project, and one of the and Emirati social entrepreneur Badr In 2012, we launched ‘The Entrepreneur’, UAE’s most active community education Jafar jointly produced the Arabic charity House renovation campaign that keeps an exciting TV reality show encouraging platforms, offering aspiring businessmen single ‘Tomorrow/Bokra’. Since its launch on giving a new genre of entrepreneurs in the UAE and women a place to turn their in November 2011, it received over 2.2 In July 2012 we launched the ‘Feekom with innovative ideas and exceptional enterprising ideas into successful reality. million YouTube hits! The song was also drive. This programme welcomed Al Khair wa Al Barakah’ fundraising business plans and existing ventures in made exclusively available on MyWorld, campaign with a goal to enhance the need of recapitalisation. Since its launch, Shelter has received with five remixes also available as caller living conditions for Emiratis. This was significant media coverage in The New York tunes. All funds raised went to the Arab done through the renovation of their Times, The National and on the BBC. Fund for Arts and Culture to finance homes to high professional standards to From the eco-design of the building itself educational programs in music, arts and make their lives more secure and be a to the event topics, the organisation is culture for children from across the Arab world. foundation for their own financial stability. committed to operating in a sustainable The Ministry of Public Works carried way. Users come from diverse sectors out the renovations. Our partner, the such as design, architecture, consultancy, fashion, technology, web services, pressure Developing our Society Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan Foundation, groups or social enterprise. We work with well-known partners to committed to manage the renovation deliver a variety of social programmes, of 30 homes for Emirati orphans. The Prizes included a cash investment of AED 1m towards the winning business, As part of our partnership, we issue with gratifying levels of public interest. campaign received great interest, and as the largest prize ever offered on a UAE co-branded communications and provide Whilst we run planned initiatives, we also a result, was extended in August as a reality TV show, along with professional high-speed telecom and internet services respond as required, including providing result! It attracted more than AED 10 m services and support worth more to the centre to support their activities. assistance for the humanitarian crisis at in donations from our customers and the than AED 50,000 e.g. office space, An estimated 4532 Emirati individuals used Syria’s borders with Jordan and Lebanon. general public. We donated telecommunications services, advertising/ Shelter’s premises between June and AED 700,000 with the support of our PR exposure, management and business December 2012, with a total economic value 41st National Day project Emirati Plan customers (five per cent of planning, etc. addition of AED 760,752! As part of the 2012 National Day every Emirati Plan subscription is retained celebrations, we launched two exciting as a donation to be used towards The inaugural season of the show was One of the most prominent success stories initiatives – our ‘Social Media Awards’ and charitable causes in the UAE), and an won by Ms. Loulou Khazen Baz, for to come from Shelter is Momentum Dubai, the ‘Written by the People’ competition. additional AED 500,000 for further her venture ‘Nabbesh’ – an online skills which has grown to become the region’s Entries into the latter were turned into renovations. 66 67 0.5 Education Mohammed bin Rashid School for • Arabic language campaign: As part technologies and develop their own We care about the development of Communications, we provide superfast of an ongoing effort to promote the cognitive and evaluation skills. In 2012, young people, which is why in 2012 we 100MB broadband to support new Arabic language throughout the UAE, both of these were used by more than provided 28 students with a spot into multimedia courses. we undertook a campaign to correct 107,000 children, who came away with our internship programme, up from 27 commonly used words which have an impression of the thrilling, fast-paced students in 2011. • Microsoft Imagine Cup tie-up: This is been misapplied in recent times. This telecommunications industry through a very popular competition, attracting ran throughout print media and on the exciting, immersive and interactive Our community sponsorships aim to over 300,000 people worldwide where radio to capture the widest audience experiences. nurture tomorrow’s creative talent and students develop technology solutions possible, promoting the proper usage leaders, thereby helping the UAE flourish for work and business start-ups. Aside of our national language. Our KidZania® presence “ and continue to innovate. In 2012 we from the prestigious trophy, winners added to the list of academic ventures can get a head start in the technology • Growing up fast at KidZania® encourages children to to assist. A key focus is the provision market, start a business or simply land KidZania® is an award-winning, become more independent of high-speed broadband connections their dream job! for-profit ‘edutainment’ centre cofor students to allow for better online and hones their skills in sponsored by du. At KidZania®, research and learning. As part of our alignment with the children experience what it would be a fun-filled environment, competition, our focus is to help students like to be grown-up citizens in the real giving them the • du Media Lab: To support practical in Gulf universities and colleges create world. Interactive pavilions allow them opportunity to experience and vocational learning, we developed new mobile applications and encourage to experience different professions, the world of work in a state-of-the-art multimedia lab at ” entrepreneurs in the UAE. such as a pilot or a nurse. The aim is Zayed University, Dubai. Along with an invigorating way. to stimulate the desire to learn at an the provision of technical infrastructure • Management as guest speakers: Our early age. At the most basic level they and software, we also created an people know their stuff, and we like to learn about language, currency, political Hala Badri exclusive channel for the University, so have them pass on their knowledge to independence and money management. Executive Vice that students could start broadcasting aspiring future employees. This is done We have also invested in a pretend President Brand and programmes and interviews. through lectures at various universities call centre to help children learn social, Communications around the country, where our senior communication and intellectual skills • Internet services: At the American staff members speak to students about while our installation centre helps University in Dubai’s (AUD) Sheikh their role and the industry. them learn about telecommunication 68 69 0.5 Heritage and culture comforted. This year in association with Human Appeal International we welcomed 15 orphans to join our CEO, Osman Sultan Let’s take a short tour through the busy and executive management team for year of heritage and culture projects lunch. Our guests dressed up in traditional organised by our sustainability team. clothing and had fun collecting treats from employees; everyone received a gift to Mawaed Al Rahman mark the celebration. We distributed over 161,000 meals in 2012! The beneficiaries were mosques in Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ras Al Partnership with Kalimat Khaimah and Al Ain. Some 70 volunteers In 2012, we renewed our association with devoted 288 hours to help each mosque Kalimat, the well-known children’s book cater for those performing the evening publisher. Through this partnership we Maghrib prayer. In Al Ain, the free aim to use the joy of books to promote meals were supplied by local Emirati Arabic heritage and culture among children. women from less fortunate families. By Kalimat has been successful in raising participating in the scheme, they received general awareness about the pleasure and certified training from the food and importance of reading, particularly to those health safety authorities, enabling them children belonging in the 3 6 and the further support themselves financially 6 9 years age group. after the Ramadan celebrations. As part of Ramadan Iftar for orphans we invited Maraya 20 orphans aged 4-15 to our Dubai staff Diverse and passionate two words Mawaed Al Rahman, our iftar distribution centre in Abu Dhabi Iftar. This year our graduates planned which sum up our partnership with Maraya and organised the entire event, showing in 2012. the importance of volunteering by our 2012 covered specific environmental Maraya also hosts ‘The Barjeel Art teams. We were blessed this year to Based in Sharjah, Maraya is an art centre themes, just under a half (48%) covered Foundation’ with the vision of creating have Shama Hamdan, the Childhood we have supported since 2008 to promote educational themes. The key themes a space where artwork from across the Ambassador for the Foundation of his cultural, artistic, educational and enterprise covered were social development (in Arab world can come together. Highness Prince Jamal Bin Abdul Rohman events for young and old. The events and 91% of events) and youth Emirati Al Noaimi as our guest of honour. This initiatives also support humanitarian causes programmes (in 67% of events). year’s orphans got on with games with and celebrate Arabic culture. For instance, Economic contribution du employees and their own children, in Spring 2012, Maraya hosted a workshop Another busy year saw 7,877 visitors got busy making things in creative We contribute to the Telecom Regulatory on illustration techniques for children’s through Maraya’s doors, 4,484 of workshops and then wound down with Authority’s (TRA) ICT fund which books, in collaboration with the UAE Board whom viewed specific exhibitions. traditional story-telling. stimulates growth in the ICT industry on Books for Young People. In October, Maraya and the eminent Emirati contemporary artist Noor in the UAE. It pays for research and Hag Al Leilah development projects, scholarships and Maraya’s events cover a lot of ground. Key Al Suwaidi, collaborated to introduce This festival of love, family and technology incubation centres, working issue areas targeted are socio-economic thirteen young, talented Emiratis to local community bonding marks the arrival of with partners such as Emirates National development, environment, education and international audiences through the Holy Month of Ramadan and is an Schools, Abu Dhabi Education Council and and young Emiratis. Just over a quarter their interpretations and exploration of opportunity for orphaned children to be Khalifa University of Science Technology (29%) of the 21 events run in Jan-Nov the word ‘Present’ in geographical and cultural terms. and Research. 70 71 0.5 Recent achieved results relate to the programmes to enhance Arabic content following areas: on the internet by working closely with 2012 AED’000 2011 AED’000 individual and institutional specialists. The • Oil and gas sector efficiencies: ICT ICT Fund has dedicated AED 25 million in Total revenue for the year 9.841,516 8,854,683 based technologies to create process support over the next five years. efficiencies in the oil and gas industry, Broadcasting revenue for the year (170,169) such as remote sensing and control of • Made in the UAE: This facilitates the distant sites development of ICT products and services made in the UAE and for Other allowable deductions (1,190,177) • Ankabut: An online academic resources marketing them overseas. So far, six network across the UAE with an research projects have been approved Total adjustment revenue 8,481,170 8,854,683 investment of AED 41 million. The with university partners. network is accessed by over 63000 Annual profit before royalty 2,823,502 1,812,146 students across 56 campuses and Radio frequencies institutions including the Higher Colleges We have a comprehensive network of base Provision for royalty 843,961 714,556 of Technology, Zayed University, UAE stations to ensure good coverage. We University, Sharjah University, AUD and know that many stakeholders welcome Royalty figures New York University Abu Dhabi. improved coverage, but we also recognise that some are concerned about the • The Be’tha programme: A scholar­ possible health effects of radio frequency ship programme to enhance (RF) fields from these base stations. Recent We use state-of-the-art technologies from the UAE Ministry of Finance, royalty national education and future talent studies from the World Health Organisation which ensure our base stations operate for 2012 was to include 5% of the total development. The programme has so (WHO) found that the RF from base well above the safety guidelines laid out licensed revenue plus 17.5% of the net far enabled 230 Emirati students to stations range from 0.002% to 2% of by the International Commission on Nonprofit for the year, before distribution after study in the UAE, USA, Australia and the levels recommended by international Ionising Radiation Protection (ICNIRP) deducting 5% of the total licensed revenue. Japan. The fund aims to support 1,000 guidelines and that the weak RF from base and are certified as per international students in the coming years. stations create no adverse health effects. standards of best practice. A technical As the classification of licensed revenue is survey carried out by our regulator, still under discussion with the authorities, • Smart Learning programme: The Our approach on this issue is one of the TRA, in 2011 confirmed that our the Company has provided for applicable Ministry of Education and Mohammed compliance: we align with national and base stations adhere to international royalty on total revenue for the year Bin Rashid’s Establishment wants to regional policies and guidance on radio best practice. However, we continue to excluding Broadcasting revenue and certain raise standards of education in the frequency emissions. Our Head of respond to stakeholder concerns through other allowable deductions. Broadcasting UAE. Through this programme the Compliance, and ultimately our CEO, are continuous monitoring and improvement. revenue has been excluded from royalty UAE invests in bringing world-class responsible for complying with the national calculations as the Company believes that technology to the UAE’s classrooms. policies concerned. Our technology division Royalty to government this is a non-licensed activity. includes people who specialise in base Our payment of royalties to Government • Arabic digital content: This is station transmission. began in 2010. As per an official directive an initiative to develop tools and 72 73 Quality Assurance free from significant error or bias, thus providing reasonable account of relevant Statement activities and performance within the The Arabia CSR Network (ACSRN) context of sustainability within the was engaged and assigned with the reporting period. task to provide an independent quality • du has commissioned necessary efforts assurance to Emirates Integrated to respond to key Sustainability aspects Telecommunications Company PJSC and has reflected a reasonable level of (du) on its Annual Sustainability Report completeness for a second sustainability process for the period from October report. 2011 to December 2012. The objective • du’s Sustainability Report communicates of ACSRN was to provide assurance to quantitative results on CSR thematic the stakeholders over the materiality, areas, although specific Key Performance accuracy, reliability and objectivity of the Indicators (KPIs) are recommended with information included in the report by du. performance figures against previous years wherever available. ACSRN Scope and Approach The following were included in the Compliance to Global Reporting Initiative assurance scope review: (GRI) – G3.1 Guidelines ACSRN has undertaken a comprehensive • All activities undertaken by du during and formal review of du’s sustainability the reporting period Oct 2011 to Dec disclosures against the requirements 2012. of the GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines. • All information and data relating to In our opinion the Report has been du issues, responses, performance, developed respectfully in accordance with systems and governance to manage the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and principles such information and data. and contains the required standard and • Quality check performance on the management disclosure requirements. contents of the report against the We believe it adequately reports the principles of Materiality, Completeness, indicators and protocols to achieve an Accuracy, Comparability, Reliability, application level of B+. Timeliness and Stakeholder Inclusiveness. Assurance Limitations and • All GRI related disclosures and data. Considerations ACSRN did not include in the assurance Independent Opinion scope the activities which were outside the On the basis of the assurance work mentioned reporting period. We also did conducted, ACSRN concludes as below: not undertake to verify the independently • du’s Sustainability Report addresses audited financial data. Lastly, all statements and responds to pre-selected issues of opinion, belief, aspiration, commitment that are deemed to be of material and future intention were excluded from importance by the organization. our scope of quality assurance. The • The Report provides a balanced objective, as explained earlier, was to and accurate representation of du’s provide a reasonable, rather than an Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) absolute assurance and the work was Strategy and Policy and its relation to carried out to provide a representative the organization’s Corporate Strategy. basis for our conclusions. • du has clearly identified its internal and external stakeholders, their expectations Habiba Al Marashi and the methodology of engagement President/CEO, Arabia CSR Network with them. 18th June, 2013 • The information and data presented in the report is understandable, complete, accurate, reliable and can be considered 75 GRI and UNGC INDEX Index according to GRI (G3.1) UNGC Principle Page reference (or direct response) GRI Reported Mission or values, codes of conduct, and their 4.8 8 implementation To facilitate stakeholders in understanding and bench-marking our corporate responsibility Procedures for the identification and management of sustainability performance, and compliance with performance, our reporting follows the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 disclosure framework, which 4.9 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and 14-17 is an internationally recognised set of indicators for economic, environmental and social aspects principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance of business performance. GRI guidelines help companies in selecting material content and key 4.10 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to 11-13 performance indicators. For more on GRI, please see www.globalreporting.org. sustainability 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary approach 9-13 Principles 1-10 Endorsement of external economic, environmental, and The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a framework to guide sustainable business 4.12 social charters initiatives 11-13, 18, 19, 76 policy and practices. It seeks to align operations and strategy with ten principles (listed at 4.13 Memberships in national/international associations 11, 72-73 www.unglobalcompact.org) and to catalyse action. du became a UNGC signatory in 2008. 4.14 Organisation’s stakeholder groups 20 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 20-21 Our UNGC Communication on Progress, a membership requirement, is represented by this Report. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 4.16 20-23 frequency Table key Fully reported 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 20-23 stakeholder engagement, and organisational response Partially reported 5. Performance indicators Index according to GRI (G3.1) UNGC Principle Page reference (or direct response) GRI Reported Economic 1. Vision and strategy 9-10 EC1 Economic value generated and distributed Complete financial disclosure is available in 1.1 Statement from the CEO or Chairman 2-5 our Annual Report. Principles 1-10 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 14-15 EC2 Financial and other implications of climate change Principles 7 9-15 2. Organisational profile EC6 Policies towards local suppliers and procurement 56 EC7 Procedures towards local hiring Principles 6 32 2.1 Organisation name 9, Back cover EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 9 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 7 2.3 Organisation’s operational structure 11-13 Environment 2.4 Organisation’s headquarters location 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Principle 8 58-59 2.5 Countries of major operation 8 EN2 Percentage of recycled materials Principle 8 and 9 27, 58-59 Principles 1-10 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 10 EN3 Direct primary energy consumption Principle 8 27, 5960 2.7 Markets 8-9 EN4 Indirect energy consumption Principle 8 27, 5960 2.8 Company scale 7-10 EN5 Energy efficiency improvements Principle 8 and 9 27, 59-60 2.9 Significant changes during report period No significant changes EN6 Energy reductions achieved Principle 8 and 9 27, 59-60 2.10 Awards received in the report period 18-19 EN7 Initiatives and reductions in indirect energy consumption Principle 8 and 9 27, 59-60 3. Reporting Parameters EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Principle 8 60 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 3.1 Reporting period 20 EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Principle 8 Not applicable 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 20 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 3.3 Reporting cycle 20 EN12 Impacts of activities on biodiversity Principle 8 Not applicable 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report Back Cover EN16 Total direct/indirect GhGs emissions by weight Principle 8 58 3.5 Process for defining report content 20-23 EN17 Other relevant indirect GHG emissions by weight Principle 8 58 3.6 Report boundary 8, 20 EN18 Initiatives and reductions in GHG emissions Principles 7,8,9 27, 58 3.7 Limitations on the report scope or boundary 8 EN19 Ozone-depleting substances by weight Principle 8 53-62 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Principle 8 Not applicable facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that Principles 1-10 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 60 3.8 No Joint Ventures can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 60 3.9 Data measurement techniques 20-23 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 No significant spills recorded in 2012 No re-statement of information provided Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports EN26 Principles 7,8,9 27, 59 – 60 earlier services Percentage of products sold and their packaging Changes in the scope, boundary or measurement EN27 Principle 8 and 9 Not applicable 3.11 No significant changes materials that are reclaimed by category. methods from previous reports Fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance 3.12 Standard Disclosures table Page 76 onwards EN28 Principle 8 No significant fines recorded in 2012 with environmental laws 3.13 External assurance and verifications 75 Social and Society Performance 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement LA1 Workforce by employment type and region 30-33 4.1 Governance structure 11-13 Number and rate of new employee hires and turnover by LA2 Principle 6 38-41 4.2 Independence of the Supervisory Board Chairman 11-13 age group, gender, and region. Governance body and/or independent members of LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave. 40 4.3 11-13 management Mechanisms to provide recommendations to highest Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 4.4 11-13 LA4 Principle 1 and 3 Not applicable governance body agreements. Principles 1-10 There is no link LA5 Notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes Principle 3 29-40 Linkage between management compensation wand the 4.5 between compensation and sustainability Workforce represented in formal joint managementNot applicable organisation’s performance (including sustainability) LA6 Principle 1 performances worker health and safety committees 38 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 11-13 LA7 Injuries, absentee rates and work-related fatalities Principle 1 38 avoidance of conflicts of interest Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and Programs to assist workforce members and families 4.7 11-13 LA8 Principle 1 38-40 expertise of the members of the highest governance body regarding health issues 76 77 Index according to GRI (G3.1) UNGC Principle Page reference (or direct response) Reported 36-37 Training hours per year per employee by gender, and by LA10 We have disclosed details employee category. by employee level. LA11 Skills management and training programs for employees 36-37 LA12 Employee performance and career development reviews 36-37 (i) Composition of governance bodies and (ii)breakdown LA13 Principles 1 and 6 11-13, 32 of employee diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of women to men Principles 1 and 6 32 Investment agreements and contracts with clauses Principles 1, 2, 3, HR1 Not applicable incorporating human rights concerns 4, 5, 6 Business partners that have undergone human rights Principles 1, 2, 3, HR2 Not applicable screening, and actions taken. 4, 5, 6 32, 36-37 Principles 1, 2, 3, Touched upon during employee inductions HR3 Employee training on relevant human rights policies 4, 5, 6 and through our corporate governance manual Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective HR4 Principles 1, 2, 6 2933 actions taken. Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 Principles 1, 2, 3 Not applicable bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Identification of child labour risks and steps to mitigate No Risk for Child labor incidents were HR6 abolition of Principles 1, 2, 5 identified child labor. Identification of forced or compulsory labor, and efforts HR7 Principles 1, 2, 4 No Risk incidents were identified to mitigate this. HR9 Violations of indigenous people’s rights No such incidents Operations subject to human rights reviews and/or HR10 Not applicable impact assessments. Number of grievances related to human rights filed and HR11 Not applicable redressal mechanisms Local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 63-73 development programs. SO2 Number of business units analysed for corruption risks Principle 10 11-13 Our corporate governance manual spells out Training in organization’s anti-corruption policies and policies and procedures on corruption. We SO3 Principle 10 procedures. also have mechanisms in place to enable reporting of any incidents. SO4 Response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 11-13 Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Principle 10 14, 46-47, 72-73 development and lobbying. Monetary and non-monetary fines for non-compliance SO8 No significant fines of sanctions in 2012 with laws Significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 72-73 communities. Measures to prevent and mitigate negative impacts on SO10 72-73 local communities Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of PR1 Principle 1 27, 56-57 products and services are assessed PR3 Provision of product and service information Principle 8 56-57 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 44 results of surveys Adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes PR6 48-51 related to marketing communications 46-47 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and PR8 Principle 1 No substantiated complaints losses of customer data. recorded in 2012 Fines for non-compliance with laws on the provision and PR9 No significant fines recorded in 2012 use of products and services. GRI Application Level: C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed 1.1 for Level C Plus: Same as requirement Profile 2.10 2.1 1.2 for Level B output Disclosures 3.12 3.10 ,3.8 3.1 3.9, 3.13 Report Externally Assured 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured 4.15 4.14 ,4.4 4.1 Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosure Disclosure on Management Approach Management Approach Management output Disclosures for each disclosed for each Indicator Not required Category Approach Indicator Category Respond on each core and Report fully on a minimum Performance Report fully on a Sector Supplement indicator of any 20 Performance Indicators & minimum of any 10 with due regard to the mateIndicators, at least one from Sector Suppliment output Performance Indicators, riality Pronciple by either: each of: economic, environPerformance including at least a) reporting on the indicator ment, human rights, labour, Indicators one from each of: or b) explaining the reason society, product responsisocial, economic and for its omission. bility. environment.
