UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS & CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2011 PROMOTING RESPONSIBLE LIVING DPG COP & CR Report Page 1 of 49 The 1st Corporate Responsibility Report of a community developer which manages properties, communities and destinations in the Middle East/Arab World, following the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines at “B” level We welcome comments and thoughts regarding this Report at: Dubai Properties Group Corporate Responsibility, Marketing Department P.O. Box 500272, Dubai ‐ U.A.E. Tel.: 0097‐144 352 030 E‐mail: mubadara@dubaipropertiesgroup.ae DPG COP & CR Report Page 2 of 49 WHAT’S IN OUR REPORT SECTION I: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO 1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2. WHO WE ARE 3. PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE SECTION II: HOW WE PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE LIVING 4. RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS – INVOLVING RESIDENTS 5. RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR SOCIETY – SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES 6. RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR PEOPLE – CARING FOR EMPLOYEES 7. RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR PLANET – PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT SECTION III: HOW WE MANAGE OUR ACTIONS 8. GOVERNANCE PRACTICES 9. RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 10. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 11. REPORT DEVELOPMENT 11.1 About this Report 11.2 Global Compact 11.3 Global Reporting Initiative DPG COP & CR Report Page 3 of 49 SECTION I: WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO Our commitment towards the society, within which we operate is put into practice through past efforts, present practices and future objectives. DPG COP & CR Report Page 4 of 49 1. MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear friends, Our mission is to become the region’s most reliable real estate company and we intend to reach our goal, by delivering infrastructure communities, which cater the new market demand for quality and affordability. In the last year, we are continuously delivering developments located in prime neighbourhoods throughout Dubai, with our communities currently being “home” to more than 17,500 families and 500 businesses. Furthermore, our landmark destinations, including DUBAILAND® and The Walk at Jumeirah Beach Residence, attract over 11 million visitors annually. As we are now poised to profoundly impact the real estate landscape in the Emirates through our expanding portfolio that brings communities together, so does our responsibility expand to facilitate the sustainable and responsible development of our sector and our region. The challenges we will face in the short and long term future is to align our development with Sustainable practices, with the main challenges being environmental protection for our business (including our carbon footprint and resource consumption), as well as influencing our customers towards a more Responsible Living behaviour. It is therefore with great pride that I introduce you to Dubai Properties Group’s 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, one of our region’s few Reports consistently issued since 2008, which strengthens our lead in the real estate field. As a closing remark, I would like to express our commitment to continue our operations, aligned with internationally recognised standards of responsible operation, such as the Global Reporting Initiative and the United Nation’s Global Compact, in order to meet and exceed the needs and expectations of our Stakeholders and therefore support the development of a more sustainable business environment and society at large. Thank you, Khalid Al Malik Group Chief Executive Officer DPG COP & CR Report Page 5 of 49 2. WHO WE ARE Dubai Properties Group (DPG), a member of Dubai Holding, is a master developer, that offers integrated and holistic services in real estate, retail, destination management and lifestyle management. Launched as “Dubai Properties” in 2004, it has helped change the landscape of Dubai with innovative mixed‐use master developments and destinations catering to diverse lifestyles. In 2008, the company diversified to include real estate development and property services, under the umbrella of “Dubai Properties Group”. A year later, DPG realigned its business to incorporate the portfolios of Dubai Properties, Sama Dubai and Tatweer. Today, DPG has one of the largest fully integrated real estate and community development businesses in Dubai, encompassing residential, commercial, staff accommodation, retail and property management. The portfolio includes high profile projects such as Business Bay, Jumeirah Beach Residence, and DUBAILAND®, all of which play a key role in Dubai’s development and growth. In the future, DPG will continue supporting the growth of Dubai, through diverse and ground‐breaking communities and destinations, while raising the benchmark for environmental standards and actively supporting community members in “Responsible Living”. Properties: DPG operates a wide range of properties, suitable for accommodation and business needs, throughout Dubai: For further information on our properties, please visit http://dubaipropertiesgroup.ae/en/properties/view/all DPG COP & CR Report Page 6 of 49 Destinations: DUBAILAND® was created with the purpose of becoming a THE WALK at Jumeirah Beach Residence offers a prime key driver of Dubai’s tourism and economy, and aims to be beachfront entertainment destination at the heart of the city’s leading leisure, entertainment, sports and the bustling JBR and Dubai Marina community, residential destination. Projects within DUBAILAND® becoming an iconic venue to live, work, shop and play. include residential areas, shopping centres, cultural hubs, wellbeing spas, and sports and entertainment venues. Services: Through its subsidiaries Salwan and Ejadah, DPG provides high quality, comprehensive end‐to‐end property related services.  Ejadah provides critical facilities and community services, such as property management, facilities management, and security. Its subsidiaries Idama and Dubai Security Group deliver services as standalone or as a part of an overall service offering.  Salwan Property Management is a provider of leasing and real estate solutions, including leasing, sales, and resale. Recognitions: In our strive to deliver reliability and quality, we have been recognised with awards, such as:  Dubai Quality Award (2009), instituted by the Department of Economic Development. His Highness Sheikh Mohammad Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Vice President and Prime Minister of the UAE and Ruler of Dubai, presented the prestigious award.  Arabia CSR Award (2009): 2nd runner up in the large company category, being the only real estate company in the GCC to win the Arabia CSR Award in the large company category.  Emirates Women Award EWA (2011): to Ayesha Al Balooshi, at an event organized by Dubai Quality Group under the patronage of His Highness Shaikh Ahmed Bin Saeed Al Maktoum President of Dubai Civil Aviation, Chairman of Dubai Airports and Chairman and CEO of Emirates Group. Memberships: We seek an active role in organizations and institutions which are relevant to issues of corporate interest, promoting at the same time the principle of Corporate Responsibility:  the Emirates Environmental Group  the TAKATOF volunteering organisation  the United Nation’s Global Compact, as signatories, since 2009 of the respective initiative. DPG COP & CR Report Page 7 of 49 3. PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE Our main impacts, core responsibilities and present achievements are summarised below: OUR AREA: Our Customers Our Society Our People Our Planet Our Practices OUR SIZE: 60,000 community 550 employee 2,462 employees 1,541,000 gallons of 59 GRI Indicators member tenants volunteers water 68,000 customer calls 670 hours of 99% full time employees 2,227 MWh energy 6 Stakeholder Groups volunteering 120 customer blood 100 employee 40 countries of employees’ 1 entity certified with 5 Responsibility Areas donators blood donators origin ISO14001 300 suppliers 18 tons of waste 108 quantitative recycled in 2011 indicators OUR RESPONSIBILITY: INVOLVING SUPPORTING CARING PROTECTING THE MANAGING OUR RESIDENTS COMMUNITIES FOR EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT GOVERNANCE PRACTICES Positively enhance Contribute to Improve the wellbeing of Minimize the potential Follow the market, by the wellbeing our employees, by impact we have on the internationally following of the providing them a safe, environment, by using recognised responsible communities friendly and fair business less resources, recycle corporate business practices we operate environment, in which waste and increase the governance and involving our in, by they can excel. use of sustainable standards and customers towards utilising our resources. responsible a more products, management Responsible way resources practices. of Living. and people skills. OUR ACHIEVEMENTS: We trained 94 We collected We reached a 28% of We ensured access to We make reference to employees, in 31.5 litres of female managers. recycling for 100% of our 108 quantitative cooperation with blood. employees. indicators and 59 GRI RERA. indicators, within our 3rd Corporate Responsibility Report. We organised several We more than We reached a 48% of local We use environmental We achieved a level ‘B’ community events doubled the senior managers. friendly substances (such GRI Application Level. (from health related number of blood as Inergen) for fire initiatives to recycling donators. extinguishing systems. events). We did not receive We increased the We achieved the objective We recycled 18 tons of We conducted 13 any substantial number of for zero fatal accidents, for office waste. Internal Audits. complaints for privacy employee DPG employees. or lost data by volunteers by customers. over 6 times. We ensured access to We allocated We conducted an We reduced by 32.9% We utilise a Supplier recycling for over 80% over 90% of appraisal process for 100% the total energy Evaluation process DPG COP & CR Report Page 8 of 49 of tenants in our expenditures to of our employees. consumption. twice a year. communities. local businesses. We trained 728 We reduced by 22.4% We established a employees. the total water Board of Directors consumption. with 80% non‐ executive members. We hired 10% more We ensured access to people from within, recycling for over 80% of compared to last year. tenants in our communities. We increased participation of employees in the 2011 survey to 79%. DPG COP & CR Report Page 9 of 49 SECTION II: HOW WE PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE LIVING As master developer, we promote a “Responsible way of Living” for our customers, our people, our communities and our planet. DPG COP & CR Report Page 10 of 49 4. INVOLVING RESIDENTS RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR CUSTOMERS Our Objective We aim to positively enhance the market, by following responsible business practices and involving our customers towards a more Responsible way of Living. Key Figures  60,000 community member tenants  300 suppliers  68,000 customer calls  120 customer blood donators Our main Achievements  We trained 94 employees, in cooperation with RERA.  We organised several community events (from health related initiatives to recycling events).  We did not receive any substantial complaints for privacy or lost data by customers.  We ensured access to recycling for over 80% of tenants in our communities. DPG COP & CR Report Page 11 of 49 4.1 Communicating products and services responsibly We follow responsible practices for our marketing activities, to ensure that our communication material respects people’s diversity, such as age, gender, race, religion etc. To guarantee the above, our marketing function delivers outdoor advertisements to the Municipality for screening before publication. 4.2 Selling products and services responsibly We have included in our web site a detailed guideline on how to interact with our company, in order to help customers conduct their transactions quicker, without negative environmental impact due to transportation to our Sales Points. Best Practice: RERA certification for all employees DPG partnered with the Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA), to support the development and progress of the real estate sector in Dubai. Within 2010, all our 229 employees in the sales, leasing and customer service divisions, as well as all our managers, were trained to understand the laws and regulations of brokerage in the real estate industry, as well as ethical behaviour practices during dealings and transactions between buyer, seller and broker, Property Registration and Transfer procedures, Rights and Obligations of Buyers and Sellers, Standard Forms of Legal Issues and Introduction to the Owners’ Association Code of Ethics. In 2011, further 94 employees were trained through the Owner Association Program. We further trained 94 employees, in cooperation with RERA. 4.3 Promoting ‘Responsible Living’ for Residents We believe that our role, beyond serving our customers, is also to inform customers about issues that could improve their way of life and protect the environment: Environment Issues:  Green Market Day at Shorooq Community, March 2011: DPG organised the ‘Buy Green, To Live Green’ event at Shorooq Mirdif, in association with Goumbook, a leading environmental website and first green business directory. This initiative comes as part of our efforts to spread the concept of ‘Responsible Living’ in all DPG communities, providing opportunities to embrace a more sustainable lifestyle.  DEWA Bus Tour at Al Khail Gate, Ghoroob, Layan and Shorooq Communities, July 2011: DPG partnered with DEWA, to raise awareness on energy, water and environment conservation. An interactive road show in a specially designed DEWA bus was organised in the Layan, Shorooq, Ghoroob and Al Khail Gate communities. The initiative helped to heighten conservation awareness among residents and visitors in a friendly and engaging manner. In total, it is estimated that over 80% of community members living in properties developed by us (out of over 60,000 communities members) have access to recycling facilities. Over 80% of tenants in our communities have access to recycling. DPG COP & CR Report Page 12 of 49 Health Issues:  Free Health Check Up at Al Quoz Staff accommodation, 2011: More than 200 people benefited from a free health check‐up (free blood pressure and blood sugar check‐up for all attendees). The event was organised in association with Aster Medical Centre, as part of our efforts to enhance the lives of residents in our communities. Best Practice: Free Medical Check Up at Al Khail Community DPG arranged free medical check‐ups for residents in our Al Khail Gate community, as part of our ‘Responsible Living Campaign’. The initiative was organised in association with ASTER Medical Centre and DM healthcare, a leading healthcare conglomerate in the Middle East and India. A team of medical experts provided residents of Al Khail Gate with a comprehensive health‐check, which included blood pressure, blood sugar and general dental screenings. Comprising of over 9,500 units in 82 buildings and spread across seven‐million sq. ft. area, the Al Khail Gate community is designed to accommodate both individuals and families. It offers a wide range of apartments including studio, one, two and three‐bedroom apartments. Customised leasing options enhanced with reasonable rents make the community a choice of a larger segment of the society. In total, it is estimated that over 6,000 families (out of 17,500 in our communities) have access to medical care. Community Issues  Ramadan Tents at Shorooq & Al Khail Gate Community, September 2011: DPG organized Ramadan tents in Shorooq and Al Khail Gate communities in an attempt to reach out to the residents of our communities. Traditional Emirati delicacies were prepared to showcase the local culture and heritage.  Blood Donation at Al Khail Gate Community: Blood donation drive was organized by DPG at the Al Khail Gate Community, in collaboration with the Al Wasl Hospital, to encourage residents to make valuable contribution towards a better society. The event proved successful with over 50 donors coming forward to be a part of this noble and community‐driven initiative.  Blood Donation at Office Park Community: DPG organised a blood donation camp at Office Park, a popular commercial development by DPG strategically located near Knowledge Village that features leasehold offices and retail outlets. The camp was organised in association with Al Wasl Hospital mobile blood donation unit, and provided opportunities to more than 60 donors at Office Park to make a noble contribution to society through blood donation. The donors underwent a preliminary medical screening to ensure safety of the blood donation process. The event succeeded in collecting 22,000 ml of blood, which was donated to Al Wasl Hospital.  Labour Day at Nuzul Community, 2011: DPG partnered with the Ministry of Labour (MoL) and its subsidiary Tasheel to host a cricket match between residents at Nuzul staff accommodation in celebration of Labour Day. The theme of this year’s Labour Day celebrations was Workers...Our Partners in Development . DPG was honoured by the Ministry of Labour in recognition of its efforts to mark Labour Day by organising a cricket match. DPG COP & CR Report Page 13 of 49 Best Practice: Charity Event at Nuzul Community DPG hosted a charity Iftar for over 2,000 residents of Nuzul, a dedicated community for skilled staff. In keeping with the spirit of the Holy Month of Ramadan and in line with DPG’s ‘Responsible Living Campaign’, our employees contributed generously to the event. The initiative confirmed DPG’s commitment to its core values of respect and integrity and demonstrated its dedication to giving back to the community. Nuzul community is a dedicated residential development for skilled staff. Providing a benchmark facility, amenities include a food court, mosque, dedicated recreation and entertainment areas, as well as a supermarket and retail outlets. The community comprises 2,236 residential units across 13 low‐rise buildings with a built‐up area of 92,000 sq ft in the Jebel Ali Industrial Area 1. 4.4 Engaging in dialogue with our customers DPG operates a dedicated Customer Service Centre, enabling customers to raise questions about product order status, technical support or simply make comments and proposals. The Centre is open 5 days a week from 08:00‐ 17:00 through a dedicated toll free line, as well as through email. In 2011, our company received 68,151 calls. Furthermore, our reputation within the business community we operate in, is improving, as indicated by the Brand Imagery Survey we conduct. Aspects such as being transparent, being socially responsible and being a market leader are improving or performing progressively well over the last years. DPG COP & CR Report Page 14 of 49 4.5 Ensuring data reliability Our data protection policy defines the suitable use of Data and Systems by our employees and includes requirements and obligations for the protection of data and systems, which are applicable to all our employees. All Information Systems (and any data or messages stored, created, sent or received through them) are company property, while the responsibility and obligation to ensure that the systems are used properly, lies with each user, as described in our Code of Conduct. The result of these practices is that within 2011 no substantial complaints for privacy or lost data by customers were noticed. DPG COP & CR Report Page 15 of 49 5. SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR SOCIETY Our Objective We aim to contribute to the wellbeing of the communities we operate in, by utilising our products, resources and people skills. Key figures  550 employee volunteers  670 hours of volunteering  100 employee blood donators Our main Achievements  We collected 31.5 litres of blood.  We more than doubled the number of blood donators.  We increased the number of employee volunteers by over 6 times.  We allocated over 90% of expenditures to local businesses. DPG COP & CR Report Page 16 of 49 5.1 Contributing to the growth of Dubai’s Economy DPG plays an important role in the growth of Dubai’s Economy, as we:  Create economic value, throughout our upstream and downstream value chain, facilitating the economic development of our country.  Offer direct employment to over 2,000 employees and indirectly to tens of thousands others, through our supply chain.  Play an essential role in the development of the region, as our construction projects enable business operations after project completion, add infrastructure to our communities and enable expatriates to move to Dubai.  Facilitate infrastructure development in Dubai, as several schools and urban streets have been developed.  Support small to medium‐sized enterprises, ensuring that work orders are allocated to smaller companies, provided that essential specifications placed as a condition of collaboration are met.  Supports local businesses, as our expenditure on procurement is increasing year by year, with over 90% of expenditures being allocated to local businesses. 5.2 Supporting Dubai’s community Although Corporate Responsibility is much broader than simply financial donations, we recognize the existing need for economic contribution to less fortunate social groups. DPG has therefore developed a thorough plan of social contribution, which defines specific sectors of activity, according to identified needs. Some indicative examples are:  The Walk EDA Market Day, March 2011: The Walk at JBR hosted the EDA Market Day, a market that provided opportunities to buy and sell eco‐friendly products and services. This initiative by the Emirates Diving Association (EDA) promoted awareness of environment friendly products and encouraged the community to follow more environmentally friendly practices.  Desktop Computer Donation, 2011: DPG donated 20 desktop computers to Al Fardos Nursery in Dubai. A team of DPG colleagues toured the nursery, met with the teaching staff and discussed the academic curriculum as well as future plans for the nursery. 5.3 Cultivating Volunteerism of our employees We believe that it is not only the obligation of a company to support volunteering, but moreover volunteering cultivates the responsible behaviour of our employees in their everyday business behaviour. DPG COP & CR Report Page 17 of 49 We increased the number of employee volunteers by over 6 times. As a result of “Mubadara” and our partnership with Takatof, the number of people involved in volunteering related activities increased to over 550 during 2011:  DPG Ramadan Campaign in cooperation with UAE Crescent, August 2011: Mubadara enabled our employees to enhance lives during Ramadan, as they donated dry foods, new clothes, toys and 910 cups and t‐shirts to UAE Red Crescent. Best Practice: Employee Visit Elderly Club As part of our ‘Responsible Living’ campaign, a team of executives led by Mohammed AlHabbai, Chief Executive Officer, DUBAILAND, visited the Al Barza – Elderly Club in Dubai as part of the organization’s ‘Responsible Living’ initiative. During the visit, DPG management was briefed on the facilities offered to senior citizens and their daily activities. The residents introduced themselves and shared their contributions to their respective communities in the past. The DPG team offered gifts in appreciation of their commendable roles in the society, which were warmly received. Furthermore, a team from DPG visited the Al Fardos nursery and met with the teaching staff on site. They discussed the academic curriculum, as well as future plans for the nursery and donated computers. DPG COP & CR Report Page 18 of 49 5.4 Cultivating blood donation In line with our objective to support the needs of employees and their families, but also society at large, in 2011 we implemented a blood donation program at our Headquarters, in collaboration with the Al Wasl hospital. Over 100 employees gathered 31.5 litres of blood supporting our community. It must be noted, that similar programs were applied to our building communities, where over 120 residents gathered over 22 litres of blood (see section 4.3 for details). We more than doubled the number of blood donators. 5.5 Welcoming visits to our offices We responded to requests of our Stakeholders (Schools, Universities, Institutions etc.), hosting a delegation of 21 executive MBA members from acclaimed organizations including Chevron and GE. The purpose was to understand local market behaviour, before and after the recession. The delegation visited many prominent companies in the UAE in the finance, aviation and real estate sectors. DPG COP & CR Report Page 19 of 49 6. CARING FOR EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR PEOPLE Our Objective We aim to improve the wellbeing of our employees, by providing them a safe, friendly and fair business environment, in which they can excel. Key figures  2,462 employees  40 countries of employees’ origin  99% full time employees  35 years of average age Our main Achievements  We achieved the objective for zero fatal accidents, for DPG employees.  We conducted an appraisal process for 100% of our employees.  We trained 728 employees.  We hired 10% more people from within, compared to last year.  We increased participation of employees in the 2011 survey to 79%, from 69% in 2009.  We reached a 28% female Middle Managers.  We reached a 48% of local senior managers. DPG COP & CR Report Page 20 of 49 6.1 Ensuring job positions Our company employs directly a workforce of over 2,400 employees (while our operation creates indirectly tens of thousands more work positions, contributing to the development of Dubai), with the following characteristics:  35 years average age  12% females (excluding Junior level) (285 in total).  99% on a full time contractual basis and 1% on a temporary time contractual basis.  9% turnover in 2011 (6% resignations and 3% involuntary), without remarkable differentiations in the percentage of leaves (total 220), according to age, gender or region of employment. DPG COP & CR Report Page 21 of 49 6.2 Developing U.A.E. nationals The need to develop local nationals is vital to ensure the sustainable development of our society and facilitate a stable business environment. As a result of our efforts, we consistently manage to increase the ratio of Emiraties within the company. For example, at Senior Manager level, the analogy of local people increased from 23% in 2008, to over 48% in 2011. We reached a 48% of local senior managers. 6.3 Creating a multi‐cultural environment DPG aims to develop a multi‐cultural business environment, which facilitates cross culture understanding and cooperation, with our employees originating from 40 different countries around the world. DPG COP & CR Report Page 22 of 49 We employ people from 40 countries. 6.4 Ensuring our employees’ safety Eradicating accidents and creating and maintaining a workplace environment in which risks have been identified, understood and eliminated is of utmost importance to us. To achieve the above objective:  All workplaces are assessed according to a risk assessment process called “Estimates of Professional Risks”, a written tool which helps us identify risks and initiate change.  Our Entity Idama is certified according to OHSAS 18001 for Health and Safety at the Workplace.  All sites and offices have emergency plans to prevent, mitigate and manage foreseeable health and safety emergencies.  Each function has appointed a Health, Safety and Environment Champion, who has been comprehensively trained to support embedding HSE into day to day operations.  Our company notifies responsible authorities about all accidents, according to respective legislation.  On a rotating and regular basis, sites and offices conduct emergency drills. Number of First Aid Accidents in Number of Incidence Rate Frequency Rate DPG Employees Lost Time Fatal Injuries (LTI) Total Losses in Year in Subnumber of DPG Contractors Work Hours Employees (absence > (LTI)(1000)/ 1day) (LTI)(100000)/ Numbers of (absence < 1 day) Number of hour Employed worked Personnel 2009 0 50 0 0 0 2.671.920 2010 0 45 4 3,81 0,16 2.517.480 2011 0 33 1 N/A N/A 2.682.040 6.5 Influencing our construction contractors Although our construction sub‐contractors are independent entities, we recognise our responsibility to influence them in applying responsible practices. For this reason:  Starting in 2008, EHS issues are systematically (rather than ad‐hoc) integrated in our sub‐contractors Contracts.  Medical units exist to provide first aid and facilitate occupational doctor visits, on all construction sites. DPG COP & CR Report Page 23 of 49  We have delegated EHS Advisors who conduct regular Inspections and advanced Audits against EHS requirements set out in contracts, addressing our sub‐contractors. In total, within 2011 over 50 Audits and Inspections to sub‐contractors have been conducted.  We adopted the Dubai Holding Construction Risk Management Guidelines (CRM), based on the UK CDM 2007.  Contractors are required to provide monthly HSE Reports, which include HSE Accident & Incident Statistics, Near Misses, HSE Training, Tool Box Meeting, HSE Inductions etc. Based on the analysis of the Incident Rate and Frequency Rate (two internationally used Safety Indicators), the number of accidents has stabilized, however the severity level has dropped significantly, as a result of personal protection means, while the frequency rates achieved are comparable with industry sectors like production units. Our company is determined to do whatever possible within its sphere of influence, to improve these figures further. 6.6 Taking care of our employees and families In order to contribute to the wellbeing of our employees, we offer all employees benefits, beyond legislative requirements, such as:  Free medical insurance.  End‐of‐service scheme, which exceeds labour law requirements.  Free annual air ticket for expatriate workers (expanded for an eligible deputy, irrespective of the spouse’s position).  Pension scheme (extended to cover 100% of the benefit, rather than the 75% legislated).  8 working days study leave (for employees studying).  Expansion of maternity leave from 40 days to 60 days (for both locals and expatriates). Furthermore, we have implemented programs, which support not only our employees, but also their families:  Medical insurance legally required for employees, is extended to all employees’ dependants (up to 3 children, for grade 3 employees and above).  Education of children is offered (for grade 5 employees and above). We increased medical insurance spending by 70%. DPG COP & CR Report Page 24 of 49 Best Practice: Promoting Responsible Living for employees DPG, organized an open day focused on promoting healthy lifestyles for its employees. Healthcare professionals, from a variety of disciplines, offered advice on healthy living and eating. Doctors and nurses from the Canadian Specialist Hospital carried out several medical tests for employees; Blood Pressure, Blood Sugar, along with free consultations with the Cardiologist, Endocrinologist and Anti‐Obesity Specialist. Sport and Health Club fitness experts advised employees on body types and fat storage. Nutritionists from the Organic Food & Café provided dietary advice and a detailed presentation on healthy food. Bodyworx gym had a yoga specialist present, while a representative of Kcal Healthy Fast Food spoke to the employees about the danger of eating fast food and the benefits of healthy food options. Furthermore, DPG, in association with Dubai Bone and Joint Center (DBAJ), organized ‘Understanding Executive Health’, an awareness session on prevention of occupational health hazards at DPG Headquarters. This comes as part of the organisation’s commitment to the concept of ‘Responsible Living’, to facilitate awareness about ways to overcome health pitfalls. 6.7 Committing ourselves to fair practices Our Policy is not to discriminate employees based on race, religion, colour, origin, age, special needs, personal relationships, political beliefs, gender or family status in any decisions related to employment (e.g. discrimination of wage based on gender). As a result, within 2011, no respective incidents were reported at DPG. Furthermore, we respect the internationally recognized principles of human rights, which are described within the UN’s Declaration of Human Rights and the ten UN’s Global Compact Principles. Based on the above principles, we are committed not to proceed with employee engagement of individuals which are below the 18th year legal work age limit, as also defined by the Dubai labour legislation. At the same time, we anticipate our suppliers not to employ individuals below the legal work age, or to tolerate potential physical harassment, exploitation, or use of coercion on any of their premises. We intend to address this issue more formally by assessing the option to include the topic in our contracts (9.2). Regarding the issue of labour associations, our company follows the local Labour Law. Currently, there is no employee association at DPG and to our knowledge there has never been any effort made to establish such an association. 6.8 Ensuring meritocracy Promotions: Our company offers all employees the same opportunity for career advancement, covering vacant job positions mainly from within. As a result, 35% of all job openings announced within 2011 (40 in total) were covered by internal candidates, indicating a 10% improvement compared to the corresponding figures for 2010. DPG COP & CR Report Page 25 of 49 We hired 10% more people from within, compared to last year. Gender: In terms of gender equality, although the analogy of women in our total workforce is 26%, the analogy at Middle Managers Grade (Grade 7b‐6) is 28% and Supervisor level 44%, indicative of our equal opportunity policy. We reached a 28% of female Middle Managers. Compensation: Our compensation and benefit plans are designed to mirror market trends, utilising a respective Post‐Hay study, with compensation being above the legal limit, ensuring competitiveness of compensation packages. At the same time, they support the principles of equal opportunity and transparency, setting no discrimination per company entity, family condition, gender, origin, nationality etc. of employees. Salary raises are based on achievement of agreed annual individual objectives, as well as on achievement of team objectives. All employees participate in bonus programs according to their performance, in relation to agreed objectives. 6.9 Educating our employees We systematically conduct educational programs, which cover the needs of employees, regarding both technical, as well as management skills and facilitates their long term employment. DPG COP & CR Report Page 26 of 49 Within 2011, we launched the “DPG Corporate Academy”, materializing 8,772 hours of education, 74 workshops, conducted by 11 internal trainers. In total, within 2011, 364 employees attended in house trainings, 171 employees attended technical trainings and 193 employees were trained through e‐learning. 6.10 Appraising our employees All employees working for DPG for over 45 days receive a formal appraisal by their supervisor, in order to review performance and further develop. Also, a Personal Development Dialogue (behaviour oriented) is carried out on an annual basis, in order to link the individual performance objectives, with employees’ department objectives. 100% of our employees were appraised. DPG COP & CR Report Page 27 of 49 6.11 Communicating and Awarding our employees Communicating: Aiming to brief our employees systematically and regularly on our activities, DPG has implemented a series of communication processes, which in brief are the following:  Corporate information is displayed on dedicated boards, on all company premises.  An internal on‐line magazine (HEWAAR), is published on a monthly basis, which presents our policies, processes, decisions, actions and programs, as well as news and achievements of our employees.  Regular email notifications and updates. Ideas Concept: Human Capital invites winning ideas that contribute to increase revenue or achieve cost efficiency. Top 3 idea winners in 2011 were:  Farha Najam‐DPG’s tie‐up with Bank(s) for Loan for purchase of property.  Mohammed Zainul Islam: Reduce of Paper, Water & Usage of Electricity.  Sreejith Lal Sujatha Thankappan: Recycling of Used Envelopes – Internal Mail, Banners on Email Signatures for Sales & Leasing Team, Contract with Mobile Food Supplier. Satisfaction Survey: DPG carries out employee satisfaction surveys and takes corrective actions based on the outcomes. Participation of employees in the 2011 survey increased to 79%, from 69% in 2009, enabling us to develop action plans and find solutions to identified areas of improvement. DPG COP & CR Report Page 28 of 49 7. PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE LIVING FOR OUR PLANET Our Objective We aim to minimize the potential impact we have on the environment, by using less resources, recycle waste and increase the use of sustainable resources. Key Figures  1,541,000 gallons of water  2,227 MWh of energy  1 entity certified with ISO14001  18 tons of waste recycled in 2011  80% of tenants have access to recycling Our main Achievements  We managed to ensure access to recycling for 100% of our employees.  We use environmental friendly substances (such as Inergen) for fire extinguishing systems.  We recycled over 18 tons of office waste.  We reduced 32.9% the total energy consumption.  We reduced 22.4% the total water consumption. DPG COP & CR Report Page 29 of 49 7.1 Planning and designing DPG identifies the most important environmental impacts of its activities via systematic impact assessment, dialogue with involved parties and regular auditing. Our Entity Ejadah is certified according to ISO14001 and we are anticipating ISO14001 certification for our DP LLC Entity. It is also worth mentioning that the total amount of investments related to environmental programs in 2011 was several million Dirhams, while no fines or legal action have been imposed due to environmental issues. 7.2 Managing our Energy consumption In order to decrease our negative impact, we analyse our energy consumption sources and focus on those which emanate the highest proportion of carbon dioxide emissions. We reduced 32.9% the total energy consumption. *The 2008 data refer to the period August‐December 2008, for DPG Headquarters. **Data reported for 2010 have been re‐calculated and revised. For 2011, the total energy consumption at our offices was 2,226.5 MWh (a reduction by 32%), which corresponds to an indirect emission of carbon dioxide of about 800 tons. This reduction was mainly due to the shifting of one of DPG entity to a different building. However, it is expected that the energy consumption will increase in 2012, considering the planned movement to our new HQ. It must be noted that no petroleum or oil was used in electricity generators, with the exception of trivial usage in Layan Club House. DPG’s developed sites require energy throughout all construction processes and in high volumes, including heating, cleaning, transportation, lighting and ventilation. For this reason, the company seeks to improve the processes of production, decreasing respectively the consumption of energy and the atmospheric pollution of greenhouse gases (such as CO2). As a first step, the company has invested in the use of District Cooling Systems for its sites. These District cooling systems consume significantly less energy than if per building cooling systems. Best Practice: Earth Day Applying its commitment towards global sustainability initiatives, DPG marked Earth Hour by switching off all lights at the headquarter building for an hour on Saturday, 26th of March. The Corporate Responsibility team also provided employees with the opportunity to affirm their commitment to adopting sustainable practices in daily life by inviting them to sign the pledge board installed in the headquarter reception area. DPG COP & CR Report Page 30 of 49 7.3 Managing our Water consumption Having faced the issue of water shortage in the past, and expecting it to become even more intense in the future, Dubai’s government has made water management an urgent priority. Actions we take to ensure rational use and water savings are various:  We include water spillage in construction sub‐contractors’ Audits. It is worth mentioning that within 2011 no significant water spillages took place.  We continuously control and measure consumption at our HQ.  We have implemented sensor systems in washrooms at our HQ. We reduced 22.4% the total water consumption. *The 2008 data refer to the period July‐December 2008, for DPG Headquarters. **Data reported for 2010 have been re‐calculated and revised. In 2011, the water consumption reached 1,541 thousand gallons, a reduction of 23% in comparison to 2010. This reduction was mainly due to the shifting of one of DPG entity to a different building. However, it is expected that the water consumption will increase in 2012, considering the planned movement to our new HQ. Beyond responsible use of water, we seek to minimize the impact from waste waters on the environment:  At all construction sites, water management is handled according to the effective legislation and forwarded to municipality treatment facilities.  In all office buildings waste water is directed to the sewage.  Annually, we analyse water, to confirm the conformity with effective legislative parameters. Sewage Water Treatment in DPG Projects: Most of DPG Large Scale Projects that are not connected to the Municipality Sewage Treatment Pipelines are provided with Onsite Sewerage treatment plants. The sewage water is collected from the project sewerage lines and are then treated and used again in the same project or another for landscaping irrigation. This significantly helps in eliminating the transportation of sewage water by road tankers, therefore reducing carbon emissions and also conserving water for irrigation use within DPG Projects. DPG COP & CR Report Page 31 of 49 7.4 Reducing, reusing and recycling Materials Recycling Office Materials: We apply recycling programs for office paper, toners, aluminium and glass in all our offices, with all employees having access. These are separately collected and forwarded to the appropriate recycling supplier. We recycled 18 tons of office waste. Note: 2008 data refer to the period July‐December 2008, for DPG Headquarters Overall we managed to recycle over 17.85 tons of office waste in 2011, with 100% of our employees having access to recycling bins. Increasing Awareness: Buy Green to Save Green, December 2011: The week‐long ‘Buy Green to Save Green’ campaign is a cornerstone of DPG’s corporate responsibility programme and is designed to help raise awareness of the importance of recycling. Events began with a Green Market in which staff and visitors were able to discover new and innovative products made from recycled materials followed by a series of Green Awareness Lectures. The lectures were given by Dubai‐based green advocacy group Goumbook, touch upon some of the key issues facing our environment today such as ‘Raising awareness of plastic pollution on the local environment’, ‘Water footprint’ and ‘Air quality’. Best Practice: Recycling week We organized a ‘Recycling Week’ at our headquarters to highlight the importance of reusing paper and other materials and to introduce employees to our branded recyclable products. Recycling Construction Waste: Although DPG does not use recycled materials at the moment, it recognizes that raw materials are not inexhaustible. Following the principle Reduce‐Reuse‐Recycle, it aims to the most efficient use of the limited natural resources available, while at the same time it aims to reduce the solid waste produced. For the construction industry, solid waste by‐product constitutes mainly of two categories:  Construction Waste (e.g. iron, concrete).  Office Waste (e.g. paper, aluminium, glass, toners). DPG aims to decrease the solid waste it produces and at the same time recycle as much as possible the waste it produces and therefore collaborate with licensed recycling organisations and governmental institutions. DPG COP & CR Report Page 32 of 49 Handling Special Materials: DPG does not generate Hazardous waste (besides generator oil which is recycled), but rather domestic and construction waste. However, Idama being a facility Management Company administered the removal of 38,700 kgr of medical wastes that is generated from its client. An approved waste management contractor is hired to collect and dispose this type of waste in accordance with Dubai municipality requirements for leased buildings in Al Khail Gate, with further installations under way. It is worth reporting that in 2011, the company did not produce any waste that is considered dangerous, according to the terms of Annexes I, II, III and VIII of the Basel Convention. 7.5 Reducing atmospheric Emissions Since 2002, we have ceased acquiring equipment containing CFCs, which are particularly harmful for the ozone layer. Instead, we use cooling substances which are less damaging to the environment, as they correspond to a lower Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP). For example, our company:  uses District Cooling Systems for its Offices and most projects  uses the more environmentally friendlier R134A for air conditioning units, in projects where district cooling systems are not available  uses manual fire extinguishers with CO2  uses FM 200 as a fire extinguishing material in its IT rooms. 7.6 Monitoring our impact on Biodiversity The impact our company has on biodiversity is minimal, whereas our sites create a more environmentally friendly environment for inhabitants compared to the previous conditions, which are usually desert areas. All construction project sites of our company are located in areas characterized as industrial and are not protected by the International RAMSAR Convention (convention on areas of International Importance for Dwelling for Aquatic Birds) or other conventions for the protection of biodiversity. Even though, all DPG projects undergo an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA), as part of the normal planning approval process, often in consultation with stakeholder groups such as NGOs, local communities etc. Best Practice: “The Villa Wildlife Translocation Project” The site for the Villa development, situated in “Dubailand” was originally a relatively uniform area of undulating sand sheet and sand ridges separated by sand and gravel plains, with some small areas of sabkha also existing. The natural habitants of the sand sheets included Leptadenia pyrotechnica shrubs and the development of “micro‐nabkhas”. The fauna on the site included free‐ranging mountain gazelle, populations of the wonder gecko (Teratoscincus scincus), smaller reptiles and small mammals. A special project was initiated called the “Villa Wildlife Translocation”. First, a thorough ecological survey was conducted, to collect the base line faunal and floral data on the area. This action was followed by a project which ensured that these animals were captured and moved to other desert areas. Μore specifically, in cooperation with the Emirates Marine Environmental Group, three days of trapping on the site were conducted. During these days the team systematically searched the site for active burrows and evidence of active wildlife, placed traps and checked them regularly. Smaller reptiles were either collected by hand or captured in hand nets. A total of 25 specimens were gathered, including 17 spiny tailed lizards (dhub), a false cobra, a skink gecko, 4 yellow‐spotted or blue headed agama (trapelous flavimaculatus), 2 chestnut‐bellied sand grouses (pterocles exusyus). These were released on a private reserve owned by the local dignitary at a site approved by Dubai Municipality for release of animals, whereas the skink gecko and the yellow‐spotted or blue headed agama were transferred to the Sharjah Wildlife Center. DPG COP & CR Report Page 33 of 49 SECTION III: HOW WE MANAGE OUR ACTIONS We achieve our Responsibility related objectives, through systematic management and governance practices. DPG COP & CR Report Page 34 of 49 Our Objective We aim to follow internationally recognised corporate governance standards and responsible management practices. Key Figures  3rd Corporate Responsibility Report  6 Stakeholder Groups  5 Responsibility Areas  108 quantitative indicators  59 GRI Indicators Our main Achievements  We make reference to 108 quantitative indicators and 59 GRI indicators, within our 3rd Corporate Responsibility Report.  We achieved a level ‘B’ GRI Application Level.  We conducted 13 Internal Audits.  We utilise a Supplier Evaluation process twice a year.  We established a Board of Directors with 80% non‐executive members (in 2012). DPG COP & CR Report Page 35 of 49 8. GOVERNANCE PRACTICES 8.1 Integrating Responsibility in our Management Systems The importance of responsible operation has been incorporated in the way we manage our company, through our Vision, Values, Competencies, Code of Conduct and other management practices we apply. Our Vision: “Be by 2015 the most reliable real estate development company, committed to on‐time delivery, quality of product and value for money”. Our Values: Staring November 2009, our company defined four Values, one of which is “Integrity” for our activities and operations: Our Code of Conduct: Our values are embedded in our Code of Conduct to guide our employees on a practical level and integrate responsibility into their daily activities:  The Code is applicable to all our employees, which have been briefed on the Code and are informed via concrete presentations in case its content is revised.  All employees receive two copies of the Code from the Human Capital Function and return one of them, after proper signing. Our Code of Conduct, among other, requires that employees: o behave honestly and with integrity o act with care and diligence o treat everyone with respect, courtesy, and without harassment o comply with all applicable laws of the country o serve the best interests of the community in which they operate in o maintain appropriate confidentiality about dealings that the employee has with all stakeholders of the company o comply with all health, safety and environment regulations of the company o not accept gifts which could influence their decision process (value in excess of AED 300). DPG COP & CR Report Page 36 of 49 Our Auditing process: Since 2005, one of the company functions is a separate Internal Audit Department which reports functionally to the Board Auditing Committee of Dubai Holding and administratively to the Group CEO. The Audit function is responsible for providing independent and objective assurance to the Shareholders on efficiency and effectiveness of operation and compliance to regulatory provisions. In 2011, 13 Audits have been conducted (versus 9 in 2010), covering risks in areas of Revenue & Sales, Project Management, Project Finance, Enterprise Risk Management, Governance and management decision making process including legislative and regulatory compliances review. We conducted 13 internal Audits. Our Value chain: Our suppliers are mainly: Construction Contractors, Service and Commodity Suppliers. Our buyers strive to be fair to all suppliers, by providing them the same information at the same time and the same method. Our Supplier Code of Ethics emphasises the following aspects:  Taking nothing for personal gain.  Integrity in internal & external relationships.  Rejecting improper practices and reporting to higher management.  Respect confidentiality.  Be accurate.  Be transparent during negotiation with all suppliers. Some examples of approaches taken by DPG, to operate responsibly with regards to suppliers are:  We have developed a “Pre‐qualification Document”, which is used to screen unregistered Vendors based on aspects such as quality, price, environment, health & safety practices.  We utilise a Supplier Evaluation report twice a year.  We request at least 3 quotations for our acquisitions in an effort to increase transparency.  We implement a Supplier Satisfaction Questionnaire, in order for our suppliers to rate DPG on our cooperation, but also on aspects like our environmental awareness.  We have delegated EHS Advisors who conduct regular Inspections and advanced Audits against our EHS requirements set out in the contracts, with our contractors. In total within 2011, over 50 Audits and Inspections to Suppliers/Service Provider have been conducted.  Approximately 90% of the DPG purchases for 2011 were from local suppliers. 8.2 Establishing our Board of Directors DPG has established a Board of Directors within 2012, which includes three independent non‐executive directors and two executive directors. Following the establishment of the Board, respective Audit & Risk, Executive Human Capital and Investment & Allocation Committees have been formed. We established a Board of Directors with 80% non‐executive members.  The Board is responsible for setting long‐term business strategies; overseeing implementation; ensuring adequacy of internal controls and strategic risk management.  The Board oversees activities on economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. DPG COP & CR Report Page 37 of 49  The functional unit responsible for Corporate Responsibility ultimately reports to the CEO, who is a member of the Board (see section 9.1.).  Members of the Board are selected based on their qualifications and expertise, while at the moment there is no separate consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity in the selection criteria.  Compensation of Board members is linked to the company’s overall performance, including indirectly issues of Corporate Responsibility, however at the moment there is no separate direct linkage of compensation with social and environmental performance.  All employees can raise directly concerns to the CEO through the systematic CEO Coffee Meetings and “Ask Khalid”, during which a confidential discussion of employees on a rotating basis in conducted with the Group CEO. For further information please visit http://dubaipropertiesgroup.ae/en/about_dpg/corporate_governance 8.3 Our Leadership Team Our experienced Leadership Team, consists of the following members: 1. Mr. Khalid Al Malik –CEO of Group 2. Mr. Mohammed Al Habbai ‐ CEO of Dubailand 3. Mr.Jurgen Fischer – CEO of Dubai Properties LLC 4. Mr. Arif Mubarak – Chief Operating Officer 5. Mr. Iyad Abdulrahim – Chief Financial Officer 6. Mr. James Hemmaway – Legal Director 7. Mr. Martin Berlin ‐ Chief Strategy Officer 8. Mr. Billy Daly ‐ CEO of Ejadah Asset Management Group 9. Ms. Jayne Obrien ‐ Chief Marketing Officer 10. Mr. Amjid Javaid –Director Compliance Note: Above structure refers to 2011 For further information please visit: http://dubaipropertiesgroup.ae/en/about_dpg/dpg_leadership DPG COP & CR Report Page 38 of 49 9. RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT 9.1 Managing Corporate Responsibility The functional responsibility for Corporate Responsibility at DPG sits with the Chief Marketing Officer and respective direct reporting lines, which include the Real Estate & CR Director and the Marketing & CR Manager. In order to create a common understanding and direction within our company, DPG defined what Corporate Responsibility is, during a two day workshop conducted, with over 20 representatives from all over DPG: Our Definition of Corporate Responsibility “Corporate Responsibility for DPG is our ethical obligation to increase the potential positive impact we could have as a company and reduce the possible negative impact our operations might have. In practice this means to: ‐Enhance the market, by following responsible business practices and involving our customers towards a more Responsible way of Living. ‐Contribute to the wellbeing of the communities we operate in, by utilising our products, resources and people skills, to enhance the lives of people and make children smile. ‐Improve the wellbeing of our employees, by providing them a safe, friendly and fair business environment, in which they can excel. ‐Minimize the potential impact we have on the environment, by using less resources, recycle waste and increase the use of sustainable resources. ‐Follow internationally recognised corporate governance standards and responsible management practices. Bottom line, Corporate Responsibility for us is the combined outcome of all our people’s level of responsibility, in which they conduct their everyday activities”. In order to handle communication of CR activities in a systematic way, we have:  Developed a CR Calendar detailing at least one CR activity every month, linked to both our CR Framework and relevant international milestones (e.g. World Environment Day)  Established partnerships with a number of key NGO’s and community groups, most notably Takatof (an NGO focused on placing volunteers into priority community projects)  Established a CR Marketing and Communication Plan, including working in partnership with the PR and marketing team to ensure CR activities receive at least one mention per month, in our internal and external communications  Established a CR page on our Internet site for external communication  Established a CR page on our Intranet site for internal communication As a result of our efforts, we have managed to improve transparency and reporting level in the last years, in a structured and systematic way: DPG COP & CR Report Page 39 of 49 DPG COP & CR Report Page 40 of 49 10. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 10.1 Engaging with our stakeholders We define Stakeholders as individuals or groups impacted by our activities (identified within our Business Plan) and we seek to engage with them in a regular dialogue, in order to consider their needs and expectations in our decisions making processes: Stakeholder Group: Engagement through (ongoing Points of discussion (see section in Report): unless otherwise specified): Shareholders  Meetings  Compliance to regulatory provisions (8.1)  Collaboration (daily) Employees  Organization of events  Development of local nationals (6.2)  Publications (brochures  Health and Safety (6.4, 6.5) etc.)  Equality (6.8)  Meetings  Work satisfaction (6.11)  Employee Appraisal  Recognition (6.11) (annual)  Employee Satisfaction Survey (annual) Society  Organization of visits  Support of local business enterprising (5.1)  Interaction (daily)  Support of local needs (5.2, 5.4) Customers  Satisfaction Surveys  Customers satisfaction (4.4) (annual)  Involvement of customers (4.3)  Call Centre Operation  Home Owner Associations Suppliers  Attendance in sector‐  Transparency (8.1) based associations  Ethical competition (4.1)  Meetings  Customer Evaluation Survey (annual) Non‐Governmental  Collaboration  Environmental impact (7.3, 7.4, 7.6) Organizations  Meetings  Social Contribution (5.1) We use an independent agency to survey a range of our Stakeholders (Current Employees, Potential Employees, Potential Customers, Customers, Suppliers, Media, Others) to gauge our respective reputation. The scope of the research was reviewed following the first survey and in 2009 was extended to include suppliers (see section 4.4 for details). DPG COP & CR Report Page 41 of 49 Note: The calculation method has changed in 2009, therefore 2009 results are not directly comparable with 2007 and 2008 results. DPG COP & CR Report Page 42 of 49 11. REPORT DEVELOPMENT 11.1 About this Report Scope & Boundary: This 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, is the 3rd Report Dubai Properties Group (DPG) issues. Data compiled for this Report were collected for the period 1/1/2011‐31/12/2011 (unless otherwise indicated) and all direct activities of DPG (including its entities), namely master development, design, marketing, selling, after sales service for residential, commercial and retail portfolio are covered in this report. Where appropriate, we also report on indirect activities, such as construction activities performed by construction contractors, within DPG’s sphere of influence. Data is a result of direct measurements, unless otherwise stated, whereas in case of re‐statement of past data reported, this is clearly highlighted in the respective table or graph. Materiality: Material issues included in the Report have been identified through an externally facilitated workshop with the corporate responsibility professionals of DPG and prioritized by filtering these issues, with respective issues addressed by DPG’s stakeholders (see section 10.1). Principles: The Report follows the basic principles, guidelines and directives as laid out in the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (publication G3.1, 2010) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), as well as the UN’s Global Compact Principles. Limitations: The company recognizes limitations in this Report, which it intends to handle in future publications, such as:  the assurance of quantitative elements and principles by an independent institution  the presentation of objectives, for all programs described in all sections of the Report  the presentation of environmental impact of construction operations (which lies within the main responsibility of DPG’s construction contractors). Terminology: The following abbreviations and acronyms are used throughout the report:  “company”, “we”, “our”, “Dubai Properties Group”, “DP Group” and “DPG” all refer to Dubai Properties Group  “Entity” refers to any subsidiary company of Dubai Properties Group  “Report” refers to this 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report  “CR” and “CSR” refer to Corporate Responsibility  Terms indicated as “2.3, 4.5 etc” refer to the Area and Section of this Report (e.g. used in the GRI, Global Compact and Stakeholder Tables). For example, the term “10.1” makes reference to Area 10 (Stakeholders) and Section 1 (Engagement). External Consultant: This Report was developed in cooperation with: STREAM Management ‐ www.stream‐ eu.com DPG COP & CR Report Page 43 of 49 11.2 Global Compact Correspondence between content of our CR Report and the 10 UN Global Compact’s Principles are displayed below: Issue Principle Report Coverage Section Human Rights 1. Support and respect protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 4, 5, 6, 8.1 F 2. Ensure not to be complicit in human rights abuses 4, 5, 6, 8.1 F Labour Standard 3. Recognize freedom of association and right to collective bargaining 6.7 F 4. Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 6.7, 8.1 F 5. Abolish effectively child labour 6.7, 8.1 F Eliminate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation 6.7, 6.8, F 6. 8.1 Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 7 F 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility 7 F 9. Encourage development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 7 F Corruption 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery 6, 8.1 F 11.3 Global Reporting Initiative Following our self‐declaration, GRI checked and confirmed agreement of this 2011 CR Report at Application Level “B”, according to the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines. DPG COP & CR Report Page 44 of 49 Correspondence between content of our CR Report and the GRI Profile and Performance Indicators are displayed below:  Additional GRI Indicators are highlighted in grey background, while Core GRI Indicators are within white background.  Coverage of Indicators is characterized as Full (F), Partial (P), Not Reported (NR) or Not Applicable (NA). GRI Paragraph Report Coverage Section Strategy and Analysis 1.1 1 F 1.2 8.1, 9.1 F Organisational Profile 2.1 2 F 2.2 2 F 2.3 2 F 2.4 2 F 2 F 2.5 2.6 2 F 2.7 2 F 2, 6.1 P Financial data are only cumulatively announced by DPG’s holding 2.8 company 2.9 2 F 2.10 2 F Report Parameters 3.1 11.1 F 3.2 11.1 F 3.3 11.1 F 3.4 Page 2 F 3.5 8.1, 11.1 F 3.6 11.1 F 3.7 11.1 F 3.8 11.1 F 3.9 11.1 F 3.10 11.1 F 3.11 2, 11.1 F 3.12 11.3 F 3.13 11.1 F Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1 8.2, 8.3 F 4.2 8.2 F 4.3 8.2 F 8.1, 8.2, F 4.4 6.11 4.5 8.2 F 4.6 8.1, 8.2 F 4.7 8.2 F 4.8 8.1 F 4.9 8.2 F 4.10 8.2 F 4.11 4.1, 7.1 F DPG COP & CR Report Page 45 of 49 4.12 2, 11.1 F 4.13 2 F 4.14 10.1 F 4.15 10.1 F 4.16 10.1 F 4.17 10.1 F GRI Indicator Section Coverage ECONOMIC Goals and Performance 3, 5 F Policy (commitment) 1, 5 F Additional Contextual 5 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) EC1 5.1 P EC2 5.2, 7.1 P 6.6, 6.7, P EC3 6.8 EC4 ‐ NA EC5 6.8 F EC6 5.1 P EC7 6.1, 6.2 F EC8 5.1, 5.2 P EC9 5.1 P ENVIRONMENT Goals and Performance 3, 7 F Policy (commitment) 7.1 F Organizational 8.1 F Responsibility (operational structure) Training and Awareness 6.9 F Monitoring and Follow 8.1 F Up (supply chain, certifications, auditing) Additional Contextual 7 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) EN1 7.4 P EN2 7.4 P EN3 7.2 P EN4 7.2 P EN5 ‐ NA EN6 7.2 P EN7 7.2 P EN8 7.3 F EN9 7.3 P EN10 7.3 P EN11 7.6 F EN12 7.6 F EN13 7.6 F EN14 7.6 P DPG COP & CR Report Page 46 of 49 EN15 7.6 P EN16 7.2 P EN17 7.2 P EN18 7.2 P EN19 7.5 P EN20 ‐ NA EN21 7.3 P EN22 7.4 P EN23 7.3 F EN24 7.4 F EN25 7.3 P EN26 7 F EN27 ‐ NA EN28 7.1 F EN29 ‐ NA EN30 7.1 P LABOUR PRACTICE Goals and Performance 3, 6 F (link to universal standards) Policy (commitment, 6.7 F link to universal standards) Organizational 8.2 F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and Awareness 8.1, 6.9, F 6.11 Monitoring and Follow 8.1 F Up (supply chain, certifications, auditing) Additional Contextual 6 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) LA1 6.1 P LA2 6.1 F LA3 6.6 F LA4 6.7 F LA5 ‐ NA LA6 6.4 P LA7 6.4 P LA8 ‐ NA LA9 ‐ NA LA11 6.9 P LA12 6.10 F 6.1, 6.2, F LA13 6.8 LA14 6.8 P LA15 ‐ NA HUMAN RIGHTS Goals and Performance 3, 6 F (link to universal standards) Policy (commitment, 6.7 F link to universal standards) DPG COP & CR Report Page 47 of 49 Organizational 8.2 F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and Awareness 6.9, 6.11, F 8.1 Monitoring and Follow 8.1 F Up (supply chain, certifications, auditing) Additional Contextual 6 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) HR1 8.1 P HR2 6.5, 8.1 F HR3 6.8, 6.9 P HR4 6.7 F 6.5, 6.7, P HR5 8.1 6.5, 6.7, F HR6 8.1 6.5, 6.7, P HR7 8.1 HR8 ‐ NA HR9 6.2, 6.7 F HR10 ‐ NA HR11 ‐ NA SOCIETY Goals and Performance 3, 5 F Policy (commitment) 5 F Organizational 8.2 F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and Awareness 5.3, 5.4 F Monitoring and Follow 8.1 F Up (supply chain, certifications, auditing) Additional Contextual 5 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) 5.2, 5.3, F SO1 5.4 SO9 ‐ NA SO10 ‐ NA SO2 8.1 P SO3 6.9 P SO4 ‐ NA SO6 ‐ NA SO7 ‐ NA SO8 ‐ NA PRODUCT RESPON/LITY Goals and Performance 3, 4 F Policy (commitment) 4 F Organizational 8.2 F Responsibility (most senior position) Training and Awareness 4.3 F DPG COP & CR Report Page 48 of 49 Monitoring and Follow 8.1 F Up (supply chain, certifications, auditing) Additional Contextual 4 F Information (success, shortcomings, risks, opportunities) PR1 ‐ NA PR2 ‐ NA PR3 ‐ NA PR4 ‐ NA PR5 4.4 F 4.1, 4.2, P PR6 8.1 PR7 4.1, 4.2 P PR8 4.5 F PR9 ‐ NA DPG COP & CR Report Page 49 of 49
