Sustainability Report 2013 CONTENTS NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 01 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control contents Sustainability Strategies Viewing This Report 2 1 3 This Sustainability Report is an interactive PDF. You can use the navigation tabs and 5 7 buttons to access the information you need. 4 6 8 l Section Tabs Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE Click the tabs to jump to the top page of each section. Introduction 1 Environment 02 14 l Navigation Buttons l Link Buttons CEO MESSAGE 2 Safety Go back one page Jump to linked page 03 44 Return to previously viewed page Jump to information on the web CoO MESSAGE 3 Philanthropy Go forward one page Jump to information in CSR Data 04 52 BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR 4 Quality l Our Related Websites 07 59 CORPORATE INFO CSR Environment Safety Renault-Nissan Alliance 5 Value Chain Corporate Citizenship Quality Technology Zero Emission 11 68 IR Info Library Products (Global) Products (Japan) CSR DATA 6 Employees 104 73 ■ Editorial Policy ■ Forward-Looking Statements Nissan publishes an annual Sustainability Report to communicate to This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking statements stakeholders its social responsibilities. In this year’s report we review on Nissan’s future plans and targets and related operating Third-Party Comment 7 Economic Contribution the progress and results achieved in fiscal 2012 with a focus on the investment, product planning and production targets. There can 143 84 eight sustainability strategies. be no assurance that these targets and plans will be achieved. ■ Scope of the Report Achieving them will depend on many factors, including not only Period Covered: The report covers fiscal 2012 (April 2012 to March Nissan’s activities and development, but also the dynamics of Corporate Governance & 2013); content that describes efforts outside this period is indicated the automobile industry worldwide, the global economy and 8 in the respective sections. changes in the global environment. Internal Control 88 Organization: Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., foreign subsidiaries and ■ Mistakes and Typographical Errors affiliated companies in the Nissan Group. When describing regional All errors discovered after the report is published will be efforts, we refer to the specific region; when no specific region is corrected and displayed on our website. identified, the descriptions of Nissan’s activities and practices pertain ■ For Further Information to Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. in Japan. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. ■ Referenced Reporting Guideline CSR Department GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (see website for complete Phone: +81(0)45-523-5523 fax: +81(0)45-523-5771 GRI guideline table). Specific GRI indicators are listed for E-mail: NISSAN_SR@mail.nissan.co.jp On the Cover each sustainability strategy and in the CSR Data section. ■ Sustainability Report 2013 website Publication Date: June 24, 2013 Nissan LEAF ■ Date of Previous Report * In 2006 we published our last print edition of the Sustainability Sustainability Report 2012, issued August 9, 2012. Report. Out of consideration for the environment, we now ■ Reporting Cycle publish the report exclusively online. It can be downloaded from Once annually since 2004. our website as PDF files. ■ Third-Party Assurance Click here to view the third-party certification. page_141 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 02 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Introduction Corporate Vision Corporate Mission * Our stakeholders include Nissan: Enriching People’s Lives Nissan provides unique and innovative automotive products and services customers, shareholders, employees, dealers and that deliver superior measurable values to all stakeholders* in alliance suppliers, as well as the communities where we with Renault. work and operate. Guided by its corporate vision of Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan aims to contribute to the sustainable development of society through its full range of global business activities in addition to providing value through its products and services. As a leading global automaker, we are committed to all of our stakeholders—including customers, shareholders, employees and the communities where we do business—to deliver engaging, valuable and sustainable mobility for all. Our pioneering efforts to promote electric vehicles and to make mobility more affordable for people in emerging countries are part of our initiatives rooted in this vision. At Nissan, we call this approach to corporate social responsibility “Blue Citizenship.” Through Blue Citizenship, we aim to be a company that meets the expectations of society. In order to share our CSR-related thinking and activities with as many people as possible, each year we publish this Sustainability Report. We believe that sharing this information broadly with stakeholders increases the transparency of our actions, as well as giving us an opportunity to improve our activities by incorporating external feedback, thereby contributing to the development of a sustainable society. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 03 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control CEO MESSAGE In addition to internal efforts, for nearly a decade, we have been committed to the core principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Nissan also has been a proud member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) since 2001. Although we have further to go, we continue to make progress in meeting our sustainability goals. As this report details, one area of significant achievement is our environmental management efforts. By implementing Nissan Green Program 2016, our third environmental mid-term plan, we are taking both large and small steps—and harnessing the power of new technologies—to reduce the environmental impact of our operations. We remain as committed to these efforts today as we were at the start of the new millennium, when we set a goal to lower our new vehicles’ CO2 emissions by 90% between 2000 and 2050. To reach this objective, we will continue to lead the industry in advancing zero-emission technology. We were early investors—and we remain profound believers—in this technology. We also recognize the importance and potential of zero-emission efforts, for the auto industry and the planet. Improving the deployment of zero-emission vehicles has never been more critical. Today, there are approximately 1 billion vehicles on the road worldwide. With population and demand increases, the total could more than Carlos Ghosn double by mid-century. This raises urgent questions about how we will President and Chief Executive Officer address expected carbon emission threats and sustainability challenges. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Nissan is determined to help find answers that will benefit society. And we will continue working to build on Nissan’s pioneering efforts to bring zeroAs one of the world’s leading automakers, Nissan has a responsibility to help emission technology to consumers. This isn’t simply a business objective. It’s a build a sustainable society. We take this responsibility seriously. Enriching responsibility that we have to today’s customers—and future generations. People’s Lives is not just our corporate vision, it’s an important part of our culture and daily business activities. Whether we’re taking steps to conserve resources, enhance safety and fuel-efficiency or expand our philanthropic investments, we are working to create economic value and making a positive, lasting impact in every market we serve. To enhance these efforts, we established Blue Citizenship, Nissan’s corporate social responsibility platform, which is allowing us to engage employees, shareholders, customers and Carlos Ghosn entire communities in our ongoing work to contribute to a better world and to President and Chief Executive Officer deliver sustainable mobility for all. Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 04 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control COO message A Company that Grows with People and Society Nissan strives to be one of the leading sustainable companies in the automotive industry. We have clearly defined our intent in the company’s CSR vision. We identify and promote eight areas of sustainability strategy to make this vision a reality: (1) environment, (2) safety, (3) philanthropy, (4) quality, (5) value chain, (6) employees, (7) economic contribution and (8) corporate governance & internal control. Every one of them is absolutely essential to build trust in our relationship with society. As one of the world’s leading automakers, we believe that it is natural for Nissan to measure up to society’s expectations. With global population now surpassing 7 billion and some estimates pointing to a population of more than 9 billion before stabilization, we face a large number of social challenges related to sustainability in such areas as air, water, oil, energy and recycling. Expectations are growing for companies to address these issues. What is the social responsibility that only Nissan can satisfy? Nissan pursues the corporate vision of Enriching People’s Lives. Providing high-quality, exciting vehicles to our customers and offering people the comfort and convenience that mobility can bring are Nissan’s raison d’être. Yet it is true that the very automobile that has improved people’s lives with its convenience has had an undeniable impact on the global environment. Toshiyuki Shiga Vehicles are also involved in accidents that put human life and safety at risk. Chief Operating Officer Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. We cannot exist simply to provide vehicles and services. We have a responsibility to help address social issues resulting from the growing number of automobiles. Nissan is working together with various stakeholders in order to ensure that the richness of a life with vehicles will be available to the next generation and the generations that will follow. This is our CSR focus and it is defined in the notion of Blue Citizenship. Blue Citizenship represents Nissan’s determination to be a corporate citizen that protects our beautiful blue Earth and lives in symbiosis with people and society. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 05 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our Challenge as a Zero-Emission Pioneer Providing Peace of Mind While Catering to Social Needs A major challenge facing humanity is how to reconcile environmental conservation and the joy and comfort that mobility can bring, thus contributing Nissan has to ensure safety excellence as an automaker while pursuing to the achievement of sustainable mobility. Our goal is to reduce the driving pleasure and richness of a life with vehicles. Our ultimate goal is environmental impact and resource consumption of our corporate activities “Vision Zero,” an aim for zero traffic accidents involving Nissan vehicles that and the entire lifecycle of our vehicles to a level that the planet can absorb inflict serious or fatal injuries. Toward this end, we are promoting a triplenaturally by enhancing our energy and resource efficiency and promoting layered approach consisting of three levels: vehicles, individuals and society. recycling. Nissan Green Program 2016 (NGP2016), our six-year In the first of these levels, the company is developing technologies that environmental action plan unveiled in 2011, sets well-defined objectives for enable a vehicle to help keep the driver away from danger. These four key actions: zero-emission vehicle penetration, fuel-efficient vehicle undertakings are based on the Safety Shield concept, in which a vehicle expansion, corporate carbon footprint minimization and new natural resource protects human beings. We are pursuing a 360-degree driving assistance use minimization. Global efforts are underway. system as part of a “collision-free car” equipped with functions to detect risks Nissan LEAF, which is 100% electric, was launched in December 2010. that may result in an accident, give the driver warnings of potential danger and The cumulative sales volume reached more than 62,000 units in May 2013, intervene in an emergency to help prevent an accident. making it the leader by far in the global EV market. Development of Safety needs are evolving as society changes. For example, the number sustainable mobility through zero-emission initiatives is our responsibility for of elderly drivers is expected to grow along with the aging of Japan’s the future as a carmaker. With firm conviction and a strong sense of mission, population. We are developing technologies aimed at lessening road-induced Nissan is addressing the challenge of developing and promoting EVs, which anxiety in aged drivers. In emerging countries, we are developing innovations use no fossil fuels and produce no emissions. to make the driving experience safer and more worry-free. As a zero-emission leader, our mission includes solving issues and clearing up doubts about EVs, such as driving range and availability of charging infrastructure. We are working on solutions by capitalizing on the diversity and cross-functional corporate culture that we have fostered throughout the years. We believe that practically all vehicles should be replaced with zero-emission vehicles, such as EVs and fuel-cell electric vehicles, by 2050 to help protect the global environment. The launch of Nissan LEAF is an initial step. Nissan is creating a totally new global EV market as a zero-emission pioneer, and our efforts are winning recognition worldwide. Nissan was ranked top in the automotive sector, second overall, in the 16th Nikkei Environmental Management Survey conducted by Nikkei Inc. in 2012. Moreover, the company placed 21st in Interbrand’s 2012 Best Global Green Brands Top 50. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 06 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our Sustainability Initiatives The FTSE4Good Index Series is one external indicator that is widely and External Progress Indicators adopted around the world. Nissan has proudly been listed in FTSE4Good since March 2002. For four straight years the company has also been A corporation is an integral part of society, and all corporate activities must be incorporated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index, which is relevant to that society. It is critical for Nissan, a member of the global based on an analysis of corporate sustainability performance from the community, to make sure that its operations all around the world meet societal economic, environmental and social standpoints. Ethical investment stock expectations and build trust among all stakeholders. The end goal is to market indices are gaining increasing attention in Japan, too. We were the develop a society in which everyone on Earth enjoys richness in life. only automaker included among the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s selected stocks An increasing number of consumers choose products or services based on the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) theme. Our company was not only on quality and price, but also on the attitude toward social issues of also recognized for encouraging women’s success in the workplace when we the company providing them. Socially responsible investment (SRI), in which received the Nadeshiko (active utilization of women) designation in 2013. investors evaluate the environmental and social performance of a company— Disclosure of our goals and achievements ensures transparency in the not just its financial performance—is drawing wide attention. Nissan has been eyes of all, and Nissan intends to build this level of trust with all stakeholders. actively disclosing information that is beneficial to and needed by all stakeholders while ensuring that its management approach fully incorporates CSR concepts. Monitoring how the company is perceived, understanding societal needs and disclosing relevant information in the area of sustainability are steps that help us grasp social trends. They also provide many clues on forms of business management that maintain win-win relationships with all stakeholders. Toshiyuki Shiga Chief Operating Officer Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 07 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Blue Citizenship: Nissan’s CSR In addition to providing the obvious benefit of growth with sustainable profits, Nissan seeks to contribute to the sustainable development of society. To this end, we listen carefully to the wide variety of our stakeholders, working with them as we pursue activities that meet society’s needs. Nissan’s CSR Vision Corporate Vision Nissan: Enriching People's Lives Guided by the corporate vision of Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan seeks to contribute to sustainable social development through all its global activities. Our mission is to provide unique and innovative automotive products and services that deliver superior values to all stakeholders in alliance with Renault. As a leading global automaker, we also view it as our mission to contribute solutions to the issues facing humanity. We are committed to all of our stakeholders—including customers, shareholders, employees and the communities where we do business—to deliver engaging, valuable and sustainable mobility for all. Through our business activities, we aim to create economic value and to actively contribute toward the development of a sustainable society. At Nissan, we call this approach to corporate social responsibility “Blue Citizenship.” Through Blue Citizenship, we aim to be a company that meets the expectations of society. Our Corporate Vision Nissan: Enriching People’s Lives page_8 Our Corporate Mission Nissan provides unique and innovative automotive products and Click here for more services that deliver superior measurable values to all stakeholders in Sustainability Strategies information on our eight alliance with Renault. sustainability strategies. Our CSR Vision To be one of the leading sustainable companies in the industry Development of a Sustainable Society NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 08 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Sustainability Strategies Company Organizations for CSR Nissan has defined eight sustainability strategies to form its CSR approach. In fiscal 2011, the CSR division came under direct control of Chief Executive The three strategies of Environment, Safety and Philanthropy represent Officer Carlos Ghosn. Within the organization, CSR has become a central actions that we are uniquely positioned to pursue as a leading automaker. aspect of corporate management. While helping to find solutions to issues involving automobiles and contribute In the past, the CSR Steering Committee was responsible for setting to the realization of a truly sustainable mobility society, we aim to be an engine goals and confirming progress in the eight sustainability strategy areas, for CSR activities across the entire corporate sector. The other five managing CSR activities in a comprehensive way throughout the company. strategies—Quality, Value Chain, Employees, Economic Contribution and Beginning in fiscal 2013, the Executive Committee, Nissan’s top decisionCorporate Governance & Internal Control—are also domains of action that we making organ, is defining the overall course to be taken and the measures must pursue to continue being a company that is trusted and needed by toward achieving the company’s sustainability goals. The Executive society. By steadily advancing these eight sustainability strategies, Nissan Committee includes 10 members directly involved in company management, fulfills its responsibilities to society as a company and builds trust. from the executive vice president level on up. Unlike the CSR Steering Committee, which met just once each year, the Executive Committee convenes monthly, allowing speedy, focused decisions to be reached. By closely linking CSR actions and business operations, Nissan is pursuing corporate management that consistently aligns the twin goals of sustainable Nissan’s Eight Sustainability Strategies 1 Environment 4 Quality profit and growth for the company and sustainable development for society. Nissan aims to lead a social Nissan provides top-level quality in its transformation aimed at bringing products and services around the world. about a sustainable mobility society by reducing vehicles’ environmental 5 Value Chain impact throughout their lifecycle and Nissan promotes ethical, Nissan’s CSR Decision-making Process expanding the lineup of effective environmentally sound actions in all green products and technologies. stages of the supply chain. Sustainability 2 Safety 6 Employees STRATEGIES Nissan develops innovative Nissan aims to form an attractive Executive Committee technology and plays an active role organization where diverse human in safety promotion, making the resources can achieve personal growth automobile society safer for all. through experience in global business. Proposals/reports Decisions 3 Philanthropy 7 Economic Contribution Nissan carries out social contribution Nissan aims for sustainable, profitable 2 growth, contributing to economic activities as a corporate citizen, CSR Working Groups Safety focusing on the environment, development for all of society. education and humanitarian support. (representatives of functions related to sustainability strategies 8 Corporate Governance and regional CSR officers) 1 3 & Internal Control Nissan aims to conduct fair, impartial Environment Philanthropy and efficient business activities, having a high degree of transparency and consistency by adhering to the applicable laws and corporate rules. Nissan’s CSR Scorecard 5 7 Nissan makes year-round use of the CSR scorecard* as a fundamental tool Value Chain Economic 8 Contribution for monitoring and reviewing its progress. On its vertical axis we list the eight Corporate page_105-110 4 6 Governance sustainability strategies to check balances among stakeholders. The & * Click here for our latest Quality Employees Internal horizontal axis, meanwhile, represents the points of intersection between the scorecard. Control direction of Nissan’s growth and that of society’s development. Our aim is to NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 09 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control balance shortand long-term perspectives, based on equilibrium between the Nissan strives to conduct its business in a way that aligns corporate activities two axes. Each year we revise the scorecard in line with our progress and with the demands of society, incorporating social views into our business release it to the public. activities. In order to accept more input from our stakeholders, we listen carefully to the voices of society and seek to identify the seeds of both opportunity and risk. The framework for this plan is built around the PDCA, or Nissan’s CSR Scorecard “plan, do, check and act,” cycle shown below. Balance of shortBalance between Nissan’s growth and development for society and long-term perspectives PDCA Cycle to Promote CSR Management guidelines for actions to Internal management External communication Values and management indices Balance of value Nissan take in the Society’s demands of corporations guiding Nissan’s business activities provides to all stakeholders: medium to Nissan’s Executive Committee, its top Nissan defines priority areas of focus our eight sustainability long term managing body, defines the overall Plan direction and measures for the company’s Act based on analysis of external evaluations strategies and research on competitors. CSR activities. Environment Based on Executive Committee decisions, Nissan takes into account input from the divisions participating in the CSR Safety Do Check social actors, such as CSR rating agencies Working Groups take action and manage Philanthropy and SRI funds. scorecard progress. Quality Communicating Nissan’s CSR Activities Internally In addition to sharing information with the public via the Sustainability Reports Value Chain and online, Nissan has long been committed to communication inside the company. We have enhanced this internal communication to prompt individual Employees employees to consider their connection to CSR and translate this into concrete action. Economic Contribution In June 2012 we published “Blue Citizenship Stories,”* presenting our Corporate Governance & Internal Control Blue Citizenship (CSR) thinking and actions, on our intranet and public website website. We also distributed this to all employees in Japan. Beginning in fiscal * Click here to download 2012, we included CSR-related sessions in training for new employees and Blue Citizenship Stories. Working with Stakeholders newly promoted managers. On a new website titled “CSR Headlines,” part of WIN (Workforce Integration @ Nissan), our employee portal site, we report on Building trust with stakeholders Nissan’s activities, as well as a range of information related to CSR in general. Communities Shareholders Business Employees Customers and future and investors partners generations NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 10 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan and Socially Responsible Investment Today socially responsible investment (SRI), which examines not just Nissan as a Responsible Global Citizen companies’ balance sheets but their performance in terms of the environment and society, is a growing trend in the investment field. Nissan promotes CSRSince January 2004, Nissan has participated in the United Nations Global oriented management and actively discloses information to cater to such Compact, a corporate responsibility initiative built around universal investors. As of June 2013, Nissan is in SRI indexes including the Dow Jones principles regarding human rights, labor, the environment and antiSustainability Asia/Pacific Index, the FTSE4Good Index Series and the corruption. The U.N. Global Compact was originally proposed by U.N. Morningstar SRI Index. Secretary-General Kofi Annan in an address to the World Economic Forum (Davos forum) in 1999. Businesses may pledge to support its principles of website their own free will. Click here for more In order to convey its progress in activities that contribute to fulfilling information on the Global Compact. these 10 principles, Nissan publishes its annual Sustainability Reports on the U.N. Global Compact website. Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index The Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) is an SRI index managed by the U.S. company S&P Dow The 10 Principles of the Global Compact Jones Indices LLC and the Swiss firm RobecoSAM AG. The Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index was launched in March 2009 with coverage of companies in the Asia-Pacific region. Human Rights Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Environment Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Labor Standards environmental responsibility; and website Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of FTSE4Good Index Series Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of This SRI index is managed by the FTSE Group, an independent company co-owned by the environmentally friendly technologies. Click here for more association and the effective recognition of the Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. right to collective bargaining; information on FTSE4Good. Anti-Corruption http://www.ftse.com/ Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all ftse4good/index.jsp Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and its forms, including extortion and bribery. Morningstar SRI The MS-SRI (Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index) is managed by financial information services firm Morningstar Japan K.K. The World Business Council for Sustainable Development Nissan is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), an international association of forward-thinking companies that galvanizes the global business community to create a TSE Themed Investment Selection The Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. selects companies on the basis of certain themes, including them sustainable future for business, society and the environment. The WBCSD website in its Theme Issues List for investment. Nissan was selected for the first theme, Environmental, provides a forum for its 200 member companies—which represent all Social and Governance (ESG), in 2012 and for the third theme, Nadeshiko (active utilization of Click here for more women), in 2013. business sectors, all continents and a combined revenue of more than $7 information on the WBCSD. trillion—to share best practices on sustainable development issues and to develop innovative tools that change the status quo. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 11 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Renault-Nissan Alliance Nissan has greatly increased its global footprint and achieved dramatic economies of scale through the Renault-Nissan Alliance, a unique and highly scalable strategic partnership founded in 1999. In 2012, the Alliance sold a record 8.1 million vehicles, representing about 1 in 10 new cars sold worldwide.* Our vehicles are marketed under the following brands: Nissan, Infiniti, Venucia, Renault, Renault Samsung Motors, Dacia and Lada (AVTOVAZ). * Including sales by Russia’s AVTOVAZ. Alliance Objectives The Alliance pursues a strategy of profitable growth with three objectives: 1 To be recognized by customers as being among the best three automotive groups in the quality and value of its products and services in each region and market segment The Alliance’s Vision Although it was initially considered a unique arrangement in the late 1990s, 2 To be among the best three automotive groups in key technologies, each the Alliance quickly became a model for similar partnerships in the auto partner being a leader in specific domains of excellence industry. The Alliance itself has entered cooperative relationships with Germany’s Daimler, China’s Dongfeng Motor Corp., Russia’s AVTOVAZ and 3 To consistently generate a total operating profit among the top three others, and it continues to prove itself as the industry’s most enduring and automotive groups in the world, by maintaining a high operating margin successful partnership. and steady growth The Alliance is based on the rationale that substantial crossshareholding investments compel each company to act in the financial interest of the other while maintaining individual brand identities and independent corporate cultures. Renault currently has a 43.4% stake in Nissan and Nissan holds a 15.0% stake in Renault. The cross-shareholding website arrangement requires mutual trust and respect, as well as a transparent Click here for more management system focused on speed, accountability and performance. information on the RenaultNissan Alliance. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 12 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control The Alliance remains committed to developing synergies through The Alliance is also working on fuel-cell electric vehicles (FCEVs; see common organizations such as the Renault-Nissan Purchasing Organization Daimler section below) and other future strategies in advanced zero(RNPO), joint working groups and shared platforms, components and emission technology. industrial facilities. The Alliance is also keenly focused on maintaining its clear lead in sustainable transportation. Strategic Cooperation with Daimler The Alliance seeks out strategic alliances with other partners in order to Zero-Emission Leadership increase economies of scale to help accelerate growth in new regions, to fund The Renault-Nissan Alliance is the only automaker with a wide range of research and development of next-generation powertrains and to build 100% electric vehicles (EVs), which can be charged with purely vehicles that meet or exceed tougher environmental requirements for a renewable energy. sustainable future. In 2012, global sales of all zero-emission vehicles across the Alliance With that in mind, the Alliance announced a strategic cooperation with were 43,829 units, up 83.8% from 2011 as Nissan LEAF sales increased Daimler AG in April 2010. This stable, long-term relationship enables each worldwide and Renault launched two more EVs. The Alliance’s worldwide party to generate economies of scale, to share new investments and existing zero-emission market share stood at 64%, excluding the Twizy, Renault’s production capacities and to share development costs on new products and two-seater urban commuter. Since sales began in December 2010 to the end new technologies. of 2012, the Alliance sold 67,723 zero-emission vehicles globally. This strategic cooperation is strengthened by cross-shareholdings, with The Nissan LEAF hatchback is by far the world’s best-selling zeroDaimler holding 3.1% shares in both Renault and Nissan capital and Renault emission car. In calendar 2012, Nissan sold 26,976 units globally, an increase and Nissan each holding a 1.55% share in Daimler. of 22% from 2011. Cumulative sales of Nissan LEAF reached 49,117 units from its launch in December 2010 through the end of 2012.. In addition to Twizy, Renault sells the Kangoo Z.E., named International Van of the Year 2012, the Fluence Z.E., an all-electric sedan based on the conventional Fluence sedan, and the subcompact zero-emission ZOE. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 13 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 2012 was an important milestone for the cooperation with the first In addition, the following “pillar projects” originally launched in April 2010 tangible results of the collaboration visible on the road: remained on track: n The jointly developed Renault-Daimler 4-cylinder 1.5-liter direct injection n The Smart/Twingo project has an expected launch date of 2014. Twoturbo diesel engine had its market introduction in the new Mercedes-Benz seater Smart production will take place in Hambach, France, and fourA-Class. seater Smart and Twingo production will be at Renault’s plant in Novo n Mercedes-Benz Vans expanded its range of light commercial vehicles with Mesto, Slovenia. the launch of a new entry-level model, the Citan (based on the existing n The cross-supply and joint development of powertrains continues. Renault is Kangoo), which also features the jointly developed 1.5-liter engine. The supplying Daimler with compact 3-cylinder gasoline engines and 4-cylinder vehicle is built in Renault’s Maubeuge plant in France. diesel engines to be used in the small-car segment (Smart, Twingo). In addition to the jointly developed engine for the Mercedes-Benz Citan van, Among new projects added to the portfolio: Renault is also supplying components for the next generation of Mercedesn Nissan and Daimler announced they would produce Mercedes-Benz Benz’s premium compact cars. Daimler will supply Nissan and Infiniti with 4-cylinder gasoline engines together at Nissan’s powertrain assembly 4and 6-cylinder gasoline and diesel engines from the current and future plant in Decherd, Tennessee. Production will begin in 2014, with engine portfolio. installed capacity of 250,000 units per year once full ramp-up is achieved. The Decherd facility will produce engines for Mercedes-Benz and Infiniti models. n Nissan and Daimler entered into a manufacturing and development license agreement for a new automatic transmission currently being developed by Daimler. Jatco will manufacture the automatic transmission in Mexico for Nissan and Infiniti vehicles starting in 2016. n The Renault-Nissan Alliance and Daimler announced an agreement in January 2013 with Ford to accelerate the commercialization of FCEV technology. The collaboration is expected to lead to the world’s first affordable FCEVs for the mass market as early as 2017. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 14 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Environment Nissan’s environmental philosophy, “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature,” expresses our ideal picture of a sustainable mobility society. As a global automaker, Nissan takes active steps to identify the direct and indirect impacts of its businesses on the environment to help minimize them. Our goal is to reduce the environmental impact caused by our operations and Nissan vehicles throughout their lifecycle to a level that can be absorbed naturally by the Earth by promoting effective use and recycling of energy and resources. For the sake of the planet and generations to come, and to help the development of a sustainable mobility society, Nissan provides customers with innovative products. Our Priorities Key Figures Carbon footprint GRI G3 Indicators Zero-Emission Vehicle Penetration p. 20 EN8/EN16/EN17/EN22 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG Protocol Scope 1) 835,766 t-CO2 Fuel-Efficient Vehicle Expansion p. 26 Indirect GHG emissions from electricity, heat, steam consumption 2,432,889 t-CO2 Corporate Carbon Footprint Minimization p. 29 (Scope 2) New Natural Resource Use Minimization p. 33 Other indirect GHG emissions (Scope 3) 468,346 t-CO2 page_118-142 Environmental Management Promotion p. 36 Water resource use 27,585,000 m3 Click here for detailed Total waste produced 170,910 tons information on our environmental data. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 15 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our CO2 Reduction Scenario Nissan’s Approach to the Environment New cars’ well-to-wheel CO2 emissions Well-to-wheel CO2 emission reductions by future powertrain The increasing global population and the rapid growth of the world economy (%) Renewable Renewable (%) have effects on the global environment, from environmental degradation and 100 Electricity Hydrogen 100 climate change to issues of supply and demand of energy, resources, water 80 80 and food. According to a United Nations forecast, by 2050 the global population will have grown from the present 7 billion to an estimated 9 billion, 450 60 60 with 70% of the population living in cities. The demand for natural resources ppm and energy will increase significantly. 40 40 Ensuring the balance of economic growth and the natural environment is a major challenge facing humankind as we continue to pursue personal and 20 90 % 20 reduction collective prosperity. The automobile industry must work not only to help 0 0 reduce CO2 emissions, but also to reinvent its business structures to reduce 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 Internal Internal Electric Fuel-cell combustion engine combustion engine vehicle electric vehicle reliance on fossil fuels. Source: IPCC (non-hybrid vehicle) (hybrid vehicle) (EV) (FCEV) According to the Fourth Assessment Report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), it is necessary to stabilize atmospheric Fiscal 2012 Performance CO2 at 450 parts per million or lower in order to keep average temperatures from rising more than 2 degrees Celsius on a global basis. Based on this n Sales of the all-electric Nissan LEAF were 30,500 units and cumulative assumption, we have calculated that “well-to-wheel” CO2 emissions for new sales since its launch through the end of March 2013 exceeded vehicles will need to be reduced by 90% in 2050 compared with levels in 58,000 units. 2000. To help achieve this 90% reduction, the efficiency of our internal n 24.9% improvement in corporate average fuel economy (in Japan, U.S., page_20-26 combustion engines will need to improve in the short term. Over the long Europe, China, vs. fiscal 2005) term, we need to increase the adoption of electric vehicles and fuel-cell n 8.3% reduction in CO2 emissions from corporate activities (t-CO2/vehicle, *1 Click here for more page_141 information on our zeroelectric vehicles (EVs and FCEVs) and to make use of renewable energy to vs. fiscal 2005) emission efforts. power these technologies while each country and region moves toward more * CO2 emissions of 215 kton n EV motor using less rare earth elements developed and adopted in Nissan from consolidated renewable energy sources. We are advancing technological development on LEAF employee commutes in Japan, U.S. and Europe the basis of this future scenario. Specifically, we are concentrating our n CO2 emission reductions in each phase of the value chain: have received third-party efforts on two pillars: zero-emission,*1 which involves widespread use of production 2,822 kton, logistics 1,490 kton, certification. For details, please refer to the page_26-28 zero-emission vehicles in a holistic approach to promote a sustainable use of Nissan vehicles 91,234 kton, environmental data at the society, and PURE DRIVE,*2 which reduces CO2 emissions by developing energy use in offices 290 kton, employee commutes 468 kton* end of this report. *2 Click here for more information on PURE fuel-efficient internal combustion engine technologies and introducing them DRIVE. into the market. Future Measures n Prepare for launch of all-electric commercial vehicle, e-NV200 n Introduce hybrid models: Pathfinder for the Nissan brand; Q50, QX60 for the Infiniti brand n Reduce CO2 emissions by introducing three-wet-paint process in plants globally NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 16 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan Green Program 2016 In the long term—even taking into account plans to increase sales volume globally—by promoting the Nissan Green Program activities, we Nissan launched its new six-year environmental action plan, Nissan Green forecast that CO2 emissions from our new vehicles and corporate activities will Program 2016 (NGP2016), in fiscal 2011. NGP2016 is based on peak in the 2020s and then subside, while the volume of new natural thorough materiality assessments focusing on factors with critical impact resource use will be maintained at the level of the 2010s. on the company’s business. These assessments include input from energy and resource specialists around the world, as well as survey results, to gauge understanding and opinions on environmental issues and Nissan’s activities, in addition to the expectations of employees working in Japan on Ultimate Goal and Key Issues what Nissan should set as priorities in its business. NGP2016 focuses on reducing the environmental impact of Nissan’s Solar corporate activities and pursuing harmony between resource consumption and ecology. We aim to promote efficient use of energy and resources and to promote and widen the application of green technologies that were developed under NGP2010, our previous environmental action plan. NGP2016 has four specific key actions that involve activities in development, manufacturing, Energy sales, service and all other departments companywide: zero-emission vehicle uHigher efficiency uMore efficient mobility penetration, fuel-efficient vehicle expansion, corporate carbon footprint uRenewables Social & minimization and new natural resource use minimization. Resources Economic Activities Emissions, Waste uReduced use Within a naturally absorbable level uRecycling Thermal Radiation NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 17 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control NGP2016 Progress List Main areas Action plans FY2012 progress See page Zero-emission vehicle penetration 1.5 million cumulative EV sales with Alliance partner Renault Global Nissan LEAF sales: about 30,500 units in fiscal 2012, and 58,000 units cumulatively since 2010 launch p. 20 Introduce four EVs including Nissan LEAF Promoted field test of the e-NV200 p. 21 Prepare to introduce fuel-cell electric vehicle (FCEV) into market Signed agreement for joint development of common fuel-cell system with Daimler AG and Ford Motor p. 22 Take global leadership in supplying batteries for electric-drive Started battery production by Nissan North America and Nissan Motor Manufacturing (UK) p. 23 Help create zero-emission society utilizing EVs and their derivative technologies with partners Launched the LEAF to Home power supply system using Nichicon's EV Power Station p. 23-24 Develop EV charge/discharge system and information network Promoted rollout of “LEAF to Home” power supply system at public facilities, houses, condominiums Demonstrate smart house/community/grid, starting from Yokohama Provide energy storage solution with used EV batteries through “4R” business Promoted use of EV batteries as stationary power units for houses, apartment buildings p. 25-26 Fuel-efficient vehicle expansion Improve CAFE* by 35% from FY2005 (Japan, U.S., Europe, China) Improved CAFE by 24.9% from FY2005 p. 26 * Corporate average fuel economy; meet or exceed regulatory requirements Introduce top fuel-efficiency models in various classes These models had top fuel efficiency in their classes: p. 27 Note, Latio in Japan Altima in U.S. Sylphy in China Introduce FF-HEV in C class and above; expand FR-HEV offerings Introduced Cima Hybrid, Serena S-Hybrid in Japan p. 27 Introduce plug-in hybrid vehicle (P-HEV) Promoted P-HEV development p. 27 Introduce next-generation CVT globally; expand CVT sales to 20 million cumulative units from 1992 Global CVT-equipped vehicle sales of 2.28 million; cumulative total since 1992 of 13.36 million p. 27-28 Develop lightweight technologies with structure optimization, new materials and new manufacturing processes Developed and used 1.2 gigapascal ultra-high tensile strength, highly formable steel in the Infiniti Q50, achieving weight reduction of about 40 kg p. 28 Contribute to CO2 reduction by ITS technologies Worked with Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport to confirm effectiveness of dynamic route guidance to disperse traffic congestion p. 28 Collaborate with Beijing city government to improve traffic congestion, promote eco-driving Corporate carbon footprint minimization Reduce CO2 emissions of corporate activities by 20% (t-CO2/vehicle, vs. FY2005) Reduced 8.3% from FY2005 p. 29 Reduce by 27% in all manufacturing sites (t-CO2/vehicle, vs. FY2005 ) Reduced 15.2% from FY2005 p. 29-30 Promote activities to reduce CO2 emissions in inbound/outbound logistics Promoted measures including introduction of Nissei Maru, our fourth energy-efficient auto shipping vessel p. 31-32 Reduce by 1%/year in offices (Japan, North America, Europe, China, t-CO2/unit) Increased 17.7% from FY2010 p. 32 Reduce by 1%/year in dealers (Japan, t-CO2/unit) Increased 1.8% from FY2010 p. 32 New natural resource use minimization Increase recycled material usage ratio per vehicle by 25% in Japan, US and Europe Activities promoted p. 33 Expand closed-loop recycling scheme with business partners Started activity to collect steel and aluminum sheet scraps generated during production, recycle them into steel and aluminum sheets for use p. 34 Collect and recycle scrap, waste from vehicle production Collect and recycle end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) Improve ELV recovery rate Achieved recovery rate of 99.3% in Japan; efforts underway globally p. 34 Achieve top level ELV recovery rate (Japan) Promote proper treatment and resource recovery globally Reduce scarce resource usage Reduce critical metal, rare earth usage Developed and applied a new electric motor to reduce use of rare earth dysprosium by 40% in Nissan LEAF p. 34 Comply with emission regulations in each region with minimum precious metal usage Reduce waste Reduce waste by 2%/year (Japan) and 1%/year (global) in manufacturing plants Waste reduced by 10.3% in Japan plants and 3.2% in global plants p. 35 Reduce waste in logistics by expanding best-practice activities Promote water-usage management and reduction in all plants Set targets, started activities to reduce water use in Spain, Egypt and South Africa p. 36 Environmental management promotion Enhance and promote environmental management throughout supply chain (consolidated companies, sales companies, suppliers) Briefing held about NGP2016 with consolidated manufacturers and suppliers; environmental objectives and environmental data, activities reporting added to p. 37 management items for suppliers to understand and promote reduction of environmental impact upstream in the supply chain Promote reduction, substitution and management of environment-impacting substances Added our global policy related to environment-impacting substances in the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines and distributed it to our suppliers p. 38 Reduce environmental impact of products with lifecycle assessments (LCAs) CO2 assessments underway as part of product LCAs p. 40 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 18 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our Framework for Global Environment Management Company Organizations for the Environment Stakeholders To achieve the NGP2016 goals, Nissan organically links its product and Communication technical development, production, logistics, marketing, sales and other Major Issues divisions to ensure maximum results. Toward this end, the company has Reducing CO2 Emissions/ created a global framework for environmental management and is setting Shifting to Renewable Energies targets and implementing action plans in all areas of its activity. Products Manufacturing Marketing Business Air, Water, Soil, Biodiversity & & & To carry out its global environmental management, Nissan has Technology Logistics Sales Partners established an organizational approach linking its various functions and Resource Recycling regions. The Global Environment Management Committee (G-EMC), page_37 headed by the chief operating officer, meets twice annually to determine Nissan Global Environment Management Click here for more overall policies and the proposals to be put before the Executive information on Nissan as a Committee. The Environmental Planning Department, which is a part of the Sincere Eco-Innovator Sincere Eco-Innovator. Corporate Planning and Business Development Division, launched in 2007, determines which proposals will be forwarded to the G-EMC and assigns specific actions to each division. This department is also responsible for the Environment Management Organization efficient management and operation of environmental programs based on CEO Global, corporate focuses Functional, regional the PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle. In fiscal 2012, we established the focuses Executive Customers European Environmental Management Committee (E-EMC) to deeper Committee Plan manage and implement measures. PDCA In Japan, we have obtained integrated ISO 14001 certification* for all COO Global Employees Business partners of our business facilities. Within this system the COO takes direct charge of Global Act Environmental Do PDCA Planning managing and promoting Nissan’s environmental activities. The coordinated Environment Department Advisory Meetings, Management etc. goals set by the COO for the entire company are shared with all facilities Committee and employees, allowing the entire company to engage in these activities. PDCA Shareholders and Communities and Check investors future generations The COO also receives reports twice each year on the progress and results page_36 of Nissan’s activities and on further measures to be implemented. By * Click here for more putting the PDCA cycle to use in this way, we constantly improve our information on our ISO 14001 certification. environmental performance. We also hold Advisory Meetings, where we solicit the ideas of leading experts and organizations, and examine assessments from rating organizations. We use this information to better assess Nissan’s goals and activities, further enhancing our environmental measures. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 19 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Matrix There are many stakeholders in all the stages of the value chain—from the Extremely high Water use Fuel consumption/Product CO2 extraction of resources needed to make vehicles to manufacturing, shipping, l l l CO2 emissions in corporate activities l Sustainable mobility use and disposal of end-of-life vehicles. Nissan analyzes the reliance on l Environmental impact in supply chain l Energy diversity/Renewable energy resources and energy, impact on the environment and means of reducing that l Efficient resource use l Air quality impact throughout the value chain. Based on this analysis, we position our Stakeholder Concerns customers all around the world, shareholders, investors, suppliers and other Very high l Biodiversity business partners, employees, governments, NGOs, residents of communities l Amount of landfill waste l Chemical substances where we do business and even future generations as important stakeholders. Through a broad range of approaches, we identify stakeholder views and the diverse needs of society, taking them into consideration as we develop and implement environmental strategies. High As one example, Nissan holds regular Advisory Meetings with participation by researchers and experts who lead the environmental field in High Very high Extremely high the academic and industrial worlds, as well as leading business people from Potential Business Impacts various sectors. There they discuss the direction and appropriateness of Nissan’s business strategies with members of the company’s Board of Directors. This input is then considered in those strategies going forward. Environmental Issues for Nissan Materiality Analysis To reduce environmental impact, countries around the globe implement Nissan believes that over the long term, the spread of zero-emission various regulations that affect the automotive industry in areas like exhaust vehicles that produce no CO2 during operation will be an effective way to emissions, CO2 output, fuel efficiency, noise, chemical substances and reduce CO2 emissions. With our Alliance partner Renault, we have set the recycling, and these are becoming more stringent year by year. To meet these goal of zero-emission leadership and are promoting uptake of zerotougher regulations and to respond to society’s demands, Nissan uses emission cars and aiming to bring about a sustainable mobility society. At materiality assessments to analyze potential opportunities and risks. We make the same time, we continue to develop new technologies to improve the those issues viewed by both Nissan and stakeholders as important our priority fuel efficiency of our internal combustion engines. areas, working them into our environmental strategy. Nissan also makes full use of the benefits of working together with Renault on environmental technologies and vehicles. This joint approach to technological development is both effective and efficient. Nissan is also deeply aware of the importance of such issues as management of chemical substances, waste reduction, recycling and the potential depletion of water, energy and resource materials in certain regions, or globally in the future. We are taking steps throughout the value chain to address these issues. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 20 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Zero-Emission Vehicle Penetration The Updated Nissan LEAF Nissan LEAF, our all-electric vehicle, runs on a lithium-ion battery and electric Electric vehicles (EVs) are a product showing that what is good for the motor and emits no CO2 or exhaust during operation. This EV offers excellent public and the planet is also good business. Under the Alliance with performance and driving feel, with smooth, strong acceleration and quiet Renault, Nissan is engaged in a comprehensive approach involving delivery across a speed range comparable to that of upscale models, as well boosting the production and sales of EVs as well as various activities as great handling stability realized by well-balanced weight distribution. All of through a wide range of zero-emission partnerships for popularization this has earned Nissan LEAF high marks from its customers since its debut in of EVs. 2010. In November 2012, we launched the updated Nissan LEAF in Japan. This improved version achieved weight reduction of up to 80 kg with its Zero-Emission Leadership for the Alliance combined powertrain unit, integrated functions, and streamlined battery Nissan’s commitment to sustainable mobility begins by addressing concerns module and case structure. Additional improvements to the regenerative over climate change and supports sustainable profits for Nissan by satisfying braking system and optimization of the battery controls have enabled a customers’ demands for more environmentally friendly vehicles. Greater maximum driving range of 228 km on a full charge (as measured in JC08 movement toward renewable energy such as solar, wind and hydropower in Japan test mode). the future is expected to further enhance this segment, as EVs will be able to We also show consideration for the environment in Nissan LEAF’s use energy from a variety of sources. manufacturing stage, such as by using a highly capable motor that reduces Nissan LEAF globally sold about 30,500 units in fiscal 2012, and usage of the rare earth element dysprosium by 40% compared to the cumulative sales exceeded 58,000 units from its debut in December 2010 previous model. The advanced IT systems onboard the vehicle have allowed through March 2013, making it the best-selling EV in the world. Nissan is the driver to control some functions remotely, via a smartphone or other planning to introduce three additional EV models; combined with Renault’s device, since Nissan LEAF was first launched. In the updated model, we have four EV models already on the market, this will bring the Alliance total to eight responded to customer requests with enhanced driver support functions, EVs. The Renault-Nissan Alliance will continue to lead the auto industry with such as guidance on recharging stations nearby and the most energythe highest level of global EV sales. efficient routes to take. The updated Nissan LEAF went on sale in the United States and Europe in 2013. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 21 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our calculations show that Nissan LEAF produces considerably less CO2 emissions over its entire lifecycle, from manufacturing to end-of-life disposal, Field Testing for the e-NV200 compared to gasoline-powered vehicles of the same class.* EV batteries can do more than just provide power for driving. As energy storage devices, they The e-NV200—Nissan’s second mass-produced all-electric vehicle, can play a key role in supporting the broad rollout of renewable energy. This following Nissan LEAF—is scheduled to launch in fiscal 2014. Nissan has makes them a promising contributor to the achievement of a low-carbon road tested the e-NV200 since 2011 with several other major companies, society as a whole—not just the vehicles within that society. including the Japan Post Service Co., AEON Retail Co., Ltd., Coca-Cola page_40 Nissan plans to bring many new EVs to the market, including the Central in Japan, British Gas in Europe and FedEx Express as a global * Click here for more all-electric commercial vehicle e-NV200 and luxury models under the project. Nissan is using the feedback from the field testing to refine and information on the lifecycle assessment on Infiniti brand. enhance the final development of the vehicle. Nissan LEAF. Providing a large, multi-use interior space to both business and private users, the e-NV200 small van will deliver innovation in the commercial vehicle market and further Nissan’s leadership in the EV market. Combining the advanced powertrain of Nissan LEAF with the roominess and versatility of the NV200 base vehicle will deliver not only zero CO2 emissions but also excellent acceleration and quietness. Nissan LEAF Zero-Emission Taxis Around the World In January 2013 Nissan announced it would provide 10 Nissan LEAF units for use in the taxi fleet of the city of Zurich. A total of 20 Nissan LEAF taxis e-NV200 are scheduled to be on the roads by the middle of the year. City officials project that EVs will comprise fully 15% of its taxi fleet by 2015, and work is underway to build a network of quick-charging stations to support them. Relying on zero-emission vehicles for taxis is of course a way to reduce CO2 emissions from this mode of travel. It is also a way to establish the practicality of EVs in real-world testing and to spread these vehicles as a proven means of travel for individuals. A growing number of large cities around the world are turning to Nissan LEAF as a taxi vehicle, including Amsterdam, New York, Tokyo, Mexico City, Sao Paulo and Guangzhou, China. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 22 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control In January 2013, Daimler AG, Ford Motor Company and Nissan, under Venucia e30 Unveiled at Guangzhou Motor Show the Alliance with Renault, signed a unique three-way agreement for the joint development of a common fuel-cell system. The goal of the Boosted by a Chinese government plan to develop the industry for energycollaboration is to jointly develop an FCEV system while reducing efficient and new-energy vehicles, the market in China is seeing growth in investment costs associated with the engineering of the technology, EVs and plug-in hybrid vehicles. Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle lowering manufacturing costs through economies of scale and integrating Company—a division of Dongfeng Motor Co., our joint venture in China with the companies’ knowledge. This will help us to launch the world’s first the Dongfeng Group—will market the Venucia e30, a 100% electricityaffordable, mass-market FCEVs as early as 2017. powered vehicle, by 2015. With the Venucia mark, Dongfeng Nissan aims to offer high-quality, high-utility models that are within the reach of all Pursuing a Zero-Emission Society Chinese drivers. In 2013 pilot programs will begin in 15 cities, including The widespread use of zero-emission vehicles, which produce no CO2 Guangzhou and Dalian, to put the Venucia e30 to use and test practical emissions during operation, is an effective way of helping to achieve use of EVs on China’s roads. sustainable mobility. The auto industry must go beyond producing and selling zero-emission vehicles to help put the necessary infrastructure in place and assure that the vehicles are economical to use—goals that no company can Commercial Viability of Fuel-Cell Electric Vehicles accomplish on its own. The Renault-Nissan Alliance, with its commitment to Fuel-cell electric vehicles (FCEVs) are another type of zero-emission zero-emission leadership, is promoting the development and production of vehicle producing no CO2 or other emissions. Powered by electricity EVs, zero-emission mobility and construction of needed infrastructure, forging generated from hydrogen and oxygen, they emit only water during driving. more than 100 zero-emission partnerships with national and local FCEVs are the obvious next step to complement today’s battery-powered governments, electric power companies and other partners. EVs as our industry embraces more sustainable transportation. Our FCEVs make use of the lithium-ion batteries and high-power electric systems refined in our EV development, as well as the control systems from our hybrid vehicles and the high-pressure gas storage technologies from our compressed natural gas vehicles (CNGVs). In 2011, we announced the development of the hydrogen supply infrastructure in Japan with 12 other companies toward the launch of FCEVs. We also unveiled the next generation fuel-cell stack for our FCEVs. According to our calculations, the new stack provides a power density 2.5 times greater than the previous model, at 2.5 kW per liter. This reduces the use of platinum and the variation of parts to one quarter the levels of the 2005 model, thereby allowing us to reduce its size to less than half and the cost to one-sixth. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 23 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control We are also taking part in a comprehensive range of initiatives focusing The production of Nissan LEAF and the EV batteries outside Japan is on zero-emission mobility, including the production of lithium-ion batteries, also underway. In the United States, we began production of the batteries at secondary use and recycling of batteries, in-house manufacture and sale of the all-new Nissan plant in Smyrna, Tennessee, in December 2012. At full quick-charging equipment, construction of vehicle-charging infrastructure and production speed, the plant will produce up to 150,000 EVs and 200,000 standardization of charging methods with other manufacturers. Increased lithium-ion battery packs per year, creating up to 1,300 new jobs. uptake of zero-emission vehicles will bring changes to people’s lifestyles, For the European market, we have already been manufacturing lithiumlaying the groundwork for a sustainable mobility society. Nissan provides more ion batteries at the Sunderland Plant in the United Kingdom. In March 2013 than just EVs themselves; we propose the new values that they offer as well. Sunderland also began manufacturing EVs themselves. Once fully ramped up, the plant will have annual production capacity of 50,000 EVs and 60,000 battery packs, and will provide jobs directly to 200 workers and indirectly A Comprehensive Approach to a Zero-Emission Society create 600 new jobs in the U.K. supply chain. “LEAF to Home” Smart Power Supply System In May 2012, Nissan unveiled a new system in Japan, “LEAF to Home,” which lets the lithium-ion batteries installed in Nissan LEAF supply electricity to Zero-emission vehicle engineering, households through the EV Power Station built by Nichicon Corp. Nissan manufacturing Collaborating with governments Battery engineering, manufacturing LEAF can make the electricity in its battery available to a house when the car’s quick-charging port is connected to the house’s electricity distribution panel. This system provides completely new value made possible by the Battery secondary-use all-electric vehicle’s battery. In addition, the connector complies with the 4R business CHAdeMO Association’s protocol for quick chargers, known for its versatility, safety and reliability. Smart-grid research, New mobility proposals CHAdeMO EV recycling charging networks Association With “LEAF to Home,” Nissan LEAF can be used as an electricity Nissan-made quick chargers storage device for houses in times of power outages or shortages. The lithium-ion batteries can store up to a maximum of 24kWh of electricity, Local Production of Nissan LEAF and Its Batteries making it sufficient to supply a household with a stable amount of electricity In Japan, lithium-ion batteries for Nissan LEAF are produced at the throughout the day. The system can also help to reduce the burden on the Automotive Energy Supply Corporation (AESC) plant in Zama, Kanagawa power grid by charging Nissan LEAF with electricity generated at night (often Prefecture, a joint venture launched by Nissan and NEC Corporation. This at lower cost to the consumer), or through sustainable methods such as solar plant builds battery modules, each containing four battery cells, and ships power, and using it during high-demand periods. them to the Nissan Oppama facility, where 48 of them are assembled into the electric car’s battery pack for installation in a Nissan LEAF. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 24 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control The “LEAF to Home” power supply system has won the Ministry of The Nissan New Mobility Concept Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) Minister’s Prize in the Grand Prize for The Nissan New Mobility Concept is a 100% electric vehicle that was Excellence in Energy Efficiency and Conservation program for its high developed in response to rising numbers of senior citizens and single-member efficiency and energy savings. households, along with increasing use of automobiles for short-distance trips by up to two people. Even smaller than a compact vehicle, it gives the driver excellent views of the surroundings and a better feel for the dimensions of the vehicle, making it an ideal choice for residential neighborhoods and other areas with narrow streets offering poor visibility. In fiscal 2011, Nissan conducted driving trials on public roads with the authorization from Japan’s Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) in the city of Yokohama and the prefectures of Aomori and Fukuoka, using local traffic systems and numerous studies. Also, from July 2012 to the end of March 2013, the vehicle was utilized for patrols by the Kanagawa Anticrime Seagull team, a voluntary group operating with approval The power supply system LEAF to Home with EV power station developed from the Kanagawa Prefectural Police. won the METI Minister's by Nichicon Corp. Prize. In February 2013, the city of Yokohama and the railway company Tokyu Corp. surveyed monitors using the Nissan New Mobility Concept as part of a program to plan smart communities of the future. Nissan carries out activities like these to produce fresh ideas toward the realization of new EV uses and Popularization of Power Supply Systems smooth traffic flows for society, as well as to consider potential ideal forms of tomorrow’s communities. Nissan is promoting a power supply system that uses a Nissan LEAF battery as its power storage device. In April 2012, we helped the city of Yokosuka, Kanagawa Prefecture, to install systems manufactured by Tsubakimoto Kogyo Co., Ltd. and Tsubakimoto Chain Co. at a public facility. These bidirectional systems can both charge EVs and draw power from EV batteries as needed. By pairing these systems with the EV taxis that are already on Yokosuka’s streets, we can help “peak shift” power usage to alleviate shortages in times of heavy demand, as well as make electricity available during a disaster or other emergency. Nissan is also forming a wide range of partnerships to promote installation of power supply systems at individual homes and Nissan New Mobility Concept apartment complexes. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 25 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Infrastructure to Help the Spread of EVs Nissan commenced sales of its new proprietary quick-charging unit at Nissan The Nissan Zero Emission Fund parts dealers throughout Japan in 2011. This unit retains the high performance of the previous version in approximately half the volume, allowing In June 2012, we launched the Nissan Zero Emission Fund for individual installation in smaller spaces. We have been installing charging units in our Nissan EV owners in Japan. Through this program, Nissan LEAF owners dealers since the launch of Nissan LEAF. As of the end of fiscal 2012, all of are able to generate CO2 emission credits that are certified by METI and our dealers had installed ordinary chargers and 800 dealers had also installed sold to the Green Investment Promotion Organization, an organization that quick-charging units in Japan. promotes investment in low-carbon emissions. The system calculates and In Japan, Nissan, Sumitomo Corp., NEC Corp. and Showa Shell Sekiyu certifies the amount of CO2 emissions that are avoided by driving zeroK.K. jointly established a new recharging service company in 2012. This new emission vehicles. Profits from the sale of the credits will be invested by company, Japan Charge Network Co., Ltd., has already begun trial service. Its the fund to support the installation of quick-charging facilities and forest infrastructure network now includes Nissan auto dealers, convenience stores conservation activities to accelerate the realization of a zero-emission in Kanagawa Prefecture and Narita Airport. The company is steadily building society. The CO2 emission reductions are calculated by total distance up a nationwide recharging infrastructure with full consideration of user traveled, so the more customers that take part, the more reductions can convenience and the ways drivers will actually make use of it. be achieved. Nissan is also taking part in a program run by the Ministry of Economy, Nissan will also engage in forest conservation efforts together with Trade and Industry (METI) to promote next-generation vehicle-charging More Trees, a general incorporated foundation in Japan. Nissan and More infrastructure. The plan is to install approximately 36,000 quick-charging units Trees will use part of the profits generated by the fund to facilitate around Japan, a figure to match the number of gas stations operating in the conservation of thinning forests in Japan that need reforestation, to be country. We are currently considering ideal installation locations and methods designated “LEAF Forests.” LEAF Forest work will begin in three villages of operation for these units. in Yamanashi Prefecture that are riverhead areas for the Kanto region: Infrastructure-related efforts are underway overseas as well. At the end Tabayama, Kosuge and Doshi. of January 2013, Nissan announced it would work together with auto dealerships, local governments, and companies like NRG Energy, Inc. and its eVgo charging network to install more than 500 new quick-charging stations for EVs within the following 18 months, thus quadrupling the number available Joint Venture to Promote Second-life Use for Batteries to U.S. drivers. Earlier in that same month, we also announced our Even after the high-performance lithium-ion batteries used in Nissan’s EVs participation in the Workplace Charging Challenge launched by the U.S. reach the end of their useful life in cars, they retain the capacity to let them Department of Energy, which will see us supporting the installation of play useful roles. “4R” business models—which reuse, resell, refabricate and charging stations at office buildings and other workplaces across America. recycle lithium-ion batteries—allow their effective use for energy storage solutions in a range of applications, thus creating a much more efficient energy cycle of battery use. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 26 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control As the EV market expands, Nissan sees a need to utilize reusable Fuel-Efficient Vehicle Expansion lithium-ion batteries more effectively. In 2010 we launched 4R Energy Corporation, a joint venture with Sumitomo Corp. This company is developing Demand for motor vehicles is expected to continue to rise along with and testing stationary power units based on used EV batteries. Japan is mature market recovery and emerging market expansion. Nissan is expected to see rising demand for stationary batteries as part of energy making efforts on the greatest possible improvements to the fuel storage and backup power systems that also feature solar panels on homes efficiency of gasoline-powered engines and introducing more fuelor business structures, and 4R Energy is installing such batteries in houses efficient vehicles to the market. and apartment buildings. 4R Energy home-use lithium-ion battery systems have already been installed in Park Tower Shinonome, a 585-unit residential Improved Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency structure built by Mitsui Fudosan Residential Co., Ltd. in Tokyo, and in Smart Nissan has been making an ongoing effort to develop technologies to Solabo, a “smart house” designed by Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd. maximize the energy efficiency of vehicles with internal combustion engines and hold CO2 emissions down. The marketing of vehicles with such 4R Concept technologies is one way that we are helping reduce CO2 emissions. The Battery module structure will be redesigned to create new packages that satisfy the varying voltage or capacity needs of customers. name we give to particularly low-emitting, fuel-efficient vehicles is PURE DRIVE. The core technologies in these vehicles include one or more of: lithium-ion batteries; one-motor, two-clutch parallel hybrid systems; and next-generation continuously variable transmission (CVT) systems. Many more of our new cars will be carrying these technologies. Our target by fiscal 2016 is a 35% improvement in corporate average Refabricate fuel efficiency from the fiscal 2005 level (as measured in average fuel efficiency in the Japanese, U.S., European and Chinese markets). Our result in Reuse Resell fiscal 2012 was 24.9% improvement from the fiscal 2005 level. After their primary automotive use Refabricated batteries can be Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency is over, the lithium-ion batteries used for multiple purposes (%) 100 can retain enough energy such as clean energy storage capacity for secondary use. Recycle or as back-up batteries in 100 93.3 case of emergency. 95 90 87.2 86.6 85.3 35 % improvement 85 80 75.1 Used batteries can be recycled to recover useful resources. 75 70 65 60 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2016 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 27 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Top-level Efficiency in Various Classes In August 2012, we added a new version of the Serena with a simpler The Altima was one of the best-selling cars in the United States in 2011. In and more compact hybrid system, achieved by enhancing the energy *1 As measured in highway June 2012, Nissan introduced the 2013 Altima in the North American regeneration capacity of the ECO motor—enabling it to serve as an mode used in North market. With attributes including exterior styling with a strong presence, auxiliary motor—and adding a sub-battery in the engine room to boost America. *2 All figures as of time of excellent aerodynamics, an upscale interior as well as ride comfort with storage capacity. sale in 2012. The best-level acceleration, the all-new model delivers environmentally sound Taking into account factors like roominess of the interior and vehicle respective classes were: gasoline vehicles with performance. The new Altima achieves best-in-segment fuel economy of use, Nissan will utilize the hybrid system best suited to each model. Fifteen engine displacement of 1.0 38 mpg*1 in the U.S. mid-size sedan segment thanks to the combination of new hybrid models are planned by fiscal 2016. liters or more (excluding hybrids and kei “minicars”) a newly-designed 2.5-liter inline four-cylinder engine combined with the for Note; 4-door sedans next-generation Xtronic CVT, as well as a reduction in vehicle weight by under 1.5 liters (excluding hybrids) for Latio; and around 80 pounds (36 kilograms) by utilizing aluminum in hood and 1.5-liter-class 4-door bumper reinforcements, and expanding the use of high-strength steel for sedans (excluding hybrids) for Sylphy. more than half of the vehicle body. *3 As measured in the Other vehicles achieving class-leading fuel efficiency during fiscal European fuel-economy mode also used in China. 2012*2 were the Note (25.2 km/l, JC08 mode) and the Latio (22.6 km/l, JC08 mode) in the Japanese market, and the Sylphy (6.3 liters/100 km*3) in the Chinese market. Nissan will continue to introduce models with classleading fuel economy, making use of the fuel-efficiency technologies that Serena S-Hybrid best match vehicle size, use and price. Progress in Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles A Broader Lineup of Hybrid Vehicles Plug-in hybrid electric vehicles (plug-in HEVs) have batteries that are Hybrid vehicles, which run on a combination of a gasoline-powered engine recharged by means of household electrical outlets or other external power and an electric motor, may allow improvement of fuel efficiency and sources, and are capable of running on motors similar to those of electric considerable reductions in CO2 emissions. Nissan has developed a unique vehicles. Nissan is advancing research and development of plug-in HEVs hybrid system using a high-output lithium-ion battery together with a single and will launch such a model during fiscal 2015. motor for both drive and regeneration, as well as an Intelligent Dual Clutch Control system in which two clutches are linked in parallel, one to the Global Rollout for Our New CVT motor and one directly to the engine and transmission. The system was The continuously variable transmission (CVT) enables smooth acceleration used for the Fuga Hybrid in 2010, Infiniti M Hybrid in 2011 and the Cima in without noticeable gear changes. It also allows selection of the optimum 2012. These hybrid vehicles deliver both fuel efficiency and powerful engine speed to match the vehicle’s rate of travel, thus achieving powerful responsiveness. driving with lower fuel consumption. In 2011, Nissan unveiled its newNissan is also developing a hybrid system for front-wheel-drive generation Xtronic CVT for use in cars with 2.0to 3.5-liter engines. This vehicles. The single-motor, dual-clutch system now used in rear-wheeladdition expanded the lineup of Nissan cars with CVT technology from the drive vehicles will be incorporated into a next-generation Xtronic CVT, 1.2to 3.5-liter classes. achieving a compact and versatile arrangement that can be featured in a The new Xtronic CVT features a world-leading ratio coverage of 7.0 wide range of vehicles. (specific to 2.0to 2.5-liter engine vehicles) and has reduced friction by NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 28 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control approximately 40% from previous versions. These factors have improved High Tensile Strength Steel with High Formability leads to fewer materials fuel efficiency by up to 10% (in-house measurement using U.S. used per vehicle produced, and existing production lines can be used Environmental Protection Agency combined mode) compared to similar without a big modification. This results in a reduction in total cost per unit. vehicles with older CVTs. The technology was incorporated into the new Nissan will expand the use of AHSS up to 25% of the vehicle parts Altima launched in North America in 2012 and will be featured in vehicles (measured by weight) installed in its new production models starting in 2017. sold around the world. Nissan’s goal is to ship 20 million CVT-equipped vehicles, first launched in 1992. We sold 2.28 million CVT vehicles in fiscal 2012, bringing the cumulative total to 13.36 million. Number of CVT-Equipped Units Sold (million units) 20 15 13.36 Cumulative sales 11.08 1.2 GPa Ultra High Tensile Strength Steel with High Formability in the Infiniti Q50 (red shaded 9.00 areas) 10 5 2.08 2.28 Annual sales 1.59 Reducing Traffic Congestion with ITS 0 1992 2010 2011 2012 2016 (FY) An automobile’s fuel efficiency depends not just on the car’s own capabilities but on the environment in which it drives and the way it is Toward Lighter Vehicles driven as well. Nissan is actively working to create societal infrastructure Vehicle weight reduction is an important activity that contributes to that will help to improve the traffic environment. Intelligent Transport improved fuel economy. Nissan is promoting vehicle weight reduction by Systems (ITS) are a particularly important part of our efforts, and we are optimizing vehicle body structure, better forming and joining techniques, collaborating with others in a variety of industries to craft solutions to tough and material substitution. problems like road congestion that automakers cannot tackle on their own. We are seeking weight reduction in steel parts and promoting the use Under commission from Japan’s New Energy and Industrial of Advanced High Tensile Strength Steel (AHSS). In March 2013, Nissan Technology Development Organization (NEDO), Nissan has since 2010 announced the development* of 1.2 gigapascal (GPa) Ultra High Tensile been working with the Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport to Strength Steel with High Formability and its use in the new Infiniti Q50, conduct experiments with a dynamic route guidance system (DRGS) using which goes on sale in North America in 2013. With the use of AHSS and IT terminals and eco-driving support to alleviate traffic congestion in the other measures, the total weight reduction for the Infiniti Q50 reached city. Some 12,000 DRGS-equipped vehicles have been monitored in the about 40 kg. The jointly developed 1.2GPa Ultra High Tensile Strength city’s Wangjing district to measure the system’s traffic-dispersing impact * Jointly developed by Nissan Steel with High Formability provides greater elongation through an optimal over two and a half years. The effectiveness of the system in reducing Motor Co., Nippon Steel & combination of materials, offers strength and high formability, and can be driving time and improving fuel efficiency has been confirmed, and the Sumitomo Metal Corp. and Kobe Steel. used in vehicle parts with highly complex shapes. Employing 1.2 GPa Ultra technology is expected to be applied in broader areas in the future. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 29 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Carbon Footprint Minimization Energy Saving in Global Production Most of the CO2 emissions in the manufacturing process come from the We are said to be in a carbon-constricted world, and reducing CO2 consumption of energy generated with fossil fuels. We are engaging in a emissions is a task to be tackled by all companies. Nissan is variety of energy-saving activities in manufacturing our vehicles. improving energy efficiency and promoting renewable energy We are promoting the use of renewable energy sources appropriate to adoption, to reduce CO2 emissions. the location of each of our global plant sites. Since 2005, we have installed 10 power-generating wind turbines on the grounds of Nissan Motor A 20% CO2 Emission Reduction in Corporate Activities Manufacturing (UK) Ltd., which together provide 6,500 kW, about 5% of the By fiscal 2016, Nissan aims to reduce the CO2 emissions associated with its electricity used at the entire site. In Japan, Nissan is cosponsoring the city of corporate activities by 20% globally from the fiscal 2005 level, as measured Yokohama’s Y-Green Partner program for wind power generation. Nissan by the index of “CO2 emissions per global vehicle” (total emissions generated Motor Iberica, S.A., in Spain has set up solar energy panels. Nissan Mexicana, from Nissan global corporate activities divided by the total Nissan vehicle S.A. de C.V., has established infrastructure at its Cuernavaca Plant to produce sales volume). To achieve this goal, we widened the scope of measurable hot water by solar energy, and also started using energy generated from objectives in fiscal 2011 to include logistics, offices and dealerships in biogas in 2012, and wind power in 2013 in its Aguascalientes assembly plant. addition to production sites, and strengthened management. Our result in In production technology, we are introducing highly efficient equipment, fiscal 2012 was 8.3% (t-CO2/vehicle) reduction from the fiscal 2005 level. improving manufacturing techniques and adopting energy-saving lighting. Our plants use finely controlled lighting and air conditioning for low-energy-use, Falling Global Emissions from low-loss operations. We are promoting CO2 emission reduction activities and Corporate Activities introducing our cutting-edge energy conservation technology from Japan in (% reduction) Nissan plants worldwide. Meanwhile, our plants in all countries learn and 100 share best practices with each other. In addition, we promote various activities aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, such as by forming a team of technicians 92.0 91.7 20 % reduction called Nissan Energy Saving Collaboration (N-ESCO); this team surveys the 90 status of energy-loss at our plants in Japan and overseas and proposes new energy-saving countermeasures. 80 70 2005 2011 2012 2016 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 30 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control With these activities, we set a target of reducing CO2 emissions by 27% below the fiscal 2005 level by fiscal 2016, as measured by the index of “CO2 Top-Level Energy Management in North America emissions per global vehicle” (total emissions generated from global Nissan vehicle manufacturing sites divided by the total Nissan vehicle production In May 2012, Nissan’s Smyrna Vehicle Assembly Plant in Tennessee volume). In fiscal 2012 our CO2 emissions per global vehicle were obtained certification under ISO 50001, the international standard for approximately 0.62 tons, a reduction of 15.2% from the fiscal 2005 level. energy usage, and Superior Energy Performance (SEP) certification from ANSI, the American National Standards Institute. As the first automobile Global Energy Consumption manufacturing facility to receive either of these certifications, the Smyrna (MWh) (MWh/Vehicle) Plant has established its position as a U.S. leader in energy management. 9,353,605 9,460,190 The U.S. Department of Energy began field tests in 2008 as part of 10,000,000 8,984,864 5.0 the SEP program to gauge energy management standards in preparation 8,000,000 4.0 for the introduction of ISO 50001. Nissan was one of seven companies 6,480,833 6,525,000 4,565,499 Japan 5,525,097 5,573,174 taking part in these field tests, which went on for three years. The Smyrna 6,000,000 3.0 2.49 2.08 Plant succeeded in improving its energy efficiency by 7% by 4,000,000 2.27 2.21 2.22 North 2.0 implementing three steps: (1) crafting approaches to reduce energy The figures are for the 4,195,000 4,142,222 1,782,399 1,733,447 2,157,793 America Nissan Group worldwide, consumption, (2) implementing strategies to conserve energy and (3) 1,175,278 982,332 Europe including consolidated 2,000,000 1,267,500 1,066,503 939,469 1.0 sustaining efficient practices. companies. 683,056 719,444 1,214,099 1,279,240 Other 335,278 488,056 979,606 The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recognized Nissan North 0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) America (NNA) as an Energy Star Partner of the Year for three straight years beginning in 2010 as part of the international Energy Star program. Global CO2 Emissions from Manufacturing Activities In 2012, NNA also received the Energy Star Partner of the Year— (1,000 t-CO2) (t-CO2/vehicle) Sustained Excellence award. Since first taking part in the program in 2006, 0.73 0.60 0.58 0.62 27% reduction 0.7 NNA has reduced its energy consumption by a total equivalent to some page_141 3,000 2,822 0.6 800 billion BTUs. 2,589 2,426 0.53 The figures are for the Nissan Group worldwide, Consolidated 2,589 including consolidated 2,000 1.934 production sites 0.4 companies. CO2 emissions of 1,698 in Japan, U.S., Europe 1,934 kton from Japan, U.S. and Europe have received third-party certification. For 1,000 0.2 details, please refer to the 891 888 Other sites environmental data at the end of this report. 0 2005 2010 2011 2012 2016 (FY) 0 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 31 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control More Efficient Logistics and Modal Shifts Renewable Energy for the Aguascalientes Plant in Mexico In 2000, Nissan began sending chartered trucks for pick-up and delivery of parts, an uncommon method among automobile manufacturers in Japan at the The Aguascalientes Plant of Nissan Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., is one of time. This approach has been adopted widely at our overseas manufacturing , Nissan s major global production sites. The plant produced more than sites, increasing the global efficiency of our operations. We have also worked 385,000 units in 2012, and has established sustainable production together with suppliers to optimize the frequency of deliveries and transport operations. routes and to improve packaging specifications in order to improve loading In 2012 the Aguascalientes facility became the first automotive plant ratios and reduce the number of trucks required. in Mexico, and Nissan’s first plant globally, to use biogas-generated We devise efficient modes of packaging for the huge number of parts electricity for its manufacturing operations. The plant is taking part in a of different shapes and materials that go into our automobiles. Through project that uses waste as its main resource, and is registered with the simultaneous-engineering logistics activities, we work from the design United Nations Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) through a stage to create parts and develop new vehicles with consideration for coordinated operation between the city of Aguascalientes and the private transportation efficiency, as well as to reduce the part shipments per sector. The first undertaking of its type in Mexico, this project produces vehicle. We also monitor the competency levels of packaging design biogas from approximately 3.9 million tons of landfill waste. In 2012 our engineers and are cultivating their abilities through global adoption of an Aguascalientes Plant used about 9.3 GWh of electricity generated from original Nissan program. biogas, bringing its renewable energy use ratio to 5% of all power In the area of container transport, we have long made use of high cube consumed. In January 2013, the plant also started to source electricity containers and run software-based simulations to reduce wasted space inside generated by wind-power stations, raising this ratio to 50%. In other words, of containers. As a result of these activities, our container filling rate of repair starting in 2013 one of every two Nissan vehicles produced in parts rose from 89.6% in fiscal 2010 to 93.8% in fiscal 2011. Aguascalientes is assembled using sustainable resources. Nissan We constantly review our transport methods and are currently Mexicana plans to further expand its use of clean energy in line with its undertaking a modal shift to rail and maritime transport. Some 70% of our “Cleaner and Cheaper” policy. completed vehicles in Japan are now transported by sea. Part shipments from the Kanto area around Tokyo to Nissan Motor Kyushu Co., Ltd. are nearly all by rail and ship. The Japanese Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) has recognized Nissan as an outstanding enterprise for this modal shift to sea transport. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 32 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control At Nissan sites outside Japan, transport methods are selected to best In Japan we are undertaking a broad range of efforts. For instance, in match the local geographical conditions. Transport of completed vehicles is February 2012 we moved to a paperless system to replace the pay slips that increasingly shifting from truck to rail and ship, depending on the destination. had been distributed to all employees previously. These slips can now be In China, we are increasing the proportion of completed vehicles that are downloaded via the Internet and viewed on computers or mobile phones. transported domestically by ship or rail. Many of our dealers, meanwhile, are making efforts to save energy, including Since 2010 we have also been promoting the use of energy-efficient the use of highly efficient air-conditioning, insulation films, ceiling fans and vessels for sea shipments of our vehicles. In January 2013 we introduced our LED lighting. fourth eco-ship, the Nissei Maru. This ship uses solar panels, an electronically controlled diesel engine, LED lighting and other features to operate while reducing CO2 emissions by up to 4,200 tons per year compared to similar Solar Power and Monitoring Electricity Consumption vessels from previous generations. In Japan, Nissan is working to build dealerships with reduced Global CO2 Emissions from Logistics environmental impact. In May 2011, when Chiba Nissan rebuilt its Kita(1,000 t-CO2) (t-CO2/vehicle) Narashino dealership, it installed solar panels with a 10 kw generation 2,000 0.45 0.44 0.5 capacity, as well as an in-store monitor to manage the electricity that is 0.41 0.42 0.40 generated. The monitor shows how power is produced by the solar panels 1,600 1,642 1,490 0.4 1,413 and how much power is being generated at the time. This easy-to1,083 understand system has been favorably received by customers and has 1,200 982 0.3 helped to raise employees’ awareness about saving energy. Electricity 800 0.2 costs at the dealership have been reduced by about 12% compared to the previous year. 400 0.1 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0 Our Efforts at Dealerships and Offices Nissan is promoting CO2 emission management at all business locations and dealerships in Japan, as well as at bases of operations in North America, Europe and China. In all four of these markets the aim is to slash emissions by 1% each year. At our offices, we have improved the video and telephone conference facilities, and we use Microsoft’s Office Live Meeting web conferencing service to bring participants in multiple locations together when they need to share documents. This not only lessens the number of business trips needed but also improves workplace efficiency and reduces costs. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 33 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control New Natural Resource Use Minimization Sales Outlets that Stand Out with Less Power To address the risk of rising costs or depletion of mineral resources Nissan studied dealership lighting approaches to find a way to keep sales caused by growing demand for them and to reduce the environmental outlets easy to find and attractive to customers while also saving power. impact of their extraction, Nissan is making efforts to use resources The solution was put into action at the Nissan Prince Shizuoka Nakamuramore efficiently and to diversify its supplies with renewable resources cho sales outlet in Shizuoka Prefecture. This was achieved with support and recycled materials. from the company Seikatsu Kankyo Kobo ACT, the Hirate Laboratory in the University of Tokyo’s Department of Architecture and Endo Lighting Co., Increasing Usage of Recycled Material to 25% Ltd., all of which collaborated with Nissan in the redesign of the dealer’s Demand for mineral resources and fossil fuels is growing rapidly as emerging lighting plans and collectively oversaw the project. countries develop economically. Some predictions forecast that all currently As a first step, the Nakamura-cho dealer changed all its lights to known mineral resources will have been extracted by 2050 if present trends highly efficient LED units and adopted a lighting design with varied continue. Some mining sites currently in operation and new exploration sites brightness levels in different parts of the sales floor. Additionally, it moved are located in areas where local ecosystems need to be preserved, and there vehicles that required strong lighting close to the windows, allowing is concern about the environmental effects of topsoil excavation, deforestation effective use of natural outside light. Conversely, the lounge space, which and wastewater. benefits from a more relaxed atmosphere, was placed in the rear section of Nissan is taking measures to address these issues. We are increasing the store. The ceiling and walls were given a more reflective white color, use of renewable resources and recycled materials in addition to the improving interior brightness and saving even more energy. To make it traditional approach of using resources more efficiently to reduce reliance on easier for customers to find and enter the outlet, a light spot was installed them. Our efforts with respect to recycled materials are based on the thinking at the building entrance and the interior walls were illuminated to create a that once a natural resource is extracted it should continue to be used, while warm-colored ambience. maintaining quality, to minimize environmental impact. We have set a target of With these small-yet-innovative ideas, the Nakamura-cho dealer increasing the usage rate for recycled materials per vehicle to 25% by fiscal reduced power consumption by up to 50%. In recognition of its energy 2016. In the long term, by promoting the activities that fall under the Nissan conservation efforts, the dealer was awarded the 2012 Energy-Efficient Green Program, we forecast that the volume of new natural resources used Lighting Design Award for power saving and lighting design in January will be maintained at the level of the 2010s. 2013 by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment in the “commercial facilities and accommodations” building category. Before After The outlet exterior before and after introduction of its new lighting system NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 34 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our Closed-Loop Recycling System Raising the Recovery Rate Closed-loop recycling is a method of recycling waste and scrap generated To optimize processing and improve the recovery rate for end-of-life vehicles during vehicle production and when end-of-life Nissan products are collected (ELVs), Nissan carries out experimental studies to develop more efficient and using it as material in the same type of products while maintaining its ways of dismantling its cars. To date, such research has focused on quality standards. With this method, the same material can be used establishing methods of processing waste oil, waste liquids, lead and other repeatedly, thus greatly reducing CO2 emissions and the environmental substances that impact the valuable materials from ELVs. Feedback from the impact over the product lifecycle. Together with our business partners, we are studies has led to improvements in dismantling techniques and has aided our putting tremendous effort into collecting and reusing steel and aluminum product design division in choosing suitable materials and designing vehicles sheet scraps from the manufacturing process and aluminum wheels from that are easier to dismantle. As of fiscal 2012, our own calculations showed used vehicles. In fiscal 2012, we collected about 250 tons of end-of-life that we have achieved a recovery rate of 99.3% in Japan. aluminum wheel rims each month. In Japan we are recycling plastic from finished bumper scraps at our plants and from scrap bumpers collected from Reducing Scarce Resource Usage dealerships. Collected scraps and bumpers are turned into recycled plastics Hybrid vehicles and electric vehicles (EVs) emit less CO2 over the lifecycle of in a finished bumper reprocessing line set up in our Oppama Plant. In fiscal the product than gasoline-powered vehicles, but scarce resources called rare 2012, we collected about 210,400 pieces of bumpers. Recycled plastics earths are a necessary component of their motors. Uneven distribution of have already been given new life as bumpers in Nissan LEAF and many rare earth elements and the forces of demand and supply give rise to other new vehicles. concern about price changes, making it important to reduce their usage. In 2012, in a joint effort with our supplier, we developed a new electric Closed-Loop Recycling Recovered Bumpers motor that uses 40% less dysprosium (Dy), a rare earth element, compared Vehicle (parts) to conventional EV motors. The new, more environmentally friendly motor Production 300,000 powers an updated Nissan LEAF released in Japan in November 2012. 231,000 229,000 230,000 This new electric motor is only the first step in the process to limit the Vehicle Usage 213,000 210,400 use of rare earth elements. Nissan plans to adopt the reduced-Dy motor for Scrap Treatment Material Recycling 200,000 its hybrid vehicles, with the ultimate goal of achieving zero usage of Dy in other components as well. Furthermore, we aim to reduce and optimize the usage of rare earth ELV Treatment 100,000 elements like cerium (Ce) and lanthanum (La), which are found in exhaust Minimizing impact by reducing resource extraction and waste production gas catalytic components and in cast iron. Our plans are to reduce annual Waste Resource use of rare earth elements by 30% by fiscal 2016 compared to the projected extraction 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) usage if no particular countermeasures had been implemented from fiscal 2011 onward. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 35 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Thorough Measures for Waste Materials Sales of Nissan Green Parts Nissan actively promotes measures based on the three Rs—reduce, reuse Parts with the potential for recycling include those reclaimed from ELVs as and recycle—in its production processes whenever possible, striving to well as those replaced during repairs. In Japan, Nissan collects and minimize the waste generated and maximize recycling efficiency by means of thoroughly checks the quality of these secondhand parts. Those that receive thorough sorting of waste. Our efforts have paid off. In Japan, since fiscal a passing grade are sold through our sales outlets as Nissan Green Parts. 2010 we have achieved a 100% recovery rate at all of our production sites: We sell these parts in two categories: reusable parts, which are cleaned and five manufacturing plants, two operations centers and five affiliates. In tested for quality before sale, and rebuilt parts, which are disassembled and Mexico, the Aguascalientes plant achieved this in 2011. We are working to have components replaced as needed. Sales of these parts in fiscal 2012 bring this rate to an industry-leading level in each region of the globe. reached ¥1.62 billion. Nissan has been making great efforts to reduce the number of wooden pallets and cardboard boxes used in import and export parts shipping, replacing them with units made from steel for more than 30 years, and plastic for more than 20 years, that are foldable and can be returned for reuse. Since fiscal 2011, the adoption rate for these containers has exceeded 98%. We have also been working with our Alliance partner Renault to expand the use of globally standardized, returnable containers. Through design activities carried out concurrently with logistics operations, we have recently been considering ways to optimize the shape of parts from the development stage, thus helping to reduce the packaging materials we use. Through these efforts, we plan to reduce the amount of waste from our production factories by 2% annually in Japan and by 1% annually worldwide compared to waste levels expected if no special steps had been taken from fiscal 2011 onward. Total Waste Produced (t) (kg/vehicle) 193,798 200,000 80 170,910 164,381 149,520 74,412 150,000 52.46 60 128,664 70,136 67,705 Japan 43.56 43.78 45.42 68,032 39.66 62,064 35,780 100,000 North 40 40,208 The figures are for the 31,806 America 24,957 Nissan Group worldwide, 24,214 56,996 including consolidated 50,000 45,985 Europe 20 companies. The figures 52,176 59,617 39,474 include the waste volume 4,355 2,912 2,822 26,610 17,012 Other from non-production sites. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 36 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Water-Use Management Environmental Management Promotion The issue of water resources is becoming ever more serious as water use increases due to global population growth and economic development. Nissan is introducing environmental management systems at all its Plants producing Nissan vehicles and parts are located all over the world, and operation sites worldwide. We are also working with our consolidated they all use water as part of the production process. We are making efforts to affiliates, sales companies and suppliers to reduce environmental manage and reduce water usage at all of our production plants. impact during all stages of the supply chain. We carry out water-use assessments on an ongoing basis at all plants. Based on a Nissan-developed index of water risks, plants are categorized Improving Environmental Management into three levels. Level A is defined as plants that either already have a As of January 2011, the Nissan Global Headquarters and all other main water-related issue or are expected to face one in the near future; Level B as Nissan facilities in Japan, including those for R&D, production and logistics, plants with potential water problems; and Level C as plants at low water risk. along with all product development processes, acquired integrated ISO 14001 We are working to put in place activities matched to the conditions at each certification for environmental management systems. The ISO secretariat in plant. We set water use targets for Level A plants in Australia, India, China Nissan, which oversees companywide efforts, and the local offices in Japan, and Mexico and began activities to reduce water use in fiscal 2011, and in which are responsible for activities at each facility and division and for Spain, Egypt and South Africa in fiscal 2012. coordinating the proposals from employees, meet at least once a month. In these meetings, they confirm the progress being made toward established goals, share best practices, improve management systems, draw up plans for the next fiscal year and communicate requests from the local facilities and Water Resource Use divisions. The items discussed are reported to the COO, who is in charge of (1,000 m3) (m3/vehicle) environmental management, twice a year (once during the management 28,671 29,216 30,000 27,585 10.0 review conference) so that decisions on improvements can be made. 20,901 7.64 To confirm that this management is functioning properly, we undergo 7.33 24,000 6.85 8.0 6.40 audits by third-party organizations, and we carry out our own internal audits of 17,612 Japan 15,629 17,268 14,844 our environmental systems and environmental performance annually to 18,000 6.0 14,532 5.29 strengthen the company’s measures based on the PDCA cycle: plan, do, 12,000 9,221 4,770 North 4.0 check and act. We have also obtained ISO 14001 certification at our main 4,591 America 4,330 The figures are for the 2,252 Europe production plants outside Japan. Our policy is to extend environmental 2,297 2,276 Nissan Group worldwide, 6,000 3,009 2,970 2.0 management systems with these same criteria to regions in which we are including consolidated 1,954 1,315 4,432 5,081 5,720 Other companies. 1,406 2,123 newly expanding. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0.0 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 37 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Product Development Policy Overseas, we share information and provide education to employees We are aiming to become a “sincere eco-innovator,” doing everything we through the intranet and various other communication tools suited to each can to help our natural environment, by reducing the environmental impact region. During fiscal 2012, videos were created at Nissan Motor Ibérica in in real-world terms and providing customers with innovative products that Spain, while Nissan North America hosted various events on Earth Day and contribute to the development of a sustainable mobility society. In order to other occasions. achieve this goal, Nissan introduced “QCT-C” in 2006, adding a CO2 component to the traditional QCT indices of quality, cost and time, for its Employee-Initiated Activities and Evaluation System Global CO2 Management Way. We have set a target for CO2 emission To reduce environmental impact, the perspectives and ingenuity of reduction in all areas of our business. Furthermore, under the Nissan employees are essential. Therefore, in fiscal 2008, we added the Green Program 2016 (NGP2016), our environmental action plan, Nissan “environment” factor to the range of kaizen activities carried out by quality will annually invest 70% of its research and advanced engineering budget control (QC) circles. This creates a mechanism by which employees are in environmental technologies. encouraged to think proactively and propose ideas to improve environmental aspects of Nissan’s business. These QC circle activities are linked to achieve page_87 Raising Employee Awareness the goals in Nissan Power 88,* our mid-term business plan through fiscal * Click here for more Nissan’s environmental activities are sustained by the environment-related 2016. The ideas proposed by employees are assessed by managers and QC information on Nissan knowledge, awareness and competency of each of its employees. From this circle secretariats in terms of such factors as how much they can contribute Power 88. perspective, based on ISO 14001 activities, we conduct employee education to environmental improvement; they are then implemented by the company. rooted in NGP2016 regarding reduction of CO2 emissions, energy and water Nissan uses various methods to reward employees for their consumption, and waste. In addition, education regarding environmental contributions toward environmental improvement activities. accident prevention, including the management of toxic materials, is provided to all employees including those from affiliated companies working in Nissan Working with Consolidated Production Companies production facilities. At our production plants, ongoing improvements of Nissan encourages its consolidated production companies both in Japan and employee competency to reduce environmental impact are promoted overseas to acquire ISO 14001 certification, in addition to undertaking through not only education and training programs but also the quantitative various other environmental initiatives based on their respective policies. evaluation of each employee. The content of these training programs is Meetings with 10 major consolidated production companies in Japan were updated once a year. held during fiscal 2012 to exchange views on cooperation toward the goals In Japan, Nissan implements its own curriculum for the education outlined in NGP2016. The meetings lead to a deeper understanding of the provided to new employees during orientation and to mid-ranking and details of NGP2016 and the initiatives being undertaken by each company. management personnel during the seminars in order to deepen their Approximately 650 people including board directors of these companies understanding of environmental issues surrounding the auto industry, as well participated in fiscal 2012. as the substance of the NGP2016 program. Employees are kept up-to-date * Nissan publishes a bimonthly newsletter, on Nissan’s latest environmental initiatives through the intranet, internal printing 60,000 copies that newsletters* and in-house video broadcasts. All employees also receive an are distributed to not only current but also retired Environmental Policy Card with a pledge to pursue personal environmental employees. activities, which they carry at all times. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 38 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Working with Sales Companies energy use, and consider their management of environmentally hazardous Nissan’s sales companies in Japan have introduced an original approach to substances, recycling of resources and water-conservation efforts. We also environmental management based on ISO 14001 certification that we call organized briefing sessions on NGP2016 for suppliers during fiscal 2012 to the Nissan Green Shop certification system. This system is managed through fully share our targets and action plans. internal audits conducted by the sales companies themselves every six months, in addition to regular annual reviews and certification renewal audits carried out every three years by Nissan Motor Co. As of the end of March 2013, 2,800 dealership outlets of 174 sales companies, including parts and forklift dealers, have been certified under the system. Nissan conducts an annual survey of its sales companies in Japan, collecting comments and requests regarding Nissan’s environment-friendly vehicles and other environment-related initiatives. The findings are shared with the presidents of sales companies and incorporated into the PDCA cycle involving Nissan and all sales companies, which is used to guide A briefing session for suppliers on NGP2016 actions toward improved performance. *1 International guidelines Disclosures of Environment-Related Information published by the NGO Working with Suppliers Companies today are being called upon to make a wide range of Global Reporting Initiative aimed at promoting the The purchasing divisions of Nissan and Renault carry out supply-chain information disclosure about how they are managing risks related to such policy formulation, management in a manner consistent with The Renault-Nissan Purchasing environmental issues as climate change and natural resources. In addition to planning and implementation of Way, a booklet outlining policies for dealing with suppliers, and the Renaultadvancing efforts to build a sustainable mobility society, since fiscal 2012 initiatives for Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers published in 2010. In the environmental Nissan has been making detailed disclosures of its environmental environmental, social and economic development. aspect, we adopted the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines, a set of performance on its website for stakeholders including investors, rating *2 The Carbon Disclosure standards for the environmental efforts of our automobile parts and material agencies and other specialists in accordance with GRI guidelines.*1 Among Project collects, analyzes and discloses major suppliers in 2008. the data disclosed are CO2 emission and waste discharge levels, as well as companies’ data on In fiscal 2012 we added a number of environment-related items in the amount of energy, water, materials and other resources consumed. We business risks and opportunities affected by working with our suppliers in an effort to reduce the environmental impact of are also making communication efforts by organizing briefings to describe greenhouse gas (GHG) upstream processes in the supply chain. To do this, we ask suppliers for their our environmental initiatives. emissions and climate change annually. environmental targets and data regarding their CO2 emission levels and As a result of these activities, Nissan was listed in the Carbon *3 The survey, which contains Disclosure Leaders Index as one of the 22 highest scoring companies in the 200 detailed questions about the organizations in CDP Japan 500 Climate Change Report 2012*2 and achieved the highest place for environmental position among automakers (second overall) in the 16th Nikkei management, pollution countermeasures, Environmental Management Survey,*3 conducted by Nikkei Inc. responses to biodiversity, recycling of resources, environmental impact of products and measures to address global warming, was conducted to evaluate companies’ balance between environment management and corporate strategy. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 39 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Environmental Classes for Kids Nissan’s Tough Voluntary Standards Nissan participates in eco-product exhibitions and various other events Stricter controls on the environmental impact of substances are being sponsored by government agencies and unaffiliated groups. implemented in countries around the world. Examples include the At the Eco-Products 2012 exhibition, Nissan’s booth was a place to European ELV Directive and the European Commission’s Registration, view the “LEAF to Home” exhibit and hear presentations that educated Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) visitors on how EVs can help address society’s energy issues by focusing Regulation, which went into force in June 2007. To help minimize the on electric supply technology that utilizes EV batteries. potential release of formaldehyde, toluene and other volatile organic In addition, we offered environmental education classes called Nissan compounds (VOCs) in vehicle cabins, the Japan Automobile Waku-Waku Eco School with a focus on upper grades of elementary Manufacturers Association has launched a voluntary program that calls for school, where students had the opportunity to learn about communities of all new models launched in Japan from April 2007 to meet standards set the near future that utilize the electricity storage capabilities of EVs, by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare for concentration through model EV assembly kits and a diorama embodying the smart levels of 13 compounds in vehicle interiors. communities of future cities. Nissan outlined a globally uniform policy in 2007 on reducing the use of environment-impacting substances, strengthening the management of such substances, adhering to a well-planned schedule for their reduction and advancing the use of alternative substances. We voluntarily enforce stricter standards than those required by the domestic laws of the countries where we operate in restricting the use of substances scientifically recognized as being hazardous or carrying high hazard risks, as well as those that advisory NGOs have pointed out as being dangerous. Based on this policy, we have developed the Nissan Engineering Standard for the “Restricted Use of Substances.” The standards identify The Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School in Nissan's the chemical substances whose use is either prohibited or controlled, and booth at the Eco-Products 2012 exhibition they are applied in selecting the materials, components and parts used in Nissan vehicles from the stage of initial development onward. For example, the use of four heavy metal compounds (mercury, lead, cadmium and hexavalent chromium) and the polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) flame retardant has been either prohibited or restricted in all new vehicles (excluding OEM vehicles) launched globally since July 2007. We are registered and submit reports in compliance with REACH about the vehicles and parts produced in or imported to Europe. And we also comply with the Classification, Labeling and Packaging of Substances and Mixtures (CLP) regulations. As for VOCs in a car’s interior, we have adopted the voluntary targets of the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association as our own standards for global operations and are reviewing and reducing their use in the materials and adhesives of our seats, door trim, floor carpet and other items. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 40 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Impact Protecting the Air, Water, Soil and Biodiversity Nissan uses the lifecycle assessment (LCA) method to evaluate and The United Nations Millennium Ecosystem Assessment report issued in 2005 comprehensively assess environmental impact in all stages of the vehicle concluded that the ecosystem services evaluated had degraded over the past lifecycle, from resource extraction to production, transport, customer use 50 years. Many scientists believe that humans have changed the Earth’s and vehicle disposal. We also carry out LCAs for new technologies as they ecosystems more rapidly and extensively than in any comparable period of are introduced. time in history. Humankind depends on a number of ecosystem services, Our calculations show that Nissan LEAF reduces CO2 emissions by including provision of food and fresh water, climate regulation and protection up to 40% over its lifecycle compared to gasoline-powered vehicles of the from natural disasters. Industry must recognize not just its impact on same class. This assessment was certified by a third-party LCA ecosystems but also its dependence on these services. Companies today face assessment organization, the Japan Environmental Management the pressing need to balance environmental preservation and economic Association for Industry. progress as they pursue their business activities. We will continue to strive to lower the vehicles’ environmental impact Using the methods identified in the Corporate Ecosystem Services by adopting new technology and more efficient processes in Review,* Nissan has evaluated its value chain from the extraction of material * Developed by the World Resources Institute in manufacturing. We are aiming for further reductions in CO2 emissions over resources to vehicle production and operation. Based on the results, we have cooperation with the World the lifecycle of our new vehicles. identified three priority areas for us as an automobile manufacturer: energy Business Council for Sustainable Development sourcing, mineral material sourcing and water usage. We have since been and Meridian Institute, CO2 Emissions Over a Vehicle’s Lifecycle based on the U.N. working to position the business risks and opportunities, reevaluating and Millennium Ecosystem (%) further developing our traditional environmental initiatives. Assessment. 100 Fuel production, 75 electricity generation Fuel consumption Car transport, 50 maintenance, disposal Production of material, parts, vehicle 25 Note: Calculated on basis of production in Japan, 100,000 km driving 0 Same-class Nissan LEAF gas-powered car NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 41 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Cleaner Exhaust Emissions Supporting Tennessee Forests Nissan proactively sets strict environmental goals and targets for the design and production of its vehicles. Building on our research and Nissan and the Nature Conservancy’s Tennessee Chapter have announced development, in which we have set ourselves the ultimate goal of a new alliance to promote tree health in Tennessee’s communities and emissions as clean as the atmosphere, we have been working to reduce forests. Nissan is supporting the Nature Conservancy’s Tennessee Forest exhaust emissions with the early introduction of vehicles that meet Health Program with a $50,000 grant. emissions regulations in each country. The Nature Conservancy has bought more than 270,000 acres of Our Sentra CA, released in the United States in January 2000, was *1 U-LEV: Ultra-Low forestland in Tennessee to protect it. The vast majority of these forests are the first gasoline-powered vehicle in the world to receive Partial Zero Emission Vehicles produce now open to the public, enabling people to not only enjoy Tennessee’s rich Emissions Vehicle (PZEV) certification in compliance with the emission 50% less nitrogen oxide (NOx) and nonmethane and beautiful natural ecosystem but also learn about the importance of requirements of the California Air Resources Board. PZEV vehicles must hydrocarbon (NMHC) than the 2005 emission conservation activities. meet the zero-evaporative-emission regulations as well as have an standards level. The Nature Conservancy’s work in Tennessee’s forests now includes onboard diagnostic system that warns of problems with the catalytic *2 SU-LEV: Super Ultra-Low strategies to combat invasive insect pests that threaten forest health. converter or other emission-control systems. Emission Vehicles produce emissions 75% less than Nissan’s funding will go toward this work. The Bluebird Sylphy, released in Japan in August 2000, became the the 2005 emission first vehicle to gain certification from the Ministry of Transport (now the standards level. *3 The 2009 emission Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) as an Ultra-Low standards stipulate Emission Vehicle (U-LEV).*1 In addition, this model became Japan’s first reductions of NOx by 47% and particulate matter by vehicle to receive Super Ultra-Low Emission Vehicle (SU-LEV) 64% from the levels certification*2 in 2003. required by the 2005 emission standards Also, the X-TRAIL 20GT became the first vehicle in the world to (applicable to vehicles comply with Japan’s strict 2009 Emission Regulations.*3 The X-TRAIL weighing more than 1,265 kg). The regulations 20GT carries a diesel filter that traps and eliminates particulate matter, went into effect for new models in October 2009 NOx absorption and oxidation catalysts and an M9R clean diesel engine and have been applied to Taking part in forest conservation activities developed through our Alliance with Renault. We have thus been able to existing models and imported cars since overcome the difficult challenges of making diesel vehicle exhaust September 2010. cleaner, achieving both energy efficiency and reduced CO2 emissions. An X-TRAIL 20GT with a 6-speed automatic transmission (including manual mode) was introduced in 2010. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 42 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Green Building Policy A current challenge is the reduction of volatile organic compounds Using the ISO 14001 management processes for evaluating (VOCs), which readily evaporate and become gaseous in the atmosphere. environmental impact, Nissan seeks to optimize its building specifications These compounds account for approximately 90% of the chemicals in the construction and refurbishing stages. Our evaluation metrics in this released in our vehicle production processes. We are working to increase area include buildings with a smaller environmental footprint, such as the recovery of cleaning solvents and other chemicals and reduce the lower CO2 emissions; construction methods that produce less waste and amounts of these substances emitted from our plants ahead of the emissions; and reduced use of hazardous materials and other quality implementation of new regulations in each country where we operate. control tasks. Ongoing improvements are made through the PDCA cycle. VOC emissions from Nissan Motor Kyushu Co., Ltd.’s water-based In Japan we also use a performance index, the Comprehensive paint line are now less than 20 grams per square meter of painted surface, Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE), defined and we are maintaining one of the best levels in the industry. Water-based by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. Among paint lines have also been introduced in our Smyrna and Canton Plants in Nissan’s current business facilities, the Nissan Advanced Technology North America, our Barcelona Plant in Spain and other plants. Center (NATC) in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture, and our Global Headquarters in the city of Yokohama have earned CASBEE’s highest “S” ranking. The Global Headquarters, in particular, scored a Built Environment Our Efficient New U.S. Paint Plant Efficiency rating of 5.6, which is a high score for CASBEE ratings of new constructions, earning it the distinction as one of the most environmentIn January 2013, Nissan’s Smyrna Plant in Tennessee opened the most friendly and efficient buildings in Japan. In addition to its thoroughgoing advanced paint plant in the world. Previous processes required the vehicle environment-friendly design, it was recognized for its efficient use of to bake in between the primer application and the topcoat layers, but the natural energy sources, CO2 emissions reductions, recycling of water and new plant uses an innovative three-wet paint process that applies all three drastic waste reductions. paint layers in succession, before the vehicle goes into the bake oven, reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions by 30% and VOC Prevention of Air Pollution emissions by 70% while increasing production efficiency. At Nissan production plants, we thoroughly implement systems and control The Smyrna Paint Plant is Nissan’s “showcase project” as part of the standards to manage air pollutants and undertake activities to reduce the Department of Energy’s Better Buildings, Better Plants Challenge, where amount of these substances used and emitted in our production Nissan North America has committed to reducing energy intensity in its operations. We aim for even higher levels of air pollution control than three U.S. plants by 25% by 2020. those mandated by the countries in which we operate. In Japan, we have taken strict measures to reduce emissions of NOx and SOx pollutants from our factories, reducing the amount of these emissions to one-fourth of the levels emitted in the 1970s. Painting lines and other processes in vehicle production consume large amounts of heat. We have lowered NOx and SOx emissions by introducing low-NOx burners in the ovens and boilers that provide heat for our painting lines and by switching from heavy oil and kerosene to fuels with low SOx emissions for these ovens and boilers. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 43 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Clean Effluent Through Wastewater Treatment We reuse water within our operations and try to reduce the total volume of Messages from Our Stakeholders water used. Wastewater undergoes processing in our wastewater treatment facilities before being released into rivers or elsewhere. In preparation for unexpected occurrences, such as the discharge of oil Nissan’s Support Helps Keep in rainwater, we have installed sensors to detect irregularities and a system to Tennessee’s Forests Healthy stop effluent from leaving our sites. At the Oppama Plant in Kanagawa Prefecture, for example, we have During its 35 years working in Tennessee, the Nature Conservancy has installed a system to strengthen our water quality sensors to the discharge protected more than 280,000 acres of land, the vast majority of it forested. ports of the wastewater treatment facility, and discharge of water outside the Gina Hancock Now, with the help of Nissan, the nonprofit conservation organization has grounds is automatically suspended if water quality problems are detected. State Director expanded its Forest Health Initiative to restore key forests and combat The Nature Conservancy in Tennessee Wastewater Release invasive pests that threaten forest health. Counteracting insect pests is an important feature of the (1,000 m3) (m3/vehicle) Conservancy’s Tennessee forest work. In one key initiative, the 25,000 10.0 20,398 20,557 Conservancy leads a group of state and federal agencies that have joined 19,281 20,000 8.0 forces to save hemlock trees on the Cumberland Plateau from the deadly 15,970 hemlock woolly adelgid insect. In addition, the Conservancy and partners 15,000 5.60 13,565 13,710 Japan 6.0 have held workshops for private landowners to show them how to treat 10,435 5.13 11,040 4.78 4.77 hemlocks for woolly adelgid. Nissan’s contribution enabled crucial 10,000 4.0 3.53 13,030 treatment on hemlocks across 11 counties in Tennessee. The figures are for the North Nissan Group worldwide, 5,000 2,152 6,293 2,732 3,214 3,055 America 2.0 This summer, the Nature Conservancy will launch another program, 2,099 1,871 Europe including consolidated 1,486 972 1,830 1,930 1,920 “Healthy Trees, Healthy Tennessee,” which will enlist tree-care companies. 1,292 1,071 1,689 1,689 Other 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0.0 professionals to monitor urban tree health and identify invasive insect pest outbreaks and then empower them to fight back against the outbreaks before they get out of hand. Nissan’s support in all of these endeavors will help to conserve the Earth’s resources for future generations. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 44 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Safety Nissan aims to create cars that embody the “pleasure and richness of driving” while prioritizing customers’ peace of mind through the pursuit of a high level of real-world safety. This means, of course, working to improve passenger safety in our vehicles. It also means researching and developing Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) that help to reduce accidents and traffic congestion, as well as promoting educational activities to raise safety awareness among drivers, pedestrians and the community. Looking toward the realization of a safer society with more mobility, we are involved in a wide range of activities with other stakeholders. Our Priorities Key Figures Fatal and serious injuries per 10,000 Nissan vehicles (2011) Vehicles: Developing Safety Technologies p. 45 Japan 6.33 Individuals: Our Traffic Safety Activities p. 49 USA (fatalities only) 1.45 Society: Working Together with Society p. 51 GRI G3 Indicators Europe (U.K.) 8.09 PR1 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 45 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Safety Fiscal 2012 Performance Helping to reduce traffic accidents requires a comprehensive approach n Low-speed Collision Intervention developed, introduced on the Elgrand in addressing not just automobiles, but people and the traffic environment too. December 2012 To help contribute to the realization of a truly safe society, Nissan uses a n Autonomous Emergency Steering System developed to offer collisiontriple-layered approach, taking measures in the areas of vehicles, individuals avoidance capability in future models via automatic steering in situations and society. where it is difficult to avoid collision by autonomous brake only In addition to this, Nissan takes the fundamental approach of pursuing n Nissan Safety Driving Forum held in India “real-world safety.” In 2012 there were 4,411 deaths resulting from traffic accidents in Japan. It was the 12th straight year for this figure to decline. The World Health Organization (WHO) notes that 1.24 million people lose their Future Measures Society lives each year in automobile accidents around the globe and warns that if urgent steps are not taken, accidents could become the fifth leading cause of n Development of new, more effective safety technologies and broader Individuals death worldwide by 2030. We set a target of reducing the number of fatalities application of them in the product lineup and serious injuries involving Nissan vehicles to half of the 1995 level by n Expansion of traffic safety programs carried out in major Indian cities to Vehicles 2015 in Japan, the United States and the United Kingdom, and this target Brazil and other regions was reached ahead of schedule. Today we are engaged in activities aimed at halving this once again in these markets by 2020. As an ultimate goal, we are seeking to progress toward a world with virtually no accidents leading to Vehicles: Developing Safety Technologies death or serious injury. Based on our unique “Safety Shield” concept, we are working to Japan Fatal and Serious Injuries per USA Fatalities per 10,000 Nissan Europe Fatal and Serious Injuries per develop automotive technologies from the perspective that people are 10,000 Nissan Vehicles Vehicles (U.K.) 10,000 Nissan Vehicles at the center of the driving experience. We focus on solutions that help maintain distance from potentially dangerous conditions. We also 15 3 18 provide technologies that aim to activate vehicle systems (for example, the brakes) when a collision is unavoidable, thereby helping 1/4 1/4 1/4 10 2 12 to reduce injuries. 5 1 6 Virtually Virtually Virtually 0 zero 0 zero 0 zero 1995 2011 2020 1995 2011 2020 1995 2011 2020 Source: Institute for Traffic Accident Source: Fatality Analysis Reporting Source: STATS19 data, U.K. Research and Data Analysis System Department for Transport NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 46 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control The “Safety Shield” Concept Aiming for “Collision-Free Cars” Nissan bases its efforts to create safer automobiles on its original “Safety Even a careful driver may encounter some situations where blind spots occur, Shield” concept. This defines the conditions surrounding a vehicle in terms of and even in zones that the driver can see, risks can arise to threaten the six phases, from “risk has not yet appeared” through “post-crash,” and guides safety of the driver. Nissan is developing technologies to one day support the our development of technologies to help address each phase, based on the concept of “collision-free cars” as part of an all-around drive-support system idea that cars should help protect people. that seeks to detect such risks in advance, warn the driver of them and, in emergency situations, intervene to help prevent accidents. In our all-around drive-support system we have brought together various Risk has not yet appeared safety technologies, including our world-first Back-up Collision Intervention n Distance Control Assist System n Navigation-enabled Intelligent Cruise technology, which detects large objects in the path of the vehicle when the Helps the driver to maintain Control with full-speed range following driver backs up. Other safety and convenience technologies found in some comfortable driving capability n Adaptive Front-Lighting System (AFS) Nissan vehicles include the Distance Control Assist System, which helps the n Around View Monitor driver maintain distance between the car and the vehicle in front; Lane Risk has appeared Departure Prevention, which helps the driver return the vehicle to its n Lane Departure Prevention n Lane Departure Warning designated travel lane; and Blind Spot Intervention, which assists in lane n 4-Wheel Active Steer changes by alerting the driver to the presence of a vehicle in the blind spot n Blind Spot Warning n Blind Spot Intervention Helps the driver to recover from and helping him or her return the vehicle to its travel lane. dangerous conditions to safe n Back-up Collision Intervention driving Crash may occur Distance Control Assist System n Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) Nissan’s Distance Control Assist System uses a sensor to calculate the n Brake Assist n Vehicle Dynamic Control (VDC) distance between the car and the vehicle in front. Based on the gap and Crash is unavoidable relative speed between the cars, the system then supports the driver’s pedal n Intelligent Brake Assist operations when braking, thus helping to maintain an appropriate space Front Pre-Crash Seatbelts between the vehicles. We first installed this system in the 2007 Fuga n Crash marketed in Japan. n Zone Body construction Helps minimize injuries when a n SRS Airbag Systems collision is unavoidable We have also developed a world-first technology integrating the car’s n Pop-up Engine Hood navigation system with these functions. Our new system can import data Post-crash from the navigation system on upcoming curves in the road and help to apply n Automated Airbag-Linked Hazard Lamps the brakes gradually in preparation for them. If the driver continues depressing the accelerator pedal, the system provides support by lifting the pedal to assist the driver in switching to the brakes. The system also applies smooth deceleration when the accelerator pedal is lifted, helping make it easier to navigate curves. This upgraded system made its debut in the Fuga marketed in Japan in November 2009, and is available in the Infiniti M in the United States. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 47 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Lane Departure Prevention perform avoidance maneuvers by providing visual and audible warnings. This system helps the driver return the vehicle to its designated travel lane Additionally, it can further help the driver by pressing back on the accelerator when the vehicle is drifting out of the lane. A camera unit installed behind the pedal and applying the brakes. By helping the driver to reduce speed rear-view mirror detects lane markers in front of the vehicle and calculates its smoothly, it may also contribute to reduced occurrence of rear-end collisions position relative to them. When the system judges that the car may following sudden braking. unintentionally leave its lane, it alerts the driver with visual and audible warnings and briefly activates the brakes on one side of the vehicle to assist Around View Monitor the driver’s efforts to return to the lane center. We rolled out this system in the This world-first technology uses images from four cameras installed at the Skyline Crossover launched in July 2009 in Japan. In the United States, it is front, back and sides of the vehicle, combining them in a composite, bird’savailable in various Infiniti models. eye view on the car’s navigation monitor. This allows the driver to easily grasp the position of the vehicle in relation to the parking space, simplifying Blind Spot Intervention tasks like parallel parking or entering a garage. The system made its debut This system supports the driver’s operations when initiating a lane change, in the Elgrand released in Japan in October 2007, while the first model to helping to avoid a collision with another vehicle that may be traveling in the offer the system in North America was the Infiniti EX35 launched in blind spot. Sensors installed in the rear of the car detect a vehicle in the December that year. adjacent lane and provide a visual indicator to the driver. If the driver activates We later added the following three functions to the system, two of them the turn signal, the system alerts the driver with audible and visual warnings. world firsts, and incorporated this upgraded version in the Skyline Crossover Moreover, if a vehicle is detected in the blind-spot area and the vehicle is launched in Japan in July 2009. approaching the lane marker, the system applies the brakes on one side of the vehicle to generate part of the necessary yaw movement to help the driver 1 Front/Rear Wide-view Function keep the car away from the other vehicle. The Infiniti M launched in North The monitor displays views covering approximately 180 degrees from both America in March 2010 was the first to feature this technology. the front and rear cameras, helping the driver to check for other vehicles that may be approaching. This helps the driver navigate when the car Back-up Collision Intervention travels through blind intersections or exits a parking space. The rear wideWhen the vehicle is in reverse, such as backing out of a parking space, view function in particular is a world first. Back-up Collision Intervention goes to work. Sensors mounted on the rear and sides of the vehicle are used to detect approaching vehicles and other large 2 Front Wide-view Function Linked to the Navigation System obstacles in the car’s path. If an object is detected, visual and audible After the driver registers a location on the navigation system’s map, the warnings are provided, and then the brakes are activated momentarily to help monitor will automatically switch to front wide-view mode when the vehicle the driver avoid a collision. This system is featured in the Infiniti JX that went arrives at that location and comes to a stop. This lets the driver check for on sale in the United States in March 2012. approaching vehicles more smoothly, without the need to manually activate the front-view camera. We hope this world-first technology will help to Forward Emergency Braking enhance users’ peace of mind at intersections with poor visibility. This system supports the driver by helping to avoid collisions at speeds of up to 60 km/h. It uses a highly sensitive radar sensor to monitor the distance from the vehicle in front and its relative speed and supports the driver’s efforts to avoid a forward collision. When the system detects an object in the vehicle path that could pose a collision danger, it actively prompts the driver to NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 48 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 3 Parking Guide Function operations, such as stepping on the accelerator instead of the brake pedal. This new function enhances our Around View Monitor, making it easier This helps to reduce the risk of collisions with walls or other objects. than ever to move the car in and out of garages or parking spaces. The driver can use the touch panel on the navigation screen to get an overhead 1 Accelerator pressed while parking in front of a wall or other obstacle: view of the vehicle in relation to its surroundings, along with audio and Sonar detects objects around the vehicle, such as walls, storefront visual guidance on parking maneuvers. windows or cars in a parking lot. If the driver applies the accelerator instead of the brake, the system will try to control acceleration, and if Monitor contact is imminent, it will try to apply the brakes to help prevent or reduce Sonar units the impact of the collision. Cameras 2 Accelerator pressed while parking in a marked space: The cameras detect the lines around the parking space. If the driver accidentally accelerates instead of braking, the system will try to control the vehicle’s speed and help prevent excessive acceleration. Sonar units The system gives helpful views when backing into a space. 3 Brake applied late while moving at low speed in congested traffic or while parking: The Parking Guide system gives the driver an intuitive When parallel parking, the driver can simultaneously Sonar detects obstacles around the vehicle, such as other stationary cars in feel for the vehicle’s position while parking. check the car’s rear, side and curbside front views. front. If the vehicle is about to collide with an object, the system tries to apply the brakes before the collision, helping to prevent or reduce the impact or damage of the collision. Autonomous Emergency Steering System Nissan’s Autonomous Emergency Steering System is an advanced collision avoidance support system that provides steering assistance in addition to automated braking when the vehicle appears likely to collide with another object and braking alone may be insufficient to avoid the collision. The system uses a front-mounted radar and camera, two left and right rear New Safety Technologies in Fiscal 2012 radars and the five laser scanners attached around the vehicle to gather data on potential collision risks that cannot be avoided by braking alone. At Low-speed Collision Intervention the same time, it checks if there is a forward zone free of obstacles and that In October 2011 Nissan announced Low-speed Collision Intervention, a there are no vehicles approaching from the rear, displaying to the driver the world-first technology aimed at helping to reduce accidents caused by direction to steer the vehicle. If the driver cannot immediately steer in that misapplication of the brake and accelerator pedals. In December 2012 this direction, the system automatically supports steering operations to help system debuted on the Elgrand sold in Japan. During parking and other avoid a collision. low-speed operations, this technology uses the four cameras in our Around View Monitor system and ultrasonic sonar to help detect mistaken driver NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 49 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control The Autonomous Emergency Steering System takes effect in situations Individuals: Our Traffic Safety Activities where unpredictable risks arise, such as sudden intrusions onto the road in low speed zones or potential collisions at high speed due to the driver’s To help create a better mobility society, it is important for as many delayed recognition of the tail end of a traffic jam. people as possible, including drivers and passengers in vehicles as Nissan has been engaged in developing and marketing brake-based well as pedestrians outside them, to share an understanding of road control systems as one form of technology for supporting collision safety. We take part in educational activities to boost this safety prevention. To increase the effectiveness of these solutions, we have awareness, measures to improve drivers’ skills behind the wheel and worked on technology to deal with situations that cannot be mitigated a range of other safety promotions. through braking alone. For a driver to avoid a potential collision by steering away from it, there is a need to confirm that there are no obstacles in the Educational Programs in Japan area where the vehicle will move. This requires advanced technology to Traffic accidents are statistically more likely to occur during the dusk hours constantly scan and analyze the vehicle’s surroundings. Our achievements to from 4:00 to 6:00 p.m. each day. As part of its Hello Safety Campaign,*1 date in high-precision sensors and onboard processors have allowed us to Nissan began urging drivers to turn on their headlights earlier in the evening website develop technology to support the driver by automatically helping to steer in the Omoiyari Light Promotion,*2 launched in 2010. *1 Click here for more the vehicle away from potential collisions when braking alone is insufficient. In fiscal 2012, we expanded our programs of town-hall-style safety information on the Hello Safety Campaign meetings and other public events. We are also actively engaged in (Japanese only). Safety Technologies for Electric Vehicles educational efforts using social media and websites. These safety activities Nissan LEAF* uses high-strength body construction that helps protect its are spreading and growing deeper throughout Japan, with more partners website lithium-ion battery in the event of a collision. Nissan LEAF also features taking part in the Omoiyari Light Promotion and more individuals, NPOs and website * Click here for more insulation around its high-voltage parts used in such areas as the battery and industries getting involved. information on Nissan *2 Click here for more LEAF’s safety features the motor. Moreover, the vehicle is designed so that the high-voltage electrical information on the (Japanese only). system automatically shuts down in the event of a collision. Nissan LEAF is Omoiyari Light Promotion further equipped with a lithium-ion battery controller system that continuously (Japanese only). monitors battery conditions to help prevent overcharging, excessive discharging or overheating, which could lead to severely reduced capacity or malfunction. Since EVs are extremely quiet when running at low speeds, Nissan LEAF is equipped with the Approaching Vehicle Sound for Pedestrians system. The car begins emitting a sound when the driver puts the car into The Omoiyari Light Promotion logo drive gear and releases the brake. This sound fades out when the vehicle tops 30 km/h and starts up again when the vehicle decelerates, at speeds below 25 km/h. Another warning sound is generated when the car is put in reverse. We have also prepared a special instruction manual for use in assistance and rescue operations in the case where a mechanical problem or accident does take place. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 50 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Safety Education in Korea and the Middle East The company also designed a contest to test Chinese high school Nissan Middle East FZE educates children about traffic safety through a students’ knowledge of traffic safety and environmental protection issues. The dedicated website. Launched in October 2009, the site uses puzzles, pictures year 2011 was the sixth for the event, which aims to increase interest and for coloring and other features to make learning online fun as well. The awareness of safety issues among young people, the drivers of tomorrow. In website shares easy-to-understand information with elementary school addition to taking simple quizzes on basic traffic rules, automotive safety students in Arabic, English and French. devices and environmental issues, participating students made their own Nissan Korea Co., Ltd. launched its Nissan Kids Safety Campaign in April presentations on automotive and traffic safety. 2009. This campaign features similar content to that of the Middle East In Indonesia, we started the Nissan Smart Driving program as a way to project and uses a website and booklets to educate children on traffic safety. emphasize the importance of traffic safety. The program started out as a cooperative project with a lifestyle magazine designed to promote safe driving Promoting Traffic Safety in China and Indonesia habits, but the scope of activities has since broadened to include hands-on Traffic safety has become an increasingly important issue in China, which is safety workshops led by driving instructors for university students. seeing a rapid increase in the number of automobiles on the road. In 2005 Nissan (China) Investment Co. hosted its first safety program to improve Nissan Safety Driving Forum in Emerging Markets drivers’ skills and safety awareness in cooperation with the China Road In early 2013 we launched the Nissan Safety Driving Forum program in Traffic Safety Association. In fiscal 2010 forums were held in September and emerging markets as part of our efforts to promote safer mobility. The October. Many customers, government officials and media representatives aim is to enhance road safety awareness among as many of our attended the forums, which featured programs for learning braking, cornering customers as possible. and other driving techniques from qualified instructors, contributing to deeper In February, the forum took place in three key Indian cities: New understanding of traffic safety. Programs for eco-driving skills were also Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai. We used panel displays and interactive included. Today these activities are implemented by the passenger simulators to communicate the importance of wearing seatbelts and automobile division of Dongfeng Motor Co., Ltd., as part of the Nissan promote awareness among participants. Preparations are now underway Technology and Safety Driving Forum, a program of activities in which to expand this program to Brazil and other regional markets. dealerships also participate. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 51 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Society: Working Together with Society Helping Reduce Wrong-Way Accidents Recently Japan has seen a number of serious accidents caused by vehicles We believe it is possible to help create an even safer mobility society traveling in the wrong direction on expressways. Working together with West by using information from the traffic environment surrounding the Nippon Expressway Company (NEXCO), Nissan has developed a navigation vehicles on the road. Together with a wide range of governmental program that uses GPS to notify drivers of vehicles driving the wrong way on agencies, universities and companies, we are participating in various an expressway. The system detects wrong-way vehicles based on GPS projects intended to promote the eventual achievement of a safer, coordinates, maps, traveling speeds and other data. The driver of a vehicle more pleasant mobility society utilizing ITS. going the wrong way receives audible and visual warnings. The Nissan Fuga Hybrid released in October 2010 is the first vehicle in the world to employ Helping Reduce Accidents and Congestion with ITS this system. In 2006, Nissan launched the ITS Project in Japan’s Kanagawa Prefecture. This project seeks to use Intelligent Transport Systems to create integrated Combating Drunk Driving networks of people, roads and vehicles, thereby helping to reduce traffic Accidents involving driving under the influence of alcohol are a serious accidents and ease road congestion. The ITS Project gathers and uses problem that blights society to this day. Nissan is actively engaged in a information on nearby vehicles and the traffic environment in order to help number of programs aimed at helping to eliminate drunk driving. In August reduce accidents involving other parties that can be difficult for a driver to 2007, working with the city of Kitakyushu, Fukuoka Prefecture, the Tochigi see and react to. prefectural government, the town of Kaminokawa in Tochigi and the city of We are building on the results of the ITS Project with our development Atsugi in Kanagawa Prefecture, we began trials of a system to help prevent of the Driving Safety Support System (DSSS). This will be an ongoing project drunk driving. promoted by Japan’s National Police Agency and the UTMS Society of Nissan has also carried out joint research with the University of Japan, an organization operating under its aegis. Occupational and Environmental Health in Kitakyushu on the physiological, It uses the latest ITS technologies, such as optical-beacon psychological and behavioral effects of alcohol on the human body. This communication tools to connect vehicles and the network of roads, with the research aided our development of technologies to quickly and accurately aim of reducing traffic accidents. At intersections with reduced visibility, detect the errors and abnormalities in vehicle operation under the influence roadside infrastructure communicates with vehicles to deliver information to of alcohol. Other Nissan approaches to help reduce drunk driving include a drivers via onboard navigation systems, warning them of potential dangers function added to our Carwings navigation system in Japan that displays like crossing collisions and helping make sure they notice stop signs, signals warnings against driving under the influence during the most common hours and vehicles stopped at lights. for such behavior, with the aim of increasing driver awareness of the danger of getting behind the wheel after consuming alcohol. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 52 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Philanthropy Nissan believes it is as important to contribute to society as it is to deliver innovative and exciting vehicles and outstanding services to customers worldwide. Our social contribution activities focus on three areas: caring for the environment, education and humanitarian aid. As an automaker, we can draw on our expertise, technology and products in our various philanthropic activities. We work with actors in a variety of sectors to address complex social issues. With a common vision, our regional offices and affiliates also conduct activities to respond to needs everywhere we operate. Our Priorities Key Figures Global social contributions (FY2012)* $13 million Environment p. 54 GRI G3 Indicators * On a consolidated basis, including donations and monetary contributions EC1 Education p. 55 Humanitarian Support p. 56 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 53 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Philanthropy Company Organizations for Philanthropy In planning and executing social contribution activities, we not only provide The CSR Department at Nissan’s Global Headquarters in Japan formulates financial support but also pursue activities that are “distinctly Nissan,” making Nissan’s policy for philanthropy. A policy discussed and decided by the full use of our automotive expertise, products and facilities. Executive Committee is shared globally, and each region conducts activities We place emphasis on working with specialized nonprofit and based on this policy. nongovernmental organizations that have great expertise in their fields to For organizational purposes, we divide the world into three regions: Asia ensure that our social contributions make the most impact. and Oceania, the Americas (North and Latin America) and AMIE (Africa, the Nissan’s local companies support employee involvement in social Middle East, India and Europe). Nissan’s Global Headquarters is in charge of contribution activities by providing information on volunteer activities and Asia and Oceania; Nissan North America Inc. (NNA), the Americas; and opportunities to participate. Nissan also has a matching gift program in which Nissan International SA (NISA), AMIE. employees can volunteer time or contribute financially to nonprofit These three regional offices support social contribution activities of sales organizations, and the company will match their contributions. companies and consolidated subsidiaries in each region, as well as playing a central role in promoting global programs and dealing with the aftermath of natural disasters. We have a system in place for global coordination of our Fiscal 2012 Performance efforts, and we take a cross-functional, cross-regional approach to our social contribution activities as well. n Expanded partnership with Habitat for Humanity, an international NGO page_50 n Conducted Nissan Safety Driving Forum,* a safety driving promotion Global Philanthropy Promotion Structure * Click here for more program, in India Nissan Global Headquarters information on Nissan Safety Driving Forum. n Met with those heading social contribution activities in each regional office Policy formulation worldwide to strength our global structure Future Measures Our Framework for Global NISA Philanthropy Promotion NNA n Implement PDCA (plan, do, check, act) cycle in ongoing activities to make l Africa l Common strategy and three focus areas l North America l Latin America them more effective l Middle East l Implementation of global programs l India n Make improvements in newly launched global programs, listening to the l Europe voices of stakeholders n Consider using indicators to measure results of activities n Provide ongoing support to the areas hit by the Great East Japan Earthquake Nissan Global HEADQUARTERS l Asia l Oceania NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 54 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Environment With our environmental philosophy of “a Symbiosis of People, Vehicles and Nature,” Nissan actively engages in reducing the environmental load on the planet. Placing a priority on the environment in our philanthropic activities as well is a natural extension, so we undertake educational programs for cultivating deeper understanding of environmental issues and promote basic research for the realization of a low carbon society. Nissan LEAF plays a valuable supporting role in nonprofit activities. (Photo: Rein Skullerud, WFP) School-Visit Programs (Japan) Appeal to Join Earth Hour (China) Since 2007, Nissan has put its manufacturing know-how to work by carrying As an environmental awareness-raising activity, Nissan (China) Investment out three school-visit programs. The programs target older elementary school Co., Ltd. (NCIC) appealed to its entire staff to take part in the Earth Hour students, with instructors dispatched from Nissan. event launched by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), together with their families One of them is the Nissan Waku-Waku Eco School, where students can and friends. deepen their understanding of global environmental issues. They learn about For Earth Hour, people are asked to turn off their lights for one Nissan’s environmental efforts and experience the latest in environmental designated hour of one designated day every year as a symbolic way to show technology. This has included test rides in the pure electric Nissan LEAF commitment to doing something about climate change. NCIC invited electric vehicle and fuel-cell vehicles. participants to upload photos to the Web showing their environmental In fiscal 2012, about 5,000 students from 32 schools, mainly in commitment, and special gifts were given to the five persons with the most Kanagawa Prefecture, attended the program. Since the launch of the Nissan forwarded blog entries. Waku-Waku Eco School, a total of some 20,000 children have participated as of March 2013. Partnership with Fleet Forum (Europe) Nissan has partnered with Fleet Forum, an NPO headquartered in Geneva, with the goal of helping to reduce the environmental impact of vehicles used in nonprofit activities. We provide Nissan LEAF electric vehicles through Fleet Forum to five U.N.-affiliated and other organizations for fixed periods, free of charge. We will continue our support in fiscal 2013. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 55 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Education In Japan, the message of monozukuri is shared through school-visit programs, the Nissan Monozukuri Caravan and the Nissan Design WakuNissan believes supporting children and young people is an Waku Studio, which bring Nissan employees to visit elementary schools. Some investment in the future and generations to come. For the realization 23,000 children take part in the programs every year. of a society where anyone can open a door to a better future, we are In addition, the company donates vehicles and engines to universities working on several educational programs that utilize our knowledge and vocational schools to be used for instructional purposes in many and technology base to provide primary school education countries, including South Africa and Indonesia. Access to real-world vehicles opportunities in emerging countries. helps students build their skills and practical knowledge. Youth Literacy Efforts (Japan, Portugal, U.S. and other countries) Nissan has organized the Nissan Children’s Storybook and Picture Book Grand Prix each year since 1984. We have introduced a number of writers and works through this program. Through March 2013, approximately 193,000 copies of published winning works have been donated to public libraries across Japan and kindergartens near Nissan offices. In 2012, Nissan Iberia S.A. in Portugal established a similar program in which the company identifies young talented writers in schools within the country and provides opportunities for book publication in cooperation with local government. In the United States, Nissan North America (NNA) supports the Students and Nissan engineers Governor’s Books from Birth Foundation literacy program to introduce took part in discussions together. children up to age five to the joy of books. In areas hit by natural disasters, including the Great Sumatra Earthquake and the Great East Japan Education Support for Children in Need (China, South Africa) Earthquake, we support mobile library projects organized by the Shanti In China, where the economy continues to grow dramatically, many people Volunteer Association as part of relief efforts. Our youth literacy efforts are migrate from rural regions to major cities in search of work. Many of them are one unique aspect of our philanthropic activities. economically challenged, and their children are in need of social support. Nissan (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (NCIC) began a program in 2010, “Nissan Caring for Migrant Children,” to address the challenges of a rapidly Outreach to Students to Talk about Monozukuri migrating population. In fiscal 2012, Dongfeng Nissan Passenger Vehicle Through engaging and fun activities, we work to instill in the younger Company (DFL-PV) and Zhengzhou Nissan Automobile Co., Ltd. (ZNA) also generation the importance of monozukuri, Japan’s tradition of careful joined the program. They donated computers and musical instruments to craftsmanship. For instance, the Nissan Technical Center Europe in the United schools attended by children from economically challenged households. An Kingdom, our R&D center in Europe, conducts the Annual University event built around the donation was attended by Nissan employees, car Engineering Summit, inviting U.K. university students majoring in engineering owners and local Nissan dealership representatives. to the facility. The most recent forum, held in February and March 2013, welcomed 300 students from 26 universities. They toured the site, met with Nissan engineers and participated in structured discussions. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 56 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control In fiscal 2012, the Foundation contributed approximately ¥40 million to 34 projects. Since the establishment of the Foundation in 1974 through the website end of March 2013, a total of ¥6.92 billion has been provided to Click here for more approximately 2,500 projects. information on the Nissan Global Foundation. Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies, Oxford (U.K.) Founded at the University of Oxford through donations from the company, the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies is a well-known center for the Elementary schoolers in a ceremony to research of modern Japan in Europe that contributes to the promotion of website welcome Nissan employees mutual understanding between Japan and Europe. Click here for more information on the Nissan Institute. In 2012, Nissan South Africa (NSA) provided a mobile eye clinic that screened 11,482 schoolchildren and dispensed 597 pairs of prescription Humanitarian Support eyeglasses. The mobile team referred 650 students requiring more advanced eye screening to specialist clinics. This is part of the Nissan Mobile Child Eye Nissan has provided assistance around the world to people who have Health Project, which has been running for the past three years. This activity been affected by large-scale natural disasters. We understand the helps children from disadvantaged backgrounds to get access to eye-care, needs of customers making use of our worldwide network of thus increasing their ability to learn effectively. business offices and group companies, and provide relief assistance quickly and effectively. In fiscal 2012, we expanded our humanitarian Academic Efforts efforts to include a new global partnership with Habitat for Humanity. Nissan Global Foundation (Japan) We recognize that creating a sustainable society on a global basis is a Partnership with Habitat for Humanity necessity. The Nissan Global Foundation nurtures individuals who Nissan started collaborating with Habitat for Humanity in the wake of understand the issues and challenges facing the planet and who can lead Hurricane Katrina, which struck the American South in 2005. Habitat for sustainable development efforts. The Foundation provides financial support Humanity carries out its activities around the globe, building or repairing for scientific research that leads to far-reaching solutions to the many issues houses to aid people without safe, clean housing. humankind faces. We fully endorse the vision behind these activities, which is in One way the Foundation nurtures childhood development is by providing accordance with our own vision of Enriching People's Lives, and decided to financial support to science education that develops critical thinking in youth expand the partnership. In Japan, Thailand, India, Indonesia, Vietnam and the and by extending internships with the Renault Foundation. The Nissan Global Philippines, we started the construction of houses and other related activities Foundation also provides support for basic research in various fields for the with our regional companies and their employees, who contributed their time realization of a low-carbon society. to volunteer. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 57 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control North American Employees Offer Reconstruction Assistance in Haiti Addressing Natural Disasters Nissan North America (NNA) launched a project with Habitat for Humanity to Relief Activities in China’s Yunnan Province send volunteers to Haiti. Employees in North America were invited to apply, On September 7, 2012, a 5.5 magnitude earthquake hit Yunnan Province in and five were selected from many applicants, based on essay submissions. China. Houses were severely damaged, transportation was disrupted and Employees joined volunteers from all over the world and participated in a there were continuous landslides. While immediate relief is always a large-scale construction project from November 21 to December 1, 2012. necessity in such a crisis, there was an even greater sense of urgency as the earthquake hit right before the start of winter. Facing the major disaster, Nissan (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (NCIC) and Zhengzhou Nissan Automobile Co., Ltd. (ZNA) immediately initiated relief efforts. They donated winter clothing and other needed items collected through their employees. At the same time, ZNA sent two vehicles to the disaster area to support volunteers in transporting relief materials. In addition, the companies provided financial support for the volunteers on the front lines. NNA employees participated in Haiti Relief Activities in Quake-impacted Northern Italy reconstruction. Nissan made a contribution of €100,000 to the Italian Red Cross to give aid to Northern Italy, which suffered from two earthquakes in May 2012. The Employees in Japan Volunteer After Great East Japan Earthquake company also donated a 4×4 Nissan Navara Pickup to the Regional Working with Habitat for Humanity Japan, Nissan engaged in reconstruction Protection Agency in Emilia Romagna to assist with recovery operations. support activities in the tsunami-stricken city of Ofunato, Iwate Prefecture, The Navara is perfectly suited to difficult travel conditions, and thus with the help of volunteer employees. About 90 employees visited the site helped the agency and other volunteer organizations in their essential rescue four times, helping to make temporary housing complexes more comfortable efforts and wider relief work. for the occupants. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 58 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Contributions to Communities Where Nissan Conducts Business Messages from Our Stakeholders Nissan aspires to be a good corporate citizen, recognized in local communities in every region where it does business. We contribute locally in a variety of ways by supporting community events, A Valued, Compassionate Partner sponsoring neighborhood cleanups and hosting fun and informational activities, among other forms of contributions. Many of our employees Since 2006, Nissan has donated nearly $11 million to help families around actively participate as volunteers. the world experience the blessings of safe and decent housing. By partnering with Habitat for Humanity and taking an active role in building Jonathan T. M. Putting Our Expertise to Work for Society homes, communities and hope, Nissan has become a crucial element in Reckford weaving a strong social fabric. Chief Executive Officer The Nissan Technical Center (NTC) and Nissan Advanced Technology Habitat for Humanity Center (NATC), in the city of Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture, contribute to the In 2012, Nissan’s donation of nearly $3 million supported a variety of International local community by promoting “Nice Wave” activities, which include Habitat initiatives in the United States and Asia, including affordable neighborhood cleanups and cooperation with local events. In fiscal 2011, housing, energy efficient upgrades, sustainability grants and sanitation 11,000 people—nearly 100% of employees working in these offices— projects. The donation of vehicles is also helping local Habitat groups carry participated in the activities. on their work of building and rebuilding communities. In fiscal 2012, we expanded these activities and launched a new Just as Nissan responded to the needs of those affected by program for community contributions, the Nissan Technical Center Chiiki hurricanes along the U.S. Gulf Coast in 2005, that compassionate Fureai (contact with the local community) School. The purpose is to link the response has expanded to recovery efforts following the Great East Japan expertise of NTC and NATC, our monozukuri bases, to the community. We visit Earthquake, the flooding in the Philippines and Thailand, and Superstorm schools and deliver lectures on a variety of topics, including product planning, Sandy along the U.S. East Coast. design and environmental technology in response to requests from local We are extremely grateful for Nissan’s faithful commitment to schools and governments. affordable housing and community development, and we look forward to continuing this partnership as together we envision a world where everyone has a decent place to live. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 59 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Quality The rating of a car and the value of an auto manufacturer’s brand come entirely from the customer’s appraisal of quality. Nissan engages in ongoing activities to provide a high level of quality to customers at every stage of its engagement with them. The “Enhancing Quality” program is one of our strategies in pursuing the goals of Nissan Power 88, our mid-term business plan. Through our efforts in this area we aim to achieve higher quality that inspires lasting trust among our customers, leading them to choose a Nissan and make it part of their lives for a long time. By exceeding customer expectations at every point of contact, we strive to earn the highest satisfaction of our customers. Our Priorities Key Figures page_80 Top-level rankings in the most influential Product Quality p. 61 Product Quality For “Management Quality,” third-party indices in each country please see the Employees section. Perceived Quality p. 64 Top-group customer ratings for Nissan Perceived Quality Sales and Service Quality p. 65 and Infiniti Among the top in the J.D. Power and other Sales and Service Quality GRI G3 Indicators major indices PR5 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 60 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Quality Fiscal 2012 Performance There are many aspects to the single word “quality.” We seek to provide a high n Four models received the highest-ranking awards in J.D. Power’s Initial level of quality at every stage connected to our vehicles, from the condition of Quality Study (IQS) in their respective segments: Infiniti EX, Infiniti M, a vehicle and the customer’s impression of the showroom salespeople’s Frontier and Quest. service to even the creation of a working environment in which every single n Infiniti placed sixth in the nameplate ranking, up two notches from the 2011 Nissan employee can find fulfillment. study. The Nissan brand improved 12 places to rank twelfth. In 2011 we announced our “Enhancing Quality” program, spelling out n The Versa was the top-rated compact sedan and March was the top-rated clear quality-related goals for Nissan and methods to achieve them by 2016. compact hatchback in a survey conducted by Brazilian magazine Quatro The end target is to achieve the top level in the area of quality from the Rodas. This was the first time Nissan vehicles were included in the study. customers’ perspective. There are certain third-party quality indices on which n In road breakdown statistics issued by the ADAC of Germany, Qashqai and customers around the world place considerable weight, and our aim is to win Micra were given the “dark green” (very reliable) rating—the highest of five top-level rankings in these objective benchmarks. In our aim to become the grades—for four consecutive years in the middle class and compact car leader in overall quality, we will continue to inspire trust and ensure categories, respectively, enabling them to meet their “Enhancing Quality” satisfaction in all situations involving Nissan customers and their vehicles. targets ahead of schedule. Through this comprehensive approach to quality improvement, our n The 2012 J.D. Power study showed that customer satisfaction with Nissan goals are to raise the Nissan brand into the top group of global vehicles remained at the top level in Japan and China, and it also indicated automakers in product quality and to elevate Infiniti to leadership status dramatic improvements in the United States over the past several years. among luxury brands. A Fair, Prompt Approach to Recalls Future Measures It is the primary responsibility of the manufacturer to make every effort to ensure that product incidents do not occur in the first place. It is also our duty n Comprehensive efforts to enhance quality will continue to be made toward to ensure that cars, which are extraordinarily complex industrial products, are the goal of elevating the Nissan brand into the top group among global page_66 manufactured to be as ready as possible for various eventualities. Our automakers and Infiniti into a leader of luxury brands. approach is to make recalls transparent and to handle them fairly and n CS improvement know-how of successful countries will be shared at Global * Click here for more information on our Global promptly. The decision to make a recall is based on our compliance with SSI/CSI (Sales Satisfaction Index/Customer Service Index) meetings.* SSI/CSI meetings. relevant laws and our consideration of how the incident may affect the safety of our customers. When Nissan judges that a recall is necessary, it is carried out swiftly to ensure that top priority is given to customers’ safety and to minimizing any disruption. Our recall decision process has received high praise from the U.S. Department of Transportation as a model for the automotive industry, and has already been implemented at all of our operation sites worldwide. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 61 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Company Organization for Quality Improving Initial Quality Initial quality issues involve defects that occur within a year of a new-car To further improve overall customer satisfaction, Nissan has revamped its purchase. At Nissan, we have endeavored to reduce defects by establishing Quality Management System (QMS), headed by the COO, to strengthen its internal indices showing the frequency of defect claims within 3 and 12 implementation structure. The management system now clarifies responsibility months following sales. As a result, we have reduced defects by roughly half for a broad range of quality items, promoting initiatives that not only address from levels prior to the launch of this initiative. the quality of our products but also enable cross-functional management of At the end of 2011, we introduced the Quality Connection Survey (QCS) our sales and service activities, the distribution phase and the suppliers who as part of our “Enhancing Quality” activities in the United States. Surveys are provide parts so that we can offer top-level quality to satisfy customers in taken 75 days after delivery of new car buyers who provided email addresses. every way. These comments that come directly from customers are dealt with very quickly in order to achieve higher levels of customer satisfaction. Product Quality Improving Durability Durability issues are those that arise from lengthy vehicle use as molded resin Nissan has defined “Enhancing Quality” as one of the areas of focus parts change color or deform, as surface materials are abraded, as chrome is for Nissan Power 88, its mid-term business plan. Until now we have stripped away and as material fatigue begins to lead to odd noises from the worked to reduce reliability issues in vehicles coming off of the line. vehicle. Nissan obtains data on warranty service claims made two to four Now we are also undertaking additional efforts to reduce customer years after the initial sale and on problems that arise out of the warranty dissatisfaction even in the absence of breakdowns and durability period. We analyze this data with a view to developing technologies that are issues arising during lengthy vehicle use, as well as “quality image more resistant to durability issues. We are aiming to reduce durability quality breaker” issues that impact people’s perception of the cars. issues by at least 30% by fiscal 2016, compared to the fiscal 2010 level. We track our level of product quality with both internal and thirdparty indices. Among the external indices, we have identified 11 “most influential indicators” in eight national markets around the world, and we are aiming to achieve top-level scores in each of them. Since these external scores are only updated once per year, we have set up internal indices along similar lines. We update these more frequently to track our progress and correlate the findings with those of external indices to make quicker improvements as needed. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 62 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Activities Aimed at Reducing Customer Dissatisfaction Nissan Quality Forum for Employees and Suppliers Aside from defects or breakdowns, some of the reasons customers evaluate vehicles negatively include dissatisfaction with the confusing placement of The Nissan Quality Forum was launched in 2003 for employees and switches or complicated operation of car navigation systems. The June 2011 suppliers to familiarize them with quality issues, customer comments and J.D. Power Initial Quality Study indicated, for instance, that rear wiper switches progress with meeting improvement targets through presentations on Nissan vehicles —because of differences with other manufacturers’ featuring panels, videos and exhibits of actual parts and vehicles. The models—were difficult to use. The sales and service division thus teamed up forum is organized continuously and cross-functionally by the Total with R&D personnel to undertake a cross-functional initiative, resulting in not Customer Satisfaction Function (TCSX) and the R&D, manufacturing and only a revised instruction manual but also efforts by sales personnel to explain other divisions in order to raise awareness of CS and quality-improvement how the switch is used at the time of delivery and consideration by the R&D issues of all employees. During fiscal 2012, forums were held globally in team of adjusting how rear wipers are operated. Japan, the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, China and Thailand. Nissan always has an ear for customers’ comments and addresses At the November 2012 forum held at the Nissan Technical Center in quality improvements from their perspective. Japan, an event was held focusing on durability issues during lengthy vehicle use. In addition to experiencing how vehicles age by seeing, touching and driving cars both new and used for various years, participants Activities to Reduce Customer Dissatisfaction also exchanged views on how improvements could be made. TCSX R&D n Understanding sources of customer dissatisfaction n Addressing dissatisfaction issues n Setting targets n Implementing projects to enhance CS Examples of TCSX measures: Examples of R&D measures: l Identifying points of dissatisfaction through J.D. l Classifying and analyzing dissatisfaction based on actual Power IQS customer use patterns and perspectives l Using Nissan Quality Connection Survey (QCS) to set l Changing specifications as appropriate to improve safety, CS new tasks Participants at the Cross-functional approach Nissan Quality Forum to addressing dissatisfaction Manufacturing Sales/Service n Maintaining product capability n Explaining vehicle functions to customers n Enhancing problem-prevention activities Examples of manufacturing measures: Examples of sales/service measures: l Adjusting factory processes in line with specification l Using checklists to explain complicated functions at time of changes to address dissatisfaction delivery l Designing manufacturing lines to handle adjusted processes l Developing, sharing E-QRGs (electronic quick reference guides) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 63 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Field Quality Centers Nissan’s 4G Strategies (Japan) Nissan established its Field Quality Centers (FQCs) with the goal of getting Global Production Engineering Center (GPEC) a better understanding of customer demands in each region of the world and providing prompt solutions to the quality issues arising there. There are The GPEC develops optimized production processes through focused trials and now eight FQCs in operation in Japan, Europe, the United States (two analysis of new vehicles. In addition to dramatically improving quality in the vehicle locations), Brazil, China and India, in addition to a new center in South production preparation stage, it strives to establish quality consistency globally by Africa that opened in fiscal 2013. spreading high quality standards to manufacturing plants in and outside Japan. The centers conduct market quality research and analysis in five phases. First, they recall problem products from the market to clarify the Global Training Centers (GTCs) facts and conduct detailed interviews to replicate the defects. Second, they bring together suppliers along with our R&D and manufacturing personnel Manufacturing quality and productivity depend greatly on the skills of individual to share the information and to decide on areas for further investigation workers. To raise these skills to a competitive level in Nissan’s plants worldwide, the and to assign responsibilities. Based on the findings of the detailed studies, GTCs carry out training through classroom lectures and skills training activities based all staff members are brought together again to scientifically pinpoint the on the Nissan Production Way. Graduates of the Master Trainer programs take part cause of the problems and decide on specific countermeasures. These in training programs for local staff in regional training centers, effectively passing their skills on to others. measures are incorporated in future R&D and manufacturing activities and in building new management structures to prevent a recurrence of reliability issues or incidents. Global Packaging Design Center (GPDC) Quick Rollouts of New Vehicle Production Structure The GPDC functions as a training center for developing logistics specialists to work Nissan introduced 4G Strategies to provide consistent, high-quality products at our manufacturing bases. Training includes parts packaging design, packaging to customers around the world. We have been able to quickly build an testing and evaluation methods, CAD and optimum logistics cost management to maintain high quality. optimum production structure for new models at each of our plants worldwide according to these 4G Strategies. Global Launching Experts (GLEs) GLEs provide support in resolving issues related to monozukuri (production) that arise in the new vehicle launch phase. We are meeting our QCT (quality, cost, time) targets for each new vehicle launch thanks to the evaluations and advice from GLE core members and the support of GLE registered members. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 64 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Most Influential Indicator (MII) Survey 2012 Results Perceived Quality Country Survey Results Another pillar of our quality improvement approach is “perceived USA Consumer Reports Top reliability rating for Infiniti G Sedan, Nissan LEAF. quality.” This is the quality that customers feel when seeing, touching and using a vehicle. For example, when customers come to the J.D. Power Initial Infiniti placed 6/34; Nissan placed 4/22 Quality Study (IQS) overall. Infiniti EX in 1st place, Infiniti M 1st, showroom they open the vehicle doors, sit in the seats and check Frontier 1st, Quest 1st. things like the texture of interior fittings. Nissan carries out thorough J.D. Power Vehicle Nissan Z placed 1st. analysis of why customers perceive certain things as good as part of Dependability Study its efforts to improve quality as it appeals to all five senses. We set (VDS) clear targets and methods for achieving higher levels of quality so China J.D. Power IQS Livina placed 3rd. that customers will sense attractiveness in Nissan vehicles that J.D. Power VDS Tiida placed 1st, Qashqai 2nd, Teana 3rd. cannot be found in other brands. South Africa Synovate Product X-TRAIL placed 1st, NP200 placed 1st, Satisfaction Index Micra 3rd, Navara 3rd. Anticipating Customers’ Quality Perceptions The feeling of quality is a subjective matter, and fixing quantified criteria calls Germany ADAC Qashqai and Micra ranked very reliable. for very careful investigation. To date Nissan has evaluated cars using the U.K. What Car? Qashqai and Note ranked good. opinions of numerous in-house product monitors and specialists with in-house training and has surveyed customers who have purchased or are Brazil Quatro Rodas Versa ranked 1st, March 1st. considering purchasing a Nissan car in order to fix criteria for quality evaluation from the customer’s point of view. Customer sensibilities and social trends change from day to day. Cutting-edge technologies are constantly in development, and customer needs for these technologies are a moving target. We are working to improve our ability to foresee future social and technological trends in markets around the world, addressing the rapid change seen in the markets and feeding what we have learned into our vehicles, giving them attractiveness not seen in other brands. We have now begun carrying out actions that reflect our understanding of customers’ feelings from the stage of new model development. We are also expanding the geographic range of our surveys to deepen our knowledge of people’s emotional approach to vehicles in each global market. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 65 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Developing an Attractive Product Sales and Service Quality In order to increase perceived quality, it is necessary to objectively understand the feelings customers experience when they look at, touch and use a vehicle. There are many occasions for Nissan to interact with customers: when Nissan employs scientific methods to measure and analyze human perception they purchase a vehicle, of course, but also when they bring it in for and quantifies feelings of comfort to help create optimal designs. servicing, when they finish paying off the loan and when we send For the sense of touch, for example, we analyzed the feel of various them information on special sales campaigns, such as those for new objects such as clothing, furniture and traditional handicrafts. We found that models and test-drive opportunities. As a means of enhancing the softness close to that of a finger pad feels best when pushing, and a Nissan brand, we pursue “sales and service quality” by going beyond surface texture with roughness similar to a fingerprint’s ridges feels best customer expectations in all of these areas. Through effective when stroking. We are now using a new material on the armrest of the management of our sales and service quality at sales companies in Nissan Fuga that has the softness of a finger pad and a surface texture major national markets around the world, we enhance our similar to a fingerprint. connections with customers, improve customer satisfaction, earn Further, the human finger has “moisture sensors” in the valleys of the stronger support for Nissan and strengthen our brand. Our aim is to fingerprint ridges. These trigger a sensation of soft, pleasant moisture when achieve top-level customer satisfaction in 16 key national markets the ridge valleys are stimulated, despite the absence of wetness. Softness, including Japan, the United States and Europe. meanwhile, is felt more easily when the finger comes into contact with We are currently working on two key initiatives aimed at multiple ridges at the same time. We use a premium textured material called boosting our sales and service quality: (1) globally sharing the data “soft-feel grain” on the interior door handles of the Fuga. We have also applied collection and systematization of the know-how of successful our findings on human touch perception of moisture and softness to improve countries, and (2) achieving overall improvement by reducing the feel of the hard plastic materials used in the vehicle interior. discrepancies in performance among sales companies and dealerships in various countries. These two initiatives will be pivotal to our continuous and consistent activities to maximize customer satisfaction. Customer Evaluation To deliver top-level sales and service quality, the purchasing experience of Nissan car owners must be analyzed objectively. Studies are implemented based on third-party surveys in each national market. Nissan maintained top levels in Japan in J.D. Power’s Sales Satisfaction Index (covering such items as delivery process, delivery timing and salesperson) and Customer Service Index (including service, maintenance and repair), while making marked improvements in China thanks to closer coordination between the sales and servicing divisions there. Improved performance in the United States made Nissan the top Asian brand in the CSI (excluding premium brands) as well. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 66 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control The Nissan Sales and Service Way Boosting Service Quality Through Mechanic Competency Nissan has established the Nissan Sales and Service Way (NSSW) as a set of Nissan aims to satisfy customers by always providing highly reliable technical global guidelines helping dealers to better respond to the individual needs of skills. In Japan, we have been developing highly competent technical staff customers, to see things from the customer’s point of view and to provide through the establishment of an in-house qualification system that requires professional, high-value service. We conduct various activities to increase even higher certification standards than national programs. We are currently customer satisfaction and to improve our sales and service quality based on considering ways to allocate the required number of highly certified Nissan these guidelines. These activities include dealer training to improve product technicians depending on dealer size, thereby ensuring consistent shop knowledge, service skills and customer care, as well as the provision of competency. This practice has already started in the North American and guidance to improve dealership operations in response to customer European markets. We aim to provide reliable maintenance and other aftersatisfaction surveys. We are also developing personnel and systems to put sales services for all our customers. these improvements into place and enhance the customer focus of our job process, with care given to the voices of customers collected through our call Sharing CS Improvement Successes Globally centers and other means. To improve customer satisfaction levels in markets worldwide, we need to not Nissan carries out these initiatives globally while keeping in mind only enhance sales functions on a global basis but also help sales companies differences in cultural conditions and customs across countries and regions. In in various national markets meet local needs. Nissan conducts sales this way we seek to provide the best customer service during the purchase satisfaction index (satisfaction with the purchasing experience) and customer and ownership experiences, as well as in other areas. service index (satisfaction with maintenance and delivery services) surveys in various markets and periodically organizes the Global SSI/CSI Meeting of Enhancing Frontline Staff Capabilities major sales companies to globally share regional best practices. Regions with In the area of sales quality, it is critical to improve salespeople’s knowledge of high satisfaction levels invariably possess know-how regarding specific the vehicles and their sales skills. We conduct new model training and sales approaches and tools. These best practices are showcased at the meetings skill training activities for our sales companies on a global basis. Future plans so they can be applied in regions that are working particularly hard to include the codevelopment of training materials by participants in our major enhance customer satisfaction. markets; these materials will be distributed to other markets to improve the level of our training quality worldwide. For service quality, one key goal is to provide high-quality repair and maintenance work that only takes one visit and does not require the customer to wait too long. We are working on a global basis to enhance service quality by training our people, providing accurate technical information, delivering parts promptly, improving shop tools and designing cars to be more easily maintained. Sales company representatives at the Global SSI/CSI Meeting NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 67 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Improved Service Capabilities Applying Japan, China Market Know-how to CS in Thailand Nissan is making efforts to improve the technical capabilities, including basic diagnostic and repair skills, as well as the customer service skills of its afterImproving customer satisfaction scores in Thailand has been a difficult sales care service staff. These skills are put to the test in the All-Nissan challenge, so Nissan is comprehensively introducing activities Service Technical Contest. The event, hosted with assistance from implemented in Japan and China. Specifically, we identified activities to be throughout the Nissan Group, focuses on employees working in dealership improved and implemented a thoroughgoing kaizen program. The main service departments. targets in Thailand were the vehicle delivery process, vehicle quality after The competition has four categories: Technical Staff and New Technical repair and customer treatment. Quality improvement efforts are being Staff for those involved in maintenance, diagnostic and repair work, and made by educating sales personnel on the importance of CS and through Technical Advisor and Female Technical Advisor for those involved in frontline PDCA cycles for individual dealerships. By introducing such kaizen tools as service reception. Teams and individual participants who take top honors at training programs, evaluation systems and incentives, both qualitative and the nine regional competitions go on to compete at the national competition. quantitative improvements are being made in the human resources of The event brings together service staff with exceptional knowledge and Nissan dealers in Thailand. experience from all around the country, giving them a chance to put their day-to-day practices to the test against those of their fellow colleagues. Such events help to increase both the technical skills and motivation of employees in service departments, thus strengthening the service structure of the Nissan Group as a whole. Prompt Service Support Nissan has opened its National Customer Service Center (NCSC) in Japan to Nissan representatives observe CS make qualitative improvements to the service support it offers to customers improvement activities in Thailand. and dealerships. The NCSC consolidates dealership vehicle repair support and service technical support functions, as well as our customer call center. It carries out tasks that include providing expertise for maintenance and repair services, giving support to dealers for repairs, carrying out training in body and paint repair, collecting market data on incidents and managing call center issues. Initiatives adopted by the NCSC include collaboration with service technical support teams and digitization of product information including catalogs. This has enabled provision of highly precise technical data and reduced waiting times for customers with telephone inquiries, resulting in an overall improvement in the quality of our response to customer inquiries. In conjunction with the launch of Nissan LEAF, we introduced a support system for dealers worldwide. Utilizing information technology to exchange image and voice data, as well as data from diagnostic devices, the system links dealers with Nissan’s development division to enable prompt, accurate remote servicing. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 68 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Value Chain Together with its business partners, Nissan aims to achieve sustainable growth built on a foundation of mutual trust. We strive to listen carefully to our suppliers and dealers on an equal footing and work hard together with them as partners, developing and maintaining cooperative relations that enable us to implement best practices. Our value chain today extends around the globe due to the expansion of the company’s business interests. We endeavor to improve our CSR management by sharing our fundamental values and principles with our business partners, thereby promoting consistency in the CSR activities undertaken throughout the supply chain. Our Priorities Key Figures GRI G3 Indicators Distribution of Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for EC6/EN26/PR2 Working with Our Suppliers p. 70 Suppliers 7,600 suppliers Working with Our Dealers p. 72 3,000 parts and Distribution of Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines materials suppliers Environmental data of suppliers examined 70% of global purchases page_38 Improvements recommended for compliance violations (FY2012) 11 * Click here for more 174 firms, approx. 2,800 information on the Nissan Nissan Green Shop certification* conferred Green Shop certification. outlets NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 69 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to the Value Chain Fiscal 2012 Performance Nissan uses a fair, impartial and completely transparent business process n Supply chain disaster countermeasures continued from previous year: when selecting suppliers. We provide a wide variety of opportunities for other l Database created to visualize supply-chain operations in Japan companies to do business with us, regardless of their nationality, size or l Regions at risk of disaster identified; confirmation of suppliers’ provision systems at history with us. When making selections, the relevant Nissan divisions meet to main overseas locations examine from a range of perspectives the proposals received from suppliers. n Joint activities implemented with suppliers in accordance with the Nissan We explain our final decision to every supplier that has taken part in the Green Program 2016 (NGP2016) mid-term environmental action plan selection process. n Preliminary investigation of suppliers' use of conflict minerals We make every effort to maintain the highest standards of impartiality n Regarding sales companies: information security training conducted, and fairness in our business transactions, abiding by the Nissan Global Code global social media policy crafted and shared with example policy page_91 of Conduct* (item 4: Be Impartial and Fair). As well as maintaining close violations, anti-bribery regulations enhanced and re-disseminated communication in our day-to-day dealings with suppliers, we also take heed of * Click here for more information on the Nissan their ideas through regular questionnaires and direct meetings, checking our Global Code of Conduct. business practices from an external perspective. Future Measures Nissan works hard to promote correct business practices throughout the supply chain. We have disseminated internally a leaflet on guidelines for n To enhance disaster risk preparedness: appropriate business practices in the automobile industry, focusing on the l Database creation to visualize supply-chain operations at main overseas locations industry’s principles of procurement and important points relating to l Creation of initial response duty flowcharts for main overseas locations subcontracting and antimonopoly law, and we hold briefings with our suppliers l Diagnosis of supplier sites in high-risk areas in Japan on these issues. l Introduction in Japan of simulation system for disaster forecasts In fiscal 2012 we launched a new initiative incorporating environmental n Continued examination of our suppliers’ environmental data to promote CO2 concerns and compliance requirements, over which there is rising global emission reductions and other environmental efforts in our supply chain interest, in addition to continuing the disaster countermeasures in our supply n Investigation of use of conflict minerals in the supply chain and disclosure of chain from the preceding year. findings in our Sustainability Report and elsewhere n Continued information security training for our sales companies NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 70 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Working with Our Suppliers Activities to Improve Manufacturing Approaches Nissan has been working to continually produce more competitive products All of Nissan’s suppliers are important business partners for the through its Monozukuri Activities program, a collaboration among suppliers company. We work with them to build relationships based on the and Nissan that commenced in 2008. Since 2009, we have been expanding three values of trust (work fairly, impartially and professionally), these activities through the joint Thanks Activities initiative, which emphasizes respect (honor commitments, liabilities and responsibilities) and trust and cooperation between Nissan and its suppliers. With the goal of transparency (be open, frank and clear). working with our suppliers to become cost leaders in today’s challenging market conditions, we are striving to improve product quality, cut costs and Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers rationalize our manufacturing through measures that include increasing Nissan and Renault have produced a booklet, The Renault-Nissan Purchasing production volume per part, promoting localization and improving logistics. Way,*1 outlining the important values and processes to be adhered to when One important issue in the light of the substantial increases in global doing business. This booklet has been shared with the primary suppliers of production volume during 2012—the second year of our Nissan Power 88 website Renault and Nissan since 2006. Furthermore, in May 2010, we published the mid-term business plan—is building with our suppliers a system to ensure website *1 Click here to download The Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers*2 in order to effectively steady supply. Working with our suppliers, we are enhancing our Monozukuri Click here for more Renault-Nissan Purchasing information on the quality Way and the Renaultimplement CSR practices across our globally expanding base of suppliers. Activities to establish such a system. initiatives we undertake with Nissan CSR Guidelines for This was distributed to all primary suppliers worldwide with the aim of helping suppliers. Suppliers. them review their business activities from a CSR viewpoint and further instill Responding to Disaster Risk CSR activities. The guidelines explain Nissan’s CSR and procurement policies In addition to our supply chain business continuity plan (BCP) formulated for *2 References to the CSR guidelines of the Japan in five main sections: safety and quality, human rights and labor, the Japan and Thailand, we expanded our scope of consideration to include Automobile Manufacturers environment, compliance and information disclosure. establishing similar supply chain BCPs for other operations (North America, Association, Inc. and the Japan Auto Parts Since being published in 2010, the CSR guidelines have been provided Europe, China and India). We are also promoting the visualization of the Industries Association to suppliers for thoroughgoing implementation. In fiscal 2012, a number of supply chain via steps to ensure smooth initial response by ascertaining were made in drafting the Renault-Nissan CSR compliance violations that appeared to be in breach of relevant laws came to supply chain conditions and measures to address anticipated risks in advance. Guidelines for Suppliers. light in the auto industry. In response to these developments, Nissan took rigid measures with respect to the guidelines, and confirmations are being made of suppliers’ steady compliance with all laws and regulations and their efforts to organizationally strengthen CSR activities. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 71 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Recognizing Supplier Contributions Worldwide In 2012, the following items were added based on the Nissan Green Each year Nissan recognizes the contributions of its suppliers with awards Program 2016: presented in each of the regions where we operate, as well as with two worldwide supplier awards, the Global Quality and Global Innovation 1 Start gathering environmental data, including CO2 emissions and water Awards. These are presented to suppliers that have contributed to our discharges, in the supply chain business performance at the global level. This awards system aims to 2 Enhance management of environment-impacting substances in response encourage suppliers in the global supply chain to embrace our to the environmental regulations of various countries by expanding management approach, which balances the economic activities of quality, regions and substances covered cost reduction and technological development with environmental concern 3 Begin confirming with suppliers the setup for the management of and social responsibility. environment-impacting substances and items to be observed at the Global Quality Award recipients are selected by our purchasing, quality stage of supplier selection and other divisions using standard criteria applied worldwide. Global Innovation Award recipients are selected from suppliers nominated by our Policy on Conflict Minerals production, development and quality divisions in the two categories of product In August 2012, bylaws were enacted in the United States requiring technology and process management. In fiscal 2012, three companies companies to report the use of four minerals mined in the Democratic received Global Quality Awards, and Global Innovation Awards went to seven Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, which were potentially companies in the product technology category. believed to be sources of funds for armed insurgents. Agreeing with the spirit of this legislation, Nissan decided, from a CSR viewpoint, to investigate the Revising Our Green Purchasing Guidelines supply chain for any use of conflict minerals and established a policy aimed at website Nissan set forth the environmental standards for its suppliers in 2001 in the preventing the use of conflict minerals. Click here to download the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines, asking them to cooperate by reducing Preliminary studies were conducted between October and December revised version of the Nissan Green Purchasing their environmental impact. Prior to 2012, the guidelines had been updated 2012, and full-scale investigations will begin in fiscal 2013. We plan to Guidelines. twice, expanding coverage to include the following items: disclose the findings of the study in our Sustainability Report and elsewhere. 1 2008: Management of environment-impacting substances and reductions of their use throughout the supply chain 2 2010: Promotion of environmental activities throughout the supply chain in line with the Renault-Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 72 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Working with Our Dealers Global Social Media Policy Examples of inappropriate posts on social networking services or blogs that Nissan undertakes various measures to ensure that its approach to are in violation of Nissan’s global social media policy are shared with sales compliance is shared with dealerships and to enhance its internal companies. In an effort to enhance awareness and prevent a recurrence, controls. We aim to further improve our CSR management by we also convey information on the potential adverse impact, not just to the strengthening the lines of communication with dealers. sales company but also to the Nissan Group as a whole, when such posts are made. Working with Dealers for CSR Management To promote consistency in the CSR management approaches taken by Nissan Harassment and its dealers, we carry out activities on an ongoing basis aimed at helping We provide training materials, particularly on power harassment, given the dealerships in Japan enhance their compliance. growing social interest in abuses of authority and incidents of such abuse at As a specific measure, we organize self-inspection programs at all sales companies. Sales companies undertake training on such topics as dealerships to enable fuller understanding of and improvements to their “examples of acts and statements that constitute harassment,” “what impact current compliance management status. The programs carried out during a harassment case can have,” “past incidents involving sales companies” and fiscal 2012 have led to increased awareness and improvements on a “what steps should be taken when a case comes to light.” voluntary basis. To bolster compliance initiatives in cooperation with dealers, we made an effort to familiarize them with our various programs and Prevent Bribery undertook improvement activities during fiscal 2012. We aim to further We are making thoroughgoing efforts to prevent bribes involving Nissan improve our CSR management by ensuring that our sense of compliance is employees on a global basis, and we are asking sales companies, too, to shared with dealerships and by working to build stronger internal controls. update existing rules and to inform their employees of the changes. At the same time, we are also distributing materials based on the Compliance Training for Sales Companies detailed rules of the Nissan Group’s Global Code of Conduct concerning Nissan offers the following compliance training programs for sales companies: entertainment and gifts. Information Security Based on teaching materials that cover the same topics as those taught in our e-learning courses, each sales company implements information security training so as to avert risks arising from serious incidents occurring in the course of daily activities, such as virus infections, unintended email transmissions and information leaks due to misplaced or stolen PCs. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 73 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Employees Nissan strives to create workplaces where employees are motivated to rise to challenges and are able to work safely and comfortably, enjoying full mental and physical health. By respecting the diversity of our employees, we promote the creation of an environment in which all individuals can utilize their talents to the fullest while working in teams to achieve ambitious goals. By sharing their knowledge, based on their individual experiences and different ways of thinking, our employees are able to meet the increasingly diverse needs of our customers. This makes them the driving force for Nissan’s sustained growth. Our Priorities Key Figures Consolidated number of employees 160,530 Nissan’s Respect for Diversity p. 75 Ratio of managerial posts filled by women (global) 10.3% Career Design Support p. 79 GRI G3 Indicators Turnover ratio (Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.) 3.9% 2.8/LA2/LA13 Creating a Culture of Learning p. 79 Stronger Internal Communication p. 81 Building Safe Workplaces p. 82 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 74 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Employee Issues Fiscal 2012 Performance Nissan requires all its people to respect the human rights of others and n Received multiple awards in Japan for our diversity efforts forbids discrimination against or harassment of others based on race, n Successful applicants for Open Entry System to support career nationality, gender, religion, physical capability, age, place of origin or other development: 89 (in Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.) reason. Nor may Nissan employees allow such a situation to go unchecked if n Total accident frequency ratio: 0.31 it is discovered. The Nissan Way is a code of conduct that aims to ensure continual growth. It outlines five mindsets and five actions based on the idea that “the Future Measures power comes from inside,” and has been made available in eight languages (Japanese, English, French, Chinese, German, Spanish, Dutch and Russian) n Raise global ratio of women in managerial posts to 14% by 2017 for our employees worldwide. The Nissan Way encourages employees to n Worldwide efforts to enhance strategic human-resource training adopt such mindsets as “cross-functional, cross-cultural” and “frugal,” and to n Continuation and improvement of open opinion exchange between act in ways that include “motivate” and “challenge.” managers and employees Company Organizations for Employee Issues “The power comes from inside” The focus is the customer, the driving force is value creation and the measurement of success is profit. Fostering diversity is an important management strategy at Nissan. We established our Diversity Development Office (DDO) in Japan in October Mindsets Actions 2004 to play a principal role in this pursuit. Since then, we have been 1 Cross-functional, Cross-cultural 1 Motivate working with our offices in North America, Europe and other markets in a Be open and show empathy toward different views; How are you energizing yourself and others? welcome diversity. variety of ways to realize our common goal of achieving sustainable 2 Commit and Target 2 Transparent corporate growth while respecting diversity. Moreover, we established a Are you accountable and are you stretching enough Be clear, be simple, no vagueness and no hiding. toward your potential? Diversity Steering Committee, headed by executives representing each 3 Learner 3 Perform business division, to set the direction and establish strategies for promoting Be passionate. Learn from every opportunity; Are you fully focused on delivering results? diversity throughout the company. create a learning company. 4 Measure 4 Frugal How do you assess performance? Achieve maximum results with minimum resources. 5 Challenge 5 Competitive How are you driving continuous and competitive No complacency, focus on competition progress across the company? and continuous benchmarking. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 75 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Organization of the Diversity Steering Committee Japan, where the ratio of women in the automobile industry workforce has CEO traditionally been low, the participation of women, particularly in positions of Product Planning responsibility, is essential to providing diverse value to our customers. Nissan is working to create an inclusive environment that encourages COO Purchasing active participation from all employees, regardless of gender, and supports Manufacturing the career development of female employees. Diversity At Nissan in Japan, women comprise 4% of senior-level managers Steering Committee Marketing and Sales (as of April 2012), up from 2% in 2008, and a total of 6.7% of managerlevel and higher positions are filled by women. This compares favorably to the average of 2.9% for Japanese companies with 5,000 or more etc. employees (according to 2011 statistics from Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare). As of April 2012, women fill 10% of the manager-level and higher Nissan’s Respect for Diversity positions at Nissan globally, up from 7% in 2008. The ratio is 7% for Nissan’s senior-level managers globally, nearly double the 4% ratio from four Diversity is an important strategy at Nissan. We undertake initiatives in years ago. Nissan does not view these figures as simple numerical targets to pursuit of our goal of achieving sustainable growth while respecting meet and improve; no candidates are selected for managerial posts because diversity. of their gender. Rather, we focus on boosting women’s presence in all levels of management, carrying out training to ensure that top candidates will be Diversity as a Corporate Strategy ready to take on greater responsibility. At Nissan, we believe that diversity is a source of strength. When employees We support women’s career development in every region where we do website from diverse backgrounds—from gender and nationality to culture, age, business. In Japan, the DDO provides personalized support to female Click here for more academic background and lifestyle—contribute their ideas and perspectives, employees through individual counseling sessions with career advisors. The information on Nissan’s diversity. the result is better, more creative solutions and higher value. office works with Nissan’s human-resource divisions to organize activities Our diversity-oriented mindset rests at the foundation of our business geared especially to female employees, including skill-development training strategy, where it supports our efforts to leverage workplace diversity in the courses and networking events. Moreover, interviews with senior female twin areas of gender and culture. We seek to make full use of the talents of employees who are active in a variety of fields within the company are posted female employees while also actively exploring ways to create higher value on our corporate intranet to offer further encouragement. The DDO promotes through cultural diversity, in particular by utilizing the cross-cultural nature of young female employees’ proactive networking activities aimed at increasing the Alliance formed with Renault in 1999. their contact with women outside the company, thus providing fresh stimulation, and with women who have risen into management roles in Global Initiatives to Utilize the Talents of Women Nissan, who share their experiences in a valuable educational setting. Since fiscal 2004 the Diversity Development Office (DDO) has been In the Americas, Nissan has implemented mentoring for women in the concentrating its efforts in the following two areas as a means of better workplace and other outreach programs to encourage young women to utilizing female employees’ abilities. consider careers in technical fields. These programs have seen participation by numerous employees at Nissan North America, Inc. (NNA), Nissan 1. Women’s career development Canada Inc. (NCI), the Nissan Technology Center North America (NTCNA) Diversity takes on different meanings in various regions of the world. In and Nissan Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (NMEX). Nissan recently partnered with NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 76 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Microsoft on “DigiGirlz,” a one-day event in which high-school-aged girls company’s business globally. We are working to leverage the synergy created participated in activities designed to expose them to the specific ways through our cross-cultural Alliance with Renault, which not only recognizes Nissan uses technology to create and market its innovative products. and accepts cultural differences but also utilizes such differences to the full, In the AMIE region (Africa, Middle East, India, Europe), we ensure to make cultural diversity our strength. female representation in all development programs. The Women@Nissan We are working to make cultural diversity an integral part of our network also supports our diversity strategy by organizing various events to corporate culture. A vital part of our success as a company rests on ensuring provide networking opportunities. that people are welcome no matter where they come from, what language In Asia, we pursue a range of activities to promote diversity and they speak, how old they are or what their background or training is. We women’s career development. Through discussion sessions bringing female judge people only on their contributions and loyalty to the company. Nissan’s employees together with the CEO and sessions for young female workers to top decision-makers, for example, often have different citizenship from the come together with women in senior positions, Nissan aims to deepen its place where the company is headquartered, as can be seen from the culture of respect for diversity. company’s Executive Committee, which is 50% Japanese and 50% non-Japanese. 2. Women’s input from the planning to sales stages The rewards of this approach are clear. The more diverse the group that Nissan must meet the diverse needs of customers globally. For example, in is working to develop the solution, the more creative, detailed and successful Japan, 30% of all cars are purchased by women, while roughly another 30% that solution will be. For Nissan, diversity is a key element of corporate are purchased by a man with input from a woman, meaning that women strategy that helps produce solutions for the issues that we face today and in participate in nearly two-thirds of vehicle purchase decisions. This makes it the future. important to reflect our female employees’ views in all stages of our business, To help Nissan’s people utilize cultural differences as a source of from the development of new vehicles through their manufacture and sales. strength, we have designed our e-learning program as a course open to Models like the Nissan Note, our global compact car, have benefited anyone at any time. In Japan, for example, this enables Japanese people to from recommendations to adjust the rear door’s opening angle to make it learn skills for understanding and communicating with business partners of easier for both men and women to access child seats there. In the assembly different cultural backgrounds, so that they can work together to get results. stage, meanwhile, we are promoting ergonomic design of our equipment and We hold training sessions to cultivate a better understanding of specific work processes at our manufacturing plants to benefit female workers, who countries with which we have particularly close relations, and we are working are generally smaller in stature and have less strength than men. As a result, to make cultural diversity an integral part of our corporate culture. the assembly lines have been optimized for both men and women, young and old—and thus, more efficient. Nissan’s Diversity Mindset Nissan sales staff must be prepared to respond to the needs and Nissan presents CEO diversity messages and carries out regional diversity questions of men and women customers alike. As both male and female events and diversity training for its employees all around the world. In fiscal customers report higher satisfaction with our female CAs, or car-life advisors, 2012 we held a small town-hall-style meeting where the CEO discussed we are working to improve the work environment and carry out ongoing diversity directly with Nissan employees of diverse nationalities, genders and training to give these women employees more room to succeed. ages at our Global Headquarters. All employees can watch the video posted on the intranet site to learn about the company’s diversity vision. A Firm Grounding for Cultural Diversity In Japan, as part of the company’s managerial training program we hold Nissan recognizes the need to make full use of the strengths and abilities of workshops that help participants understand the importance of diversity, its multinational, multicultural family of employees in order to develop the learn how to best utilize employee diversity and think about how diversity can NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 77 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control be useful in the company’s business activities. We invite guest speakers from In 2011 we launched our “returnee seminars” to enable employees companies well-known for their diversity development to events to coming back to work after childcare leave to make a proactive return to work website encourage our managers and to provide tips on diversity management. In with the full understanding and cooperation of those around them. These Nissan proudly takes part in addition, Nissan executives post articles on the company intranet discussing seminars were popular once again in fiscal 2012. Our employees also the Work-Life Balance their views on diversity as well as their own personal experiences. These continue to use the internal social networking site “Work/Life Park” for Promotion Project of Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labor and personalized messages from management encourage the development of a sharing information to support the balance between their career and Welfare. (Japanese website) diversity mindset among our employees. childcare needs. In the United States, a program of guest executive seminars brings leaders of other companies to share their insight with Nissan managers and employees. We have actively arranged presentations on diversity-related Support Systems for Childbirth and Childcare (Japan) themes in particular, bringing noted corporate officers and authors to explain Pregnancy Childbirth 1 year old 2 3 6 9 12 how diversity can be a channel for innovative solutions to a broad range of issues companies face today. 6 wks. before due date 8 wks. after birth In the AMIE region, we have designed a “multicultural effectiveness q q training” program to raise awareness of cultural differences and to support all Leave Childbirth leave 18 months old End of first April after child turns 2 employees working in a multicultural environment. q q Maternal Childcare leave protection leave Work-Life Balance for Employees (Japan) In Japan, Nissan has implemented a system offering flexible working Family support leave (to promote childcare): Days off From pregnancy to child’s 6th year of elementary school. 12 days/year (5 paid, 7 unpaid) arrangements to enable employees to effectively balance work with family responsibilities, such as childcare and nursing of elderly relatives. Reduced Shortened work hours (for childcare): Arrangements to help employees of both genders strike an appropriate working hours For employees with children up through end of 6th year of elementary school. 3 hours/day work-life balance include “Family Support Leave,” which allows an employee to take time off for a wedding, the birth of a child, child rearing or nursing Childcare centers in company sites care; reduced working hours and home-based telecommuting for employees to provide childcare or nursing care; and the establishment of “March Land” Other E-working daycare centers. The first March Land, at our Technical Center in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture, was followed in fiscal 2012 by daycare facilities at the Babysitting service Nissan Global Information System Center and at our Global Headquarters. Nissan has been recognized by the Japanese government as a Legally mandated Decided by Nissan For parents of both sexes corporation actively promoting childcare support, successfully implementing programs to achieve the goals set forth in the action plan of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare based on an April 2005 law outlining measures to support the development of future generations. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 78 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Recognition for Our Efforts Enhanced Diversity in the Workplace (Americas) Nissan’s efforts to enhance its diversity and the value it places on a diverse workforce have not gone unnoticed. In 2008 we won the Catalyst Award for Nissan North America (NNA) has established a regional diversity our initiatives to support and advance women in business. Catalyst, a steering committee for the Americas to create accountability and provide nonprofit advisory organization dedicated to expanding opportunities for guidance to diversity initiatives in the region. We have also established women and building inclusive work environments, noted our efforts to give Diversity Committees at several locations. These committees work women key decision-making roles and the global impact of this proactive closely with regional management to provide programming supporting approach. We were the first company headquartered in Asia, as well as the cultural awareness through various activities and functions. first automaker, to receive this award. NNA has established a regional diversity office to coordinate In the same year, the Japanese business publisher Toyo Keizai gave diversity initiatives in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil. Nissan the grand prize in its first annual Diversity Management Awards. The Employee-driven Business Synergy Teams (BSTs) have been launched six members of the selection committee were unanimous in their recognition to leverage diversity to achieve business objectives, expand crossof our commitment to diversity at the executive level, our clear positioning of functional interaction and assist with community outreach. There are diversity as a means of addressing issues facing the company and our currently 11 BSTs across the region, including the Women’s BST appropriate, effective information disclosure. (WBST), the first such group, which was established in 2007. This was In 2013, we took the grand prize in the J-Win Diversity Awards, followed in 2009 by the creation of the Multicultural BST (MBST), which presented by the NPO Japan Women’s Innovative Network. This was our aims to enhance the company’s consumer-relations capabilities through third award from J-Win, which gives its prizes to companies that show cross-cultural communications and awareness. There are also BSTs proactive, innovative approaches to recruitment, skills development and supporting generational, veterans and wellness diversity initiatives to promotion of women. provide support to Nissan’s diverse workforce. The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) launched These BSTs are operated from our North American headquarters its Diversity Management Selection 100 program in fiscal 2012 to recognize in Nashville, our R&D facility located in Farmington Hills, Michigan, and companies that have enhanced corporate value through diversity-minded the Dallas-based Nissan Motor Acceptance Corporation, as well as at management practices. Nissan was one of the companies recognized in the our production facilities in Smyrna and Decherd, Tennessee and program’s inaugural year. We were also selected by the Tokyo Stock Canton, Mississippi. Exchange, Inc. for inclusion on its Theme Issues List for investment in 2013, earning a spot as a Nadeshiko (active utilization of women) brand. We are proud that our focus on diversity has earned us this external recognition. These awards are a clear sign that our executive commitment to diversity is producing results and that we are on the right track in making cross-cultural and gender diversity key elements of our competitive strategy. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 79 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Career Design Support Fostering Specialized Skills Helping employees develop specialized skills over the medium to long term Nissan believes that employees should “design their own careers” and is vital for a company to achieve sustainable growth. We introduced the actively assists their efforts to do so. Nissan Expert Leader System as a means of strengthening and fostering further development of specialized skills in a wide range of technical and Continually Improving Human-Resource Systems nontechnical areas like purchasing and accounting. In fiscal 2012, the A company’s employees are its most important resource. So that both Nissan system’s seventh year, we designated 50 employees as Expert Leaders and and its employees can reach their full potential, we constantly work to two management-level employees as Nissan Fellows in a total of 98 fields improve our human-resource systems. The evaluation-based remuneration of specialization. The Expert Leaders and Fellows make use of their system used to accurately gauge employee contributions is structured in a specialized knowledge to contribute to Nissan’s business endeavors overall. way that motivates them to set and achieve high goals. An employee’s salary In addition to sharing their knowledge with others via our corporate intranet is determined through a combination of performance evaluations, which and other communication tools, they contribute to the fostering of the next measure how well the employee achieved certain goals (commitments), and generation of experts by passing on their specialized skills in seminars and competency evaluations, which measure such intangible variables as training courses. technical skill, knowledge and attitude. Support for Self-Designed Careers Creating a Culture of Learning Nissan provides opportunities for employees in Japan and the Americas to meet with their supervisors at least twice a year to discuss their performance We believe that a corporate culture of learning cannot exist without and competency evaluations, as well as their career aspirations and goals. the desire to create value. As an organization that grows through Employees in Japan also have the chance to take on the challenge of a constant learning, Nissan supports employees’ personal growth new position through the Shift Career System (SCS) and the Open Entry through proactive human-resource development. System (OES). The SCS enables employees to apply for positions in other departments and work areas that interest them regardless of whether there A Variety of Learning Opportunities is a position immediately available. The OES allows them to apply for all Within the company, we implement training programs allowing employees to openly advertised positions. As of February 2013, 229 employees had gain the task-specific skills they need and give them opportunities to extend applied for 161 open posts during fiscal 2012, and 89 of them succeeded in their knowledge in fields of their choosing. In these ways we work to create a getting the positions they applied for. culture of constant learning in Nissan. Training Programs at Our Headquarters in Japan FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Number of trainees 11,001 11,012 13,834 Total hours in training 343,147 332,897 411,727 Hours per trainee 12.0 13.7 16.9 Trainee satisfaction (out of 5) over 4.5 over 4.2 over 4.3 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 80 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Improving Management Quality Training Future Leaders Nissan is working to improve the quality of its management in order to fulfill Nissan engages in leadership training aimed at passing down the the goals of its mid-term business plan, Nissan Power 88,* and achieve company’s hard-won knowledge and experience to the next generations of sustainable growth. In Japan, we have established a training framework for workers; action-based learning that has participants tackle issues actually mid-level managers. This gives them opportunities to promote activities facing Nissan; and cultural diversity training to promote understanding of putting the Nissan Way into practice and to extend their skills in managing the issues. We also carry out strategic internal transfers and job rotations people and business operations. In North America and Europe, meanwhile, across departments, divisions and regions. All of this is part of a we implement the Nissan Way Leadership Academy program for managers, systematic approach to fostering future managers and specialists who will page_87 examining how the Nissan Way has been put to use most effectively and lead the company. * Click here for more information on Nissan sharing those actions as part of training tools to elevate management The Nissan Way, as the crystallization of the experience and Power 88. quality overall. knowledge gained through the company’s revival, is important for our employees to understand and put into practice in their work. Our Technical Education Around the World managers take the lead in workshops on this theme and make the Nissan To enhance Nissan’s efforts to expand its business globally, the company Way a part of their duties, thus helping it to penetrate the entire must improve the technical skills of individual employees working all over organization. We implement these leadership training programs and the world. We strive to offer opportunities for personal growth equally to all strategic human-resource management systems all around the globe. employees in both R&D and production, whether they work in Japan or elsewhere around the globe, to help them enhance their capabilities. Global Training Program Participants from R&D Divisions 19,000 20,000 15,300 15,000 11,500 10,000 7,000 3,800 5,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (FY) Note: Figures for 2013 onward are based on current plan. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 81 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Stronger Internal Communication N-Square, a Tool for Employee Exchange (Japan) Nissan actively seeks the opinions of employees through surveys, using the results to improve management quality and employee Nissan has operated N-Square, an internal social networking service for motivation. We also ensure that information is shared with all employees, in Japan since fiscal 2009. Users form communities based employees around the world without delay. around various themes, improving interaction with one another and gathering information they need. There are now more than 300 Employee Surveys communities registered in the service. Given that the need for social Nissan carries out surveys to get employee input and suggestions for networking services is on the rise, Nissan plans to improve and expand improvements. From the results of these surveys, we identify the strengths of them for employees. the company as a whole and those of individual divisions, as well as areas for improvement. We then work to make improvements that will lead to the creation of a better work environment for our employees and to continued growth for the company. The results of these efforts are analyzed for the Employee-Executive Exchange company as a whole and for each region and department. Based on these Nissan holds opinion-exchange meetings involving executives and analyses, each level of management formulates and carries out action plans employees as a means of building trust through clear and transparent tailored to specific needs. communication. These meetings are held frequently at Nissan’s Global Headquarters in Japan as well as the company’s business offices elsewhere Enhancing Communication Tools around the world. These meetings give company leaders a venue to inform Nissan has introduced a corporate intranet system called WIN (Workforce employees about the current situation of the company and to deliver key Integration @ Nissan) as a tool to promote communication and information management messages. They also provide employees with opportunities to sharing. We continually update the system with new technologies while ask questions and voice their concerns in a direct, open manner. Their topics encouraging employees to make active use of it for internal communication cover everything from business in emerging countries to environmentally and collaborative activities. We have expanded the WIN network beyond friendly technologies, quality and brand issues. We plan to continue these Japan, North America and Europe to include other markets and our major meetings as an important channel for active communication. business partners. We also use internal newsletters and in-house video broadcasts to provide a variety of information to be shared by all employees at Nissan production sites with no time lag. So that all our employees gain a deeper understanding of our products and the ability to convey their features and attractiveness to others more effectively, we also hold new model announcements and test drive events for employees. These are received very positively, with some participants stating that their enhanced knowledge of Nissan products has boosted their pride in the company and their work motivation, and have been effective in creating “brand ambassadors” for Nissan. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 82 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Building Safe Workplaces Creating Safe Workplaces Nissan employs its own safety management diagnostic methods, as well as Nissan promotes practices aimed at reducing worker burdens and a risk–assessment approach to workplace management, to create a more improving productivity. We have made promotion of employee health a danger-free environment and help to prevent accidents through proactive top priority, establishing it as a key tenet in our companywide inspections of facilities to identify potential dangers. We also bring trainees declaration on workplace safety. together from around the world to give them practical instruction in labor safety management. A Uniform Set of Global Labor Safety Standards In April 2007, we added “promotion of employee health” to the Nissan’s human resources are the company’s most valuable asset. So that existing tenets related to occupational safety in our companywide all employees can use their abilities to the fullest, we make health and declaration on workplace safety. safety the top priorities when designing workplace functions and processes. We proactively work at all levels to identify potential issues or concerns in the workplace environment, develop measures to address them Trends in Occupational Accidents (Total Accident Frequency Ratio) and make it easier for employees to get their jobs done. In 2010, we 1.0 standardized the safety indices that previously differed among our global Average for 14 automobile manufacturers sites. Every quarter we monitor safety performance for each area where we 0.8 0.63 do business. 0.6 Improved Production-Line Environments 0.4 Nissan seeks to fulfill the company’s mission of engaging in “human-friendly 0.31 production” by continuously improving the workplace environments of its 0.2 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. manufacturing facilities worldwide. The workplace on hot summer days can 0 be physically very taxing, and there is even the danger of heatstroke. We ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 have therefore been proactive in installing internal cold-air ducts and Total accident frequency ratio: total accident cases ÷ total working hours ×1 million Source: Statistics on occupational accidents in the automobile industry (Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association, Inc.) ensuring there are set breaks to drink water, particularly in locations with considerable workloads. This is part of constant improvements to allow employees to work in a comfortable environment. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 83 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Global Sharing of Accident Information Specialized Mental Healthcare Unexpected accidents can sometimes occur at manufacturing plants, Nissan has put together a specialized team led by a clinical psychiatrist to resulting in employee injuries. In such cases, the most pressing issue is to care for the mental health of employees. In fiscal 2005, in cooperation with make every possible endeavor to ensure that a similar accident will not external mental healthcare specialists we introduced a mental healthcare occur again. Nissan continually works to prevent accidents through probing program, EAP (Employee Assistance Program), to provide employees with investigations to fully uncover the causes of any accident that has occurred consistent care covering everything from prevention and early diagnosis to and by sharing what has been learned with all global production bases. treatment and recovery. Since fiscal 2007 we have extended the program to include production-line workers, giving all employees in Japan and their Work Safety Risk Management family members access to mental-health professionals for consultations, Since 2011 we have been systematically carrying out risk-prediction diagnosis and counseling. We additionally offer specialized care programs training at our plants in Japan to ensure that individual workers are aware that respect employee privacy, such as the yearly “Stress Check,” through of the risk of accidents and to help prevent accidents. This training which employees receive advice from a doctor via e-mail or letter. In fiscal cultivates appreciation of danger among workers, thus reducing their risk of 2011 we expanded our mental health training with items that stress work accidents. While this method has been in place for some time, we are bolstering the mental health of individual employees. We are currently endeavoring to increase its effectiveness through repeated application. promoting mental healthcare with a wide range of approaches. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 84 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Economic Contribution Nissan seeks to contribute to the economic development of society through sustainable, profitable growth. The company aims to maintain top-level performance in the global automotive market and to build a foundation for a highly profitable business into the future. The company also focuses on providing timely and accurate information on the implementation of its strategies, vision and management plans to shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. Our Priorities Key Figures Consolidated operating profit margin 5.4% Corporate Value Creation p. 85 Global market share 6.2% Timely and Accurate Information Disclosure p. 86 Dividend ¥25/share GRI G3 Indicators 2.8/EC1 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 85 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Economic Contribution Future Measures Through its business activities, Nissan aims to create value and contribute to n By enhancing brand power, investment in products, technologies and global the development of a sustainable society. To achieve these goals, the capacity, the company aims to achieve both the goals of Nissan Power 88 company launched its mid-term business plan, Nissan Power 88,* which and further sustainable growth. established a clear, global vision and strategic directions through fiscal 2016. n Over the current mid-term plan, the company’s dividend policy targets a The company continues to implement the plan’s strategies and initiatives in minimum dividend payout ratio of 25%. website order to maximize its corporate value. * Information on Nissan The goal of Nissan’s investor-relations activities is to ensure a profound Power 88 is also available on our website. and thorough understanding of the company’s objectives and strategies. Corporate Value Creation Therefore, the disclosure of timely, consistent and transparent information is essential. In order to further strengthen stakeholder and investor trust, Nissan Nissan seeks to improve profitability by increasing revenues and IR has increased the number of events and opportunities for investors to controlling costs. In addition, the company continues to focus on page_87 speak directly with executive management. strengthening its balance sheet and achieving healthy levels of * Click here for more Under the strict control of the chief financial officer, information is positive free cash flow, which in turn will improve its net cash position information on Nissan Power 88. disclosed accurately and in a fair, transparent manner. This enables in the automotive business. In order to ensure future sustainable shareholders and investors to make the best-informed investment decisions. growth, the company continues to invest in strategic initiatives and Nissan’s sound IR activities ensure trust in the marketplace, which in turn key markets. contributes to maximizing shareholder value. Strategic Investment in Focus Areas and Markets To accelerate its growth in global markets, Nissan must expand its business Fiscal 2012 Performance and provide products that meet the needs of customers. To extend the reach of the premium Infiniti brand, in fiscal 2012, sales were launched in n Consolidated operating profit margin: 5.4% Singapore, Chile, the Dominican Republic, South Africa and Australia. In n Global market share: 6.2% Europe, meanwhile, the company announced that its U.K. Sunderland Plant n Dividend: ¥25/share would begin production of premium compact cars. The company will continue n Improved agency ratings (long-term credit ratings): Moody’s A3, Rating and working to expand its vehicle lineup. Investment Information (R&I) A+ Nissan is also actively investing in growing emerging countries, such as n Recognized for the sixth straight year by the Securities Analysts Association the BRICs (Brazil, Russia, India and China). In Brazil, now the world’s fourthof Japan for excellence in corporate disclosure largest automobile market, a new Nissan plant is under construction in Resende in the state of Rio de Janeiro. This will provide a platform for efforts to gain at least a 5% share of the Brazilian market by 2016. The new plant will go online in the first half of 2014, eventually reaching annual capacity of 200,000 V-Platform vehicles for the Brazilian market. In addition to providing direct employment opportunities to up to 2,000 workers, this operation will create more than twice that many new jobs throughout the supply chain. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 86 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control In the ASEAN region, Nissan announced an expansion plan for the Communication with Stakeholders and Investors Nissan Technical Center Southeast Asia (NTCSEA). The new facilities and To communicate with its stakeholders and investors, the company’s IR team larger staff at this center will enable the company to grasp customer needs in actively meets with institutional investors and sell-side analysts and these markets quickly and reflect that feedback accurately in its products. responds to inquiries in a timely manner. Nissan also participates in In the U.S. market, production began of the all-electric Nissan LEAF at conferences held by securities companies, as well as other events, to report the Smyrna Plant in Tennessee, where a lithium-ion battery production facility proactively on its business. also went online. This cutting-edge facility will allow increased battery To promote understanding of its business strategies, Nissan uses a production to power the equivalent of 200,000 EVs annually. This expansion range of IR events to voluntarily disclose information. September 2012 saw a of vehicle and battery manufacturing is expected to create up to an additional strategic seminar covering the Kyushu region—home to more than half of 1,000 new jobs. Nissan’s moves to boost production capacity in the United Nissan’s vehicle production capacity in Japan—giving presentations to States are based on the strategy of building its main models in the markets institutional investors and sell-side analysts on the role of Japan’s monozukuri where they are sold. By 2015, the company aims to produce locally culture of craftsmanship in the face of an overvalued yen. At the Advanced approximately 85% of the Nissan and Infiniti vehicles sold in North America. Technology Briefing in October 2012, the company introduced some of its environmental and safety technologies and gave participants a chance to experience the newly developed hybrid system for front-wheel-drive vehicles Timely and Accurate Information Disclosure and Autonomous Emergency Steering System. By posting details related to these IR events on the website, the company discloses information fairly. Nissan views its shareholders and investors as partners in the creation of a more sustainable society. To facilitate a deeper 113th Shareholders Meeting understanding of the company, IR activities are conducted frequently The 113th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders was held at the with prompt and transparent information. The company will continue Pacifico Yokohama on June 26, 2012, and was attended by 1,188 to enhance its communication efforts so that institutional investors, shareholders. Following reports on Nissan’s business results for fiscal 2011 securities analysts and individual investors can make optimal and an update on Nissan Power 88, the mid-term business plan, shareholders investment decisions. and company officials engaged in a question-and-answer session. On June 23, just ahead of the meeting, 200 shareholders were selected by lottery to visit the Oppama Plant in Kanagawa Prefecture and take part in a special event to experience Nissan’s automotive technologies. Participants observed the plant’s production lines and test-drove the all-electric Nissan LEAF, deepening their understanding of the company. They also got to spend time with CEO Carlos Ghosn and other company executives, allowing them to share their views directly with top management. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 87 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Positive External Assessment for IR Activities corporate disclosure. The analysts recognized Nissan for its executive At the 18th Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure presented by the management’s proactive participation in investor relations and its voluntary Securities Analysts Association of Japan, Nissan was proud to come in first disclosure on corporate governance and business activities. for the sixth year straight in the automobiles, auto parts and tires category. Winners of these awards are selected by analysts through a survey assessing companies’ IR activities during the fiscal year with the goal of improving Nissan Power 88 Announced in June 2011, Nissan Power 88 is the mid-term business plan n Nissan will increase investments in its brands and retail networks to covering the six years from fiscal 2011 to 2016. Encompassing a broad enhance customers’ entire ownership experience from the moment they range of tasks, the plan aims primarily to accelerate growth in global begin considering a purchase through their ownership of the vehicle. markets, including new markets and segments. The number “88” in the plan refers to two key goals to achieve by the end of fiscal 2016: achieving global market share of 8% and increasing corporate operating profit to a Six Strategies of Nissan Power 88 sustainable 8% margin as early as possible. Pillar 1: Strengthening Brand Power Pillar 5: Business Expansion Nissan Power 88 reflects a clear, global vision through fiscal 2016: To strengthen Nissan’s brand power, the company will expand The fifth pillar of the plan relates to the company’s strategies its strengths in engineering and production to the sales, for business expansion. In 1999, Nissan’s global market share n By the time Nissan’s extended new product plan is completed, the marketing and customer value creation fields. was 4.6%. In 2011, Nissan achieved a record 6.4%. For fiscal company’s global portfolio will have 66 vehicles and will cover 92% of all 2016, Nissan is targeting 8%. Pillar 2: Enhancing Sales Power markets and segments. Pillar 6: Cost Leadership Sales power in the mid-term plan refers to fully grasping the n The emphasis on sustainable mobility will continue, as the company’s needs of customers in each market and drastically raising sales Growth is not possible in any market without high cost zero-emission and PURE DRIVE strategies move forward with expanded volume and market share. To achieve this, the company will competitiveness. The sixth pillar of the plan is cost leadership. lineups of electric vehicles (EVs) and fuel-efficient vehicles. Cumulative expand its number of sales outlets from the present 6,000 to By further increasing unit production, the company will achieve 7,500 by fiscal 2016. greater cost efficiencies. Nissan will examine not just EV sales for the Renault-Nissan Alliance will reach 1.5 million units. development and component purchase costs but also internal n “Mobility for all” will expand with dedicated new cars and light Pillar 3: Enhancing Quality costs and distribution fees, driving total costs down by 5% commercial vehicles (LCVs) developed for entry-level segments and annually. These total manufacturing costs include everything Nissan aims to make steady progress in improving product from production and parts procurement to the logistics costs of emerging markets. quality. During the Nissan Power 88 period, the aim is to raise delivery to distribution and service centers. Nissan into the top group of global automakers in product n Nissan will introduce more than 90 new, advanced technologies, quality and to elevate Infiniti to leadership status among peer averaging 15 per year. luxury products by fiscal 2016. Pillar 4: Optimizing Nissan’s Zero-Emission Leadership Nissan will take the lead as the all-time volume leader in dedicated EV sales. The Renault-Nissan Alliance is bringing seven more all-electric models to follow the successful launch of Nissan LEAF. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 88 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Governance & Internal Control It is essential for Nissan to enhance its corporate governance policies as it fulfills its corporate social responsibilities. We strive to maintain a high level of management transparency by disclosing to stakeholders our business goals and guidelines that clearly indicate management responsibility and by sharing information on our progress toward these goals as promptly as possible. As a company we will work to continue earning the trust of our stakeholders. Our Priorities Internal Control Systems and Compliance p. 89 Risk Management p. 92 Information Security p. 103 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 89 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Approach to Corporate Governance commitments. In line with this principle, and in accordance with Japan’s & Internal Control Companies Act and its related regulations, the Board of Directors has decided on the Internal Control Systems to pursue these goals and on its own basic Nissan’s approach to corporate governance is founded on three cornerstones: policy. The board continually monitors the implementation status of these compliance built on the high ethical standards of all employees, efforts to systems and the policy, making adjustments and improvements as necessary. bolster information security and an effective and appropriate risk One board member has also been assigned to oversee the Internal Control management system. Our offices and factories around the world work Systems as a whole. together to support educational activities, ensuring that all employees are Nissan has adopted a system under which the Board of Statutory properly trained and understand the issues involved. Auditors oversees the Board of Directors. The Statutory Auditors attend board and other key meetings, and also carry out interviews with board members to audit their activities. The Statutory Auditors regularly receive reports on the Fiscal 2012 Performance results of inspections and plans for future audits from independent accounting auditors, as well as exchange information to confirm these reports. n Global implementation of information security training, including a selfThe Statutory Auditors also receive regular reports from the Global Internal evaluation program at the Global Headquarters Audit Office, making use of this information for their own audits. n Update of the statement on security-related export controls n Establishment of Global Anti-bribery Policy and implementation of Nissan’s Internal Governance System employee training Shareholders appointment/dismissal appointment/dismissal appointment/dismissal Internal Control Committee Future Measures audit Board of Statutory Auditors Board of Directors (incl. outside statutory auditors) Compliance Committee (incl. outside directors) n Strengthening of corporate governance & internal control on a global basis cooperation Information Security Committee report Executive Committee Global Internal Audit Office Risk Management Function audit Operations Committee Crisis Management Committee Internal Control Systems and Compliance direction/ report supervision/ Independent Auditors approval Compliance built on the high ethical standards of all employees is report/proposal integral to promoting CSR. To foster compliance awareness throughout the company, Nissan has established specialized Management Committees training/education/implementation departments and placed officers in charge of promoting compliance Each Function Group Companies policy in each region where it operates. Internal Control Systems Nissan places high value on transparency, both internally and externally, in its corporate management. We focus consistently on the implementation of efficient management for the purpose of achieving clear and quantifiable NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 90 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Legal Compliance Framework Security-Related Export Controls Nissan’s CSR approach is founded on compliance with a strong sense of Nissan thoroughly complies with the laws and regulations of Japan and the ethics held by each and every employee. We produced the Nissan Global other countries where it does business, giving full consideration to the page_91 Code of Conduct* in 2001 outlining a set of guidelines for employees to put requirements of the international community. Part of this effort includes the * Click here for more into practice, and it is being applied at all Nissan Group companies worldwide. company’s initiatives aimed at contributing to global peace and security. information on the Nissan We also produced guidance for directors and corporate officers Nissan has established export control rules in line with Japanese and other Global Code of Conduct. regarding compliance, and we hold regular seminars and educational countries’ laws and regulations to prevent the proliferation of weapons of activities to ensure strict adherence to the rules. Under the oversight of our mass destruction, conventional weapons and any goods or technologies used Global Compliance Committee, we have established three regional for their development. In line with these rules, Nissan implements export compliance committees to form a system for preventing illegal and unethical controls under an independent system headed by the company’s chief behavior worldwide. To enhance legal and ethical compliance, we are working operating officer. with all regions and bases of operation to ensure full awareness of Specifically, the Export Control function sets the process of monitoring compliance issues and engage in prevention of illegal activities. Nissan deals and validating the exports which is strictly applied in operations. In order to severely with any employee who violates or infringes upon the Global Code fully implement and improve the level of internal management, the Export of Conduct or the laws. Control function and related business functions at Nissan conduct employee training on export control. Affiliated companies also strictly adhere to the FY2013 Global Compliance Committee Organization same export control rules, thereby enhancing the entire Nissan Group’s level NML Board of Directors Operations Committee of compliance. Global Compliance Committee Global Export Control Policy Framework Global Compliance Officer Chief Operating Officer Export Control Global Secretariat Japan, Asia Pacific Americas Africa, Middle East, India, Europe Americas, AMIE, Asia Pacific Management Committee Management Committee Management Committee Japan, Asia Pacific Americas Africa, Middle East, India, Europe Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Functions Regions A compliance committee has been established in each region Marketing and sales, R&D, Japan/Asia Pacific, Americas, Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Compliance Committee under the governance of the global compliance officer. supply chain management, IT, production, etc. Africa/Middle East/India/Europe Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. The committees are responsible for discovering compliance Affiliated Companies Compliance Committee violations at an early stage through internal auditing or reports, Divisional Compliance Committee for solving problems, and for maintaining and improving internal Dealers Compliance Committee awareness of the Code of Conduct. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 91 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Promoting Thoroughgoing Compliance We have established a Global Code of Conduct and have identified Global Code of Conduct for Nissan Group sections and officers at each of our operations responsible for promoting compliance measures. Principle To ensure full understanding of the code, employees in Japan take an The following standards apply to all employees in Nissan Group website e-learning or video training course based on the Japanese version of the companies (collectively herein referred to as “Nissan” or “Company”). Each Click here for more Nissan Code of Conduct—“Our Promises,” revised most recently in October member of the Company is charged with responsibility to uphold and information on the Global 2010—after which they sign an agreement to abide by it. In this way we seek extend this code of conduct. Code of Conduct. to ensure across-the-board understanding, making all our people more deeply aware of compliance issues. A number of education programs to promote Global Code of Conduct compliance are held regularly for employees in North America, and a set of 1 Comply with All Laws and Rules 6 Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity universal guidelines has been drawn up for each country in Europe. We are Nissan employees will abide by all laws of the country, and We value and respect the diversity of our employees, also carrying out compliance-related training in other regions based on all regulations of the Company, in which they work. suppliers, customers and communities. Discrimination or Avoid Conflict of Interest harassment, in any form or degree, will not be tolerated. guidelines that take into account conditions in each country. Moreover, all 2 The best interests of Nissan are expected to be 7 Be Environmentally Responsible group-affiliated companies have introduced their own codes based on the foremost in the minds of employees. It is prohibited to Nissan employees shall strive, within the business Nissan Code of Conduct. behave, act or use information in a way conflicting with objectives of Nissan, to consider environmental protection Additionally, we have created sets of internal regulations globally Company interests. when developing products and services, to promote 3 Preserve Company Assets recycling and to conserve materials and energy. page_114–117 covering the prevention of insider trading, personal information management, Nissan employees are personally accountable for 8 Be Active; Report Violations * Click here for more information security, prevention of bribery and corruption* and use of social preserving and safeguarding Company assets. Nissan employees are expected to carry out their work in information on our global media. With these regulations in place, Nissan is working to prevent Unauthorized use or diversion of Company assets, accordance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who anti-bribery policy. including funds, information and intellectual property, suspect that a violation of the Code of Conduct has compliance infractions. is prohibited. occurred are obligated to report it as soon as possible, and 4 Be Impartial and Fair such employees shall be protected from retaliation. Nissan employees must maintain impartial and fair relationships with business partners, including dealers, parts suppliers and other third parties. 5 Be Transparent and Accountable Nissan employees shall make fair, transparent, timely and appropriate disclosure of the Company’s business activities to our stakeholders, including stockholders, customers, other employees and local communities. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 92 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Our Stance Against Discrimination and Harassment Risk Management Item 6 of Nissan’s Global Code of Conduct, “Value Diversity and Provide Equal Opportunity,” is our requirement to accept, value and respect the diversity to At Nissan, we define risk as anything that might prevent us from be found among our employees, business partners, customers and achieving our business goals. By detecting risk as early as communities where we do business, and to reject discrimination and possible, examining it, planning the necessary measures to harassment in all their forms, no matter how minor they may be. Nissan address it and implementing those measures, we work to minimize executives and employees must respect the human rights of others, and may the materialization of risk and the impact of damage caused should not discriminate against or harass others based on race, nationality, gender, it arise. religion, physical capability, age, place of origin or other reason; nor may they allow such a situation to go unchecked if discovered. We also work to ensure Principles for and Approach to Corporate Risk Management that all employees, both male and female, can work in an environment free Risk management must be a real-world activity closely linked at all times with from sexual and other forms of harassment. concrete measures. Based on its Global Risk Management Policy, Nissan carries out activities on a comprehensive, groupwide basis. Internal Reporting System for Corporate Soundness In order to respond swiftly to changes in its business environment, To promote thorough understanding of compliance among all employees Nissan has set up a department in charge of risk management that carries out worldwide and to facilitate sound business practices, Nissan employs a variety annual interviews of corporate officers, carefully investigating various potential of internal reporting mechanisms. These allow employees to submit opinions, risks and revising the company’s “risk map” in line with impact, frequency and questions or requests to the company, thereby improving workplaces and control level. operations as well as fostering a compliance-oriented corporate culture. In The Executive Committee makes decisions on risk issues that must be Japan our Easy Voice System, which offers full protection to any persons handled at the corporate level and designates “risk owners” to manage the offering information in accordance with Japan’s Whistleblower Protection Act risks. Under the leadership of these owners, the company designs appropriate of April 2006, has become an integral part of operations in all Nissan Group countermeasures. Finally, the board member in charge of internal controls companies in the country. (currently the chief operating officer) regularly reports to the Board of Directors on progress being made. Independent Internal Audits With respect to individual business risks, each division is responsible Nissan has established a global internal audit unit, an independent for taking the preventive measures necessary to minimize the frequency of department to handle internal auditing tasks. Under the control of the chief risk issues and their impact when they do arise as part of its ordinary internal audit officer, audit teams set up in each region carry out efficient, business activities. The divisions also prepare emergency measures to put in effective auditing of Nissan’s activities on a groupwide and global basis. place when risk factors do materialize. Nissan Group companies in Japan and overseas are strengthening communication in order to share basic processes and tools for risk management, as well as related information, throughout the group. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 93 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control In addition, we have created an area on our intranet called Nissan has a liquidity risk management policy that is intended to ensure “Companywide Risk Management.” Information relating to risk management adequate liquidity for the business while at the same time ensuring mitigation is also distributed to subsidiaries in Japan, North America, Europe and of liquidity risks such as unmanageable bunched maturities of debt. In the other overseas regions, and to important affiliated companies. policy, Minimum Required Liquidity is defined, objectively considering several Nissan is currently engaged in meeting the goals of the Nissan Power factors including debt maturity, upcoming mandatory payments (such as 88 mid-term business plan.* To achieve the ambitious goals of raising both dividends, investments and taxes) and peak operating cash needs. We also global market share and operating profit margins, we need to fully utilize benchmark our liquidity targets with other major Japanese corporations and our existing production capacity in countries around the world so that new global auto companies to ensure we are reasonable in our assumptions. spending can be curtailed, and we also need a highly efficient production page_87 setup so production can be restored quickly in case a plant is forced to 2. Financial Market * Click here for more shut down due to unforeseen circumstances. Nissan is exposed to various financial-market-related risks, such as foreign information on Nissan Power 88. To support the mid-term business plan from a risk-management exchange, interest rates and commodity prices. It is the general policy of perspective, our efforts will also be expanded worldwide and throughout Nissan not to use derivative products as a primary tool to manage foreign the supply chain by incorporating the important lessons learned from the exchange and commodity price risks as it does not provide a permanent March 2011 earthquake and tsunami in east Japan and the 2011 flooding solution to mitigate these risks. In some cases, Nissan does hedge select in Thailand. currencies and commodity price risks. Nissan is taking the following measures to minimize financial market risks. The Current State of Nissan’s Risk Management l Foreign exchange Below we present some of our efforts to address Nissan’s corporate risks. As a company engaged in export activities, Nissan is faced with various foreign currency exposures that result from the currency of input cost being 1 Risks Related to Financial Market different from the currency of sale to customers. In order to minimize foreign 1) Automotive exchange risk on a more permanent basis, Nissan is working to reduce 1. Liquidity foreign currency exposure by such measures as shifting production to the An automotive business must have adequate liquidity to provide for the countries where vehicles are sold and procurement of raw materials and parts working capital needs of day-to-day normal operations, capital investment in foreign currencies. In the short term, Nissan may hedge risks in foreign needs for future expansion and repayment of maturing debt. Liquidity can be exchange volatility within a certain range by using derivative products in secured through internal cash and cash equivalents, internal cash flow accordance with the internal policies and procedures for risk management generation and external borrowings. and operational rules regarding derivative transactions. As of the end of fiscal year 2012 (March 31, 2013), Nissan’s automotive l Interest rates business had ¥771 billion of cash and cash equivalents (compared with ¥781 The interest rate risk management policy is based on two principles: longbillion as of March 31, 2012). In addition to cash, Nissan had approximately term investments and the permanent portion of working capital are financed ¥480 billion of committed lines available for drawing as of March 31, 2013. at fixed interest rates while the non-permanent portion of working capital and As for external borrowings, Nissan raises financing through several liquidity reserves are built at floating rates. sources including bond issuance in capital markets, longand short-term l Commodity prices loans from banks, commercial paper issuance and committed credit lines Nissan purchases raw materials in the form of parts provided by the suppliers, from banks. as well as direct purchase. Nissan is exposed to the price fluctuation risks of NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 94 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control raw materials, no matter whether purchased directly or indirectly. 4. Pensions For precious metals, which are used in catalysts, Nissan is making Nissan has defined benefit pension plans mainly in Japan, the United States continuous efforts to reduce its usage by technological innovation in order to and the United Kingdom. The funding policy for pension plans is to make minimize commodity price risk. In the short term, Nissan manages commodity periodic contributions as required by applicable regulations. Benefit price volatility exposure through the use of fixed-rate purchase contracts in obligations and pension costs are calculated using many different drivers, which commodity prices are fixed for a period of time; Nissan may also hedge such as the discount rate and rate of salary/wage increase. risks in commodity price volatility within a certain range by the use of Plan assets are exposed to financial market risks as they are invested in derivative products in accordance with the internal policies and procedures for various types of financial assets including bonds and stocks. When the fair risk management and operational rules regarding derivative transactions. value of these assets declines, the amount of the unfunded portion of pension l Marketable securities plans increases, which could materially increase required cash pension The Company may hold marketable securities for certain reasons including contributions and pension expenses. strategic holding, relationship management and cash management. There are As countermeasures to manage such risks, the investment policy of risks of price fluctuation for these securities. Therefore, price fluctuations in these pension plans is based upon the liability profile of the plans, long-term the stock and bond markets could adversely affect the company’s business investment views and benchmark information regarding asset allocation of performance and financial position. The Company defines the authority for other global corporations’ pension plans. decision concerning such transactions within the internal policies and In addition, Nissan holds Global Pension Committee meetings on a procedures for risk management. The company also takes measures for periodic basis to review investment performance, manager performance these risks including mandatory periodical reporting with fair value of such and asset allocations and to discuss other issues related to pension assets financial transactions. and liabilities. 3. Counterparties 2) Sales Finance The Group does business with a variety of local counterparties including 1. Liquidity suppliers, sales companies and financial institutions in different regions Nissan operates captive sales finance companies in Japan, the United States, around the world. Should unprecedented conditions such as bankruptcies be Canada, Mexico, China, Australia and Thailand. In these countries, banks and triggered by a global economic crisis, the resulting interruption to business other financial institutions also provide financing solutions to Nissan’s operations from production interruption and/or troubles on any other customers and dealers. production activity at the procurement side, and any significant default by a Additionally, in Europe and other regions, RCI Banque and several other counterparty at the sales side or financial institutions, would adversely affect banks/financial institutions are providing financing to Nissan’s customers and the Group’s financial position and business performance. dealers. The Group assesses its own counterparty credit risks by conducting We monitor the liquidity of sales finance companies on an ongoing basis comprehensive ongoing reviews of suppliers’, sales companies’ and financial to ensure we have adequate liquidity to meet maturing debt and continue institutions’ financial condition based on their latest available financial operations. As a policy, we target to match maturity of liabilities with maturity information. Based on such assessment, the Group is prepared to take of assets wherever possible. In some of the countries where we operate, necessary actions for risk avoidance or mitigation in a prompt manner. long-term capital markets are not developed and thus it is not always possible to be perfectly match-funded. Match-funding policy allows us to meet maturing debt obligations even in an environment in which we cannot raise additional debt due to the state of capital markets. In addition to match-funding, we manage liquidity risk in sales financing NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 95 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control through several measures including keeping adequate liquidity in the form of 2. Interest Rate Risk Management cash and unutilized committed lines, unencumbered assets (mainly vehicle The sales financing business is exposed to interest rate risks. Interest rate risk loans and leases), liquidity support from auto operations to the extent we have is defined as the potential variance in the earnings of an entity or the fair value excess cash in auto operations, diversified funding sources and geographical of the portfolio that would result from a fluctuation in the general level of diversification of capital market access. market interest rates where funds with differing fixed-rate periods or differing As of March 31, 2013, sales finance companies’ liquidity (cash and terms are financed and invested. unutilized committed lines) was approximately ¥538 billion. Additionally, we Nissan measures the risks by using the sensitivity analysis with various have a healthy mix of secured (30.8%) and unsecured and other (69.2%) interest rate scenarios and determines the risk tolerance level. Nissan funding sources, which ensure a stronger balance sheet and incremental controls the interest rate maturities of both assets and liabilities to maintain liquidity through utilization of unencumbered assets. the risks within an acceptable tolerance level. The pie chart below describes our diversified funding sources in sales The sensitivity analysis mentioned above uses statistical models, such as finance business. the Monte Carlo Simulation Method. However, the actual fluctuation of market During fiscal year 2012, we were able to raise new funding through interest rates and its impact may deviate significantly from the assumptions bank loans, asset-backed securities, asset-backed commercial paper, used in the models. Nissan enters into interest rate derivative financial commercial paper and bonds reflecting our diversified access to instruments to maintain the potential variability of interest rates at the desired financing instruments. level of risk exposure. The main objective of these transactions is to mitigate the risks and not to pursue speculative profit maximization. Sales Finance Business Funding Sources (As of March 2013) 3. Credit Risks Nissan is exposed to the risks of failure to recover the full value of financial Equity Group Finance (Inter-Company) receivables for its Auto credit and Lease business with retail customers and 9.0% 23.1% for its Dealer finance business, due to changes in the economic situation and credit quality of customers. Nissan manages the credit risks closely by ABS off B/S Commercial Paper establishing an effective screening and collection system and structure. Credit 3.3% 2.3% applicants are all subject to credit assessments of their creditworthiness ABS on B/S under a detailed scoring system. Based on the information directly obtained S/T Loan 27.5% 3.0% from applicants and from credit bureaus, loan authorization is made in a comprehensive manner by considering the following points: applicant’s credit Bonds L/T Loan history; applicant’s capacity to pay, which is estimated by debt ratio, payment 9.1% 22.7% to income ratio and disposable income; applicant’s stability; and loan conditions including the loan collateral, loan advance and payment terms. In addition to carrying out this screening process, whenever required, Nissan takes into account qualitative information by conducting field visits to customers or referring to past business records with Nissan in accordance with characteristics of regional business practices and risks. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 96 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Dealer finance for inventory vehicles is authorized on the basis of an 2 Risks Related to Business Strategies and Maintenance internal rating system that takes into account the financial position of of Competitiveness dealers, and if necessary, personal guarantees and/or mortgage collateral 1) Product Strategy are taken in pledge in addition to pledges of inventory vehicle collateral. To secure our profitability and sustainable growth based on our future product These scoring models are regularly reviewed and revised to keep them lineup plan, in our product strategy developing process, we monitor the impact adequate in actual practice. of various risk scenarios, such as global market changes and demand In some regions and products, Nissan also offers different pricing deteriorations, on our future profitability based on our plan. depending on the applicant’s credit score to compensate for the risks. Risk Scenario Examples: As a matter of accounting policy, Nissan maintains an allowance for 1. Drastic decline of total global demand, using past examples as reference doubtful accounts and credit losses adequately to cover probable losses. 2. A demand shift between vehicle segments drastically faster than our Nissan makes best efforts to recover the actual losses from bad debt mid-term planning assumptions accounts as quickly as possible by taking necessary actions, including flexible 3. A demand shift from mature markets to emerging markets drastically and effective organization change for collection and utilization of third-party faster than our mid-term planning assumptions collection services. We periodically monitor the impact of these scenarios to secure our future profitability and sustainable growth, and also update our future lineup 4. Residual Value Risks plan periodically based on the results. To improve the robustness of our Vehicles on operating leases and some balloon-type credits, where Nissan is product lineup against these risks, our main approach is to take the following the lessor, are guaranteed end-of-term residual value by Nissan. Nissan is countermeasures when planning our product strategy. therefore exposed to the risk that the sale value of the vehicle could fall below n Expand availability of individual products across markets to mitigate the risk its contractual residual value when the financed vehicle is returned and sold in of single market demand fluctuations the used car market at the end of the contract term. n Increase volume and efficiency per product through a consolidation and To mitigate the risks mentioned above, Nissan objectively sets rationalization of the portfolio to lower the breakeven point and thereby contractual residual value by using the future end-of-term market value reduce the profit risk of global total industry volume (TIV) declines estimation by third parties such as the Automotive Lease Guide in North n Prepare a more balanced product portfolio meeting needs in a America, and the estimation from statistical analysis of historical data on the broader range of markets and segments reducing reliance on specific used car market in Japan. To support used car market value Nissan takes large markets several strategic initiatives, including control of sales incentives for new car sales promotion, fleet sales volume control and introduction of a certified 2) Quality of Products and Services pre-owned program. As a matter of accounting policy, Nissan evaluates the Nissan is making a companywide effort toward “Enhancing Quality,” one of the recoverability of carrying values of its vehicles for impairment on an ongoing six areas of focus defined by Nissan Power 88, our mid-term business plan basis. If impaired, Nissan recognizes allowance for potential residual value through fiscal 2016. Under this plan, actions are being carried out with losses in a timely and adequate manner. numerical targets for the following areas. n Product quality: Quality of our products based on the customer’s actual experiences as an owner of the vehicle n Perceived quality and attractiveness: Customers’ impressions of a vehicle’s quality when they look at and touch it in a dealer’s showroom NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 97 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control For example, the target for “product quality” is to attain the top level in 3) Environment, Climate Change the Most Influential Indicators (MIIs) in each region. In order to achieve the The automotive industry is affected globally by various regulations related to target, internal indicators for each model correlating with the MIIs have been the environment and safety, such as exhaust emissions, CO2/fuel efficiency, established. Progress of all quality improvement activities is monitored on an noise, chemical substances and recycling, and these regulations are getting ongoing basis with those internal indicators. more stringent year by year. To comply with these regulations and to meet With respect to new model projects, in order to achieve quality targets, society’s expectations, Nissan formulates an environmental strategy based on milestone meetings are held for processes from design, production materiality assessments of management risk factors, analyzing the Company’s preparation and production, at which key check points are confirmed, such as potential issues and opportunities and identifying issues that are crucial for achievement of quality targets, prevention of recurring problems, and adoption both Nissan and its stakeholders. of measures for potential risks related to new technology and mechanisms In this context, we believe that one effective solution from a long-term and design changes. Commercial production can be started after confirmation perspective will be the widespread use of zero-emission vehicles. Nissan at the Start of Production (SOP) Judgment Meeting, which confirms all issues started sales of Nissan LEAF, the world’s first affordable, mass-produced EV, are solved and quality targets can be achieved. The final decision that the in 2010. The Renault-Nissan Alliance, moreover, has a goal of becoming a model can be sold is made at the Delivery Judgment Meeting after leader in zero-emission vehicles and is considering partnering with national confirmation of the quality of commercial production and preparedness for and local governments to promote zero-emission mobility and to help build a service/maintenance. supporting infrastructure. As described above, Nissan is implementing thorough quality checks Additionally, Nissan will help to reduce CO2 emissions by continuously before new model launches. Nissan is advancing quality improvement developing technologies to improve fuel efficiency in internal combustion activities after launch as well by constantly gathering quality information from engines and bringing them widely into the market. In particular, we will markets and promptly deploying countermeasures if problems arise. In case promote highly fuel-efficient, low CO2 emitting vehicles named PURE DRIVE, safety or compliance issues do occur, necessary actions such as recalls are equipped with such technologies as our hybrid system, fuel efficient direct implemented with close cooperation with the marketing side based on a injection engine and continuously variable transmission (CVT). management decision reached by an independent process. Incidents are Stricter controls on the environmental impact of substances are being thoroughly investigated and analyzed, and the lessons are applied to existing implemented in countries around the world. In accordance with a globally or upcoming models to prevent a recurrence. uniform policy on reducing the use of environment-impacting substances, In addition to the above described activities, such as quality assurance Nissan is strengthening the management of such substances, adhering to a for new model projects and quality improvement activities on a daily basis, the well-planned schedule for their reduction and advancing the use of alternative “Quality Risk Management” framework has been newly developed from fiscal substances. We voluntarily enforce stricter standards than those required by 2009. While quality-related risks have hitherto been assessed and dealt with the domestic laws of the countries where we operate in restricting the use of for new models, the new framework represents a higher-level system to substances scientifically recognized as being hazardous or carrying high ensure successful quality management for both on-going and future projects. hazard risks, as well as those that advisory NGOs have pointed out as being It involves an objective evaluation of whether risk exists and the level of such dangerous. Based on this policy, we have developed internal engineering risk for the Company and the assignment of responsible persons based on standards restricting the use of designated substances. The standards the level for follow-up activities. These processes are implemented by the identify the chemicals whose use is either prohibited or controlled, and they Quality Risk Management Committee, chaired by an executive tasked with are applied in selecting the materials, parts and articles for Nissan vehicles heading this activity, twice a year. from the stage of initial development. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 98 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Demand for mineral resources and fossil fuels has steadily increased in basis, the Global Environment Management Committee (G-EMC) chaired by response to the economic growth of emerging countries. In addition to the COO makes decisions on general direction and proposals to the Executive promoting reduced use of virgin natural resources through resource-saving Committee. The Environmental Planning Department within the Corporate and resource-recycling measures, it is becoming important to procure natural Planning and Business Development Division makes decisions on activity resources that have a lower impact on the Earth’s ecosystems, not only from targets for each department and region and conducts effective follow up of the standpoint that these resources are limited but also considering the the progress based on “plan, do, check, act” (PDCA) management. wide-ranging effects that resource extraction has on ecosystems. Nissan has raised to 25% the target for the use of recycled material in new vehicles by 2016. To achieve this, we will promote design centered on the vehicle Our Framework for Global Environment Management lifecycle, reduce the use of scarce resources, reduce waste and promote Stakeholders expanded use of recycled materials. Communication The issue of water resources is ever more serious with the retreat of Major Issues glaciers and rainfall fluctuation due to climate change, in addition to Reducing CO2 Emissions/ increasing water use due to the growing world population and economic Shifting to Renewable Energies development. Nissan, which uses water resources in its production process, Products Manufacturing Marketing Business Air, Water, Soil, Biodiversity & & & deeply recognizes the importance of this issue and continuously works to Technology Logistics Sales Partners preserve water resources at plants around the world, such as by reducing Resource Recycling consumption and recycling water discharged in the production process. The purchasing divisions of Nissan and Renault carry out supply-chain Nissan Global Environment Management management in a manner consistent with The Renault-Nissan Purchasing Way, a booklet outlining policies for dealing with suppliers, and the RenaultSincere Eco-Innovator Nissan CSR Guidelines for Suppliers. With respect to environmental issues, we have set standards for the efforts of our automobile parts and material suppliers in the form of the Nissan Green Purchasing Guidelines. In fiscal Nissan’s Global Environment Management Organization 2012 we added a number of environment-related criteria in selecting our CEO Global, corporate focuses Functional, regional focuses Customers suppliers to coordinate our efforts to reduce environmental impact; we now Executive Committee ask suppliers to furnish data regarding their CO2 emission levels and energy Plan PDCA use and also consider their management of environment-impacting substances, recycling of resources and water-conservation efforts. COO Global Employees Business partners Environmental Global Act Do PDCA Thus, Nissan is working to achieve autonomous guidelines and targets Environment Planning Advisory Meetings, Department as part of its corporate social responsibility as well as to comply with laws and Management etc. Committee regulations. In order to promote this environmental management on a global PDCA Shareholders and Communities and Check investors future generations NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 99 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 4) Compliance and Reputation Organization for Disaster Recovery (Earthquake) Nissan produced the Nissan Global Code of Conduct for all employees of the Nissan Group worldwide. To ensure thorough understanding of the code, < Global Disaster Headquarters > Information flow training and education programs such as e-learning are improved and our Chief < First Response Team > Decision maker for important issues compliance with laws and ethical standards is monitored by the Global • EXAF (Control Center) Decision/Instruction Compliance Committee. Nissan has also adopted an internal whistle-blowing • HR Secretariat • COM & CSR system (Easy Voice System). This allows any employees to submit opinions, • MFG Report • PURCH questions, requests or suspected compliance issues directly to Nissan’s • SCM management. • Security • HQ Facility Management Additionally, we have created sets of internal regulations globally • M&S Deputy Chief Deputy Chief Responsible for supportive action Responsible for recovery action covering the prevention of insider trading, personal information management, Decision/Instruction Decision/Instruction information security and prevention of bribery and corruption. Nissan makes Report Report efforts to prevent compliance infractions and reputation risk to the company by continuous implementation of various education and training programs. Communications & CSR Production Control External & Government Affairs Production Engineering 3 Business Continuity Human Resources Manufacturing HR 1) Natural Disaster Measures Asset Management Purchasing In case of an earthquake measuring 5-upper or higher on the Japanese seismic intensity scale or other natural disasters causing heavy damage Finance Information System affecting Nissan’s business activities, a First Response Team (organized by Supply Chain Management R&D Administration the main units of the Global Disaster Headquarters) will gather information Market & Sales and decide actions to be taken based on the information. If necessary, the Parts Logistics Global Disaster Headquarters and Regional Disaster Headquarters will be set up to gather information about employees’ safety and the damage situation of Affiliated Companies Administration facilities and to work for business continuity. At the same time, we are working with our suppliers to develop a Decision/Instruction Decision/Instruction Report damage situation Report damage situation Business Continuity Plan (BCP). This includes assessment of the priority of work by each and every function and development of countermeasures to < Regional Disaster Headquarters > Chief continue priority work. The BCP will be reviewed annually in the process of the PDCA cycle. Deputy Chief Secretariat EXAF HR MFG NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 100 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Policy and Principles in Case of Earthquake: Simulation training continued in fiscal 2012 in an effort to enhance our 1. The first priority is human life (utilization of employee safety response to earthquake damage. Based on a scenario of a consolidated Tokai, confirmation system) Tonankai and Nankai earthquake, we confirmed our preparedness for issues 2. Prevention of secondary disaster (in-house firefighting organization, that came to light during drills held the preceding fiscal year, such as stockpiling, provision of disaster information) responses to wide-area disruptions to our logistics network and fuel 3. Speedy disaster recovery and business continuity (measures for shortages. During the fiscal year, we also worked to enhance responsiveness hardware, improvement of contingency plan and development of BCP) to earthquake disasters through advance risk estimates carried out by each of 4. Contribution to local society (cooperation/mutual aid with neighboring the Company's divisions. communities, companies, local and central governments) In the face of our expanding global operations and the need to enhance The Global Disaster Headquarters and Regional Disaster Headquarters the natural disaster response of our overseas facilities, we are undertaking conduct simulation training assuming a large earthquake to prepare for a horizontal development of best practices at each facility and inviting overseas catastrophe. The drills test the effectiveness of this organization and personnel to observe the simulation training held in Japan. In addition, we contingency plan and clarify the issues to be improved. The contingency plan conducted communication training (four times during fiscal 2012) among our is reviewed based on the feedback. overseas facilities based on a scenario of a major disaster in various regions In the aftermath of the March 11, 2011, disaster, our periodic simulation of the world. training helped to ensure the smooth launch of our Global Disaster Utilizing the PDCA cycle, disaster measures will be advanced to Headquarters and Regional Disaster Headquarters on the initiative of the First address additional issues raised during training and in response to recent Response Team. This also helped to complete confirmation of employees’ changes in the government’s anticipated seismic scale announcements. The safety and checks on the extent of the damage. Global Headquarters building, where the Disaster Headquarters has been Additionally, based on the policy of contribution to local society, we set up (built in August 2009), has an earthquake-resistant structure using reacted rapidly to provide rest space to people who could not return home on vibration-controlling brace dampers. Safety is assured even in the case of a March 11 and to support damaged areas. maximum-level earthquake at the site. Inspections after the March 2011 At the stage of business recovery, the Disaster Headquarters and the earthquake confirmed that the building had no problems whatsoever with its project teams of each function continuously shared up-to-date information safety and functions. and were addressing the issues for production and business recovery with companywide cooperation. It was effective for the quick recovery of our total 2) Pandemic supply chain, including parts supply, production, logistics, sales and services. In response to the outbreak of H1N1 type influenza in April 2009, Nissan The response to the March 2011 disaster was reviewed during fiscal established a global policy for infection prevention. Each region has organized 2011 to identify issues that came to light on a function-by-function basis and a response team and has promoted concrete countermeasures based on the to consider countermeasures. In March 2012, simulation training was policy. Infection status can be monitored globally thanks to firmly developed conducted based on a new scenario incorporating the review findings, and the reporting lines between the global response team and each regional team. new measures were verified. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 101 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan has promoted countermeasures based on three basic principles and undertaking activities to confirm and help improve supply capacity in stated in the global policy, which are: order to secure global market expansion and growth. Specifically, in addition 1. First priority on employees’ health and lives to existing organizations to manage supplier risk in North America, Europe 2. Prevention of the spread of infection and Japan, new bodies are being created in Thailand, China and India to 3. Continuity of business operation reinforce our global efforts to prevent risks associated with the supplies of As specific actions, Nissan established the “guidelines for employees’ parts. action” which stipulated actions to be taken by employees, Sections and Companies, and kept employees informed. 3 elements of Purchased parts/ production HR/Workforce Facilities Nissan also developed a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) for each Risk factor Raw materials business section, with several triggers to invoke the BCP depending on Natural disasters l Reinforcement of office buildings (completed) l Assessment of earthquake preparedness of major l Reinforcement of buildings & machinery (earthquakes) l Development of earthquake response manual, suppliers located in high quake-risk areas (FY08) (continued) the infection ratio, to maintain business continuity even under a high implementation of evacuation drills (once/year) l Planning to adopt damage reporting system on web l Regular audits of each business facility l Conducting of disaster prevention drills (once/year base (FY10) l Review of facility recovery manual (FY11) infection situation. or more) l Confirmation of BCPs to be implemented at time of disaster by suppliers in high quake-risk areas Nissan will keep prepared for contingencies like avian flu through its (FY11) PDCA cycle, such as by updating response team members and the BCP, l BCP for parts exports to continue production at overseas plants (FY12) carrying out educational activities for infection prevention and stockpiling Fire l Risk assessment based on F-PES (Fire Prevention l Same as on the left l Same as on the left sanitary and medical goods. Evaluation System) (once/year) l Revision of equipment standard based on the assessment result Workplace injury l Risk assessment based on SES (Safety Evaluation l Same as on the left l Same as on the left 3) Countermeasures for Production Continuity Risk System) (once/year) l Assessment for health & safety management Nissan’s production division has dealt with various risks related to the three system (once/year) elements of production, as listed in the chart at right. Particularly for natural Pandemic l Development of flu response manual (FY09) l Requested suppliers to develop response manual coordinated with Nissan disasters, we have identified the measures needed to restart production within our established goal of two weeks following a large-scale disaster. We have Demand fluctuation l Backup from other Nissan plants (as needed) Regular check of demand projection and supply l Installation of flexible manufacturing system worked over the years on continuous prevention countermeasures to physical l Backup from other companies (as needed) capacity; implementation of measures (completed) l Employment of short-term employees (as needed) l Regular check of demand projection and production infrastructure (quakeproofing and reinforcement of buildings and other capacity; implementation of measures l Development of complementary production system facilities), maintained an operations recovery manual to shorten recovery time for main powertrains and regularly executed BCP simulation drills. We are also strengthening the Machinery breakdown l Share past incident experiences and reflect them in preventive maintenance resilience of our global production network by establishing a BCP for parts l Reflect them in equipment standards exports to enable continued operations at our overseas plants. Electric power shortage l Thoroughgoing energy conservation efforts l Flexibility in plant operations and working hours in In addition to such countermeasures to natural disasters, it is absolutely response to requests from the government or power companies important to manage risks associated with parts procured from Leading Expansion of LCCl Assessment of monozukuri ability before supplier Competitive Countries (LCCs) in order to expand markets globally. To deal manufactured parts sourcing and support for improvement activities after sourcing with such risk, Nissan has been conducting risk assessment before making l Quality assessment at production preparation phase sourcing decisions, providing support for improvement activities after l Quality check at mass production phase (action “Gate 1-3”) sourcing, implementing quality checks at key points in the production and l Establishment of organization for supplier risk management at operations in major LCCs (FY12) logistics process to prevent the production and utilization of imperfect parts Decrease of skilled l Planning and implementation of training program at workers/experts each plant to develop skilled workers (FY10) l Global development of human resources through the Global Pilot Plant program (FY11) l Development of experts to teach technical skills (planning and implementation from FY12) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 102 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 4) Supply Chain Continuity In order to minimize the cost of risk, Nissan adheres to the following Control was enhanced as follows to prepare for increased supplier risk. global insurance management policy. This policy has provided appropriate l Response to suppliers’ financial risk coverage for damage resulting from the unpredictable and massive disasters 1. Risk assessment (annual) that the world has seen in recent years. n Work with Alliance partner Renault to conduct financial assessments of n Predictable risks with low impact and high frequency suppliers based on the latest data on a global basis Retained risks up to an acceptable level on a consolidated basis by 2. Prompt decision on risk avoidance the company n Prompt decision-making by a cross-functional committee based on risk n Unpredictable risks with low frequency and high impact or shock value assessment findings Risks whose financial impact may exceed the acceptable level of selfn Thoroughgoing monthly management of risks for each supplier and retention are transferred outside the company via insurance anticipated expenditures 2. Global Insurance Programs n Steady implementation of the above operational process In order to minimize the cost of hazard risks and manage risks occurring l Response to suppliers’ disaster risk globally and interdependently in a concentrated manner, global insurance 1. Ensuring business continuity programs have been established for main lines of insurance. The Finance In fiscal 2012, major efforts to cope with disaster risk in the supply chain that Department in the Global Headquarters decides insurance conditions and were continued from the preceding year included: structures, and negotiates directly with insurance companies for these global n Promoting visualization of the supply chain (enabling smooth initial programs. The insurance companies are important strategic partners, and they response by ascertaining in advance the links between parts and the are thus decided in consideration of risk spread and financial solvency. vehicles produced, as well as the attendant risks, through research of The following risks are covered in this way: supply chain conditions) n Property damage and business interruption by accidents n Following up on the BCP established for suppliers The program covers risks not only for property damage but also for n Implementing checks of suppliers’ initial response process (making business interruption and contingent business interruption due to revisions through coordination among production, development and accidents, taking into consideration the global expansion of the supply purchasing divisions) chain for products and parts. Coverage limits are determined based on the 2. BCPs for overseas operations probable maximum loss amount measured by third-party experts. In fiscal 2012, Nissan introduced measures taken in Japan to overseas We achieved further improvement and optimization of insurance operations besides Thailand (North America, Europe, China and India) and conditions by negotiating with insurance companies together with our started to work on supply chain BCPs for those regions. Alliance partner Renault from fiscal 2011. 5) Risk Financing and Loss Prevention 1. Global Insurance Management Policy Nissan manages hazard risk on a global basis with risk financing techniques that combine self-retained risk with external risk transfer via insurance. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 103 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control n Transportation and storage of vehicles and products for sales 4. Loss Prevention Activities This program covers risks relating to transportation and the supply chain Nissan conducts loss prevention activities to improve loss results and reduce for parts and products globally. By covering risks spread geographically the cost of premiums on an ongoing basis. Since the global insurance under a global program, we can manage loss data on a global basis and programs have been introduced, loss prevention activities have been ensure stability of insurance costs. promoted more actively and globally to maintain low premium rates. Examples From fiscal 2011, this program was also combined with Renault’s of Nissan’s loss prevention activities include conducting risk-engineering program for negotiating with insurance companies to achieve best surveys and obtaining recommendations for safety from third-party experts, possible results utilizing synergies of scale. creating manuals for actions in the event of typhoons and constructing hail n Product liability nets to prevent hail damage. To manage this risk, we have insurance programs suitable for the legal systems and practices in each region. The programs are led by the Global Headquarters in order to implement a consistent strategy globally. Information Security n Indemnity liability for unanticipated accidents during operations or caused by owned or managed facilities (general liability) Nissan shares its Information Security Policy with group companies While keeping in mind the legal systems and compensation criteria of worldwide and implements necessary measures through the various countries, a globally uniform program is being implemented to ensure Information Security Committee, bolstering its capability to prevent consistent worldwide coverage and to achieve lower insurance costs. information leaks and other such incidents. Furthermore, we carry out 3. Utilization of Captive Insurance Company various in-house programs every year to thoroughly educate and For the purpose of more efficient self-retention on a consolidated basis for motivate employees to uphold their responsibilities in this regard. insurance programs other than general liability, Nissan Global Reinsurance, a Bermuda-based captive insurance company (an insurance company of the Protecting Personal Data and Reinforcing Information Security Nissan Group) is utilized to reinsure a certain amount of risk for each of our Nissan recognizes its social responsibility to properly handle customers’ global programs. personal information, in full compliance with Japan’s Personal Information Utilization of a captive insurance company enables the following: Protection Act. We have set up internal systems, rules and procedures for n Helps to reduce insurance costs by obtaining the minimum handling personal data. All group companies in Japan are fully enforcing necessary insurance these processes. n Each group company can obtain necessary coverage Moreover, Nissan shares with group companies worldwide its n Can gather and analyze loss data below self-retained limit Information Security Policy as its basis to reinforce overall information security. Our Information Security Committee implements measures as necessary to further strengthen information security in order to prevent information leaks and other such incidents. To thoroughly educate and motivate employees to uphold their responsibilities in this regard, we institute regular in-house educational programs every year. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 104 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan CSR Scorecard p. 105 Corporate Profile p. 111 Financial Data p. 112 Employee Data p. 113 Social Contribution Activity Data p. 113 GRI Sustainability Nissan Global Anti-Bribery Policy p. 114 Reporting Guidelines Index Environmental Data p. 118 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 105 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan CSR SCORECARD Nissan makes year-round use of the CSR scorecard as a fundamental tool to manage, review and validate its progress in each of eight sustainability strategies defined for its CSR activities. The table below shows some of the values behind our present activities in these areas and the indices used in the scorecard to gauge our performance. Environment FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated Scope of FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Application Indicators of Progress FY2016 (Target) Long-Term Vision (Year2050) Result Target Result Nissan aims to lead a social Implementation and Zero-emission vehicle Global Number of zero-emission vehicles Global Nissan LEAF sales: 23,000 Promote EV sales globally Global Nissan LEAF sales: 30,500 units Cumulative sales 1.5 million EVs under 90% reduction in CO2 emissions Reduce environmental impact transformation aimed at bringing promotion of Nissan penetration sold units Cumulative sales since its launch in Renault-Nissan Alliance by FY2016, securing from new vehicles from FY2000 and resource usage of Nissan about a sustainable mobility society Green Program 2016 2012: more than 58,000 units leadership in zero-emission mobility corporate activities and vehicles by reducing vehicles' environmental (NGP2016) to within the Earth's natural impact throughout their lifecycle and Global Number of new EV models introduced (Nissan LEAF introduced already in Promote development of EVs Implemented field test of the all-electric 4 models including Nissan LEAF released ability to absorb expanding the lineup of effective FY2010) commercial vehicle, e-NV200 green products and technologies. Global Promotion of activities toward Efforts underway, including Promote the actitivites with regional Launched the LEAF to Home power Realization of zero-emission society realization of zero-emission society development of LEAF to Home government and other industries supply system with EV Power Station system, road tests of Nissan New Promoted rollout of “LEAF to Home” Mobility Concept ultracompact EV power supply system at public facilities, houses, condominiums Fuel-efficient vehicle Global Corporate average fuel efficiency 15% improvement from FY2005 Improve CAFE by introducing HEV 24.9% improvement from FY2005 35% improvement in CAFE from FY2005 expansion (CAFE) (Japanese, U.S., European, and other technologies to improve (Japanese, U.S., European, Chinese markets) Chinese markets) fuel efficiency Global Number of models launched with Tiida (China), Versa Sedan (U.S.) Introduce 4 models Altima (U.S.), Note, Latio (Japan), Sylphy Global rollout class-leading fuel efficiency* (China) *as of launch Global Cumulative number of hybrid models Development underway of front-wheel Introduce 2 models Cima HEV, and Serena S-HYBRID in Global rollout launched drive hybrid vehicles, plug-in hybrid Japan electric vehicles (PHEVs) Global Number of CVT-equipped units sold 11.08 million cumulative sales Promote sales of CVT equipped 2.28 million units 20 million cumulative sales vehicles 13.36 million of cumulative sales since 1992) Corporate carbon Global Rate of CO2 emission reduction for 8.0% reduction Promote activites to reduce CO2 8.3% reduction 20% reduction 80% reduction from FY2005 footprint minimization corporate activities (production, emissions (t-CO2/unit) logistics, offices, sales companies; t-CO2/unit, from FY2005) Plants (t-CO2/unit, from FY2005) 20.5% reduction 15.2% reduction 27% reduction Offices (Japan, North America, 2.6% reduction 17.7% increase 1% annual reduction (FY2010 as base) Europe, China; output level basis) Sales companies (Japan; output level 11.9% reduction 1.8% increase 1% annual reduction (FY2010 as base) basis) New natural resource Global Recycled material use ratio per Efforts underway, including reuse of Continue activities Promoted activities Improve recycled material use ratio to 25% Reduce ratio of new natural use minimization vehicle steel and aluminum plate scraps resources per vehicle by 70% generated during manufacturing in from FY2010 new plate metal Japan Resource recovery rate 98.8% Promote activites 99.3% Top-level recovery rate Global Waste reduction percentage at plants 8.4% reduction in Japan Promote activities to minimize wastes 10.3% reduction in Japan Japan: 2% annual reduction (compared to 12.3% reduction globally 3.2% reduction globally business as usual) Global: 1% annual reduction (compared to business as usual) Global Number of facilities with water4 facilities (Australia, India, China, Implement water-resource Implemented in Spain, Egypt and South All production facilities resource management Mexico) management in 3 facilities Africa NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 106 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control SAFETY FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan develops innovative technology and Establishment of quantitative reduction Japan, U.S., U.K. Reduction from 1995 levels in NissanJapan: 54% reduction Japan: 59% reduction Develop and boost use of safety-related Figures to be calculated once data is Aim for ultimate goal of zero fatalities and plays an active role in safety promotion, targets for Nissan-related traffic deaths, related traffic deaths and injuries (Figures U.S.: 50% reduction U.S.: 54% reduction technologies based on Nissan Safety Shield released serious injuries involving Nissan vehicles making the automobile society safer for all. etc., real-world analysis of accidents to are available approx. two years later due to U.K.: 61% reduction U.K.: 58% reduction approach to reduce fatal and serious build safer cars and implementation of calculation based on publicly released injuries from previous FY, progressing driver-education programs data) toward ultimate goal PHILANTHROPY FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan carries out social contribution Clarification of Nissan’s philanthropy policy, Global Clarification of Nissan’s philanthropy policy Launched joint projects with Habitat for • Designated officers to head CSR, • Review March 11 disaster relief and • Through cooperation with the NGO Continually implement unique philanthropic activities as a corporate citizen, focusing reinforcement of in-house organization and and establishment of an in-house Humanity, beginning in March 2010 in philanthropic efforts at 3 main bases, advance measures to create environment Habitat for Humanity Japan, NML programs centered on “environmental on the environment, education and enhancement of philanthropic activities promotion organization India and in March 2011 in Indonesia and including Global Headquarters; created conducive to employee participation in organized volunteer tours for employees awareness,” “education” and humanitarian support. Thailand system for global promotion and volunteer efforts in the tsunami-affected area in Ofunato, “humanitarian support,” balancing global cooperation • Work on systems allowing swift decisions Iwate Prefecture. Special paid holiday perspectives with the most appropriate • Signed global agreement with Habitat for on form of relief efforts following was given to participants. A total of some activities for each region Humanity, an NGO Nissan North America disasters 100 employees participated has partnered with since 2006; set • Develop existing programs to enable • Started discussion to establish ‘Natural FY2012 course for stronger participation more global activities delivering value Disasters Response Policy’ among in poverty relief more widely headquarters in Japan/U.S./Europe • Held talks with 10 NPOs active in the • Started discussion to expand school-visit March 11 disaster zone to provide educational programs globally maximum support possible targeting high-need areas • Held a town meeting in Yokohama in connection with Omoiyari Light Promotion safety campaign; carried out dialogue with wide range of experts, other stakeholders NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 107 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control QUALITY FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan provides top-level quality in its Score of external indicator that is most Global [North America] Achieved nearly all FY2010 targets Achieved nearly all FY2011 targets Improve rankings in respective KPIs U.S. – J.D. Power Initial Quality Study Under quality improvement goals of Nissan products and services around the world. influential to customers Consumer Reports (IQS): Infiniti EX, Infiniti M, Frontier, Quest Power 88, make Infiniti a leading luxury J.D. Power IQS/VDS took the top spot in each segment. brand and make Nissan a leading global [Europe] • U.K.: Qashqai and Note earned high U.K.: U.K.: automotive brand by FY2016 U.K.: What Car? marks in What Car? Qashqai and Note earned high marks in Qashqai and Note earned high marks in Germany: ADAC • Italy: Qashqai earned high marks in What Car? What Car? Italy: Quattroruote Quattroruote Germany: Germany: • Germany: Qashqai and Note earned Qashqai and Micra won high reliability Qashqai and Micra won high reliability reputation for high reliability in ADAC marks in ADAC marks in ADAC [Other] China JDP/IQS: 3 models China: South Africa – Synovate Product China: J.D. Power IQS/VDS earned top 3 rankings 3 models in top 3 rankings for J.D. Power Satisfaction Index (PSI): X-TRAIL and South Africa: Pied Piper PSI IQS, 4 models in top 3 for J.D. Power VDS NP200 ranked first, Micra and Navara Brazil: Quatro Rodas South Africa PSI: ranked among the top three in each India: J.D. Power IQS 3 models in top 3 rankings segment. Brazil – Quatro Rodas: Versa, March took top rank in each category. Achievement of Sales and Service Quality Global Customer satisfaction survey results Improvements carried out according to plan Maintained Top-Level Quality in those focus Continue Sales and Service Quality Maintained Top-Level Quality in those focus Achieve Top-Level Quality in all focus objectives, resulting in the highest levels of relating to Sales and Service Quality in toward achievement of Top-Level Quality markets where already attained; improved improvement in focus markets toward markets where already attained; improved markets by FY2016 customer loyalty and service retention focus countries (Nissan and Infiniti) objectives rankings in other markets by implementing Top-Level Quality achievement rankings in other markets by implementing kaizen actions. kaizen actions. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 108 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control VALUE CHAIN FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan promotes ethical, environmentally Reduce the environmental impact of All primary suppliers Extent to which values and codes of • Worked with Renault to distribute “CSR • Recovery from the Great East Japan Begin formulation of BCPs for overseas 1. Requested consideration of business Continually support suppliers’ efforts to sound actions in all stages of the supply products through green procurement to Renault-Nissan conduct are shared with suppliers Guidelines for Suppliers” from Earthquake and Thai flooding carried out locations (other than Japan, Thailand) from continuity plans (BCPs) in overseas enhance their systems for CSR activities chain. activities Purchasing purchasing departments at operational with suppliers as vital activities; these the first half of FY2012 branches (North America, Europe, China, Organization sites to suppliers (from June) were implemented and evaluated as CSR • Implement survey of steps taken to India). We held briefings for suppliers at (RNPO; responsible • Carried out MPA revisions incorporating for contributing to society through address conflict mineral usage, with the each branch, and are considering BCPs for 100% of total penalties for compliance infractions support for suppliers in affected areas, goal of deepening CSR penetration for the supply chain Renault-Nissan (from July) prompt relaunch of production through the supply chain 1.-2 Implemented preliminary survey of procurement by • Main approaches included: • Continued steps to address supplier conflict minerals based on CSR policies. value, April 2009) 1. Swift sharing of information related to infractions Currently clarifying the issues and production recovery formulating plans for a full-scale survey 2. Steps to deal with planned blackouts, scheduled for next fiscal year shift to weekend operations in 2. Clarified and started applying summer months procedures to halt a request for 3. Creation of BCPs for supply chains quotation (RFQ) when a supplier has (Japan and Thailand) violated regulations • Rules created in FY2010 defining penalties for supplier compliance infractions applied to cases that arose Reduce the environmental impact of All primary suppliers Ascertaining compliance with Japan’s Globally published “Nissan Green New management processes created in Implementation and improvement of steps In an effort to comprehensively comply with Reduce Nissan’s environmental impact products through green procurement around the world green procurement guideline for Purchasing Guidelines” on the website; line with NGP2016, explained at supplier under new management processes regulations on environment-impacting throughout the lifecycle by establishing activities environment-impacting substances in initiated their deployment in North America meetings in November; began global substances, we have launched a new structures for suppliers; enhance purchased parts, and promotion of such deployment of revised “Nissan Green management process which helps suppliers management scope by extending activities activities with regard to global guideline Purchasing Guidelines” (enhancement of standardize disciplined and consistent to the whole value chain management of environment-impacting substance control substances in Europe) Promotion of CSR activities at sales Sales Companies Regular sharing of information with sales Further enhanced awareness of compliance • Efforts to firmly establish compliance Implement self-assessment program In fiscal 2012, we continued Provide support to help cement voluntary companies (Japan) companies and support for voluntary through implementation of companywide self-assessment program helped boost revised based on recent compliance implementation of the compliance efforts at sales companies activities self-assessment program compliance awareness from FY2010 trends to further boost awareness; hold self-check program with the aim of levels regular events to exchange information enhancing awareness about compliance. At • Representative meeting in June urged (e.g. company representative meetings) a meeting for dealership representatives, greater care with personal information we shared information about examples of protection, leading to enhanced violations and policies to make measures and stronger information improvements, and provided educational management at each company materials regarding improper handling of money, information security, and harassment, in order to encourage each dealer to prevent compliance problems NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 109 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control EMPLOYEES FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan aims to form an attractive Build a learning-oriented corporate culture Nissan Motor Trainee satisfaction: Based on surveys of 4.5 or higher 4.2 or higher Implement education programs to enhance 4.3 or higher Create a learning-oriented corporate culture organization where diverse human Co., Ltd. employees undergoing annual training competency; maintain/increase satisfaction and a setup allowing individual employees resources can achieve personal growth courses. Scores (on a scale of 1 to 5) are of attendees to achieve personal growth through experience in global business. the lowest of the averages for each course Enhance management quality, employee Global Improved scores for management quality, Quality of management: 50% Surveys not implemented in FY2011 Promote activities to enhance quality of Surveys not implemented in FY2012 Improve quality of management and create motivation based on employee attitude employee motivation; share of positive Employee motivation: 57% management and revise corporate culture an organization that inspires and enhances surveys responses to questions in employee based on employee attitude surveys; raise employee engagement attitude surveys scores on quality of management/ employee motivation Support for self-initiated career Nissan Motor Number of successful applicants under 103 (Open Entry and Shift Career Systems) 99 (Open Entry and Shift Career Systems) Further advance assignment of employees 94 (Open Entry and Shift Career Systems) Provide support for career development that development Co., Ltd. Open Entry (employees can apply for to relevant positions via Open Entry/Shift emphasizes employees’ self-initiative advertised position openings) and Shift Career Systems Career (employees can apply to the department or occupation of their choice, regardless of availability) Systems Creating safe and worry-free workplaces Nissan Motor Frequency of labor accidents (injuries or 0.43 0.35 0.27 0.25 Build and maintain safe, worry-free Co., Ltd. deaths per 1 million worker-hours) workplaces Intensity of labor accidents (Intensity=total 0 0 No serious accidents 0 working hours lost/total working hours x 1,000) Promotion of diversity through active Global Share of women in middle management Japan (Nissan Motor): 6.1% Global: 10% Global: 10.5% Global: 10.3% Provide greater value to customers through development, engagement with women and management positions Americas: 12% Japan (Nissan Motor): 6.7% Japan (Nissan Motor): 7.0%* diversity Europe: 14% Americas: 12% Americas: 13% Europe: 15% Europe: 16% *including Nissan Global Co., Ltd. Employee survey score on diversity Global 50% Surveys not implemented in FY2011 Maintain/upgrade scores Surveys not implemented in FY2012 Promotion of diversity through crossNissan Motor Share of non-Japanese employees 1% 1% Maintain/upgrade share of non-Japanese 2% cultural recruitment Co., Ltd. employees ECONONIC CONTRIBUTION FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan aims for sustainable, profitable Implementation and promotion of Nissan Consolidated Consolidated operating profit margin 6.1% 5.8% 6.8% (forecast) 5.4% Achieve sustainable, profitable growth by growth, contributing to economic Power 88 companies advancing a sustainable mobility society; development for all of society. Global market share 5.8% 6.4% 6.7% (forecast) 6.2% continue providing value to all stakeholders over the long term Company stock Nissan Motor Dividend ¥10/share ¥20/share ¥25/share ¥25/share Co., Ltd. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 110 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Governance & Internal Control FY2012 target achievement rate: Achieved Mostly Achieved Not Achieved Not Calculated FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Strategy Major Activity or Value Scope of Application Indicators of Progress Long-Term Vision Result Result Target Result Nissan aims to conduct fair, impartial and Establishment/ Compliance/ Consolidated Establishment/global development of • Clarified key tasks in each region and • Clarified compliance-related risks and • Further enhance improvement activities • Discussed priority topics at the Global A fully functioning framework (process) for efficient business activities, having a high effective Code of companies compliance promoting organizations and formulated action plans to advance confirmed action plans for each region in based on PDCA cycle and prevent Compliance Committee and incorporated the prevention of conduct violations degree of transparency and consistency by management Conduct codes of conduct activities to prevent noncompliance the Global Compliance Committee; compliance infractions them into action plans for each region. adhering to the applicable laws and of internal • Disclosed Nissan’s Global Code of regularly followed up progress thereafter • Set global anti-bribery policy and Regularly monitored implementation corporate rules. control system Conduct to outside parties worldwide • Formulated medium-term regional action implement training activities status plans (FY2011–13) • Established a Global Anti-Bribery Policy • Launched anti-bribery activities in line (see p. 114) and implemented global with expanding scope of Nissan’s training business; defined global policy, reached decision to implement related training Risk Establishment/global development of an • Promoted common understanding among • Reviewed responses to Great East Japan • Carry out risk management activities to • Identified corporate risk factors that Contribute to raising corporate value with a Management effective risk management system Global Headquarters and regional Earthquake for each function; reflected support successful achievement of could negatively affect the mid-term global risk management system; obtain headquarters in the Americas and Europe results in the BCP and shared the mid-term business plan goals plan. Under the lead of risk owners, better external understanding through regarding fundamental processes of risk findings throughout the company; verified • Continue disclosing information and established control methods and appropriate information disclosure management; exchanged related progress through further simulation updating its content implemented the necessary risk information with Renault training, enhancing level of readiness reduction activities • Explained risk management initiatives in • Disclosed information on risk • Updated Business and other risks in the Annual Report and Sustainability management activities via Annual Report financial information (YukashokenReport and Sustainability Report, adding items Hokokusho) and The current state of and updating content of disclosure Nissan’s risk management in • Re-implemented benchmarking activities Sustainability Report and Annual Report following Renault’s shift to new system • These activities are reported twice a year to the Internal Control Committee and Board of Directors to ensure that the PDCA management cycle is functioning Information Addressing personal data protection issues • Continually monitored compliance with • Continued monitoring compliance with Maintain/raise level of information security • Continued monitoring compliance with Contribute to pursuing stable corporate Security and establishment of stable information policies to safeguard personal personal information safeguarding management personal information safeguarding activities and social responsibility by security information at Nissan Motor Co. and its policies at Nissan Motor and its sales policies at Nissan Motor Co. and its sales globally implementing PDCA cycles on sales companies; verified levels had been companies, confirming that level was companies, confirming that level was information security maintained or improved maintained or improved maintained or improved • Globally implemented an annual plan for • Globally implemented, tracked progress in • Based on the Information Security Policy, information security management and annual information security management held Information Security Committee, confirmed its progress; verified levels plan, confirming that level was implemented annual education, managed had been maintained or improved maintained or improved information assets, managed incidents, • Implemented process for monitoring implemented PDCA cycle for assessment, information security incidents that and verified that the levels are being occurred outside of Nissan and maintained or improved confirmed that similar issues could not • Learning from recent server attacks and take place within the company social engineering-related information security incidents at other companies, verified and made improvements to ensure that similar incidents do not occur at Nissan NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 111 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate profile Date of Establishment December 26, 1933 Location of Organization's 1-1, Takashima 1-chome, Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 220-8686, Japan Headquarters The Nissan Group consists of Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., subsidiaries, affiliates and other Group Structure and associated companies. Its main business includes sales and production of vehicles, Business Outline forklifts, marine products and related parts. The Nissan Group also provides various services accompanying its main business, such as logistics and sales finance. Number of Employees (consolidated) 160,530 (As of March 31, 2013) R&D: 15 countries/areas (Japan, USA, Mexico, U.K., Spain, Belgium, Germany, Russia, China, Taiwan, Thailand, South Africa, Brazil, India, Vietnam; total of 43 sites) Global Network Design: 4 countries (Japan, USA, U.K., China; total of 5 sites) (as of June 2013) Automobile Production: 15 countries/areas (Japan, USA, Mexico, U.K., Spain, Russia, China, Taiwan, Thailand, Philippines, South Africa, Indonesia, Brazil, India, Egypt; total of 27 sites) GRI G3 Indicators 2.4 / 2.2 / 2.8 / 2.3 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 112 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control FY2012 Global sales volume and consolidated production volume Financial data Others Japan (FY) 19.5% 13.2% billion yen 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Consolidated net revenue 8,437.0 7,517.3 8,773.1 9,409.0 9,629.6 Consolidated operating profit –137.9 311.6 537.5 545.8 523.5 Europe China Global Sales Volume Ordinary profit –172.7 207.7 537.8 535.1 529.3 13.4% 24.1% Profit before tax –218.8 141.6 480.1 529.3 516.7 4,914,000 Net income –233.7 42.4 319.2 341.4 342.4 Capital expenditure 383.6 273.6 312.0 406.4 524.5 North America Depreciation 421.2 363.3 372.1 334.4 315.8 29.8% R&D costs 455.5 385.5 399.3 428.0 469.9 thousand units Global Sales Volume 3,411 3,515 4,185 4,845 4,914 Region % of global sales volume thousand units Japan 612 630 600 655 647 l Japan 13.2% 647 North America 1,133 1,067 1,245 1,404 1,466 l China 24.1% 1,182 l North America 29.8% 1,466 Europe 530 509 607 713 660 l Europe 13.4% 660 Others 1,136 1,309 1,733 2,073 2,141 l Others 19.5% 959 thousand units Conslidated Production Volume 2,850 2,954 3,755 4,266 4,310 Others Japan Japan 1,050 1,025 1,073 1,199 1,060 North America 868 837 1,074 1,221 1,344 13.7% 24.6% Europe 450 445 571 647 643 Others 482 647 1,037 1,199 1,263 Europe Conslidated Production 14.9% Volume 4,310,000 China website 15.6% To obtain more detailed North America financial information, please visit our IR website. 31.2% Region % of production volume thousand units l Japan 24.6% 1,060 GRI G3 Indicators 2.8 / A4 l China 15.6% 672 l North America 31.2% 1,344 l Europe 14.9% 643 GRI G3 Indicators l Others 13.7% 591 2.8/ A4 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 113 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Employee data Social contributions activity data (FY) (FY) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. Over ¥430 million ¥11.9 million ¥17.0 million Number of employees*1 28,403 24,240 23,605 (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. for (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. for Male 26,384 22,327 21,675 Nissan North America, Nissan Great East Japan Earthquake) Great East Japan Earthquake) Number of employees by gender Europe S.A.S., etc. for Great ¥10.0 million ¥10.0 million Female 2,019 1,913 1,930 Average age (years) 42.4 42.8 42.6 East Japan Earthquake) (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. for (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. for About ¥6.8 million Typhoon No. 12) heavy rains in northern Average service (years) 20.7 20.5*4 20.5 Donations for (by Nissan (China) Investment ¥55.1 million Kyushu) Employee turnover rate (voluntary leave and retirement) 2.9 2.8 3.9 disaster relief Co., Ltd. for Yushu earthquake) (by Nissan Motor Co., Ltd. and €100,000 and a vehicle Average annual salary (yen)*2 6,847,796 7,058,538 6,996,504 $100,000 Nissan Thailand for 2011 (by Nissan International SA Disabled employment ratio (%) 2.01 1.95 1.88 (by Nissan North America for Thailand floods) and Nissan Italia S.r.l for Number of employees taking parental leave 195 192 219 2010 Haiti earthquake) ¥10 million Northern Italy earthquake) Number of employees taking nursing care leave 15 9 17 (Nissan Europe S.A.S., for Horn $20,000 and a vehicle Number of unionized employees 26,790 23,122*4 22,865 of Africa crisis) (Nissan North America for Hurricane Sandy) Consolidated 155,099 157,365 160,530 Consolidated number of employees*3 (27,816) (34,775) (36,449) Japan 72,876 69,141 67,290 North America 23,411 24,702 28,637 Global social contributions: $13 million Europe 13,891 14,725 15,198 GRI G3 Indicators (On a consolidated basis, including donations and monetary contributions) EC1 Asia 42,718 46,516 46,187 Other overseas countries 2,203 2,281 3,218 *1 A major reason for the decrease of 4,163 persons during FY2010–FY2011 was the employment transfer resulting from the establishment of Nissan Motor Kyushu Co., Ltd. *2 Average annual salary for employees not in managerial positions; includes bonuses and overtime pay. *3 Numbers in brackets represent part time employees not included in the consolidated number of employees *4 Updated from 2012 Sustainability Report Union Information Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.’s employees are affiliated with the All Nissan Motor Workers’ Union, for which the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions, and the Japanese Trade Union Confederation (Rengo) through the Confederation of Japan Automobile Workers’ Unions. The labor-management relations of the company are stable, and the number of union workers was 22,865 as of March 31, 2013. At most domestic group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions on a company basis, and the governing body is the All Nissan and General Workers Unions. At foreign group companies, employees are affiliated with their respective trade unions. In Mexico, for example, workers are affiliated with a domestic trade union for which the governing body is the GRI G3 Indicators Confederation of Mexican Workers (CTM) or independent trade unions, whereas most employees 2.8/EC1/LA1/LA2/ in the United Kingdom are affiliated with the Unite the Union, Nissan Motor Manufacturing (UK) LA4/LA13/LA15 Ltd., Branch. Local employees of other group companies are affiliated with different types of trade unions according to the labor environment in each country. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 114 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control regarding the appropriateness of conduct, consult with his or her manager, NISSAN GLOBAL ANTI-BRIBERY POLICY Legal Department, or Compliance Committee in order to ensure that they conduct business in compliance with applicable anti-bribery laws. These laws OVERVIEW: include, but are not limited to, the Japan Unfair Competition Prevention Act, The Global Code of Conduct requires the Nissan Group (as defined below) to U.K. Bribery Act 2010, US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. comply with the laws and Local Guidelines (as defined below) applicable to Violations of these laws and other similar laws, in many cases, are our business activities. Nissan Group prides itself on acting fairly and punishable by imprisonment and fines for the individuals involved, ethically wherever it does business. Nissan Group’s reputation is built on its regardless of nationality. For Nissan Group, a violation may result in values as an organization and the values of its employees. Nissan Group substantial fines and restrictions, greatly impacting the Nissan brand, consistently treats customers, employees, suppliers, and communities with reputation and financial position. honesty, integrity, fairness, and trust. In addition to applicable laws, you also should consult relevant portions of This Global Anti-Bribery Policy (“Policy”) sets out how you should Nissan corporate policies relating to Code of Conduct, and Code of Ethics, behave and what you should do if you are confronted with corruption, the Gift Policy, and Conflict of Interest, where applicable. responsibilities of the Nissan Group and its Employees, and establishes the global framework for this Policy. *1 Individuals that act in a public capacity and including government employees, employees of government controlled or owned entities, elected or appointed officials (including candidates), any official or agent of a public international organization, and members of a royal family in some 1 SCOPE: countries, are treated as “government officials” under the anti-bribery laws of some countries. *2 While the laws of each country may vary, prohibited acts of “bribery” are generally recognized as This Policy applies to Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., its subsidiaries and affiliates including acts such as offering, giving, accepting, receiving, or soliciting something of value to or (“Nissan Group”) and their respective officers, directors, employees, contract from a “government official” or private individual where the intent is to improperly obtain or retain business or gain an advantage. It may also include any promise, representation or conduct without employees, and other individuals employed by Nissan Group (“Employees”). actually carrying through the bribe, if that promise, representation or conduct influences a person to Each Employee must comply with this policy. act improperly. 2 ANTI-BRIBERY LAWS AND HOW THEY APPLY TO YOU: The laws of Japan and of many other countries where Nissan Group does business specifically prohibit or otherwise regulate certain activities such as authorizing, paying, promising or offering to give anything of value to “government officials”*1 or private individuals in order to influence those individuals to act favorably towards Nissan Group. In some countries, these acts are criminal acts of bribery*2 and globally, are in all cases subject to prohibitions and regulations under the Global Code of Conduct and applicable Local Guidelines. Since the laws and Local Guidelines applicable to companies and Employees of Nissan Group may vary from country to country, each Employee of Nissan Group must familiarize himself or herself with the laws and Local Guidelines applicable to his or her activities world-wide and, in all cases of doubt NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 115 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 3 GOVERNING PRINCIPLES OF THE POLICY: 3.2.4. Take affirmative steps to prevent third parties acting for or on 3.1. Nissan Group will only conduct business in compliance with the laws. behalf of Nissan Group from engaging in Bribery. Nissan Group Nissan will institute zero tolerance for acts constituting bribery which expects its suppliers, contractors, vendors, distributors, third party violate this Policy. agents, consultants, or individuals acting for or on behalf of 3.2. Nissan Group shall comply with the following principles: Nissan Group to also comply with all applicable laws and 3.2.1. Keep and maintain impartial and fair relationships with all third company policies regarding anti-bribery. parties with whom Nissan Group conducts business. 3.2.5. Report violations of this Policy, Local Guidelines, or any other 3.2.2. Do not give, or promise, offer to give anything of value (money, related policies. Refer to Local Guidelines for specific reporting gifts, entertainment, travel, preferential treatment, etc.) in violation requirements, processes, and local contacts. of applicable anti-bribery laws and/or the Nissan Group Code of 3.2.6. Keep accurate records such as invoices, receipts, payments made, Conduct, Ethics, and Gift Policies to obtain a business advantage and purpose of such receipts/payments in accordance with the or to obtain or retain business for the benefit of Nissan Group. Do Nissan Group record retention policies. Full and accurate records not receive, or offer to receive anything of value (money, gifts, demonstrate complete transparency. entertainment, travel, preferential treatment, etc.) from another 3.2.7. Do not retaliate for reported violations. Retaliation against anyone person or entity seeking to do business with Nissan Group who reports a potential violation in good faith or who participates resulting in such violation. With respect to certain limited in an investigation is strictly prohibited. circumstances (e.g., bona fide marketing activities to promote Nissan products) special and/or local exceptions to the foregoing may be provided under the Local Guidelines to the extent permitted by applicable laws. 3.2.3. “Facilitation or Grease payments” are small financial payments to low-level government officials that have non-discretionary power for the purpose of expediting a routine government action. Facilitation or grease payments are also prohibited except to the extent clearly approved under Local Guidelines and are subject to the required approval being obtained in advance as set forth in any such Local Guidelines. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 116 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 3.3 Examples of Prohibited and Permitted Activities: 3.3.2. Examples of acceptable entertainment and hospitality gifts: 3.3.1. Examples of bribery: u In certain limited circumstances, reasonable (moderately priced) u Cash, gifts, travel, and entertainment, except those allowed entertainment and small gifts may be acceptable so long as it is under 3.3.2 below, in exchange for awarding or retaining allowed under applicable laws. Nissan business. u Entertainment or gift value must be a small amount measured u Gifts or favors (such as offer of employment, loaning a vehicle) to against (a) prevailing market rates for similar expenses, (b) Nissan a family member of a government official. business expense guidelines and corporate policies, and (c) u Cash or gift made by a third party agent or sales company on custom, locally and within the industry. Lavish or expensive behalf of Nissan to government official or private individual to entertainment or gifts are not permitted and considered to be secure vehicle sales. unreasonable. u Cash payment in exchange for reduction of custom duties or u Small gifts (giving and receiving) for purposes of marketing favorable tax treatment. activities such as promoting one’s product or services so long as it u Supplier offers gift to Nissan employee to influence placement on does not violate Nissan’s corporate policies on gift giving, conflict Nissan supplier panel or sourcing decision. of interest, or code of conduct and is not made on a frequent u Expensive gifts, dinners, entertainment, and travel made to basis in same calendar year. government official or employee of a government owned In each instance, you must refer to Local Guidelines, applicable anticompany resulting in the recipient taking actions in favor bribery laws, and any other relevant corporate policies to confirm such of Nissan. entertainment or gift is allowed. When in doubt, consult your manager, u Foreign service assignee makes a small payment or gift to HR representative, Legal Department, or Compliance Committee. Where government official or government owned company for purpose of required under Local Guidelines or Nissan corporate policies, seek securing or retaining Nissan business. necessary approvals in advance. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 117 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control 4 OTHER RESPONSIBILITIES: Each MC Chairman and/or head of global function will ensure that their 4.1. Global Policy respective region and/or function comply with this Global Policy and NML Legal is responsible for updating this Global Policy. Legal advice Local Guidelines. regarding the subject matter of this policy should be obtained from the The regional compliance committee will: legal departments of the applicable MC Region. (a) develop, implement, and administer Local Guidelines, monitor 4.2. Local Guidelines compliance, and appoint local representatives where necessary to A regional compliance committee shall establish Local Guidelines to assist in developing and administering such Local Guidelines, and augment this Policy. “Local Guidelines” are regional or local Nissan (b) ensure that each Nissan Group in the region has implemented Local policies, procedures, handbooks or other resources to augment this Guidelines to ensure compliance with local laws and this Global Policy, including but not limited to how and where to report violations, Policy. accurate record keeping, responsible department or individuals for 4.3. Training: anti-bribery policies, and internal controls to ensure compliance by Nissan Group shall conduct awareness training of this Policy and Employees and the Nissan Group. Local Guidelines shall not contradict applicable Local Guidelines. Nissan Global HR is responsible for the GRI G3 Indicators or supersede this Global Policy and shall be limited for the purpose of implementation and monitoring of such training of Employees. S02 / S03 / S04 explaining this policy, conforming to local laws and regulations, or setting out local processes, procedures, and controls. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 118 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Environmental Data Governance Product Indicators 119 133 Fuel economy, CO2 133-135 Technologies 136-137 Other Emissions 137-138 Corporate Indicators 122 Lifecycle Assessments (LCAs) 138 Input/Output, Energy 122 Materials, Recycling 139 CO2 123-124 Nissan Green Program KPIs 140 Water 125-126 Emissions 126-127 Waste 128 Assurance and External Ratings Logistics 129 141 Supply Chain 130 Third-party Assurance 141 Environmental Accounting 130 Ratings 141 Facility 131 GRI Index (Environment) 142 Employee Engagement and Education 132 Nissan Green Program KPIs 133 Regarding Data for Publication l Fiscal year: April 1 through March 31. l Scope: All Nissan manufacturing facilities, management offices, and Nissan subsidiaries worldwide. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 119 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Governance Nissan creates various venues for engagement with the stakeholders. We invite globally active authorities in the environmental field to our annual Stakeholder Engagement Advisory Meetings, including both academics and people on the front lines of In addition to providing the obvious benefit of growth with sustainable profits, the business world. The board of directors and these stakeholders exchange Nissan seeks to contribute to the sustainable development of society. To this opinions on Nissan's business direction and the validity of our strategy in the end, we listen carefully to the wide variety of our stakeholders, working with area of the environment, and then Nissan uses this information in the them as we pursue activities that meet society's needs. strategies going forward. We identify key stakeholders with the use of value-chain analysis. Our entire value-chain, from extraction of materials to dismantling of the vehicle, has dependency to the stakeholders and also creates impacts to the Growth for Nissan Building trust with stakeholders stakeholders. Opinions from those diverse stakeholders and people who may help solve the issues should be engaged in our strategy processes. Nissan Customers CSR-based Sustainable, constantly communicates with a number of regional and international management Employees Business partners profitable growth stakeholders including customers, shareholders/investors, business partners/ suppliers, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local communities, Shareholders and Communities and future Development for society investors generations government, and future generations. GRI G3 Indicators MA NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 120 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Materiality (Environment) Extremely high The automotive industry is affected globally by various regulations and l Water use l Fuel consumption/Product CO2 requirements related to the environment, such as exhaust emissions, l CO2 emissions in corporate activities l Sustainable mobility l Environmental impact in supply chain l Energy diversity/Renewable energy greenhouse gases, fuel efficiency, noise, materials/recycling, water, hazardous l Efficient resource use l Air quality substances, and these are becoming more stringent year by year. Nissan’s strategy is built on the idea of listening to the voices of society Stakeholder Concerns and identifying the seeds of both opportunity and risk. The framework of this plan is built around the PDCA, or “plan, do, check and act,” cycle. With the Biodiversity Very high l conception of materiality analysis, we analyze potential opportunities and risks, l Amount of landfill waste l Chemical substances taking the levels of importance that society and Nissan ascribe to various issues as our indices. Priority is focused on issues where both stakeholders and Nissan believes the same levels of importance. The board of directors and the stakeholders exchange opinions on Nissan's business direction and the validity of our strategy in the area of the environment to engage in the High process of creating our future environmental strategy. High Very high Extremely high Potential Business Impacts GRI G3 Indicators MA NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 121 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Nissan’s Global Environment Management Organization Awards and Incentives for Employees We have created specific organizational roles and responsibilities to clarify Employee engagements in environmental activities are included as a part of areas of activity and responsibility. Our Global Environment Management “commitment and target,” each employee’s annual performance objectives in Committee (G-EMC) headed by the chief operating officer (COO), a Japan and some overseas facilities. The results of these activities are member of the board, assembles twice a year to determine overall policies evaluated according to how well they have achieved their targets and and the proposals to be put before the Executive Committee with other reflected in the performance-based component of their compensation. board members. The Environmental Planning Department, which is a part of By forging a clear connection between the results achieved by the Corporate Planning and Business Development Division, determines individuals and the environmental activity performance of the company as a which proposals will be forwarded to the G-EMC and assigns specific whole, Nissan is able to foster environmental awareness among all its actions to each division. employees, motivate their abilities, and support their self-realization efforts at Nissan has also implemented an environmental management system the same time. based on ISO 14001 in all of its business locations in Japan, including Exceptional contributions in the environmental area will be awarded in production and R&D facilities, offices and training centers. The COO is various ways. Managers present their workers with personal thank-you cards, assigned to oversee all the company’s environmental activities directly. and employees are honored with the Nissan Prizes presented by the CEO or Twice a year, review meetings with the COO are assembled to report the COO and with awards given by factory chiefs. We seek to enrich our systems GRI G3 Indicators progress of these activities. This is part of a PDCA, or “plan, do, check and for promoting environmental consciousness among employees. MA act” process, to ensure that Nissan’s environmental performance will see continual improvement. The goals defined by the COO are cascaded down through the organization’s personnel for integrated ISO management to each business location and finally to individual employees, who share the goals and targets as each of them plays a role in implementing the company’s environmental activities. Environment Management Organization CEO Global, corporate focuses Functional, regional focuses Customers Executive Committee Plan PDCA COO Global Employees Business partners Environmental Global Act Do PDCA Planning Environment Advisory Meetings, Department Management etc. Committee PDCA Shareholders and Communities and Check investors future generations NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 122 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators Energy Input (FY) Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Material Balance Total MWh 6,480,833 6,525,000 9,353,605 9,460,190 8,984,864 Input Output Japan MWh 4,195,000 4,142,222 5,525,097 5,573,174 4,565,499 (FY) (FY) Unit 2012 Unit 2012 North America MWh 1,267,500 1,175,278 1,782,399 1,733,447 2,157,793 Raw materials ton 7,330,000 Vehicles Europe MWh 683,056 719,444 1,066,503 939,469 982,332 Water 1000m3 27,585 Other MWh 335,278 488,056 979,606 1,214,099 1,279,240 Group vehicles produced ton 4,309,602 Energy MWh 8,984,864 Waste ton 170,910 Waste for disposal ton 33,479 Primary Recycled ton 137,431 Natural gas MWh 3,691,097 3,467,178 2,847,325 Total wastewater 1000m3 20,557 LPG MWh 340,985 527,696 360,891 CO2 emissions t-CO2 3,268,655 Coal MWh 245,848 160,720 235,239 VOC ton 12,305 Heating oil MWh 259,530 253,821 248,445 NOx ton 525 Gasoline MWh 81,502 90,413 211,449 SOx ton 43 Diesel MWh 18,114 20,247 72,151 Heavy oil MWh 92,607 87,368 67,967 External Electricity (external source) MWh 4,365,622 4,524,044 4,741,046 Chilled water MWh 11,692 9,087 25,947 Nissan’s mid-term environmental action plan, Nissan Green Program 2016 Heated water MWh 0 0 7,492 (NGP2016) focuses on reducing the environmental impact of corporate Steam MWh 9,022 67,940 114,281 activities and pursuing harmony between resource consumption and Internal ecology. To minimize our corporate carbon footprint, we aim to reduce CO2 Electricity (in-house) MWh 236,624 250,520 52,630 emissions per vehicle produced by 20% in fiscal year 2016 compared to Renewable energy MWh 962 1,157 38,666 fiscal year 2005. Furthermore, to improve resource efficiency, we aim to Ratio of renewable energy % 0.000 0.000 0.017 0.026 0.82 increase the ratio of recycled material usage per vehicle to 25% in Japan, U.S., and Europe by fiscal year 2016. GRI G3 Indicators EN1 / EN2 / EN3 / EN4 / EN8 / EN16 / Comprehensive energy-saving activities at Nissan facilities resulted in a EN20 / EN21 / EN22 reduction of energy usage from 9.46 million MWh in fiscal year 2011 to 8.98 million MWh in fiscal year 2012, a reduction of 5.0% despite an increase of 1% in global production volume. GRI G3 Indicators EN3 / EN4 / EN5 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 123 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Energy per Vehicle Produced Corporate Indicators – CO2 In fiscal year 2012, comprehensive energy(MWh/vehicle) saving activities at Nissan facilities resulted in an 3.0 Carbon Footprint 2.49 increase in the efficiency of production, leading 2.5 2.27 2.21 2.22 (FY) 2.08 Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 to a reduction in energy per vehicle produced 2.0 Scope 1 t-CO2 909,000 869,592 1,023,208 1,047,691 835,766 from 2.22 MWh to 2.08 MWh, a decrease of Scope 2 t-CO2 1,531,000 1,587,603 1,944,684 2,051,965 2,432,889 6.0% compared to the previous fiscal year. 1.5 Scope 1+2 t-CO2 2,440,000 2,457,195 2,967,892 3,099,656 3,268,655 Japan t-CO2 1,444,074 1,451,343 1,526,182 1.0 U.S. t-CO2 610,016 623,654 758,457 0.5 Europe t-CO2 316,856 311,790 284,079 Other t-CO2 596,945 712,868 699,937 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Scope3 Commuting t-CO2 449,110 468,346 (By Region) Japan, U.S., Europe t-CO2 213,538 214,619* (FY) Logistics t-CO2 992,000 1,102,000 1,438,000 1,660,000 1,490,050 Unit 2012 Japan MWh/vehicle 4.31 Manufacturing only ktCO2 2,189 1,805 1,899 2,589 2,822 North America MWh/vehicle 1.60 Japan, U.S., Europe ktCO2 1,698 1,934* Europe MWh/vehicle 1.53 Other ktCO2 891 888 Other MWh/vehicle 1.01 Data for the Japan region includes manufacturing of In fiscal year 2012, CO2 emissions from Nissan facilities increased 5.5% powertrains and other components for overseas assembly GRI G3 Indicators use. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the from the previous fiscal year, and the total of Scope 1 and 2 emissions was EN3 / EN4 / EN6 page_141 region, intensity tends to show higher values. 3.27 million tons. While the fiscal year 2012 results show that comprehensive energy-saving activities at Nissan facilities had positive * Nissan receives third-party certification from effects, CO2 emissions increased at a higher percentage rate than global PricewaterhouseCoopers vehicle production due to changes in the CO2 emission coefficient of Aarata Sustainability Certification Co., Ltd. For electrical power generated in Japan. details, please see p. 141. GRI G3 Indicators EN16 / EN17 / EN18 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 124 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Scope 1 and 2 CO2 per Vehicle Produced Corporate Carbon Footprint per Vehicle Sold We aim to reduce CO2 emissions from corporate For fiscal year 2012, CO2 emissions per vehicle (t-CO2/vehicle) activities by 20% compared to fiscal year 2005, (%) 100 produced increased 4.4% from the previous 1.0 0.86 which focuses on manufacturing, logistics, 0.83 100 92.0 91.7 fiscal year, with combined Scope 1 and 2 0.79 0.76 offices, and sales companies (in Japan). From 0.8 0.73 emissions at 0.76 tons. Our energy conservation 80 this report, we have expanded our scope to diagnosis and best practice sharing among 0.6 include all consolidated companies, and revised global Nissan plants contributed to significant 60 including origin and previous year results. Fiscal improvements; however, overall results were 0.4 year 2012, even with the improvement in energy 40 greatly influenced by the changes in the consumption in manufacturing, it was greatly 0.2 electrical power generated in Japan. 20 influenced by the changes in the electrical 0.0 power generated in Japan. However, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0 2005 2011 2012 (FY) improvement in logistics made the overall (By Region) corporate emission result as 8.3% reduction (FY) compared to fiscal year 2005. Unit 2012 Japan t-CO2/vehicle 1.04 Manufacturing CO2 per Vehicle Produced North America t-CO2/vehicle 0.44 (t-CO2/vehicle) GRI G3 Indicators Europe t-CO2/vehicle 0.38 0.8 0.73 EN16 / EN17 / EN18 Other t-CO2/vehicle 0.70 0.63 0.63 0.62 0.60 0.58 Data for the Japan region includes manufacturing of 0.6 In the NGP 2016, we aim to reduce CO2 powertrains and other components for overseas assembly emissions per vehicle produced from GRI G3 Indicators use. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the EN16 / EN18 region, intensity tends to show higher values. manufacturing activities by 27% in fiscal year 0.4 2016 compared to fiscal year 2005. Nissan’s manufacturing CO2 emissions per vehicle 0.2 Scope 1 and 2 CO2 per Revenue produced in fiscal year 2012 were reduced by In fiscal year 2012, as measured by sales value, (t-CO2/million ¥) 15.2% compared to fiscal year 2005. 0.33 0.34 0.33 0.34 0.0 the CO2 emissions of Scope 1 and 2 totaled 0.35 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0.29 0.34 tons per ¥1 million, which was the same 0.30 level as in fiscal year 2011. 0.25 GRI G3 Indicators EN16 / EN18 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) GRI G3 Indicators EN16 / EN18 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 125 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Water Water Input per Vehicle Produced (m3/vehicle) Water Input In fiscal year 2012, water use per vehicle 10 (FY) produced was decreased to 6.40 cubic meters, a Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7.33 7.64 reduction of 6.5% from fiscal year 2011. 8 6.85 Total 1000m3 20,901 15,629 28,671 29,216 27,585 6.40 Increased efficiency in each region contributed Japan 1000m3 14,532 9,221 17,612 17,268 14,844 6 5.29 to the overall result. North America 1000m3 3,009 2,970 4,330 4,591 4,770 Europe 1000m3 1,954 1,315 2,297 2,276 2,252 4 Other 1000m3 1,406 2,123 4,432 5,081 5,720 2 In fiscal year 2012, water input in our global sites was about 27,585 thousand cubic meters, a reduction of 5.6% from fiscal year 2011 despite an 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) GRI G3 Indicators increase in global production volume. Change in regional production volume EN8, EN10 and efforts to reduce water use were factors in the overall reduction. (By Region) (FY) Unit 2012 Water Discharge Japan m3/vehicle 14.00 (FY) North America m3/vehicle 3.55 Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe m3/vehicle 3.50 Total 1000m3 15,970 10,435 19,281 20,398 20,557 Other m3/vehicle 4.53 Japan 1000m3 11,040 6,293 13,030 13,565 13,710 Data for the Japan region includes manufacturing of North America 1000m3 2,152 2,099 2,732 3,214 3,055 powertrains and other components for overseas assembly Europe 1000m3 1,486 972 1,830 1,930 1,871 use. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the GRI G3 Indicators Other 1000m3 1,292 1,071 1,689 1,689 1,920 region, intensity tends to show higher values. EN8 (FY) Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Quality Chemical oxygen demand (COD) kg 13,640 11,685 12,345 13,613 8,763 In fiscal year 2012, water discharge from our global sites totaled 20,557 thousand cubic meters, which was about the same amount as fiscal year 2011. GRI G3 Indicators EN21 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 126 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Water Discharge per Vehicle Produced Corporate Indicators – Emissions In fiscal year 2012, water discharge per vehicle (m3/vehicle) produced was 4.77 cubic meters, which was 10 Emissions about the same as fiscal year 2011. (FY) 8 Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 5.60 NOx ton 802 755 751 731 525 6 5.13 4.78 4.77 SOx ton 154 36 41 46 43 3.53 4 GRI G3 Indicators 2 EN20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (By Region) Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (FY) (FY) Unit 2012 Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Japan m /vehicle 3 12.93 Total ton 9,514 8,615 10,130 11,424 12,305 North America m3/vehicle 2.27 Japan ton 4,607 4,008 4,018 4,399 3,623 Europe m3/vehicle 2.91 North America ton 2,451 2,264 2,941 3,366 5,194 Other m3/vehicle 1.52 Europe ton 2,456 2,343 3,171 3,658 3,488 Data for the Japan region includes manufacturing of powertrains and other components for overseas assembly In fiscal year 2012, VOCs from manufacturing plants was 12,305 tons GRI G3 Indicators use. Since the denominator is vehicles produced in the EN8 region, intensity tends to show higher values. totally, a 7.7% increase from fiscal year 2011, partly due to the increase in GRI G3 Indicators global production volume. EN20 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 127 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control VOCs per Vehicle Produced PRTR per Vehicle Produced ＊ In fiscal year 2012, VOCs per vehicle (kg/vehicle) The PRTR per vehicle produced for fiscal year (kg/vehicle) produced were 2.86kg, a 6.6% increase from 4.0 3.77 3.68 3.70 2012 is scheduled to be announced around 3.34 4.0 fiscal year 2011. 3.36 the end of August 2013. 2.92 2.86 3.0 2.70 2.68 3.0 2.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * (FY) GRI G3 Indicators EN20 / EN24 (By Region) (FY) Unit 2012 Japan kg/vehicle 3.42 GRI G3 Indicators EN20 North America kg/vehicle 3.86 Europe kg/vehicle 5.42 PRTR (FY) Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012* Japan site total ton 3,960 3,773 3,607 4,441 ― Oppama ton 1,111 1,263 911 981 ― Tochigi ton 904 897 829 915 ― Kyushu ton 1,145 910 1,106 1,390 ― Yokohama ton 453 429 418 555 ― Iwaki ton 70 13 58 320 ― NTC ton 276 260 284 280 ― ＊ The PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) result for fiscal year 2012 is scheduled to be announced around the end of August 2013. GRI G3 Indicators EN20 / EN24 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 128 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Waste Waste for Disposal per Vehicle Produced Nissan production sites continue to dedicate (kg/vehicle) Waste strong efforts toward reducing waste for 12 11.00 (FY) disposable, and the number of “Zero Waste” Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 9.39 10 facilities is increasing. In fiscal year 2012, we Total ton 149,520 128,664 164,381 193,798 170,910 7.77 8 reduced the volume of waste for disposal to a Japan ton 68,032 62,064 70,136 74,412 67,705 total of 7.77kg per vehicle produced, a 17.3% North America ton 24,957 24,214 31,806 35,780 40,208 6 Europe ton 52,176 39,474 59,617 56,996 45,985 reduction from fiscal year 2011. Other ton 4,355 2,912 2,822 26,610 17,012 4 2 Detail Waste for disposal ton 41,288 40,048 33,479 0 (FY) 2010 2011 2012 GRI G3 Indicators Recycled ton 123,093 153,750 137,431 EN22 The scope of the waste data is limited to global production facilities. For fiscal year 2012, waste totaled 170,910 tons, a decrease of 11.8% from fiscal year 2011. GRI G3 Indicators EN22 Waste per Vehicle Produced Waste per vehicle produced was 39.66kg, a (kg/vehicle) decrease of 12.7% from fiscal year 2011. The 60 52.46 improvements in waste processing are reducing 50 45.42 43.56 43.78 the total volume of waste generated. 39.66 40 30 20 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) (By Region) (FY) Unit 2012 Japan kg/vehicle 63.86 North America kg/vehicle 29.91 Europe kg/vehicle 71.51 GRI G3 Indicators EN22 Other kg/vehicle 13.48 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 129 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Logistics CO2 Emissions per Vehicle Transported (t-CO2/vehicle) Logistics Volume In fiscal year 2012, despite an expansion in (FY) 0.5 0.45 0.44 0.40 0.41 0.42 global production, the CO2 emissions per vehicle Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total mil ton km 26,696 26,336 35,132 37,946 35,747 0.4 transported were 0.42 ton, which marked an improvement through efficient logistics Inbound mil ton km 5,751 7,556 10,659 11,603 12,156 0.3 compared to fiscal year 2011. Outbound mil ton km 20,944 18,780 24,473 26,343 23,591 0.2 Sea % 76.3 68.0 71.8 70.8 70.7 Road % 13.9 21.2 19.6 20.4 20.6 0.1 Rail % 9.4 10.5 8.2 8.1 8.2 0.0 GRI G3 Indicators Air % 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.7 0.5 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) EN29 In fiscal year 2012, despite a 1% increase in global production volume, with our improved filling method for shipping containers and efficient modes of GRI G3 Indicators packaging, logistics volume showed improvement. Compared to fiscal year EN29 2011, total volume decreased 5.8%. Although temporary airfreight use remains at a relatively high volume, we are making efforts to substitute rails, trucks and vessels whenever possible. CO2 Emissions in Logistics (FY) Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total t-CO2 981,562 1,083,305 1,412,657 1,642,195 1,490,050 Inbound t-CO2 380,825 501,056 686,412 859,671 821,030 Outbound t-CO2 600,737 582,249 726,246 782,524 669,020 Sea % 30.1 24.0 25.2 23.3 23.9 Road % 51.7 58.4 54.7 50.8 55.3 Rail % 5.9 5.6 4.5 4.1 4.3 Air % 12.3 12.0 15.7 21.8 16.4 In fiscal year 2012, the promotion of a modal shift, improved container filling ratios and efficient modes of packaging decreased relevant CO2 emissions by GRI G3 Indicators 9.3% compared to fiscal year 2011. Note: “Inbound” includes parts EN29 procurement from suppliers and transportation of knockdown parts, and “Outbound” includes transportation of complete vehicles and service parts. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 130 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Supply Chain Corporate Indicators – Environmental Accounting CO2 Emissions in Supply Chain Environmental Expenses (FY) (FY) Unit 2011 Unit 2011 2012 Carbon Footprint (Direct) t-CO2 12,542,888 Investment Cost Investment Cost Carbon Footprint (Indirect) t-CO2 15,001,066 Total mil Yen 5,110 158,149 5,520 165,959 Energy MWh 93,291,958 Renewable energy MWh 542,166 Business area mil Yen 310 1,660 320 1,632 Water Input m3 40,502,969 Upstream/downstream mil Yen 0 664 683 Water Discharge m3 26,351,024 Management mil Yen 0 2,426 0 2,537 Waste ton 1,726,859 R&D mil Yen 4,800 153,300 5,200 161,000 CO2 emission results for fiscal year 2012 are scheduled to be announced Social activities mil Yen 0 99 0 106 by the end of 2013. Damage repairs mil Yen 0 0 0 0 GRI G3 Indicators (FY) EN17 2011 2012 Unit Total mil Yen 2,581 2,604 Component Ratio of Scope 3 (FY) Cost reduction mil Yen 889 900 Category Component ratio 2012 Profit mil Yen 1,692 1,704 1. Purchased Goods & Services % 8.7 2. Capital Goods % 0.5 All environmental costs are based on the guidelines provided by Japan’s 3. Fueland energy-related Activities % 0.2 Ministry of the Environment, and are calculated for activities in Japan only. 4. Upstream transportation & distribution % 0.9 Expense results for fiscal year 2012 are tentative and subject to GRI G3 Indicators 5. Waste generated in operations % 0.1 future change. EN30 6. Business travel % 0.1 7. Employee commuting % 0.3 8. Upstream leased assets % 0.0 9. Downstream transportation & distribution % 0.4 10. Processing of sold products % 0.0 11. Use of sold products % 88.4 12. End of life treatments of sold products % 0.2 13. Downstream leased assets % 0.2 14. Franchises % 0.0 15. Investments % 0.0 Total % 100 Nissan conducted a study based on the draft Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard from the GHG Protocol. The results showed that about 90% of Scope 3 emission was from the use of GRI G3 Indicators EN17 sold products. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 131 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Facility Green Building Policy With ISO 14001 management processes for evaluating environmental Carbon Credit impact, Nissan makes it a key task to optimize its buildings in the (FY) construction or refurbish stages for making all its structures greener. Our Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 evaluation metrics in this area include buildings with a smaller environmental Allowance t-CO2 7,308 7,308 7,308 7,308 footprint, such as lower CO2 emissions; construction methods producing Credit t-CO2 2,681 4,934 4,066 5,261 less waste and emissions; and reduced use of hazardous materials and Nissan Motor Iberica, S.A. in Barcelona, Spain, entered EU-ETS in 2009. other quality control tasks. Furthermore, in Japan we use the Ministry of The verified emissions credit earned for fiscal year 2012 was 5,261 tons. Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism’s Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efficiency (CASBEE) as one of our GRI G3 Indicators performance indices. EN18 Among Nissan’s current business facilities, our Global Headquarters in the city of Yokohama has earned CASBEE’s highest “S” ranking, making it ISO 14001 Certification the second of our structures to do so following the Nissan Advanced Technology Center (NATC) in Atsugi, Kanagawa Prefecture. Certified facilities 100% Nissan is progressing with the introduction of The Global Headquarters gained a Built Environment Efficiency Rating environmental management systems to all its of 5.6, the high rating CASBEE for a new structure, making it one of Japan’s operation sites worldwide. In January 2011 we greenest office buildings. The building’s use of natural energy sources to obtained integrated ISO 14001 certification for reduce its energy usage and its CO2 emissions were highly evaluated, as GRI G3 Indicators MA our Global Headquarters and all of our main were its methods of water recycling and drastic reduction in waste produced. facilities in Japan for research and development, production and distribution, as well as for our Fines from Environmental Laws product development processes. We have also No fines or compliance concerns from national environmental law obtained ISO 14001 certification at our all materialized in the reporting year. GRI G3 Indicators production plants outside Japan. EN23/EN25/EN28 GRI G3 Indicators MA NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 132 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Employee Engagement and Education Employee Education All environmental activities rest on the foundation of individual employees’ Employee Engagement knowledge, awareness and competency. From this perspective, as part of its Nissan is implementing systems within its Quality Control (QC) circles with environmental management system, Nissan implements regular small-scale teams focused on kaizen activities to allow manufacturing environmental education sessions for its own employees and for the employees to actively propose new environmental improvement steps and employees of partner companies working in Nissan production facilities. The take part in them. This companywide effort headed by executive-level content of these sessions includes topics in line with the Nissan Green managers is a channel to deliver the message that employees’ actions can Program (NGP), such as CO2 reduction, energy and water conservation, contribute to Nissan Power 88, the company’s mid-term business plan, in waste reduction, and management of hazardous materials. We update the particular to achieve zero-emission leadership. It has developed into a way for content of our training exercises once a year as a means of constantly employees to take a more active role in thinking about and making proposals improving employees’ knowledge. related to the environment, and executives evaluate all proposals for their NGP2016, the mid-term environmental action plan announced in fiscal potential contribution to Nissan’s environmental goals. 2011, was communicated through town-hall-style meetings at Nissan Nissan also carries out surveys to measure satisfaction with its business locations throughout Japan with the participation of company environmental measures as part of its annual dealership satisfaction surveys. executives to discuss topics including the significance and background They are one of the key stakeholders for the company who interface directly factors to NGP2016. with customers every day. These valuable opinions are allocated to relative The events of these meetings are also shared through the company departments, and the status is reported at a dealer representative meeting intranet, internal newsletters and in-house video broadcasts. The same attended by Nissan executives and the presidents of each dealership to material presented to Nissan’s own employees is communicated to affiliate GRI G3 Indicators GRI G3 Indicators MA MA secure the PDCA cycle. companies as well. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 133 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Indicators – Nissan Green Program KPIs Product Indicators – Fuel Economy, CO2 NGP KPIs (Corporate) Japan Fuel Economy by Weight Rank The Nissan Green Program 2016 (NGP2016), our environmental action (FY) plan for the six years through fiscal year 2016, focuses on reducing the Unit 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 environmental impact of corporate activities and pursuing harmony Passenger cars (≦702 kg) km/L 10-15 Passenger cars (703–827 kg) km/L 10-15 19.9 20.6 20.9 20.8 21.7 22.5 25.0 26.2 between resource consumption and ecology. The program includes Passenger cars (828–1,015 kg) km/L 10-15 18.6 18.8 18.6 18.3 19.5 22.5 23.0 23.1 activities in development, manufacturing, sales, service and all other Passenger cars (1,016–1,265 kg) km/L 10-15 17.3 17.6 18.1 18.3 19.5 19.4 19.4 21.8 departments companywide. Passenger cars (1,266–1,515 kg) km/L 10-15 12.8 12.8 13.6 13.3 13.8 14.4 14.4 14.5 The status of each action plan of NGP2016 is as follows. The overall Passenger cars (1,516–1,765 kg) km/L 10-15 11.7 11.8 11.6 12.0 12.7 13.1 14.1 15.2 status column shows the progress achieved by fiscal 2012 compared to Passenger cars (1,766–2,015 kg) km/L 10-15 8.6 8.7 8.6 9.2 9.2 11.7 11.9 12.5 the objectives laid out for the duration of NGP2016. Each dot shows the Passenger cars (2,016–2,265 kg) km/L 10-15 8.3 8.3 8.3 8.4 8.4 9.2 9.4 9.7 Passenger cars (≧2,266 kg) km/L 10-15 5.5 5.5 5.5 progress achieved versus the target of the planned annual objectives. Action plans FY2012 Status Overall Status Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency (CAFE, JC08 mode) in Japan Reduce CO2 emissions of corporate activities by 20% (t-CO2/vehicle, vs. FY2005) Reduced 8.3% from FY2005 lll (km/L) Reduce by 27% in all manufacturing sites (t-CO2/vehicle, vs. FY2005 ) Reduced 15.2% from FY2005 lllll 20 18.2 Promote activities to reduce CO2 emissions in inbound/outbound logistics Promoted measures including introduction of Nisshei Maru, our fourth energy-efficient auto shipping ll 16.1 16.3 vessel 15.3 16 13.6 14.2 14.0 14.0 Reduce by 1%/year in offices (Japan, North America, Europe, China, t-CO2/unit) 17.7% increase from FY2010 Reduce by 1%/year in dealers (Japan, t-CO2/unit) 1.8% increase from FY2010 Reduce waste 12 Reduce waste by 2%/year (Japan) and 1%/year (global) in manufacturing plants Waste reduced by 10.3% in Japan plants and 3.2% in global plants llll Reduce waste in logistics by expanding best-practice activities 8 Promote water-usage management and reduction in all plants Set targets, started activities to reduce water use in Spain, Egypt, and South Africa ll Briefing held about NGP2016 with consolidated manufacturers and suppliers; environmental objectives Enhance and promote environmental management throughout supply chain (consolidated companies, 4 and environmental data, activities reporting added to management items for supplier selections ll sales companies, suppliers) upstream in the supply chain Added our global policy related to environment-impacting substances in the Nissan Green Purchasing 0 (FY) Promote reduction, substitution and management of environment-impacting substances ll 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Guidelines and distributed it to our suppliers Reduce environmental impact of products with lifecycle assessments (LCAs) CO2 assessments underway as part of product LCAs ll In fiscal year 2012, the increase of sales of Note and the higher proportion of kei vehicles (minicars) year-on-year improved the average fuel economy to 18.2km/l in the JC08 mode, which is around a 12% improvement compared to 2011. GRI G3 Indicators EN6/EN26 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 134 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency in U.S. CO2 Emission Index from Nissan Vehicles in Europe (mpg) (g-CO2/km when 2000=100) 50 100 100 96 95 40 33.7 34.0 34.1 35.2 93 93 93 32.0 32.2 95 91 91 28.2 28.4 29.2 28.0 28.5 29.7 29.4 25.7 89 30 23.1 24.9 24.8 24.4 21.9 21.2 21.7 21.9 22.9 90 20.8 20.7 20.7 83 20 85 81 79 80 76 10 75 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 70 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 PC LDT (FY) In fiscal year 2012, strong sales of fuel-efficient vehicles equipped with the continuously variable transmission (CVT), such as the Altima and Versa, In fiscal year 2012, Nissan reduced its CO2 emissions by more than 20% resulted in CAFE of 35.2 mpg for passenger cars, an improvement of 3% compared to fiscal year 2000 on its European sales models. from fiscal year 2011. GRI G3 Indicators EN6/EN26 GRI G3 Indicators EN6/EN26 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 135 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Global Corporate Average Fuel Efficiency (CAFE) Top Fuel Economy Models Nissan's CAFE result in fiscal year 2012 represented a 24.9% improvement (FY) Unit 2012 from the fiscal year 2005 level. We are steadily progressing toward the Nissan NOTE 1.2L 2WD w/Super Charger + Stop/Start Nissan Green Program 2016 (NGP2016) goal of a 35% improvement from Global km/L(10-15mode) 28.0 System fiscal year 2005 (as measured by fuel efficiency standards in the Japanese, Best selling model mpg Nissan Versa Sedan (Latio/Sunny/Almera) 1.6L 2WD 43.0 North American, European, and Chinese markets). Japan(excl. minicars) km/L(10-15mode) Nissan NOTE 1.2L 2WD w/Super Charger + Stop/Start 28.0 System (%) 100 99.5 Japan(incl. minicars) km/L(10-15mode) Nissan MOCO 0.66L 2WD + Stop/Start System 29.0 100 Europe gCO2 /km Nissan Micra 1.2 DIG-S 2WD + Stop/Start System 95.0 94.9 93.3 U.S. mpg Nissan Sentra 1.8L 2WD 44.2 95 China L/100km Nissan Sunny 1.5L 2WD 5.8 87.2 90 86.6 85.3 85 35 % reduction Only models with internal combustion engines are listed. The 100% 80 75.1 electric Nissan LEAF which produces zero CO2 tailpipe emissions is GRI G3 Indicators 75 excluded. EN6/EN26 GRI G3 Indicators 70 EN6/EN26 65 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2016 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 136 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Product Indicators – Technologies PURE DRIVE Sales Volume Ratio in Japan (%) Sales volume ratio in Japan was nearly 40% in 100 fiscal year 2012, almost doubled from the Technologies previous year. 80 GasolineDieselNatural-gas Hybrid drive Electric drive Unit powered powered 60 drive vehicles vehicles vehicles vehicles vehicles 39.8 Japan % 88.9 3.1 40 North America % 98.7 0.3 20.2 20 9.4 Europe % 46.7 52.1 0.4 0.6 Russia % 92.5 7.5 0.05 0.89 0.68 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Brazil % 81.4 18.6 China % 99.7 0.3 Other % 77.2 22.8 PURE DRIVE Sales Volume Ratio in Europe (%) Since its drop due to the PURE DRIVE criteria The 100% electric Nissan LEAF sold about 30,500 units in fiscal year 100 revision in 2011, volume ratio was improved to 2012, and more than 58,000 vehicles have been sold globally since its 42.7% in fiscal year 2012, a jump of 6.3 points. introduction in 2010. Nissan LEAF is the bestselling electric vehicle in the 80 GRI G3 Indicators world. Also, the Nissan Serena S-Hybrid was introduced in the Japan 58.1 60 51.9 EN6/EN26 market from 2012. 42.7* 35.8 36.4* 40 Green Products Innovation 20 Nissan believes it is important not only to develop and introduce zero emission vehicles such as electric vehicles and fuel cell vehicles, but also to 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) improve the fuel economy of engine-powered vehicles. Nissan’s PURE * PURE DRIVE Vol. / Nissan TTL (except Infiniti and EVs) DRIVE title is given to vehicles that not only meet existing fuel economy requirements in each market but clear more stringent internal standards PURE DRIVE Sales Volume Ratio in China which we periodically review in line with societal demands. PURE DRIVE (%) Volume ratio in China has increased to 57% in 100 fiscal year 2012, a jump of 8.2 points from the implements innovative environmental technologies that maximize energy efficiency to lower fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions. Cars previous year. 80 featuring these technologies are being marketed worldwide. 57.0 60 48.8 40 20 4.7 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 137 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control PURE DRIVE was first introduced in Japan and Europe in 2008, and by Product Indicators – Other Emissions 2011, it was available in almost all markets worldwide. (FY) Country/Region 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 PURE DRIVE Line-up Unit 2012 CIMA, FUGA, LATIO, CUBE, NOTE, MARCH, Japan SU-LEV % 98 Japan X-TRAIL, SERENA, LAFESTA HS, NV350 Europe Euro 5 % 100 CARAVAN, NT450 ATLAS, MOCO, ROOX U.S. U-LEV/SU-LEV/ZEV % 83 CUBE, SENTRA, ALTIMA SEDAN, JUKE, China Euro 4 % 100 U.S. VERSA SEDAN NV200, NOTE, JUKE, NEW MICRA, NEW Europe QASHQAI, PIXO, Q50 SEDAN, QASHQAI While we have zero-emission vehicles, the ultimate clean car, in our portfolio, China SUNNY, TIIDA, SYLPHY, TEANA, LIVINA we endeavor to make our entire fleet as clean as possible by reducing MARCH, LATIO, NOTE, SYLPHY, TIIDA, exhaust emissions. We have introduced vehicles that comply today with each Certain Region of Asia/Oceania SERENA region's or country’s more stringent future emission regulations. Due to MARCH, CUBE, JUKE, QASHQAI, SENTRA, Certain Region of Latin America SYLPHY, TEANA, VERSA, NOTE, TIIDA differences in regulations, there is no direct way to compare by region or SEDAN country, but we show here the percentage of our fleet in each location produced to the strictest standards of that region or country. EURO5 GRI G3 Indicators vehicles are introduced in China where that standard applies. EN26 GRI G3 Indicators EN6/EN26 Product Innovation Policy Share of Noise Emissions Nissan aims to be a “sincere eco-innovator.” We show that we are sincere by taking a proactive stance toward addressing environmental challenges and Japan Europe reducing the real-world environmental impact. We believe that being an (%) (%) eco-innovator means providing our customers with optimal value in the form 100 100 of innovative products, technologies and services as contributions to a 79 sustainable mobility society. 80 80 67 As one of the objectives, we have introduced the Nissan Global CO2 Management Way, QCT-C. This is a new set of management indices with CO2 60 60 (C) added to the traditional QCT indices of quality, cost and time. With 40 40 QCT-C, we have set CO2 reduction targets in all areas of our business. 21 17 As steps toward becoming a “sincere eco-innovator”, Nissan will 20 20 8 annually invest 70% of its research and advanced engineering budget on 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0.1 2 3 3 0 1 0 0 0 environmental technologies under Nissan Green Program 2016, our 0 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 (dB) 0 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 (dB) GRI G3 Indicators MA environmental mid-term plan. NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 138 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Noise emissions are shown by the noise China Product Indicators – Lifecycle Assessments (LCAs) produced by the acceleration of vehicle in (%) accordance with each national regulation. Only 100 Lifecycle Assessment to Reduce Environmental Impact complete built up imported models are shown for 80 69 Europe and China data. CO2 Emissions Over a Vehicle’s Lifecycle* 60 (%) 100 40 25 GRI G3 Indicators 75 EN26 20 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 3 n Fuel production, electricity generation 0 66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75 76 (dB) 50 n Fuel consumption n Car transport, maintenance, disposal Regulated Chemical Substances n Production of material, 25 In 2007, Nissan created a unified global approach to reducing environment-impacting substances. Since parts, vehicle then we have enhanced our management of these substances and advanced plans to reduce or to * Note: Calculated on basis 0 of production in Japan, replace their use. Same-class Nissan LEAF 100,000 km driving gas-powered car Through our communication with NGOs, we restrict usage of substances that have potential to be hazardous, that are thought to have a high risk of falling into this category or that have been identified as potential threats even if they are not covered by laws and regulations in each country where we do Nissan uses the lifecycle assessment (LCA) method to evaluate and business. As defined in the Nissan Engineering Standard (NES) titled “Restricted Use of Substances”, comprehensively assess environmental impact in all stages of the vehicle these substances are banned or subject to controls in line with this approach. We are working to apply lifecycle, from resource extraction to production, transport, customer use and this standard from the early development phase onward to the modules, raw materials, and service parts vehicle disposal. We also carry out LCAs for new technologies as they are that go into all Nissan vehicles. In 2012, NES was revised and added substances based on the definition introduced. of substances of very high concern (SVHC) in the EU REACh regulation, and also based on the Global Our calculations show that Nissan LEAF reduces CO2 emissions by up Automotive Declarable Substance List (GADSL) which is the result of the efforts of the global to 40% over its lifecycle compared to gasoline-powered vehicles of the same automotive, automotive parts supplier and chemical/plastics industries. class. This assessment was certified by a third-party LCA assessment organization, the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry. Defined Chemical Substances In the future we will continue to strive to lower the vehicles’ (Substances) environmental impact based on new technology and more efficient 3,000 2,882 manufacturing processes. We are aiming for further reductions in CO2 2,681 2,700 2,519 emissions over the lifecycle of our new vehicles. 2,400 2,100 1,800 GRI G3 Indicators 1,500 EN26 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 139 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Product Indicators – Materials, Recycling From the early development stage, we consider the use of highly recyclable materials and made structural improvements for ease of recycling. Since Material Ratio Nissan Note, launched in 2005, all new models have achieved a 95% or We are increasing the use of renewable resources and recycled materials in greater recyclability rate based on the national regulations on ELVs in addition to the traditional approach of using resources more efficiently to regions such as Europe, Japan, and Korea. reduce reliance on them. Our efforts with respect to recycled materials are based on the thought that once a natural resource is extracted, it should continue to be used, while maintaining quality, to minimize environmental Recycled Plastic Usage in Vehicles impact. We have set a target of increasing the usage rate for recycled (%) 20 materials per vehicle to 25% by fiscal year 2016. Ratio of recycled plastic to total plastic was 15.5 15.5 15.5 15.5 Pie data shown here represents the status of fiscal year 2011. calculated based on the bestselling model in 15 Europe. An additional 200 g of parts have been replaced with recycled plastics since minor Other: 9.4% 10 modifications in 2010. Duroplastic resins: 1.5% Elastomers: 4.1% 5 Thermoplastic resins: 11.5% Steel and iron: 59.4% Non-ferrous metals: 14.1% 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) GRI G3 Indicators EN1/EN2 Automotive Shredder Residue to Landfill Ratio (%) Recycling 20 For the efficient use of limited and precious natural resources, Nissan aims to Based on the Automobile Recycling Law in reduce dependency on the newly extracted resources as much as possible. 14.67 Japan, we calculated the ratio of landfills to We have defined a long-term goal of maintaining our global usage of these 15 residues after removing ferrous and non-ferrous 10.68 natural resources at 2010 levels through 2050. As a mid-term goal, we are metals from ELVs. We achieved a 0.0% landfill 10 8.09 ratio in 2012 by enhancing recycling capability working to raise the ratio of recycled materials, such as plastics, aluminums, and steels, which go into each new Nissan vehicle to 25% per unit by fiscal through acquiring additional facilities that comply year 2016. 5 with the Automobile Recycling Law. 0.61 Toward this end, we are presently researching ways to increase the recovery 0.00 rate further in order to reclaim and reuse valuable materials from End-of-Life 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Vehicles (ELVs). As of fiscal year 2012, our own calculations showed that we GRI G3 Indicators had achieved a recovery rate of 99.3% in Japan. EN2/EN22/EN27 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 140 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Product Indicators – Nissan Green Program KPIs NGP KPIs (Product) The Nissan Green Program 2016 (NGP2016), our environmental action plan for the six years through fiscal 2016, focuses on reducing the environmental impact of our corporate activities and pursuing harmony between resource consumption and ecology. The program includes activities in development, manufacturing, sales, service and all other departments companywide. The status of each action plan of NGP2016 is as follows. The overall status column shows the progress achieved by fiscal 2012 compared to the objectives laid out for the duration of NGP2016. Each dot shows the progress achieved versus the target of the planned annual objectives. Action plans FY2012 progress Overall Status 1.5 million cumulative EV sales with Alliance partner Renault Global Nissan LEAF sales: about 30,500 units in fiscal 2012, and 58,000 units cumulatively since ll 2010 launch Introduce four EVs including Nissan LEAF Promoted field test of the e-NV200 ll Prepare to introduce fuel-cell electric vehicle (FCEV) into market Signed agreement for joint development of common fuel-cell system with Daimler AG and Ford Motor ll Take global leadership in supplying batteries for electric-drive Started battery production by Nissan North America and Nissan Motor Manufacturing (UK) ll Help create zero-emission society utilizing EVs and their derivative technologies with partners Launched the LEAF to Home power supply system using Nichicon's EV Power Station ll l Develop EV charge/discharge system and information network Promoted rollout of “LEAF to Home” power supply system at public facilities, houses, condominiums l Demonstrate smart house/community/grid, starting from Yokohama Provide energy storage solution with used EV batteries through “4R” business Promoted use of EV batteries as stationary power units for houses, apartment buildings ll Improve CAFE* by 35% from FY2005 (Japan, U.S., Europe, China) Improved CAFE by 24.9% from FY2005 ll * Corporate average fuel economy; meet or exceed regulatory requirements Introduce top fuel-efficiency models in various classes These models had top fuel efficiency in their classes: ll l Note, Latio in Japan l Altima in U.S. l Sylphy in China Introduce FF-HEV in C class and above; expand FR-HEV offerings Introduced Cima Hybrid, Serena S-Hybrid in Japan ll Introduce plug-in hybrid vehicle (P-HEV) Promoted P-HEV development ll Introduce next-generation CVT globally; expand CVT sales to 20 million cumulative units from Global CVT-equipped vehicle sales of 2.28 million; cumulative total since 1992 of 13.36 million ll 1992 Develop lightweight technologies with structure optimization, new materials and new Developed and used 1.2 gigapascal ultra-high tensile strength, highly formable steel in the Infiniti Q50, l l manufacturing processes achieving weight reduction of about 40 kg Contribute to CO2 reduction by ITS technologies Worked with Beijing Municipal Commission of Transport to confirm effectiveness of dynamic route ll guidance to disperse traffic congestion Collaborate with Beijing city government to improve traffic congestion, promote eco-driving Increase recycled material usage ratio per vehicle by 25% in Japan, US and Europe Activities promoted ll Expand closed-loop recycling scheme with business partners Started activity to collect steel and aluminum sheet scraps generated during production, recycle them l l l Collect and recycle scrap, waste from vehicle production into steel and aluminum sheets for use l Collect and recycle end-of-life vehicles (ELVs) Improve ELV recovery rate Achieved recovery rate of 99.3% in Japan; efforts underway globally ll l Achieve top level ELV recovery rate (Japan) l Promote proper treatment and resource recovery globally Reduce scarce resource usage Reduce critical metal, rare earth usage Developed and applied a new electric motor to reduce use of rare earth dysprosium by 40% in Nissan l l LEAF Comply with emission regulations in each region with minimum precious metal usage NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 141 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Assurance and External Ratings [Remarks] Calculation n CO2 emissions from production sites: Calculated based on Nissan internal standards. The energy use data of each site is based on invoices from suppliers Third-Party Assurance which is multiplied by a CO2 emissions coefficient derived from a survey and validated by each production site. n CO2 emissions resulting from employees' commute: Calculated based on the GHG Protocol Scope 3 Standard. Specifically, the annual CO2 emissions resulting from each employees' commute is calculated using a standard unit of measurement announced by METI, MOE and MLIT. This figure is calculated on the basis that employees working at GHQ commute by bus and others employees use cars that are vehicles designated by Nissan, based on the data they submit when applying for transportation allowances. This is multiplied by the number of employees at each facility or office. Ratings Nissan and Socially Responsible Investment Today investors are paying more attention than ever to the concept of socially responsible investment (SRI), evaluating corporations from environmental and social perspectives in addition to financial fundamentals. Nissan is proud to be listed as part of the FTSE 4Good Index Series, DJSI Asia/Pacific, and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI in the CPD Japan 500 Climate Change Report 2012. In January 2013, Nissan achieved the highest position among automakers (second overall), in the 16th Nikkei Environmental Management Survey conducted annually by Nikkei Inc. FTSE4Good Index Series Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Pacific Index Nikkei Environmental Management Survey Carbon Disclosure Project Ranking 2nd in overall, and 1st in automotive sector Japan Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 142 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control GRI index (Environment) Section Index Reference EN1 Materials used 122, 139 EN2 Percentage of recycled materials 122, 139 EN3 Direct energy consumption 122, 123 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 122, 123 EN5 Energy saved 29, 30, 122 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services 29, 30, 123, 133-137 EN7 Reduction of indirect energy consumption 29, 30 EN8 Total water withdrawal 35, 36, 122, 125, 126 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 35 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 125 EN11 Location and size of protected areas – EN12 Description of significant impacts in protected areas 40, 41 EN13 Habitats protected or restored – EN14 Strategies for managing impacts on biodiversity 40, 41 EN15 IUCN Red List species in areas affected by operations – EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 29, 30, 122-124 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 123, 124, 130 EN18 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 123, 124, 131 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances – EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions 122, 126, 127 EN21 Total water discharge 43, 122, 125 EN22 Total weight of waste 35, 122, 128, 139 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 131 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated hazardous waste 127 EN25 Areas affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 131 EN26 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 20-28, 133-138 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 33, 34, 139 EN28 Significant fines and noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations 131 EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products, goods, materials, and members of the workforce 31, 32, 129 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 130 NISSAN MOTOR COMPANY Sustainability Report 2013 143 Contents Introduction CEO MESSAGE CoO MESSAGE BLUE CITIZENSHIP: NISSAN'S CSR Renault-Nissan Alliance CSR DATA Third-Party Comment Corporate Governance & Environment Safety Philanthropy Quality Value Chain Employees Economic Contribution Internal Control Third-Party Comment these safety features should enhance the company’s competitive standing. Proper explanation of these safety features—which I am certain Nissan is already pursuing—is also a key element in improving “sales and service quality.” Toshihiko Goto Issues in the area of the value chain are among the hottest industry topics today. Chief Executive Sustainability Forum Japan As international nongovernmental organizations work to achieve social justice, they are increasingly targeting the corporations at the top of the value chain in their efforts. These companies at the apex are increasingly expected to manage supplier actions throughout the value chain—not just for primary, secondary, and tertiary suppliers, but all the way upstream to the resource extraction stage. The realm of the ISO 26000 standard for social responsibility is, in its essence, the Enriching People’s Lives, Nissan’s corporate vision, is a splendid ideal for which to strive. pursuit of more robust management of the value chain and of human rights and ethics As we move toward an era when 9 billion people will walk on the Earth, though, it issues. In this connection, the processes of stakeholder engagement and due diligence appears that this vision will run up against challenges like limited supplies of natural with respect to the supply chain have taken on extraordinary importance. resources. To survive in such a milieu, I believe that corporations will need to craft A company cannot fulfill its due diligence duties simply by distributing explanations closed-loop systems and provide services that contribute to spiritual richness that goes of its purchasing standards to suppliers. Such an approach is also insufficient from the beyond simple material goods. CEO Carlos Ghosn has stressed this perspective in his perspective of risk management. A reading of this report shows that Nissan has made message in this report, which is heartening; nonetheless, I hope to see Nissan redouble progress from the previous year, but the world is a swift-moving place, and I feel that the its efforts over the medium to long term to address the issues humanity will face. company will need to accelerate its efforts to improve its management in this area, The steps Nissan is taking together with its Alliance partner Renault are bearing adjusting its approach as required for individual suppliers. fruit, a factor that is likely to increase the possibility that the company can realize its The term “human rights” does not appear so frequently in the pages of this report, corporate vision and mission, even given the massive expenditure that will be required and with the exception of the section on philanthropy, it is hard to fully grasp Nissan’s for future technological development. Nissan also deserves praise for publishing its approach to stakeholder engagement. This engagement is a factor connected with all scorecard and Nissan Green Program 2016 progress chart in this report: the company’s eight of the company’s CSR strategies, so it is advisable for Nissan to find some way to targets are clearly defined and its progress toward these goals is visually easy to grasp. touch on it in each part of the report. I must stress here that what I hope to see the On the environmental front, the measures Nissan is undertaking as a group can company pursue is not CSR as a defensive mechanism, but CSR as a form of offense— only be described as marvelous. However, this report would have benefited from more a tactic that can produce business opportunities for Nissan. detailed information on the overall direction and goals of environmental efforts In the area of diversity, Nissan is to be commended as a leading company that has throughout the supply chain and at dealerships, rather than just anecdotal presentations received numerous awards for its achievements. Diversity efforts take considerable time and coverage of Nissan’s purchasing standards. to implement, and Nissan must be praised for promoting them in a strategic fashion. I With respect to safety, Nissan has published figures on the numbers of deaths and hope the company will continue to be a leading player in this field. serious injuries from accidents involving its vehicles. The company deserves As for the mechanics of the report, the section at the beginning explaining how commendation for sharing this data—which may be common knowledge in the industry, to navigate the content and use the category tabs is easily understood and an but is not broadly known—in an easy-to-understand format. While the various safety excellent addition. technologies Nissan develops are wonderful, some concerns remain: will these end up Finally, I would note that Nissan’s website for Japanese customers places the as unusual implementations without broad industry uptake, or will they prove too difficult CSR-related information four levels deep. While it may not need to be located in a to master for an increasingly aged vehicle-using population? Japan is a forerunner in the top-level menu, as it is on the company’s global website, I recommend elevating this aging of its population, but the rest of the world is following in its tracks; fully automating content by at least one level to improve its accessibility.
