FY2012 Global Citizenship Annual Report www.seagate.com Facebook: facebook.com/seagate facebook.com/seagatecreative Twitter: @Seagate 1 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Message from Our CEO Welcome to the Seagate Global Citizenship Report for Fiscal Year 2012 Technology is driving major social change through advances in mobility, the Cloud and traditional computing—and storage products, systems and services are at the heart of it all. At both the device and the infrastructure level, Seagate’s products store, share and protect the world’s valuable digital content. Seagate takes its leadership role in this dynamic, digital world very seriously. We are committed to a sustainable, open and engaged business that, together with our many stakeholders, can have a positive impact across the globe. We’ve continued to make good progress in our corporate citizenship efforts this year: • We enhanced our leading-edge strategy to identify and quantify every substance in supplier materials, providing further opportunity to reduce hazardous substances in our products. • The company played an active role in creating industry-wide mechanisms to enable responsible sourcing of minerals throughout the electronics industry supply chain. • We increased sustainability and reduced environmental impacts by focusing on energy consumption, emissions and waste reduction targets. • Seagate remained committed to employee safety and well-being, as evidenced by the company’s industry-leading safety performance and a range of global wellness initiatives. • Our drive manufacturing operations performed well as they were evaluated through the EICC Validated Audit process, and supplier engagement was strengthened to monitor compliance with the EICC Code of Conduct. • I am particularly proud of the hard work by many, and the resources and financial assistance provided by Seagate, to help our employees, suppliers and communities in Thailand recover following devastating floods. We have transitioned the format of this year’s report to align with the Global Reporting Initiative* (GRI) framework and reporting standards, Level C. We remain committed to transparency and openness—through GRI alignment, ongoing support for the UN Global Compact and EICC, and in daily interactions with our many stakeholders. I invite you to learn more in the pages of our FY2012 Report. Thank you, Steve Luczo Chairman, President and CEO * A comprehensive sustainability reporting framework that is widely used and recognized across the world. 2 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. FY2012 Global Citizenship Annual Report The FY2012 Global Citizenship Annual Report describes Seagate’s approach to advancing sustainable, responsible business practices in all aspects of its operations. This report provides highlights of our FY2012 performance and opportunities we see in FY2013 and beyond. Table of Contents Message from Our CEO 2 Company Profile 5 Our Approach to Global Citizenship 6 Governance and Ethics 8 Stakeholder Engagement 10 Product Stewardship 11 Environmental Sustainability 15 Our Employees 21 Supplier Engagement 27 Community Engagement 30 FY2012 Performance Summary 35 Report Content Index 36 External Recognition 38 Appendix: Seagate Policies 39 Seagate Corporate Values 41 About Our Report This report covers activities managed by Seagate Technology public limited company (plc) from July 2, 2011, through June 29, 2012. Unless indicated otherwise, references to “Seagate,” “we,” “us,” and “our” within this report refer to Seagate Technology plc and its wholly owned subsidiaries, including the acquisition of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.’s hard disk drive business, which was completed in December 2011. No other significant changes to Seagate occurred during the reporting period. Previous Global Citizenship Annual Reports can be downloaded from Seagate’s company website at www.seagate.com. This website contains an array of information on Seagate’s company history, values and management. For information about Seagate’s financial performance, see its FY2012 Annual Report and Form 10-K. Inquiries regarding this report may be directed to social.response@seagate.com. 3 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Defining Report Content From this assessment, Seagate confirmed a core set of issues across five categories: Using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 1. Product Stewardship Reporting Guidelines, the FY2012 Global Citizenship Annual Report applies principles of materiality, stakeholder 2. Environmental Sustainability inclusiveness, sustainability context and completeness for 3. Our Employees defining report content. These principles provide companies 4. Supplier Engagement with a standardized approach to sustainability reporting. 5. Community Engagement Seagate provides a GRI content index at the back of this report. These five categories structure the content of this report. In FY2012, Seagate conducted a materiality assessment As we look to the future, we will use the results of this to identify, prioritize and validate the most relevant global materiality assessment to develop strategies for global citizenship issues to be included in this report. citizenship, particularly as we move into new markets, offer new products and reach new customers. We reviewed external trends across social and environmental dimensions to develop a comprehensive list of relevant global citizenship issues and examined how these issues influenced decision-making at Seagate through a series of meetings with key internal stakeholders across the business. These issues were prioritized according to their influence on Seagate’s business success and their importance to responsible, sustainable development. 4 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Company Profile Founded in 1979, Seagate Technology public limited company (NASDAQ: STX) is a leading provider of electronic data storage products, including hard drives, solid-state drives and hybrid drives. We employ more than 57,000 people worldwide and are incorporated in Dublin, Ireland. Seagate’s executive offices are located in Cupertino, California. From the first 5.25-inch hard drive for the PC, to the development of perpendicular recording technology, to “hybrid” solid-state hard drives, Seagate has lived at the cutting-edge of the electronic data storage industry for more than 30 years, pioneering new technologies and fueling the advance of digital information. Today, Seagate’s portfolio of solutions serves multiple markets, including enterprise storage, with products for servers, mainframes and workstations, client computing, with products for desktop and notebook computers and digital media applications, with products for digital video recorders, gaming consoles, personal data backup systems, portable external storage systems and other digital media systems. Net Revenues FY2012 Revenues by Geography (Dollars in millions) EMEA $20,000 19% Asia Pacific $14,939 55% $15,000 $11,395 $10,971 $10,000 Americas $5,000 26% $0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2012 Units Shipped By Category FY2012 Revenues by Channel Retail Enterprise Digital Media 7% 13% 17% Distributors 21% OEM 72% Client Compute 70% Seagate’s global operations encompass design, manufacturing, sales and marketing functions. Our manufacturing facilities are located in Brazil, China, Malaysia, Minnesota, Northern Ireland, Singapore and Thailand. Our product development centers have now expanded from the United States (U.S.) and Singapore to South Korea. 5 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Our Approach to Global Citizenship As one of the world’s leading providers of storage solutions, Seagate has a responsibility to maintain sustainable, responsible business practices throughout its operations. Our commitment to global citizenship and corporate social responsibility is reflected in our corporate values—values to which we hold all 57,000 employees across our company responsible (see page 41). Global Citizenship Program Seagate’s Global Citizenship (GC) program establishes the company’s corporate social responsibility strategies, ensures adherence to laws, ethical standards and international norms and embraces responsibility for how the company’s activities affect stakeholders. The mission of our GC program is to drive socially responsible, sustainable business practices consistent with corporate values and to provide assurance to management and stakeholders that such practices are managed effectively. The GC program is directed through a team of cross-functional leaders that is accountable to executive management. This team meets on a regular basis to: • Monitor changes in societal expectations • Develop strategies that drive organizational change • Report progress on annual program improvement goals • Support ongoing implementation of the GC program Issue-specific work groups analyze and recommend solutions for emerging issues. Seagate’s Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer serves as the executive sponsor of the GC program and the Environment, Health & Safety organization provides functional leadership. Executive Management Global Citizenship Team Key company functions are represented by individuals from across Seagate’s global business, including: Operations; Sales, Marketing and Customer Service; Storage Business; Investor Relations; Internal Audit; Legal; Manufacturing; Human Resources; Materials; Security; Finance; Quality; Corporate Communications; and Environment, Health & Safety Issue-Specific Issue-Specific Issue-Specific Work Group Work Group Work Group 6 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. FY2012 Highlights Conduct. In addition, we made significant progress with suppliers on their compliance with EICC guidelines. In FY2012, Seagate made progress in the five core issue areas Seagate continued to work on solutions to responsible most material to the GC program. sourcing of conflict minerals related to human rights abuses We expanded our product life cycle assessment efforts to in the eastern region of the Democratic Republic of Congo. develop a picture of the environmental impacts of our products Through the EICC, we collaborated with the electronics, from cradle-to-grave. These assessments have enabled automotive, heavy equipment, aerospace and jewelry us to identify opportunities for improvement and establish industries to develop systems for eliminating illegal elements benchmarks to determine the comparative value of products from the supply chain. Progress remains difficult to measure, for their environmental impacts. but positive outcomes are beginning to emerge. With nearly 40,000 of its 57,000-strong workforce located We revised our Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy in manufacturing facilities around the world, Seagate is and our Code of Ethics. These changes represent Seagate’s committed to providing a safe and fair work environment. commitment to a principles-based approach to honest and During the year, Seagate continued to ensure that facilities ethical conduct and compliance with laws and regulations. across the company met the guidelines set forth by the Other results from FY2012 include: Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition’s (EICC) Code of FY2012 FY2012 Location Target Actual Environment Energy Consumption Per Production Unit ≤ 7.83 7.17 Page 16 (kWh/drive) Health & Safety Occupational Injury and Illness Case Rate ≤ 0.21 0.20 Page 23 (cases per 100 workers) Days Away Case Rate ≤ 0.10 0.08 Page 23 (cases per 100 workers) People Non-operator Employees with ≥95% 97% Page 25 Development Plans Ethics Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest 100% 99% Page 9 Policy Certification 7 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Governance and Ethics Seagate is committed to maintaining high corporate ethical standards throughout its business operations, which coincides with and contributes to its sustainable development initiatives. Corporate Governance Seagate’s Corporate Governance Guidelines provide a framework for how the company’s Board of Directors exercises its responsibilities to company stakeholders. These guidelines empower the Board with the necessary authority to review Seagate’s business operations and to make decisions independently from company management. The guidelines also describe how shareholders can communicate with members of the Board. Board Independence and Committees A director qualifies as independent if he or she meets the definition of “independent director” in the listing standards of the NASDAQ Marketplace Rules and if he or she has no relationship that would interfere with his or her ability to exercise independent judgment in carrying out the responsibilities of a director. Independent directors continued to comprise a substantial majority of the Board throughout FY2012. Another key characteristic of Seagate’s board independence is the selection of a Lead Independent Director, who is responsible for: • Coordinating the activities of the other non-management directors • Presiding over meetings of the Board at which the Chairman of the Board is not present • Presiding over executive sessions of independent directors • Facilitating the CEO evaluation process • Serving as a liaison between the Chairman of the Board and the independent directors • Approving meeting schedules and agendas for the Board of Directors • Being available for consultation and direct communication if requested by major shareholders Previously, the Chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee served as the Lead Independent Director. However, in FY2012, the Board decoupled the role of Lead Independent Director from the Chairmanship of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Board determined to rotate the role of Lead Independent Director among the independent directors of the Board, so long as the Chairman of the Board is not independent. In addition to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the Board organizes standing Audit, Compensation and Finance Committees. All four committees are accountable to the full Board and are composed entirely of independent directors. In FY2012, women led two of the four standing committees. To learn more about the functions performed by these committees, visit the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.seagate.com/about/investors. 8 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Corporate Ethics Implementation and Training To implement our Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Seagate believes that there is a strong relationship between Policy, we require all new employees to certify that they have ethics and business efficacy: Ethics support the company’s read and understood the policy. We require all continuing commitment to quality and total customer satisfaction and employees* to certify annually that they agree to comply with promote a work environment of open communications, where the policy and understand that they are expected to report any fair and honest decisions result in shared success. Maintaining potential or actual violations and conflicts. high ethical standards is critical to achieving business success on the international stage. The Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy is available in five languages (Chinese, English, Korean, Malay and Thai), Our Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest with translation into additional languages currently underway. Policy and Code of Ethics Enhancements to employee communications and training related to the policy are in process—such as using blogs and Seagate constantly strives to ensure its policies for ethical other e-tools to communicate relevant information, developing business conduct reflect the latest standards, requirements, online training modules for general ethics training and offering laws and regulations at the local, national and international live training sessions tailored for specific groups of employees levels. within Seagate. In April 2012, we updated our Ethical Conduct and Conflict Seagate continues to promote the Ethics Helpline, established of Interest Policy and Code of Ethics to continue on a more as a means for employees and third-party business partners principles-based approach to our activities while promoting to report confidentially any illegal or unethical situations that ethical conduct and compliance with laws and regulations. they encounter in the workplace. Employees and partners are The Ethical Conduct and Conflict of Interest Policy summarizes encouraged to talk to their supervisors or human resources Seagate’s ethical standards and key policies in areas such as representatives, contact the secure, toll-free Ethics Helpline insider trading, conflicts of interest, bribery and corruption, or use the new online web reporting tool (currently available privacy and confidentiality, antitrust and fair dealing and in Chinese, English, Korean, Malay and Thai) to report any provides relevant information about expected behavior. The illegal or unethical business conduct. Seagate will not retaliate, Board will review these policies on an annual basis to ensure nor permit others to retaliate, against anyone for good-faith that Seagate continues to operate within the letter and spirit of reporting of a suspected ethical violation. the law. Visit the Corporate Governance section of our website at * Non-operator Seagate employees with company email addresses. www.seagate.com/about/investors to view our Code of Ethics. 9 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with key stakeholders on relevant social and environmental issues is an important activity that provides Seagate with the insights and relationships needed to make wellinformed business decisions. Each year, we solicit feedback from our customers and business partners to shape GC program plans and strategies. For example, through a variety of surveys and reporting initiatives, Seagate shares detailed information about the company’s environmental performance and greenhouse gas emissions to help the electronics industry improve its environmental footprint. We meet regularly with investors, governments, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), local communities and other civil society members to gather perspectives about trends in business and society that may influence not only our business success, but also the extent to which we can contribute positively to sustainable development. Industry Collaboration and Leadership One of our key industry collaborations is with the EICC, a cooperative of leading electronics companies working to improve social, ethical and environmental responsibility in the global electronics supply chain. Seagate was a founding member of the EICC in 2004. We adopted the EICC Code of Conduct in 2007 and continue to maintain full and active membership in this organization. In FY2012, we participated in EICC workgroups focused on environmental sustainability, conflict minerals and the Validated Audit Process. Seagate participates in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted principles around human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. Seagate executives have participated in the last two UNGC Leaders Summits, held every three years to enhance the role of responsible business and investment. Seagate is a member of the UNGC’s U.S. Network and regularly engages in membership meetings, including sponsorship of meetings when the opportunity presents. Global Citizenship Stakeholder Inquiry Process Seagate has an established process to address specific stakeholder global citizenship issues or requests. A subset of the GC team manages this process. The types of information provided range from environmental performance, product stewardship and product safety, to labor standards, fair trade, supply chain, as well as others. 10 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Product Stewardship To manage product environmental impacts, Seagate strives for a complete understanding of material and chemical content, including the identity and quantity of every molecule in the building blocks of its products. To achieve this, Seagate works with suppliers to obtain full disclosures on every part and material included in its products. This information is maintained in a database and is readily accessible as new material and chemical concerns arise. We also use tools, such Life Cycle Assessments (LCAs), to understand the environmental impacts of our products. Seagate’s key product sustainability challenges include the management of materials identification, conflict minerals and restricted substances. The mining and smelting of materials for Seagate products—as well as product use—contribute to carbon and other emissions. Conflict minerals are a significant challenge confronting the industry, and this challenge became an even higher priority when the U.S. government required all users of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold to report on these minerals in their products. Seagate is working with the EICC to create industry-wide mechanisms for ensuring conflict-free supply chains. We have made substantial progress, but the task remains unfinished. FY2012 Highlights Seagate made significant strides in reducing materials of concern, conflict minerals and restricted substances in products during FY2012. We completed product LCAs on one of our highest-volume products and on product packaging. Chlorine and bromine content of core products was also reduced to trace amounts. In addition, 100% of Seagate’s suppliers responded to requests for compliance with conflict minerals legislation. Eliminating specific chemicals from our products continues to challenge our ingenuity. Although customers want certain chemicals removed from products, they do not want changes to product performance. Using our extensive understanding of the chemistries already present in products, we will continue to seek opportunities to substitute chemicals of high concern with safer alternatives. Looking Forward Seagate will perform LCAs on additional product families in the next year and work with the EICC to develop product category rules to standardize data on environmental impact. We will aim for continued achievement of 100% supplier reporting on conflict minerals, continuous improvement of data quality and increasing the number of suppliers using Conflict Free Smelters. As Seagate completes the development of new software to support data analysis, targets for improvement can be prioritized. Longer term, we plan to integrate findings into new product designs and operations logistics to reduce environmental impacts. 11 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Environmental Impacts of Products Packaging LCA Initial analysis suggests that energy consumption and resource The environmental impacts of packaging are especially depletion are Seagate products’ greatest environmental significant to Seagate customers. impacts. In FY2012, Seagate conducted an LCA on 10 of the The greatest energy consumption points occur during: company’s most commonly used packaging configurations. • The extraction and processing of minerals for product The assessment revealed substantial carbon emissions related components to air transportation. Air transportation can account for more than half of all package life cycle CO2 emissions. • Customer use of products These results indicate that we can make significant • The transportation of products throughout their life cycles, improvements by reducing dependence on air transportation, from cradle-to-grave minimizing packaging mass and exploring new materials— We conduct LCAs (according to ISO 14040 standards) ideas we are already pursuing. to construct an estimate of each product’s impact on the From these initial LCAs, we have found that supplier data environment. Our LCAs encompass 15 impact categories, often differ widely from data in industry databases. These including cradle-to-grave impacts such as end-of-life disposal discrepancies suggest that industry-wide methodologies and recycling. and training would help us establish environmental impact Seagate prioritizes which products undergo LCA efforts based measurements that consistently, reliably and uniformly capture on production volume and customer data needs. information. Barracuda HDD LCA Looking Forward In FY2012, Seagate completed LCAs on the Barracuda family Seagate is already performing product LCAs on other product of hard disk drives (HDD). families, including: SSD, the Go Flex series of consumer external storage products and Enterprise. Results show that the biggest environmental impacts occur at the raw materials extraction and pre-processing phases. We are also working with the EICC to develop product However, the energy consumed through transportation category rules to standardize data on environmental impact. underlies every link in the life-cycle chain, driving up This effort may not yield short-term results, so we are environmental impacts along the way. considering alternative approaches in an effort to use current information to its full advantage. During the entire life of the product, every 160GB Barracuda HDD: • Creates 11 kg of equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e) and 150 g of sulfur oxide (SOx) • Uses 7.1 kg of oil and 7.1 kg of iron Study of these initial results has increased Seagate’s knowledge of how its products affect the environment and revealed opportunities for improvement. 12 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Conflict Minerals Internally, we are relying on our IT team to support automation of the Reporting Template data collection, review and risk Conflict minerals are a significant challenge confronting many assessment. industries. Illegal mining of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (3TG) in the Democratic Republic of Congo from small-scale Restricted Substances mines has contributed to a decade-long civil war, forced labor and child labor in the region. As a leading supplier to major electronics OEM customers, we establish standards for direct materials—the components Addressing conflict minerals became an even higher priority that make up our products—to meet customers’ strictest this year when the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission specifications. (SEC) finalized the rules for the Dodd-Frank Act, Section 1502. The law requires companies to identify the origin of 3TG used We are meticulous when it comes to cataloging restricted in their products and to move toward a supply chain using substances, of which we list more than 2,000. Seagate certified conflict-free smelters. maintains a database to evaluate ongoing legal and customer compliance and catalogs the Chemical Abstract Number Seagate is working with the industry to identify illegal 3TG in (CAS) for each and every chemical substance contained within its products. We actively participate in the EICC Extractives components and products, for every product bill of materials Committee, its Due Diligence Subcommittee and the IPC* from Seagate suppliers. Conflict Minerals Data Exchange Standard committee. Participation in these groups helps Seagate remain informed In FY2012, consistent with the European Union REACH and maintain standard processes for data collection and Directive, we added several dozen new chemical substances quality. In addition, Seagate is working with the EICC to create to our restricted list and completely eliminated others from industry-wide mechanisms to certify supply chains, from Seagate products. products to the mines of origin. Since 2009, we have eliminated tetrabromo bisphenol-A The EICC-GeSI Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (TBBPA), bromine and chlorine from adhesives, inks and other (“Reporting Template”) is a widely adopted standard plastic compounds to less than 900ppm*. Antimony trioxide throughout the industry for conflict mineral supply chain (a possible carcinogen) was eliminated from HDD products in reporting. We updated our Conflict Minerals Policy (see FY2012, aligned with leading industry practices. Appendix) and deployed the Reporting Template throughout Seagate has been working to rid its products of beryllium since our supply chain to identify suppliers whose components 2008 and has succeeded in eliminating it from HDD products contain 3TG. that will ship after FY2012. We achieved this by discontinuing Seagate endeavors to collect reliable information, but data old product lines and designing newer products to meet more quality and verification remain key challenges. To address this, stringent chemical content objectives. we review each supplier template for inconsistencies and work Looking Forward directly with suppliers to obtain satisfactory information. Mapping Seagate’s supply chain accurately is only half of the Due to their prevalence in the “building blocks” of electronics, approach: Certification, which ensures sourcing from conflictrestricted chemical substances are often difficult to eliminate. free smelters, is the second vital component. We expect to We will continue to add chemicals to our restricted substance report further progress next year. list and work with suppliers to identify safer alternatives that * IPC: Institute of Printed Circuits, an international electronics industry serve their needs. As our LCA data grows, we will identify association. other opportunities for improvement. * At the homogeneous material level, the industry standard. Looking Forward Seagate anticipates that collecting conflict mineral supply chain data using the Reporting Template will be an annual exercise, as the company begins to adhere to the SEC requirements for annual reporting and strive for continuous improvement in the supply chain. Seagate will continue to require 100% supplier reporting on conflict minerals, applying lessons learned to each successive round of data gathering and analysis. Simultaneously, we encourage suppliers to require conflict-free certification of their conflict mineral sources. We are directly communicating with smelters and refiners in our supply chain to help them become conflict-free certified. 13 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Product Waste Seagate products become waste at the end of their useful lives. The aluminum and plastic used to make our drives can be recycled, but that is unlikely to happen in the absence of a recycling system for electronic waste. Many regions where Seagate products are sold do not have strong electronic waste recycling programs, so Seagate drives can add to the waste stream destined for incinerators and landfills. Currently, the majority of Seagate’s products are sold as components to larger systems produced by OEMs. Most equipment makers who use Seagate drives have product takeback programs. Seagate products comprise a relatively small portion of the electronic waste stream, yet they are generally profitable to recycle. Therefore, we encourage reclamation, just as we recycle our own internally generated scrap. While Seagate does not currently have a formal program to systematically collect drives at end of life on a large scale, we are investigating product take-back options for our retail products. Seagate did, however, provide customers with drive disassembly instructions to facilitate recycling. In addition, we managed our own take-back program for drives under warranty, in which we reused working parts and recycled the remainder. Looking Forward Seagate will continue to pursue a role in end-of-life product take back. There may be opportunities to use more recycled content in Seagate products, especially as rare earth elements in the motor magnets become increasingly valuable and attractive to recapture. Still, the challenges related to incorporating more recycled content lie in finding reliable sources of recycled material and in meeting restricted substance standards, since older products contain restricted substances difficult to upgrade to today’s standards. 14 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Environmental Sustainability With global manufacturing operations, Seagate fully understands and is committed to the challenge of improving environmental sustainability. We have implemented an environmental management system (EMS) that adheres to industry-leading ISO14001 requirements at 100% of our manufacturing facilities. By managing and reducing environmental impacts through this system and adhering to the EICC Code of Conduct, Seagate demonstrates sustainability leadership as a key supplier in the electronics industry. As the Seagate brand is synonymous with product quality, the company also strives to be recognized for having sustainable operations. To this end, Seagate sets goals, tracks progress and audits systems to reduce energy, greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste. This year, we are pleased to report continued progress toward annual goals. FY2012 Highlights Reducing energy use, GHG emissions, waste and hazardous substances continue to be a primary environmental focus. In FY2012, we achieved or exceeded all annual targets for energy, emissions, waste and hazardous substances. Seagate reduced energy more than 8% and carbon intensity more than 3%, with total GHG emissions dropping 1.5%. A third-party review confirmed the soundness of our data and methodology for emissions tracking. We continued our commitment to zero landfill disposal of hazardous waste. Seagate’s Johor, Malaysia site continues to generate the highest amount of hazardous waste, which has been addressed with a new treatment process implemented at the beginning of FY2012. This has resulted in a 31.7% reduction of Seagate’s hazardous waste. Our solid waste recycling rate increased to 81.6%. Water management is a growing environmental challenge for all companies. Seagate used 10.1 million cubic meters of water in FY2012, largely at the Johor site, even while water recycling is rising. Given growth in water use for the past three years, Seagate is reviewing the possibility of implementing a corporate water policy and annual targets for reduction and reuse. Looking Forward Seagate is already working to meet energy, emissions, waste and hazardous substances goals for FY2013. We have set a target to exceed FY2012 performance for energy and GHG emissions intensity, reduce usage by an additional 15,000 megawatt hours (MWh) of electricity and maintain solid waste landfill diversion greater than 80% in the coming year. We are considering implementing long-term goals to ensure continued progress. 15 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Energy and Emissions Seagate’s energy intensity is measured by MWh of purchased electricity per drive shipped. The process of manufacturing Seagate drives uses energy and produces GHG emissions that potentially contribute to The decline in energy intensity in FY2012 was the second climate change. Annually, Seagate uses more than 1.6 million biggest decline since we began tracking energy reduction MWh of electricity and produces GHG emissions equivalent to efforts. We attribute this success to more efficient use of about 1.3 million metric tons of CO2e. equipment, machine shutdown during idle periods and the implementation of energy efficiency projects. Seagate actively works to reduce the amount of energy and carbon required to produce disk drives by: • Identifying energy efficiency opportunities • Auditing management systems and performance Energy Consumption (Million MWh) • Reporting on progress 1.65 Seagate’s primary goal is to reduce energy and carbon per 1.610 drive, known as energy intensity or carbon emissions intensity. 1.60 1.559 Each factory sets its own energy efficiency targets and 1.55 designs projects to meet these goals. 1.50 1.486 1.494 Seagate reports results to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Supply Chain Program, using CDP’s GHG Protocol to 1.45 1.437 calculate GHG emissions. In FY2012, through a third-party 1.40 review, we determined that our data and methodology were sound. We assess risk to the business from climate change 1.35 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 as part of our annual ISO14000 management process and have determined that our climate risks do not differ from other companies. Seagate’s energy efficiency projects resulted in carbon and Energy Consumption Per Production Unit energy intensity reduction across the company, exceeding the (kWh/Drive) majority of FY2012 goals. Significant reductions in purchased electricity and fugitive emissions from manufacturing also 10.00 8.77 helped Seagate to meet its targets. 8.14 8.43 7.83 8.00 7.17 We continue to face challenges in our overall energy consumption and GHG emissions. Specifically, Seagate’s 6.00 total annual energy consumption increased three times since FY2008, as our production grew. 4.00 Furthermore, while our absolute emissions (total corporate 2.00 emissions) declined last year and we continued to improve the carbon intensity of our products, total annual emissions 0.00 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 increased twice since 2007. Energy Performance Seagate consumes energy to fuel its manufacturing processes. To produce drives in FY2012, total energy use rose 12.7% from FY2011. This upward trend in energy consumption has continued for most of the past five years as production expanded, despite emissions minimization projects that have reduced our energy intensity per drive by 35.3% since 2005. In the last year alone, energy intensity dropped 8.4% from FY2011. 16 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. CO2e Annual Emission (Metric Tons) CY2010 CY2011 Source Type Scope 1 Direct Emissions Stationary Combustion 16,149 15,705 Mobile Combustion 233 286 Process / Fugitive Emissions 310,773 307,318 Total Scope 1 327,155 323,309 Source Type Scope 2 Indirect Emission Purchased Electricity 944,098 926,867 Total Scope 2 944,098 926,867 Source Type Scope 3 Indirect Emissions Business Travel 13,621 14,110 Hire Employee Commute 13,988 11,612 Total Scope 3 27,609 25,722 Total Metric Tons CO2-e/year 1,298,862 1,278,898 Carbon Emissions Performance In FY2012, Seagate saw performance improvements in GHG Second, the carbon intensity of local energy sources can emissions from energy use and the manufacturing process. vary by geographical region, causing emissions to increase To drive down carbon emissions intensity, each Seagate or decline disproportionately. In 2012, production volume manufacturing site is required to deliver on annual emissions decreased in some locations with higher carbon intensity reductions goals. By reducing emissions from our two from energy. largest sources, purchased electricity and fugitive emissions Third, Seagate revised the methods used to calculate (unintended release of gases), total emissions and emissions emissions from hire employee commute, and restated this per drive dropped in FY2012. figure to 13,988 metric tons, down from the 22,505 metric The intensity of carbon emissions is at an all-time low since tons as reported in 2011. we began tracking in 2007, declining for three of the past four years. In addition to reducing emissions from larger sources, we saw declines related to employee contract bus commuting Carbon Emissions Per Production Unit through consolidation and reduction of bus routes. (Metric Tons Co2e/Drive) Certain categories of emissions did increase, however, 0.009 including business travel and vehicle emissions. We will assess 0.0078 0.008 ways to reduce or offset business travel in the future. 0.0072 0.0071 0.007 0.0066 0.0064 Typically, energy and emissions are highly correlated, but in 0.006 2012, Seagate’s emissions declined even while energy use 0.005 rose. We identified three potential reasons for this discrepancy. 0.004 First, we track energy on the fiscal year and emissions on 0.003 our calendar year (CY), which we believe contributed to the 0.002 discrepancy. 0.001 0 CY07 CY08 CY09 CY10 CY11 17 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Energy production sources, including fuels such as coal, Greenhouse Gas Emission natural gas and nuclear, differ by region, and Seagate must (Metric Tons CO2e) purchase energy from these local sources for operations. The combination of these sources in any given location is known as 1,400,000 the “energy production mix.” As customer demand rises or falls for specific Seagate 1,200,000 products, facilities in different geographical regions—and therefore with different energy sources—use more or less energy in the production process. 1,000,000 The fluctuating nature of global demand patterns makes it difficult to plan for and manage the energy production mix. 800,000 Therefore, Seagate has focused on more efficient energy use and reducing direct emissions at its sites. 600,000 While we are pleased with our overall and per drive reductions, two sources of emissions continue to pose a challenge to 400,000 manage: Scope 1 emissions (those generated directly from our sites) at our Woodlands, Singapore facility and the energy production mix in high-emitting regions, such as China. Several 200,000 ongoing emissions reductions projects are currently being pursued to address these challenges. 0 CY07 CY08 CY09 CY10 CY11 Looking Forward Process / Fugitive Electricity Seagate continues to work toward further energy and emissions reductions. Seagate’s goals for FY2013 are to reduce Stationary Combustion Business Travel electricity consumption to below 7.17 kWh/drive and save Mobile Combustion Hire Employee Commute* 15,000 MWh of electricity from improved efficiency. Looking further out, we will assess how emissions will change as we * We started to measure “Hire Emloyee Commute” in CY2010 provide more drives for an expanding customer base, including cloud computing. 18 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Hazardous and Solid Waste Waste Generation Seagate has established systems to track, manage and report (Tons) waste at every factory. We have continued our commitment to zero landfill disposal of hazardous waste except where no 50,000 other viable treatment method is available. 40,000 Each site is responsible for reporting data on waste to 22,222 18,711 Tons 30,000 a central database reviewed by Seagate’s Corporate 17,654 Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) professionals. 20,000 20,266 23,181 Seagate has established minimum requirements for the 20,995 21,362 10,000 selection and performance of hazardous waste treatment 12,423 14,594 4,841 vendors, which include evaluation against global best-known 0 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 practices for risk and compliance through a third-party audit. Hazardous Waste Generated In FY2012, Seagate exceeded almost all goals to manage and Non Hazardous Waste Generated reduce waste. We reduced hazardous waste by more than 6,700 tons—3,000 tons beyond our reduction goal for the year. The solid waste recycling goal of 80% was attained. We may never be able to eliminate hazardous waste entirely from our production process. While we have made gains, Hazardous Waste Generation hazardous waste levels have not yet returned to FY2008 25,000 120 levels. Until we find alternative manufacturing processes, 100 20,000 Tons / Million Drives hazardous waste production will continue to correlate with 80 production of drives. 15,000 Tons 60 10,000 Hazardous Waste Reduction Performance 40 5,000 20 Total hazardous waste declined by 31.7% in FY2012. Most of this year’s decline can be explained by the Johor onsite 0 0 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 treatment in Malaysia, which went online in early FY2012. Hazardous Waste Generated When Seagate relocated operations from Northern Ireland Hazardous Waste Generated per Million Drives to Malaysia, the company experienced anticipated increases in hazardous waste in FY2010 and FY2011 because the classification of the waste changed and Seagate’s onsite treatment facility at the time did not have safety buffers that were satisfactory. Seagate elected to ship hazardous waste offsite for treatment in FY2010 and FY2011 until adequate onsite treatment was operational. Hazardous Waste Disposition Despite our overall efforts in Malaysia to reduce hazardous Landfill waste, we experienced an environmental compliance violation 0% in FY2012, in which were fined RM 1,000 (approximately $300) Incineration for effluent discharge that did not comply with the Department 5% of Environment standards on nickel levels. We quickly Recycling identified the source of the problem and have since improved 9% our processes to reduce the risk of future violations. There Energy Recovery were no significant spills recorded at any facility. 4% Treatment 82% 19 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Solid Waste Reduction Performance Water Management Seagate reduced its solid waste by 5.7% in FY2012, Seagate recognizes that water is a key natural resource, and demonstrating a reduction in solid waste for the second year that without proper management of it, water availability for in a row. Overall, our solid waste recycling rate rose to 81.6% human consumption, as well as the health of our ecosystem and has remained between 77% and 82% for the past and biodiversity will be greatly affected. six years. Water Use Solid Waste Generation Water Use Recycled Water Use/ 25,000 82 (Million m3) (Million m3) Drive 81 FY10 9.1 0.9 0.047 20,000 80 FY11 9.9 1.0 0.050 Percentage 15,000 79 FY12 10.1 1.5 0.045 Tons 78 10,000 77 76 5,000 75 Seagate’s manufacturing processes withdraw water from 0 74 local watersheds for use as coolants and cleaning agents FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 at factories. While our water use has increased during each Total Generation of the past three years, we have implemented measures to % Recycled improve water recycling and have achieved significant gains in the same period. Looking Forward Looking Forward Seagate’s targets for FY2013 are to reduce hazardous waste Seagate will continue to explore new avenues for water by at least 3% beyond FY2012 levels and maintain its solid recycling in FY2013. We also plan to assess our water waste landfill diversion rate. consumption and impact on local water availability and quality to determine whether a formal policy and management approach is necessary. 20 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Our Employees At Seagate, our people drive our success as a company. Taking care of employees enhances our commitment to global citizenship by ensuring labor and human rights and means that our team is healthier, happier and more productive. Seagate has a global workforce of approximately 57,000, more than two-thirds of whom are operators in manufacturing sites. This employee profile creates specific challenges when assuring that all employees are protected from potential work-related hazards and treated with respect and dignity. Seagate is committed to supporting employee wellness, offering opportunities for career development and increasing diversity in the workplace. Total Workforce Total Workforce by Employment Type FY2010-2012 FY2012 57,172 FY2012 Management 6% 51,705 FY2011 Professionals 47,260 15% FY2010 Support 12% Total Workforce by Region Operators EMEA 3% 67% U.S./Americas 9% Asia-Pacific 88% FY2012 Highlights In FY2012, Seagate focused on respecting human rights and protecting employees by strengthening worker age and working hours verification processes and addressing staff retention. We set aggressive targets to increase workplace safety, bolstered our management system and directed attention towards common health and wellness issues. Finally, we committed to developing employee skills for leadership and performance. 21 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Because of our efforts, we reduced our workplace incident We adjusted our audit program this year to increase efficiency rate by one-third, meeting or exceeding goals for reduced and analyzed internal human resources policies to determine injury and days-away case rates. We expanded health key potential risks and areas for improvement. We engaged and wellness programs across our sites and more deeply with staff at the site level to encourage active involvement in engaged with employees on their own well-being. We also the program. met or exceeded goals for employee training and career Internal and EICC audit results were favorable in FY2012. development. Child Labor Looking Forward Seagate is firmly committed to preventing child labor and has a formal policy against employing anyone under the age of In FY2013, Seagate will continue to monitor and improve its 18. We have been highly successful in ensuring no underage health and safety management system to decrease workplace workers are hired. incidents. Our ultimate goal is zero work-related injuries, accidents and incidents. As a precautionary measure, Seagate has implemented a structured process with multiple age verification “checkpoints” Additionally, we are launching the “Seagate Way,” a program in line with EICC and UNGC codes and local law. This includes to help define company culture and engage employees across remediation steps intended to protect and support any job types and international boundaries to make Seagate more underage worker found in Seagate’s system. flexible in a changing global business landscape. Working Hours Labor and Human Rights Compliance with local laws regarding working hours can To remain a successful and respected company, Seagate must be challenging in countries with strict regulations but lax ensure that human rights are protected and that what the enforcement because workers will often move to companies company asks of employees is fair and respectful. that are willing to break the law—and the EICC Code. Seagate Our global manufacturing model means that we need to has implemented robust processes to manage and control take careful steps to prevent and address common labor working hours, including training for staff. issues, such as child labor, excessive working hours and staff retention. Staff Retention In the manufacturing sector, retaining staff can be difficult. Human Resources Strategy Seagate undertook a number of activities in FY2012 to Seagate’s human resources strategy and policies are aligned address this issue, including enhancing employee engagement with and demonstrate our commitment to the UNGC Principles programs at various sites. For example, some manufacturing and the EICC Code of Conduct. Our Human Rights Policy sites offered opportunities for increased feedback from staff (see Appendix) addresses respectful treatment, due process, and training for new hires. Other sites offered a “buddy freedom of association, reasonable limitation of working hours, system” to establish peer support for new hires as they fair compensation and freedom of expression. In the past learned their jobs. several years, we have emphasized to employees that they must be aware of and responsible for compliance with EICC, Looking Forward UNGC and internal policies. In FY2013 and beyond, Seagate will continue to strengthen In FY2012, these efforts included educating employees and refine processes for labor and human rights protections. through training on the company’s commitments to the EICC Ensuring local site and supplier compliance is key, as is and UNGC, Seagate’s GC program and human rights and working with local communities. We will also focus on related policies, as well as conducting internal policy audits enhancing staff retention measures, particularly in Asia. across the company. Seagate’s human resources audit program assesses site practices and ensures compliance, creating and sustaining universal standards across the company. The audit program allows us to continuously improve human resources processes and reduces the risk of non-compliance to our own policies, as well as those of the EICC and UNGC. 22 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Employee Safety Recordable Case Rate Seagate is committed to keeping employees safe and healthy. (per 100 employees) Their talent and dedication drive our achievements as a 0.30 0.30 company. 0.25 0.25 0.25 0.23 0.23 Seagate has spent more than a decade collecting health 0.20 and safety performance indicators to inform strategies and 0.20 actions targeting reduction of risks associated with work0.15 related injury and illness. Our health and safety management 0.10 systems support continuous improvement in risk reduction and mitigation. 0.05 0.00 Health and Safety Management System FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Seagate’s global health and safety standards and accompanying management system often go beyond countrylevel regulations and industry guidance, with well-defined Days Away Case Rate responsibilities, requirements and training to ensure that (per 100 employees) health and safety is integrated into company operations and 0.15 0.13 that every employee, from a plant manager to an operator, 0.12 0.11 understands his or her accountability. 0.10 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.08 Workplace Safety 0.06 We are proud that workplace safety indicators have improved over last year and that we continue to outperform the 0.03 industry average for U.S. manufacturers of computer and electronic equipment. However, Seagate believes that even 0.00 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 one workplace incident is unacceptable and has continued to refine processes during the year to drive the case rate closer to zero. Looking Forward In FY2012, aggressive injury reduction targets supported Seagate achieving a 30% decrease in recordable case rate Seagate will continue to rely on robust safety management from 0.30 cases per 100 employees in FY2011 to 0.20 cases. systems and frequent analysis of risks to eliminate workplace This met our target rate of <0.21. The days away case rate per injuries. We have set a target of decreasing our recordable 100 employees also decreased by nearly 40% from 0.13 to case rate by 5% or more in FY2013 with a days away case 0.08, exceeding our target of 0.10. target rate of <0.10 per 100 employees. In FY2012, Seagate continued to focus on two areas of workplace injury, cumulative trauma disorder (CTD), caused by repetitive motion, and slips and falls. Injury trends occurring in the previous year were analyzed and targeted risk-reduction actions were implemented and monitored to reduce injury occurrence. Seagate ensures the safety of production equipment through global standard procedures, design reviews by experienced third-party partners and rigorous installation standards for layout, electrical, chemical, fire protection, interlock and operational safety requirements. Seagate also provides ongoing health and safety training to its employees. In FY2012, we completed 49,110 EHS e-learning courses, an 11% increase over the previous year. 23 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Employee Health and Wellness Employee Engagement Being healthy on and off the job means more satisfied Seagate focuses on engaging with employees so that they can and more productive employees. Seagate is committed to meaningfully contribute to health and wellness at the company. providing benefits, programs, health and wellness education In FY2012, we established Wellness Councils to better involve and support for healthy lifestyles. employees in the U.S. and Northern Ireland in health and Seagate ensures that employees have access to resources wellness objectives. Two U.S.-wide exercise and weight loss to make informed decisions for healthy lifestyles and offers challenges brought friendly competition to wellness activities. benefits and occupational health and wellness programs In Asia, we shared the aggregate results of health screenings customized to local needs. with staff to spur discussions about healthier lifestyles. Health and Wellness Priorities Encouraging healthy lifestyle choices is a major challenge globally. Seagate is committed to providing the necessary In FY2012, Seagate continued to offer health benefits and resources to enable employees to make informed decisions health and wellness education to employees. about their health and wellness. These activities included health screenings across all sites, Looking Forward 24/7 onsite occupational health support at Asia-based manufacturing sites and access to fitness facilities, such as Going forward, Seagate will focus on continued expansion of gyms and basketball courts, at many sites. existing programs in addition to further engaging employees As a global company, Seagate is focused on establishing and their families. a portfolio of offerings customized for each country and In FY2013, Seagate will scale up its wellness brand, adding designed to encourage employees to evaluate, improve and wellness incentives for spouses of U.S.-based employees, maintain their health. Examples include: implementing a smoke-free campus in Northern Ireland and • Outcomes-based incentives in U.S. locations. More than subsidizing onsite health screenings in Asia. 9,000 exercise classes were conducted, and 38% of staff Beyond 2013, we want to establish a dashboard to better participated in voluntary health self-assessments and track employees’ health and wellness and look to establish biometric health screenings. Wellness Councils in all regions across the company. • Wellness coaching in Northern Ireland for employees with high health risks. Employee Training, Education and Recognition To ensure a world-class workforce, Seagate trains, educates • Onsite health and wellness screenings in Singapore and and recognizes employees so that they are successful China. Nearly 23,000 staff participated in onsite physical contributors to the business. Seagate’s performance examination programs. management and career development philosophy is that Benefits employees should be engaged, aligned and excited about their careers and contributions to the company’s success. Seagate offers benefits benchmarked to local market practice and cultural requirements that reflect global standards of a leading, multinational organization. Although these programs take different forms depending on geography, the plans provide cost-effective and flexible coverage to employees and, in some cases, dependents. Examples of programs that reflect our commitment include health care plans, life and disability coverage, retirement savings opportunities, counseling services, discounted retail products, adoption support, equity ownership opportunities and vacation, holiday and leave policies. 24 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Training In FY2012, 99% of Seagate employees received regular performance and career development reviews, holding steady In FY2012, we delivered more than 45,000 hours of instructorwith the previous two years’ results. led trainings, which is 50% higher than our goal of 30,000 hours. Completion rates reached 93% (versus a goal of Seagate’s compensation strategy is designed to attract, 80%), and 95% of participating employees self-reported an motivate and retain talented employees. Base pay is improvement in job performance. competitive with local market conditions, and additional incentives are meant to reward and recognize performance. Incentive-based compensation reflects both company and FY2012 Average Hours of Training Per Employee individual performance. We also recognize employees in other Hours Per ways, such as letters of commendation. Job Category Employee Looking Forward Supervisors & Above (Officials & 15 Managers) In the future, Seagate will continue to develop and expand Professional (includes Engineering & 12 training, education and performance management programs, Professionals) based on employee needs and company objectives. In FY2013, we will implement our recently developed culture initiative, the “Seagate Way,” which will focus on improving Seagate offered training on situational leadership—or learning Seagate’s adaptability, flexibility and willingness to take how to lead based on the individual needs of employees. risks. Additionally, we have revised core competencies for More than 400 managers and team leaders participated in all employees to align expected behaviors with this culture this training, and 95% of surveyed participants said that skills change initiative. learned in the training made them more effective managers. Education Seagate has more than 530 online learning and career development resources available to non-operator employees 24/7. We track and report on how employees engage with our education programs through a learning management system. Learning resources include online courses in sales; environment, health and safety; business skills and excellence; ethics; and engineering. In FY2012, 99% of non-operator employees—more than 20,000 people—completed at least one online course, an increase of 26% from FY2011. These courses helped employees improve in their job functions and helped us meet legal, customer and regional compliance requirements. Performance and Recognition Seagate’s performance management process emphasizes individual accountability and recognizes and rewards staff based on performance. Our performance management framework, tracked by an online system, includes goals-setting and alignment to corporate strategy, skills development and periodic progress reviews. At the end of each period, there is a formal performance evaluation. 25 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Workforce Talent and Diversity For our new graduate hires, we implemented “Seagate 101,” a training program that helps new recruits develop career Seagate wants to attract the best people and a wide variety skills and integrate quickly into the company. Seagate offers a of viewpoints and talents. In a globalized and digitized world, program to select new graduates to take on three short-term companies must be able to adapt and innovate—bringing assignments, generally in three different countries. They then together different cultures, beliefs and backgrounds allows us bring their international experience back to apply to their roles to remain at the top of our industry and inspires employees to in their base countries. engage and contribute to Seagate’s success. Seagate’s recruitment processes focus on finding talented and Internship Program motivated individuals who fit in with the company’s culture and Seagate’s internship program helps the company recruit bring new views that help the company be flexible in a rapidly young, talented workers who stay on with Seagate into their changing marketplace. careers. We also help young workers learn the skills and Diversity experience needed to succeed. In FY2012, we focused on helping interns perform well and For Seagate, diversity creates a working environment where develop career skills at Seagate. We integrated interns into our people feel free to contribute their personal best, not only as performance management system and trained managers on skilled workers, but also as unique individuals. Ensuring that how to be mentors. we are drawing on people from different backgrounds means that we can diversify and strengthen our applicant pool, our Looking Forward team and, ultimately, our business. Looking forward to FY2013 and beyond, we will continue In FY2012, diversity trends improved from previous years our commitment to diversity and to recruiting and retaining in our U.S. sites. We increased female and minority the best and the brightest. This will include reviewing our representation in the workplace through hiring and recruitment. diversity metrics to provide more comparable data in annual We also continued to implement the “Working Globally” reporting and converting more interns to new graduate hires or training program to support our overall global inclusion extending additional internships. and U.S. diversity initiative. This program helps employees understand cultural differences, work effectively across international borders and learn how to become global leaders. Recruitment Within the broader organizational culture, Seagate is committed to local solutions and bringing benefits to local communities. Seagate’s practice is to hire local, direct employees wherever possible, in particular with its operator population. We believe this gives us a stronger ability to ensure labor compliance and avoid the potential risk of labor violations that could more easily arise via use of third-party labor suppliers. Additionally, we have examined our practices for hiring and managing foreign workers. This includes establishing a very low percentage of allowed foreign worker hires. In cases when we do hire foreign workers, we perform direct sourcing of workers wherever possible to eliminate any sub-agents and the payment of fees to third-party agents by foreign workers. In cases where direct sourcing is not possible, we use ethical foreign worker sources that have demonstrated EICC compliance. Seagate’s University Relations program is key to the company’s recruiting strategy. Our future growth and success depends on accessing the brightest young minds. University recruitment activities in China, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the U.S.—including events with minority student groups in the U.S.—has helped us find top talent. 26 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Supplier Engagement Seagate works closely with its suppliers to ensure that they understand and align their practices to comply with the EICC Code. We have long-term, stable relationships with most of our top suppliers, and close contact means that we are able to better align goals and standards. We have two types of suppliers: direct suppliers, who provide components and parts for products, and indirect suppliers, who provide products and services to support operations. FY2012 Hightlights In FY2012, Seagate continued to engage with its suppliers to ensure compliance to the EICC Code and required new suppliers to use the recently released EICC platform for selfassessment, as well as Seagate’s own compliance platform. We increased our focus on indirect suppliers, engaging more fully with them on EICC compliance and the EICC audit process. Seagate supported supplier diversity by working with U.S.-based businesses owned by minorities, women, gays and lesbians and veterans or small businesses located in historically underutilized business zones. Ensuring a responsible and sustainable supply chain is a complex process. For our smallest suppliers, finding the capacity to ensure compliance can be especially difficult, as it can be for our suppliers who, in turn, have their own suppliers. We found that many suppliers struggle to build robust ethics management systems and enforce local overtime hour regulations, such as China’s strict working hours law. Looking Forward In FY2013, Seagate is planning to move suppliers onto a compliance management platform to ensure that each process in compliance assurance is taking place. Beyond FY2013, we aim to focus on further engagement with indirect suppliers—a leading-edge initiative in the industry. Supplier Engagement Business success depends on quick-to-market, high volume product delivery, which requires a robust and flexible supply chain. When workers are protected, when environment, health and safety hazards are prevented and when local communities are included in the benefits of our business, we experience growth and success. 27 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Supplier Education Indirect Suppliers We require all suppliers to sign our Supplier Code of Conduct, In FY2012, Seagate increased engagement with indirect which is fully in line with the EICC Code. Aligning with this suppliers, particularly for labor agents, by working with the industry standard eliminates confusion in the supply chain EICC to pilot VAP methodologies. This was a leading-edge on expectations around compliance. Seagate requires key activity among EICC members. suppliers to train their employees on the Code. A Transparent Supply Chain All suppliers have direct and free access to a third-party online manager and software for guidance on EICC compliance. On January 1, 2012, the California Supply Chain Transparency Seagate compliance managers are also positioned across Act of 2010 went into effect. The law requires manufacturers locations. and retailers to provide more transparent information about their efforts to address slavery and human trafficking in their Through in-person meetings, quarterly business reviews supply chains. with key suppliers and our “Supplier Day,” held in China and Singapore in prior years, we educate suppliers on the In addition to the supplier education and management importance of global citizenship, sustainability and compliance processes and procedures described above, Seagate with the EICC and our standards. introduced an e-learning course for suppliers on preventing human trafficking, developed by the United Nations Global Supplier Management Initiative to Fight Human Trafficking and End Trafficking Now. Seagate requires all key suppliers to complete the EICC’s SelfSeagate requires suppliers to certify compliance with our Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) through the EICC platform. Conflict-Free Minerals Policy (see Appendix). This is discussed The SAQ is meant to help suppliers and Seagate understand in more detail in this report’s Product Stewardship section. and discuss risks and best practices related to corporate responsibility. We review suppliers’ SAQ scores and work with Looking Forward them to improve their scores. Seagate is developing its supplier management platform and Seagate has an in-house management platform, the will integrate all key suppliers into the system in FY2013. Compliance Manager, that helps suppliers and Seagate assess We will work to more fully engage indirect suppliers in compliance and risks, including acknowledging the Code FY2013, prioritizing the completion of EICC VAP audits for our of Conduct and confirming completion of the EICC SAQ, remaining labor suppliers. trainings and audits. We are working to migrate long-term suppliers to this platform. Going forward, Seagate will strive to work with logistics and equipment suppliers to complete SAQs. Depending on its SAQ score, we may require a supplier to undergo an EICC audit, known as a Validated Audit Process (VAP), whose costs the supplier is expected to cover. In FY2012, we increased supplier engagement in the audit process. When we find instances of non-compliance, we work with suppliers to issue a corrective action plan and ask them to conduct an assessment and then re-submit. Top Five Supplier Audit Findings From our VAP audits in FY2012, the following were the top risks and instances of non-compliance among suppliers: 1. Working hours 2. Occupational injury and illness 3. Occupational safety 4. Air emissions 5. Emergency preparedness 28 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Supplier Diversity Seagate is a global company with a diverse workforce FY 2012 Diversity Spend spanning six countries on three continents. We encourage $183.5M / 1,071 Suppliers diversity in our supplier base, which promotes jobs creation, stronger small businesses and a more inclusive economy, all of Minority Owned which strengthen local communities. $44,035 24% Supporting Minority-Owned Businesses We recognize the value of, and buying power generated Woman Owned through, minority-owned businesses and firms, and we $17.634 implement programs to encourage diverse suppliers in the 10% U.S. to participate in our competitive bidding process. Veteran Owned $3,568 Small Business These suppliers include businesses owned and operated by $118,085 2% minorities, women, gays and lesbians and veterans or small 64% Disadvantaged, $163 0% Hub Zone, $28 0% businesses located in historically underutilized business zones. In FY2012, Seagate spent $183.5 million on 1,071 diverse Note: The same vendor can qualify for more than one diversity status. suppliers. Looking Forward In FY2013, Seagate will continue to encourage a diverse supplier base in the U.S., including encouraging U.S. suppliers to work with a diverse supply base of their own. 29 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Community Engagement We invest in the communities in which we work through community engagement programs, which include contributions, outreach and employee volunteering. Stronger communities are good for society, good for employees and bolster our business success. Seagate believes in locally tailored community engagement programs. We select organizations that operate within 50 miles of the areas in which we maintain a significant business presence. Seagate focuses on programs that have demonstrable impact, provide direct benefits to communities and offer opportunities for employee volunteering. Seagate’s “Capacity to Care” program focuses on four main areas: • Get Smart: Science, technology, engineering and math education (STEM) • Tread Lightly: Reducing our environmental impact • Be Well: Health and wellness for employees and communities • Reach Out: Helping those in need Seagate may also choose to respond to humanitarian crises that affect our stakeholders. The company may also engage in strategic giving focusing on specific geographies and on institutions of higher learning that pursue key technologies relevant to the storage business. FY2012 Highlights In FY2012, Seagate’s core program continued to deliver a wide range of STEM education activities in Asia, the U.S. and Northern Ireland and other initiatives around preserving cultural heritage, environmental conservation and helping those in need. We delivered nearly 300 activities in support of the communities in which Seagate’s major facilities are located, including more than 50 STEM-focused programs reaching approximately 10,000 students. In FY2012, Seagate contributed the following: • Seagate’s Capacity to Care community program gave: $558,000 • Additional spending (disaster relief, strategic giving): $3.1 million • In-kind giving (donated products, equipment): $31,000 • Employee volunteer hours: 16,200 FY2012 spending reflected increased dollars directed toward humanitarian crises, specifically disaster relief and long-term recovery grants following Thailand’s devastating floods in late CY2011. Additionally, Seagate facilitated $289,000 in contributions from customers, suppliers and partners, which were directed toward projects benefiting underserved children and the elderly in China. Our employees and Board members personally contributed $183,000 toward flood relief efforts in Thailand. In the past, Seagate has donated its products to nonprofit and non-governmental organizations. Due to product shortages created by the floods in Thailand—which affected the entire hard drive industry—we were unable to contribute meaningfully to this program in FY2012. 30 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Looking Forward Looking Forward In FY2013, Seagate will use the balance of its financial floodIn FY2013, we will continue to maintain localized and targeted relief commitment to fund longer-term preparedness initiatives programs so that we make investments that are meaningful in Thailand, including the construction of an evacuation and and impactful to our stakeholders. We believe that local input community center with Habitat for Humanity and repairs and is key to successful community engagement programs. water management upgrades for two schools in high flood-risk Thailand Floods areas. Following the worst flooding in nearly 70 years in Thailand Asia between July and October 2011, Seagate acted quickly to With almost 90% of Seagate employees based in countries help alleviate hardship in the community by providing time across Asia, our core Capacity to Care program supported and financial assistance to those in regions hit hardest by this and engaged with the communities in which we work and live. historic disaster. Seagate emphasizes locally driven community engagement Responding to the Crisis programs and undertook a number of activities across our Seagate pledged $1 million to relief efforts. Of that amount, Asian sites to give back. Notably, we expanded efforts in we donated $500,000 immediately in November 2011—two targeted areas of China, whose centrality to our business has $250,000 grants to the Chaipattana Foundation and the grown in recent years. Thailand Red Cross—in the weeks following the flooding for direct relief efforts, such as emergency shelter and food supplies. Seagate employees in Thailand also reacted quickly, purchasing supplies to fill 300 emergency kits for victims of the flooding. We assisted 298 employees whose houses were damaged or who could not get to work, and employees volunteered to work with professional crews to clean colleagues’ flooddamaged homes, with financial support from Seagate. Relief for Communities, Supporting Our Suppliers Much of the devastation occurred outside of Seagate’s direct operation areas but in regions where many of our suppliers are based, such as Ayutthaya and Nonthaburi. We earmarked the remaining balance of our pledge to these hard-hit areas. In addition to Seagate’s corporate financial pledge, employees, executives and Board members personally donated $183,000 to disaster relief efforts. We named Give2Asia, a leading philanthropy organization, as our partner to help identify respected, locally based NGOs that proposed appropriate recovery and disaster prevention projects. At the end of FY2012, $150,000 had been disbursed for completed projects, with two additional projects under final review. Longer-Term Impacts Seagate focused on long-term, wide-reaching impacts on local Thai communities beyond immediate disaster relief. FY2012 projects included a grant to World Vision to train community leaders in disaster preparedness and a second grant to the Raks Thai Foundation for flood readiness training for children and their caregivers. The Raks Thai Foundation project benefitted 30 communities and 21,000 people. 31 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Supporting Education in China Malaysia In FY2012, Seagate successfully launched a series of In Penang, Seagate employees engaged with local students, programs to support education from the primary to university who competed to create the best design and scale model levels. for an environmentally sustainable city, using only recycled materials. This activity increased awareness in the community We collaborated with the China Youth Development around environmental sustainability and urban design, and the Foundation and local government to support education for top three students received cash prizes for their schools. children in remote, mountainous regions, such as parts of the Sichuan Province. These activities included repairing In Johor, employees teamed up with students from English schoolhouses, building classrooms and cafeterias and College in an introductory workshop to blog design and social contributing Seagate Digital Hope Libraries to schools with media platforms. The workshop aimed to develop students’ limited internet, computers and reading materials. creative skills, enhance their knowledge on current trends and put these skills into action on their campus. We worked with the China Children and Teenagers’ Fund to help more than 80 female students complete high school in Singapore Guizhou Province. In addition, we offered several scholarships for the period of 2012-2016 to talented undergraduates To commemorate Seagate’s 30 years in Singapore, the without the means to pursue their studies at Wuhan University company organized a charity drive in aid of the AWWA in Huibei Province and the University of Electronic Science and Community Home for Senior Citizens and the Henderson Technology of China in Chengdu, Sichuan Province. Student Care Centre. A charity dinner and auction of paintings raised more than $600,000. Other Activities in China Employees conducted a balloon sculpture workshop for Seagate supported efforts to preserve Chinese cultural the children from Henderson, and volunteers cheered up heritage by contributing funding and technological expertise for the elderly residents with songs and games at the AWWA a digital exhibition hall of cultural resources of the Yi, a minority Community Home. ethnic group in China, including video, folk song recordings, photos and documents. Korea In support of Seagate’s Wuxi and Suzhou sites, a range of Employees at Seagate’s R&D center in Korea spruced up activities occurred. Through the Seagate-sponsored annual a town near the office. Engineers and office staff traded charity golf tournament in Wuxi, more than $328,000 was computers and spreadsheets for brushes and paint, helping to contributed toward therapeutic equipment for children with beautify the walls in the Suwon neighborhood. special needs and separately, rehabilitation facilities and equipment for a nursing home for the elderly. Seagate also sponsored learning and science camps for both high school and university students. In Suzhou, 108 Seagate employees participated in an onsite blood drive, where they donated 24 liters of blood to the local Red Cross. 32 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Thailand Supporting STEM Education in Ireland At Thailand’s Korat and Teparuk sites, the company undertook In Springtown, Northern Ireland, employees hosted the many community engagement efforts. “Seagate Real World Science Conference” for 260 students from 20 local schools. Aimed at getting students aged 13 Employees at our Korat site built a playground for to 14 engaged in STEM subjects, the conference included schoolchildren and refurbished a local school’s multi-purpose “CSI”-style forensics investigation, the science of fire-fighting, room. Employees at our Teparuk site volunteered to make rockets, robotics and more. Additional Seagate workshops “effective microorganism” balls. Seagate volunteers worked covered hard-drive-related topics, such as the principles of with underprivileged children to distribute these balls in the magnetism and electroplating. mangroves to improve water quality and support ecosystem health. Employees also helped renovate a local school’s The conference illustrated how STEM subjects are the kitchen and playground. key building blocks of many careers, from crime scene investigators to Seagate engineers. Seagate continued in FY2012 to collaborate closely with external stakeholders for broad-based development of Welcoming Potential Engineers in Colorado education and capabilities in cutting-edge technology in Thailand. In a Seagate tour and roundtable discussion, nearly three dozen high school students from Colorado met with engineers For example, through a multi-year partnership with partners at our Longmont facility about careers in engineering. Students including Thailand’s Board of Investment and the National included members of the Frontiers of Science Institute or had Electronics and Computer Technology Center, Seagate is won an award at a local science fair. investing in STEM education programs, including robotbuilding competitions, engaging with female students through The students toured Seagate’s clean room, reliability labs and a daylong science workshop and scholastic scholarships. mechanical lab before meeting with engineers. Afterwards, one student wrote to us, “I never really thought much about Looking Forward entering an engineering field, but you inspired me to check out the options.” In FY2013, Seagate will continue to support locally driven programs. This means that communities have a voice, and local employees and experts can help identify where the need is greatest, which in turn means greater impact and greater engagement. In China, Seagate anticipates expanding our Digital Hope Library program, which tracks to the priorities identified by the Chinese government’s current Five-Year Plan and the needs of local educators and schools. United States and Northern Ireland In the U.S. and Northern Ireland, Seagate dedicated much of its community engagement efforts to STEM education. Engaging young minds and getting them excited about future careers in math, science, engineering and technology encourages students to contribute to future innovation in their countries and communities—and perhaps even at Seagate. We welcome the opportunity to be role models and mentors for youths across our communities. As in other locales, Seagate’s activities in the U.S. and Northern Ireland are from the site level, driven by employee interest. 33 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Recognizing Budding Scientists in the U.S. In FY2012, Seagate sponsored science fairs in both Minnesota and Santa Cruz County, California. The Minnesota State Science and Engineering Fair featured the state’s most advanced science projects from nearly 500 junior high and high school students. Nearly 70 Seagate employees judged projects or otherwise assisted with the event. Four students were recognized for their projects with awards and cash prizes, and two teachers received prizes for themselves and their schools for excellence in mentorship. The Santa Cruz County Science Fair, which Seagate has supported for more than two decades, promotes diversity and high-quality research and science education for K-12 students, as well as the future of scientific discovery. Nearly 500 students participated, 40 of whom went on to compete at the state level. Two students were selected to compete at the International Science and Engineering Fair. Additional U.S.-Based Initiatives Around the U.S., Seagate continued a range of outreach activities, including supporting food banks and homeless shelters, undertaking rebuilding projects and more in Colorado, Oklahoma, Massachusetts, Minnesota and Northern California. Looking Forward In FY2013, we will continue to engage with our community partners, many of them long-term relationships, to deliver both STEM and other types of community engagement programs. 34 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Summary of Performance We provide a summary of our performance history and a selection of our most recent FY2012 results. For our latest business and financial news and results, visit our company website at www.seagate.com. Performance Indicator FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Energy Consumption (Million MWh) 1.494 1.559 1.610 Energy Consumption Per 8.43 7.83 7.17 Energy Use Production Unit (kWh/Drive) and Carbon Carbon Emissions (Million Metric 1.235 1.299 1.279 Emissions Tons (CO2e)1 Carbon Emissions Per Production 0.0071 0.0066 0.0064 Unit (Metric Tons CO2e/Drive)1 Hazardous Waste Reduction (Tons) 20,995 21,362 14,594 Pollution Solid Waste Landfill Diversion 77% 79% 82% Prevention (% rate recycled) Injury and Illness Recordable Case 0.21 0.30 0.20 Health & Rate (Cases Per 100 Workers) Safety Injury and Illness Recordable Case 0.10 0.13 0.08 Rate (Cases Per 100 Workers) Ethical Conduct and Conflict of 100% 99% 99% Ethics Interest Policy Certification (%) Seagate Cash Contributions 739.32 846.62 3,6583 Community (In Thousands $USD) Engagement Total Employee Volunteer Hours 15.5 15.5 16.2 (In Thousands) Notes to Data: 1 Total annual carbon emissions and carbon emissions per production drive are measured and reported based on the calendar year. The values provided in this table are for calendar years 2009, 2010, and 2011. 2 Includes only Capacity to Care community giving 3 Includes Capacity to Care community giving and additional giving (strategic, disaster relief, higher learning, etc.) 35 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. GRI Content Index To promote a standardized approach to reporting, we aligned the FY2012 Global Citizenship Annual Report with the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version G3.1. For this report, we self-declare to Application Level C. For more information about the GRI and G3.1 guidelines, visit www.globalreporting.org. Profile Disclosures Location / Notes 1.1 Message from our CEO Page 2 Strategy and Analysts 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities Pages 6-7 2.1 2.8 Organizational profile, nature of ownership and scale of organization Page 5 Organizational Profile 2.9 Significant changes to organization during reporting period Page 3 2.10 Awards received Page 38 3.1 3.4 Reporting period, cycle, previous reports and contact Page 3 3.5 Defining report content Page 4 Report Parameters 3.6 3.8 Boundary of the report Page 3 3.10 3.11 Significant changes or re-statements from previous reporting periods Page 3, 17 3.12 GRI content index Page 36 4.1 4.4 Corporate governance structure, policies and arrangements Page 8 4.8 Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and principles Page 9 4.12 Endorsement of externally developed charters and principles Page 36 Governance, 4.13 Memberships in associations and advocacy organizations EICC; United Nations Commitments and Global Compact; Business for Social Responsibility Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Page 10. We do not provide a full list of stakeholder groups. 4.15 Basis for selecting stakeholders with whom to engage Page 10 Performance Indicators Location / Notes EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary source Pages 16-18 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Pages 16-18 EN7 Initiatives for indirect energy consumption reductions Pages 16-18 EN16-17 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Pages 17-18 Environment EN18 Initiatives for greenhouse gas emissions reductions Pages 17-18 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Pages 19-20 EN23 Significant spills Page 19 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Pages 12 EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Page 19 Human Rights HR5-7 Freedom of Association, child labor, and forced and compulsory labor Pages 22, 39-40 LA1 Workforce by employment type, contract and region Page 21 LA7-8 Injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism, work-related Pages 23-24 Labor Practices and fatalities and programs for diseases Decent Work LA10-11 Employee training, development and performance reviews Page 24-25 LA13 Breakdown of governance body and employees Page 8, 21 Product Responsibility PR1 Assessment of health and safety impacts of products Pages 12,13-14 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers Page 29 Economic EC8 Infrastructure investments provided primarily for public benefit Pages 30-34 36 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. United Nations Global Compact Content Index Seagate has been an active participant of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2004, and we have aligned our management systems to the 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. These principles guide us as we develop new programs and strategies in the area of Global Citizenship. We are committed to the implementation, disclosure and promotion of the UNGC’s ten principles throughout our operations. The table below provides a guide to our strategies and actions in support of the ten principles. UNGC’s Ten Principles Location Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Pages 13 internationally proclaimed human rights; Human Rights Pages 21-29 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Pages 39-41 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Pages 13 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Pages 21-29 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Labor Pages 39-40 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Pages 11-20 environmental challenges; Page 39 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environment responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Pages 8-9 Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. 37 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. External Recognition Environment, Health & Safety • Minnesota Governor’s Outstanding Achievement Award for Occupational Safety. The Minnesota Safety Council selected Seagate’s Shakopee facility in Minnesota for this award to recognize continuous improvement and an outstanding record of injury and illness prevention. • Grey Bears Certificate of Appreciation for Recycling Program. This certificate acknowledges Seagate’s participation in the Grey Bear’s recycling program. • Suzhou Outstanding Manufacturing Company for Safety Management 2012. Seagate Suzhou (China) was recognized by the Suzhou municipal government for its safety management system, which includes safety training for all production personnel, safety awareness program and investment in safety features of machines and equipment. • Singapore Environmental Achievement Merit Award. Seagate Woodlands (Singapore) received a merit award for its sustained, multi-element approach to environmental sustainability. • 2012 National Occupational and Safety Award. The Department of Safety Inspection, Ministry of Labor, selected Seagate Korat and Teparuk (Thailand) in recognition of its excellent EHS management systems and sustained outstanding performance in maintaining a safe and healthy work environment. • 2011 AMCHAM Thailand CSR Excellence Recognition. Seagate Korat and Teparuk (Thailand) was awarded the 2011 AMCHAM Thailand CSR Excellence Recognition for its CSR best practices, which have demonstrated an understanding of the linkages between business operations and society, and for conducting business in a way that creates long-term economic and social value. • Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey Platinum Award. Seagate Springtown received a Platinum Award for its performance in the Northern Ireland Environmental Benchmarking Survey. The survey measures environmental management and performance among participating companies. The award is given to those that receive a score of 90% or higher. Other Recognition • The Corporate Executive Board (CEB)’s Quality Leadership Council recognized the Seagate Way as an industry best practice to drive the culture of quality within an organization. The CEB’s followed this recognition by publishing a seven-page case study on the Seagate Way. • The International Association of Business Communications presented the Silver Quill award for Seagate’s U.S. open enrollment human resources and benefits communications. • In Singapore, we were recognized for our community engagement work, including the Arts Supporter Award 2012 from the National Arts Council, the 3R Award for supporting the Mayflower Primary School in environmental projects, appreciation awards from the Chaoyang Special School 2012 and a Commendation Award from the National Safety and Security Watch Group 2012. • In Suzhou, China, Seagate was presented with the Suzhou Charity Award and named a Class Labor and Social Security Company of Suzhou Singapore Industrial Park in 2012. • In Wuxi, China, Seagate Vice President Kian Fatt Chong was presented with the Labor Medal of Jiangsu Province, and we received the Export Volume Increase Company Award 2011 (in January 2012). 38 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Seagate Policies Environment, Health & Safety Policy Seagate is the world’s leading provider of storage technology for Enterprise, Desktop, Mobile Computing, Consumer Electronics and Retail Markets. As a global industry leader, and in accordance with our Company’s values, we are committed to promoting the safety and well-being of our employees and contractors; protecting the environment; and contributing to the economic vitality of the communities in which we operate. All Seagate employees and contractors are required to work safely and ensure that EHS requirements are integrated into their daily work activities, projects and programs. As a company, Seagate is committed to: • Implementing comprehensive management systems that ensure compliance with local laws, regulations and other internal and external standards to which we subscribe for the delivery of measurable EHS performance improvements and sustained operational resilience in responding to unplanned events. • Providing employees and contractors with a safe and healthy workplace by identifying and eliminating the causes of occupational incidents, injuries and illnesses. • Promoting a healthy lifestyle and encouraging employees to proactively manage their personal health. • Supporting sustainable economic growth and minimizing impact to the environment by reducing emissions to the air, land and water through continuous process improvements and responsible operating practices. • Developing safe and eco-efficient products and manufacturing processes by integrating EHS considerations into all aspects of research, design and development. • Partnering with suppliers, customers and stakeholders to publicly share best management practices and EHS performance criteria. • Supporting the global communities in which we operate through sponsorship of environmental, educational, social, healthrelated and other worthy causes. Steve Luczo Chairman, President and CEO Seagate Policy Statement on Conflict-Free Minerals As part of its commitment to global social responsibility and in accordance with Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of the 2010 United States Congress, Seagate prohibits using in its products tin, tungsten, tantalum, or gold from any source whose supply chain, back to the mines of origin of the minerals used to produce these metals, contributes to human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Seagate expects its suppliers to use due diligence to implement policies and procedures throughout the supply chain that are consistent with this policy statement. Due diligence, as used in this policy, generally follows the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Seagate adopts, and incorporates into this policy, Annex II of this OECD document, which provides substantial policy detail. 39 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Human Rights Policy As a global industry leader, Seagate welcomes the responsibility to be a “Global Citizen.” In partnership with employees, community members, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, our commitment to Global Citizenship includes support of the ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within our sphere of influence. These Principles address responsibility for the environment and other matters; however, most address the international human rights and labor standards that must be upheld to ensure the well-being and dignity of each person. We have developed policies to reinforce our commitment to uphold these human rights and labor standards. We will abide by these policies or the local law in the countries where we operate, whichever sets a higher standard. Managers are responsible for upholding these Principles and for ensuring adherence to all company policies and guidelines in their support. Procedure The following are some of Seagate’s basic standards with regard to International Human Rights and Labor Standards (including the International Labor Organization core labor conventions*): Respectful treatment. Employees must respect and value each other and are held accountable for doing so. Violations, such as physical abuse and/or harassment, or the threat of either, are not tolerated. All employees will be allowed access to basic liberties while on Company premises. Employment based on achievements. Decisions about employees are based on achievements against job goals and/or standards and required competencies; decisions about applicants are made on qualifications against job requirements. In all employment actions, we prohibit discrimination based on age, race, color, ancestry, ethnic or national origin, disability, medical status, pregnancy, marital status, veteran standing, gender or gender identity, sexual orientation, perceived or actual religious beliefs or political opinion, or other characteristics protected by applicable law. Free to express opinions. Employees have the right to express their opinions. In fact, we welcome and encourage ideas and input, including notification of issues and concerns. Fair compensation. We assess performance against job requirements and consider business conditions and appropriate market comparisons to deliver compensation. We will compensate employees with wages and benefits that meet or exceed the legally required minimum without delay and will clearly communicate to all employees their compensation earned. Due process. We understand that an employee may not meet performance or conduct expectations. In such circumstances, the employee has a right to a fair process of review. Any resulting disciplinary actions will be humane. Reasonable limitation of working hours. We will not require employees to work more than 60 hours on average per workweek, or in excess of the maximum hours of daily labor set by local laws in the countries in which we operate. We will also provide employees with at least one day off per every seven days, on average, and comply with all applicable overtime pay requirements. No unreasonable restrictions of movement will be placed upon employees during non-work hours. Free to associate. We respect and adhere to all applicable laws concerning the right of workers to organize in labor unions and engage in collective bargaining. However, we believe maintaining an open, unencumbered relationship between Seagate employees and their managers is the most effective means of addressing work environment questions and concerns. Free to choose employment. We will ensure that the overall terms of employment are voluntary. We will not require employees to pay the Company any remuneration or withhold an employee’s government-issued identification upon hire. We will ensure no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor is used in the production of Seagate products. Employment at age 18 or higher. We strictly prohibit child labor and will comply with all local minimum age laws and requirements and/or set a minimum employment age of 18, whichever sets the higher standard. Additional information is available on Seagate’s Global Citizenship website. *Note: Our labor standards in the Human Rights policy address the core ILO Labor Conventions No. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182. 40 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Seagate Corporate Values Seagate’s Corporate Values—People, Customer Success, Excellence, Innovation, Teamwork, Openness, Social Responsibility and Sustained Profitability—focus on our long-term perspective for leadership and prosperity. These values inspire us to a level of excellence that maximizes value for customers, business partners, and shareholders, while supporting our employees and the communities in which our employees live and work. These values are intended to be a foundation to guide our decisions. They are reflected in our business objectives. And they represent the global standard by which all of our individual and collective actions will be measured. People People are our competitive advantage. Successful individuals are the driving force behind a successful enterprise. Attracting, retaining, and motivating the best people will position Seagate at the forefront of the industry. Customer Success Customer success leads to our success. We will provide maximum leverage to our customers through value-added products, services, and support. Excellence The pursuit of excellence is not a destination, it’s a journey. Innovation We are advocates and instruments of positive change. Being innovative builds competitive advantage and creates new opportunities. Teamwork Teams are the catalysts for our ideas and actions. Every team member has the power to influence the group. We treat this power as a privilege and a responsibility. Teamwork is the foundation of an effective, successful, fun environment in which the whole is greater than the sum of the parts. Openness Openness facilitates informed decisions, understanding, and trust. Sharing information across the organization facilitates our common goals. Social Responsibility We encourage responsibility both inside and outside Seagate. Sustainable Profitability Our business is based on a balanced perspective between short and long-term vision. We aim to grow the company, to increase our earnings, and to enhance our corporate environment through profitable investments. 41 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved. Acronyms Used in This Report CAS Chemical Abstract Number CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CO2 Carbon dioxide CO2e Equivalent carbon dioxide CTD Cumulative trauma injury CY Calendar year EICC Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition EMEA Europe, Middle East and Africa EHS Environment, Health & Safety EMS Environmental Management System FY Fiscal year GC Global Citizenship Program GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative GHG Greenhouse gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative HDD Hard disk drive kg Kilogram kWh Kilowatt hour LCA Life Cycle Assessment MWh Megawatt hour NGO Non-governmental organization OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer SAQ Self-assessment questionnaire SEC Securities and Exchange Commission SOx Sulfur oxide SSD: Solid state drive STEM: Science, technology, engineering and math education TBBPA: Tetrabromo bisphenol-A UNGC: United Nations Global Compact USD: United States dollars ($) VAP: Validated Audit Process 3TG: Tungsten, tin, tantalum and gold © 2013 Seagate Technology LLC. All rights reserved. Seagate, Seagate Technology and the Wave logo are registered trademarks of Seagate Technology LLC in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks or registered trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 42 © 2013 Seagate Technology. All rights reserved.
