UN Global Compact Communication on Progress June 2013 1 Statement of continued support Again this year, we have resolutely aimed to meet and exceed our corporate responsibility aims, not only because of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, but because we know that in doing so we add value to our own business and reassure all those who do business with us. Our commitment to real corporate responsibility means that we can never ‘rest on our laurels’ and be satisfied with our performance. We always look to the future and each year aim to build on our commitment to corporate responsibility and to improve our progress in all its forms: our use of energy and other finite – and valuable resources, our carbon footprint, our extracurricular activities in the communities in which we share. The UN Global Compact provides the framework for our corporate responsibility activity and it goes without saying that in our everyday dealings we act with absolute integrity and respect for our employees, business partners and the environment. But it is the enthusiasm of our own people that brings our commitment to corporate responsibility to life, through their passion and ingenuity. So, for instance, throughout our global organisation, we can point to many examples of fund raising for worthwhile causes, involvement in schemes to provide education and financial services in the developing world, the promotion of employment for disabled workers, and practical ways to reduce our carbon footprint by the use of low emission vehicles and ‘cycle to work’ schemes. Every one of these initiatives adds to our corporate responsibility record, but more importantly they raise expectations for what we must achieve in future years. All our stakeholders across the world, including our shareholders, customers, business partners and employees, can be assured of our integrity in each of the principles of the UN Global Compact. Isidoro Unda Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Atradius N.V. Atradius 1 2 Our commitment Our commitment to the UN Global Compact is encapsulated in our Corporate Responsibility vision and mission statements: Our Vision: We are a responsible global company offering credit management solutions worldwide. As such, in our pursuit of profit, we aim to manage the ethical, environmental and social risks of the way we do business. Our vision is to ensure that our decisions and actions benefit our employees, our customers, our shareholders and the communities in which we work – and that those decisions should be tempered by an understanding of their impact on the environment. Our Mission: As a business, our purpose is to make a worthwhile contribution to successful national and international trade and to our customers’ prosperity. In doing so, we place a high regard for the environment and for human rights at the heart of our corporate strategy and act with absolute integrity towards our employees, our customers, our shareholders and indeed to all those with whom we interact. We aim to instil this spirit throughout our organisation, so that we will always treat our colleagues, business and social contacts honestly and decently, and each understand our responsibility to behave in a way that protects the environment in which we work and live. Our commitment is backed by the actions that we take to meet the principles of the UN Global Compact. As a global company offering business to business credit management solutions, Atradius operates in a highly regulated environment. By complying with international laws and regulations Atradius contributes to the UN principles. To ensure compliance with national and international rules and regulations Atradius has established a Compliance framework which also serves to safeguard and enhance the reputation, business standing and integrity of the Atradius Group and its stakeholders. Under our Code of Conduct, our employees must comply with national and local laws and regulations, supranational regulations and policies or specific standards, rules and procedures. Throughout our global operation, our people have embraced the principles of the UN Global Compact with a variety of local initiatives: reprogramming printers to save on energy and paper, disposing of IT hardware in an ethical manner or by donating to charities, cutting out unnecessary travel and encouraging the use of bicycles, installing energy efficient lighting systems and recycling to avoid the unnecessary wastage of scarce resources. Such initiatives are actively encouraged and will continue to be devised and put into practice. Atradius 2 3 About Atradius Atradius can trace its origins back almost a century. In its present form, Atradius is the result of the rebranding, in 2003, of Gerling NCM: already a global leader in credit insurance and credit management, and more recently the alliance of Atradius with the leading Spanish credit insurer Compañía Española de Seguros y Reaseguros de Crédito y Caución S.A.u. (referred to as ‘Crédito y Caución’): a move that has consolidated and strengthened Atradius’ global status. Key points 2012 Atradius continues to be financially strong, despite the ongoing challenging economic environment.  Total revenue increased by 3%.  A stable investment result together with the improved quality of our investment portfolio.  Effective risk management kept our claims ratio under control in a worsening risk environment, while our risk acceptance remained high.  Increasing revenue and a continued focus on cost control resulted in an improvement in our cost ratio.  A result for the year of EUR 117 million was achieved.  Our equity position was strengthened by 5.9%, mainly due to profit generation. Our mission is to support our customers’ growth by strengthening their credit and cash management. To do so, we offer a wide range of credit management products including credit insurance, reinsurance, bonding and debt collection services. At the heart of our operations is the expertise of our people and our wealth of constantly updated intelligence on over 100 million companies across the globe. From our 160 offices worldwide we offer our services to clients in 45 countries, hold total revenue of EUR 1,601.6 million, and a share of around 31% of the global trade credit insurance market. Management Board Isidoro Unda Dominique Charpentier Claus Gramlich-Eicher Christian van Lint Andreas Tesch Atradius 3 4 Our compliance with UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principles 1 Business should support and Our commitment to upholding human rights in their many forms is embodied in our respect the protection of Code of Conduct, which states the corporate, legal and ethical compliance principles internationally proclaimed human that apply to every Atradius employee. In this way, Atradius respects the protection of rights internationally recognised human rights: e.g. the right to protection of personal data is embodied both in our Code of Conduct and in our Compliance Codes 2 Businesses should ensure that Our Compliance Codes include a procedure requiring employees to report instances they are not complicit in human rights of material wrong doing or breaches of laws, rules and regulations. abuses Labour Principles 3 Business should uphold the Employee involvement is guaranteed through our employee representations or labour freedom of association and the unions. effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4 Business should support the Our compliance with national and international laws and rules will prohibit these forms elimination of all forms of forced and of labour in our business. compulsory labour 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour 6 Business should support the Our Code of Conduct states that all employees and potential employees are treated elimination of discrimination in equally, regardless of their nationality, race, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, respect of employment and belief or due to disability. Furthermore, harassment will not be tolerated. occupation Environmental Principles 7 Business should support a A sustainability attitude and sound business practices go hand in hand. Atradius has precautionary approach to an environmental policy stating our approach to environmental challenges in our environmental challenges business – see the appendix to this CoP. 8 Business should undertake To promote greater environmental responsibility initiatives have been introduced in initiatives to promote greater respect of: environmental responsibility energy use recycling and disposal of waste transportation and procurement. 9 Business should encourage the Furthermore, we have developed a KPI reporting system as described in section 5 development of diffusion of below. environmental technologies Anti-Corruption Principles 10 Business should work against Our Code of Conduct states that bribery and corruption are never allowed. Gifts may corruption in all its forms, including not be offered or accepted if creating an obligation for the receiving party. extortion and bribery Atradius 4 5 Measuring our progress The environment As we strive to continue to make real progress in enhancing our corporate responsibility in all of these areas, it is vital that we can measure the benefits that accrue from our actions. For that reason, we have developed a system of measuring key performance indicators, for each country in which we operate, to accurately gauge our consumption of energy and other resources – and how much of that is derived from renewable and recycled sources – our greenhouse gas emissions and our methods of disposal or waste materials. This overview of Atradius’ environmental performance is based on the reports of all our Atradius subsidiaries. All air kilometres travelled are assumed to be medium haul kilometres for the calculation to obtain carbon dioxide emission; and lastly, carbon dioxide emissions are equivalent carbon dioxide emissions, thus other green house gases are included in the figure. Atradius 5 6 Activities across the Atradius Group We are constantly looking for ways to improve our corporate responsibility progress in all its forms: in our use of energy and other finite – and valuable – resources, our carbon footprint, and our extracurricular activities in the communities in which we share. An essential aspect of corporate responsibility is that we give our time and our expertise to the benefit of others. That means not just ensuring the use of low energy lighting in our offices or the recycling of paper – important as these are they are nowadays simply expected of any organisation. Beyond that, we also harness the enthusiasm and imagination of our people across our worldwide operation so that they can drive corporate responsibility initiatives through their own ingenuity and a passionate belief that what they are doing is both necessary and valuable. Our people drive our corporate responsibility progress A fine example of an imaginative way to reduce our energy consumption is that of the ‘tie-free summer’ held in the offices of Crédito y Caución which allowed our people there to work in comfort with less use of the air cooling system. This had the dual benefit of avoiding unnecessary gas emissions while reducing energy consumption. Tax free cycle purchase and ‘Dr Bike’ maintenance sessions, such as those operating in our UK main office, act as an added incentive. Cycling to work does of course have personal health benefits too, as do the carefully chosen vegetarian and low fat options available in our staff restaurants and our provision of fitness training. In the Netherlands, among their many other fundraising activities, staff have raised money to supply school equipment to disadvantaged children in Eastern Europe. And our French organisation is supporting an initiative to help children in Africa progress through the school system. Our rapid response to the United States hurricane We must mention here the response of our people in the US to the devastation wrought by Hurricane Sandy. Our Baltimore-based staff were motivated to donate vital supplies to those in New Jersey and New York whose lives had been turned upside down by the hurricane and encouraged their contacts outside the organisation to do likewise. The response was exceptional and within a few days Atradius was able to send three truckloads of much needed supplies to the worst affected areas. Atradius 6 Efficiency and energy saving Atradius cannot function effectively without the fast and efficient relaying of information, internally and to our business partners. Our investment in new technologies has allowed us to enhance our services, while at the same time reducing energy usage in our Data Centre by 4% this year, complementing our eco-friendly replacement of office hardware with more energy efficient equipment. Reducing our carbon footprint While the nature of our business means that we have to travel, we have made major strides to reduce our carbon footprint, through fewer flights and a conscious move in several of our regions to reduce the CO2 emissions of our fleet of cars. Atradius 7 7 Ambition level In 2013 we aim to:  continue our drive for energy reduction through further server rationalisation and the replacement of desktop PCs with more energy efficient models – and of course will dispose of the replaced models in a way that brings more benefits to the community.  initiate new social activities to strengthen our relationship with our surrounding communities.  increase the quality and frequency (i.e. from once a year to twice a year) of our collection and analysis of environmental KPIs.  define our social KPIs to measure our performance against principles 1 to 6 on page 4, all of which will be based on the GRI initiatives. For 2016 we aim to: – report externally partly on all UNGC principles – achieve GRI reporting with B application level – have internal auditing of our CR reporting For 2018 we aim to – report externally fully on all UNGC principles. – achieve GRI reporting with A+ application level – have external auditor’s reassurance of our CR reporting Atradius N.V. David Ricardostraat 1, 1066 JS Amsterdam P.O.Box 8982, 1006 JD Amsterdam The Netherlands Phone: +31 20 553 9111 Email: info@atradius.com www.atradius.com Atradius 8 Appendix Atradius environmental policy Policy Statement Atradius offers a comprehensive range of credit management solutions that protect businesses of all sizes against the commercial and political risks inherent in domestic and global trade. Atradius recognises that our operations have an effect on the local, regional and global environment. Atradius N.V. is committed to a process of continuous improvement in environmental performance and pollution prevention. Environmental legislation will be regarded as setting the minimum standards of environmental performance. Environmental Goals Energy Use  We will strive to conserve resources through efficient use and careful planning.  We will seek to use environmentally safe and sustainable energy sources to meet our needs wherever practicable. We will plan to invest in improved energy efficiency. Recycling & Disposal of Waste  We will minimize waste and whenever possible recycle materials.  We will make every endeavour to dispose of all waste through safe and responsible methods. Transportation  We strive to reduce the effect on the environment due to the work related transportation of our employees.  We will promote a travel plan that encourages staff to use alternatives to single-occupancy caruse. Procurement  We will seek to address our impact on the environment when procuring goods and services.  We will work with our suppliers and contractors to encourage that they recognise and reduce the environmental impact of their products and transportation. Policy Management and Communication  We will implement our policies through a coordinated environmental management system, guidelines and training where appropriate.  We will set environmental targets and action plans designed to improve our environmental performance.  We will review and update as necessary this policy on an annual basis. As part of the review we will conduct an evaluation of our performance in implementing these principles and in complying with all applicable laws and regulations.  This policy will be promoted to all employees and made publicly available. Isidoro Unda Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Atradius N.V. Atradius 9
