Libertas dba Hussey Copper – Communication of Progress 2/17/13 Principles 1 to 2 : HUMAN RIGHTS: At Hussey Copper we support these principles : Implementation : Hussey Copper supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimend human rights, is not complicit in human right abuses and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. • Hussey Copper does not discriminate against race, religion, sex, language, social origin, property, birth, color, politics or any other status. • Hussey Copper employees are encouraged to ask questions and submit their ideas. • Hussey Copper has and enforces a behavior policy that requires all employees to treat each other with courtesy and consideration. Measurement of outcomes : •The turn over rate at Hussey Copper is extremely low with most terminations being the result of normal attrition via retirement. The average tenure of our employees is approximately fifteen ( 15 years ). Principles 3 to 6 : LABOUR STANDARDS: Hussey Copper supports these principles by : Implementation : Hussey Copper endorses the elimination of forced and compulsory labor and the abolition of child labor and eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. All employees have the freedom of association Measurement of outcomes : All employees have the freedom of association with approximately three hundred and seventy ( 370 ) represented by the United Steelworkers union. Principles 7 to 9 : ENVIRONMENT: Hussey Copper supports environmental challenges by : Implementation : Hussey Copper is ISO certified and produces to ASTM standards. We are committed to Lean Manufacturing principals which includes continuous improvement through employee training, maintenance and process improvements such that our products and service consistently meet and exceed our customers expectations and requirements. The Hussey commitment to fabricated products also includes a significant investment in new facilities and equipment to assure compliance to all environmental requirements.. In fact, our new 30,000 square foot facility in Eminence, Kentucky is a virtual showcase of fabricating technology. It contains state-of-the-art equipment, including bus bar fabricating machines, and a variety of other equipment for punching, tapping, drilling, and machining. These new in-house capabilities allow us to monitor components through each stage of production, from casting to fabrication. By maintaining control of the entire process, we are able to offer Hussey's legendary quality throughout this versatile line of value-added products. At Hussey Fabricated Products, we will continue to elevate our standards by providing products that are accurate and consistent, and service that is never less than outstanding. Measurement of outcomes : • HFP recycles 100% all of the scrap raw material produced in fabrication processesthese are shipped back to Leetsdale for meltdown. • Processes are in place to separate silver for plated materials to recover silver as well. • HFP conserve energy by turning off any lights or equipment that is not in use • Produces Copper Nickel to be used in corrosion and biofuel resistant applications • HFP is ROHS compliant – 2002/95/EC (RoHS) • HFP is REACH acknowledge • OSHA Compliant • Safety training, quarterly session trainings • Packaging – Returnable packaging capable if required. • Compliant with State Department inspection to waste, water, air analysis to keep plant permit for operation. Principle 10 : ANTICORRUPTION: Hussey Copper supports this principle by : Implementation : We do not support any types of bribery, extortion or corruption in our business. Surcharges of metal, natural gas , Diesel are clearly informed in our webpage. Measurement of outcomes : Hussey Copper does not engage in any actions that can imply corruption. We mill our main raw material ( Copper ) and other materials are purchased after quoting processes have been completed.
