United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 2013 MTU Aero Engines AG Dachauer Straße 665 80995 Munich • Germany Tel. +49 89 1489-0 Fax +49 89 1489-5500 corporateresponsibility@mtu.de www.mtu.de Contents 1 Statement of continued support 1 Statement of continued support 3 Dear readers, 2 MTU at a glance 4 In partnership with Pratt & Whitney, we have developped an entirely new 3 Human Rights 6 aero engine design featuring a reduction gear unit: the Geared Turbofan™. MTU is proud of this technological achievement, which will considerably 4 Labor 12 reduce aircraft noise and emissions, and increase fuel economy. We 5 Environment 20 contributed a key component, the high-speed low-pressure turbine, for which we received two German innovation awards in the spring of 2013. 6 Anti-corruption 28 What is more, the Geared Turbofan is proof that a sustainable product can be a market success. Even before the first production engine has flown, firm orders have been placed for no less than 4,500 Geared Turbofan engines. Meanwhile, we are already working on further improvements to the original design, which promise to make the engine even more ecoefficient. We have pooled all our strengths and expertise and invested a substantial amount of capital in this venture. This second UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) provides information on these activities and other milestones reached in the Geared Turbofan program as we advance toward the final launch date, together with various other topics of interest. In the past year, we have continued to advance in our efforts to implement the ten principles of the UN Global Compact throughout the company. For instance, we inaugurated a new, energy-efficient manufacturing facility for high-tech engine components at our main production site in Munich. Its highly efficient power supply enables us to save valuable resources and at the same time significantly reduce our energy costs. We have also made significant progress in the domain of occupational health and safety, by expanding the health management program for employees at our sites in Germany. Our sustainable approach to corporate management and value creation also includes strengthening the awareness of our employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and shareholders of the importance of corporate responsibility (CR). We compiled our first sustainability report on the basis of the internationally recognized GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) standards, and publish regular reports on related activities in the company’s in-house media. We are strongly attached to the ethical values of our corporate philosophy, which emphasizes our responsibility for the environmental and social impact of our business activities, and is anchored in the MTU Principles. We constantly review our progress in respect of these objectives. This COP relates our successes and pinpoints the areas in which we still need to intensify our efforts in order to reach our defined targets. Yours sincerely, Cover photo: With the Geared Turbofan™ Pratt & Whitney and MTU are building the powerplant of the future. It is fuel-thriftier, cleaner and quieter than conventional engines. The GTF has already proved its worth in flight tests on the wing of a 747. Egon Behle CEO MTU Aero Engines Geared Turbofan™ is a trademark application of Pratt & Whitney. 3 2 MTU Aero Engines at a glance In the aviation industry, three simple letters especially in low-pressure turbines and highstand for top-notch engine technology: MTU. pressure compressors, as well as manufacWith a workforce of more than 8,500 worldturing and repair techniques. wide people Germany’s leading engine manufacturer, the country’s only independent Together with other manufacturers, MTU engine builder, has been providing propulcooperates on novel propulsion systems, its sion systems to power aircraft for almost 80 partners being the big players in the indusyears now, having become an established try. In the commercial area, MTU is the global player. MTU Aero Engines engages in world’s largest independent provider of enthe development, manufacture and support gine maintenance services. In the military of commercial and military aircraft engines arena, MTU is Germany's industrial lead and industrial gas turbines. company for practically all engines flown by the country’s military. With its products, the company has content in all thrust and power categories and on all major engine components and subsystems, such as compressors and turbines. Technologically, MTU commands full engine systems integration capabilities, being a leader in the major engine areas and excelling < We shape the future of aviation. The Geared Turbofan, in which MTU has a significant share, is an all new engine representing pioneering technology for more eco-efficient flight. 4 5 3 Human rights MTU respects the internationally proclaimed Binding Code of Conduct Principle 1: human rights set out in the United Nations’ Businesses should support Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Binding values and the same principles for and respect the protection of ensures that they are safeguarded within everyone are the mainstays of a successful internationally proclaimed the company. MTU is committed to respectcorporate culture. MTU has enshrined the human rights; and ing the individuality and dignity of all, upvalues it finds most important in a binding holding equality of opportunity in recruitCode of Conduct. And ever since, these Principle 2: ment and preventing discrimination. The principles of conduct have characterized make sure that they are not company is dedicated to ensuring men and MTU’s everyday relationships with emcomplicit in human rights women receive equal treatment. Roles must ployees, partners, customers, suppliers and abuses. be assigned and promotions awarded on shareholders. We also expect our suppliers the sole basis of the skills, accomplishments to follow similar guidelines as the basis for and capabilities of the individual employee. a long-term business relationship. To ensure this, we have drawn up a binding Code of Conduct that applies in all areas of The Code of Conduct commits MTU to the company. As an employer of around safeguarding human rights, observing all 8,500 people worldwide, MTU feels obliged applicable employment law, creating fair to provide the highest possible degree of working conditions in a safe and healthy occupational safety and comprehensive environment, preventing corruption, and health protection. adequately training employees for the work they carry out. The principles are binding MTU’s commitment to greater equality of throughout the world for all employees, opportunity and diversity in the company managers, executives and board members. and to the equal treatment of men and Persons who suspect that improper conwomen is described in Chapter 4, Labor. duct is taking or has taken place can report their concerns in confidence to an ombudsOur commitments and management man. Breaches of the Code of Conduct or systems: applicable laws are followed up and suitably • The ten principles of the UN Global punished. Compact • A Code of Conduct that applies in all The Code of Conduct can be downloaded areas of the company from www.mtu.de under The company > • The MTU Principles, with the focus for Sustainability > Code of Conduct. 2012 on promoting a no-blame culture and the corresponding training measures • Health management • Occupational safety in accordance with OHSAS 18001 < Occupational safety is a major part of MTU’s principles of social responsibility. As an employer of around 8,500 people, MTU feels obliged to provide the highest possible degree of occupational safety and comprehensive health protection. 6 7 Keeping fit in the workplace: Healthy and motivated employees secure Selected MTU health manageMTU’s long-term competitive advantage. The MTU’s health management company plays an active part in maintaining ment initiatives during reporting We achieve commercial success and meet and improving the health and well-being of period our growth targets only with an excellent its employees in the workplace and preMTU team of healthy and motivated emventing possible health risks. The company’s Extended Risk Assessment ployees. Consequently, MTU pursues a poliactivities in this regard are focused on the Locations: Munich, Hannover, Ludwigsfelde cy of sustainable workplace health promofollowing aspects: Although employers are required under the tion. Our 2011 strategy was to build up a law to assess the work carried out by emcomprehensive health management pro• Continuously improving working condiployees in terms of the associated risks in gram for all sites in Germany. We systemattions order to protect employee health, their ically followed up this goal in 2012, and it • Helping employees to acquire and deefforts to date have generally been limited also represents a main focus of our activivelop skills and expertise to physical strains in the workplace. Howties in 2013. Improving employee health has • Promoting active participation in health ever, the number and duration of illnesses again been explicitly included in the corpoand accident prevention events and related to mental health issues have been rate goals for 2013 following its appearance programs on the rise for years. MTU is taking this dethere in 2012. The health management velopment seriously. In the reporting year, program, which involves the collaboration MTU wants to raise the awareness of manwe extended our systematic risk assessof the company health service, human reagers and employees regarding the imporment of workplaces to incorporate psychosources department and occupational safety tance of healthy behavior and help them to logical aspects. For this purpose, we are personnel, is responsible for important develop healthy routines in their everyday testing out a newly defined standard procehealth topics across all sites in Germany. working and personal lives. For the different dure for evaluating psychologically stressful The program is to be expanded progreshealth aspects in working life, MTU has put working conditions. Together with scientists sively in future to embrace further locations together a package of offers for its emfrom the University of Potsdam and occuin other countries. This internationalization ployees in Germany as part of the compational safety personnel, the HR departis scheduled to begin in 2014. In the grouppany’s health management program. Emments at the three sites in Germany are wide strategy, special focus is to be placed ployees and management are called on to systematically inspecting and evaluating on the locationand country-specific chalactively get involved in these activities. different production and administration lenges involved in creating forward-looking MTU feels validated in its efforts to improve workspaces. In the course of an inspection health-oriented workplaces, as well as on employee health as they have been met of the workplaces, the specialists from the policies for promoting healthy working and with such a positive response from the university evaluate potential risks using a living among employees. workforce, with enthusiasm for the measscreening manual. Subsequently, the results the reporting year, MTU organized action ures increasing all the time. are discussed and reviewed with the emdays on the topic of coronary health in colployees from the workplace in question. The laboration with Audi’s company health inresponsible managers then develop correcsurer Audi BKK. Heart attacks and other tive measures based on these results and circulatory disorders continue to pose the ensure that they are implemented. biggest risk to health. The action days kickoff was time to coincide with the German Health Days Heart Foundation’s nationwide “Heart Locations: Munich Hannover, Ludwigsfelde Weeks” initiative. All employees in Munich MTU organizes Health Days as part of its and at the Erding facility had the opportuhealth management program. The events nity to obtain comprehensive information are a combination of educational talks by and advice at the special heart booth. In experts and practical exercises in small addition, 315 employees took up the offer groups. They generally cover topics such as of having their personal heart attack risk healthy eating, keeping active, and coping for the next ten years appraised according with stress. The participants are employees to scientifically validated factors. from a particular center or department. In the summer of 2012, the production techThe goal of the Health Days is to make emnology center launched its own Health Day, ployees more conscious of health issues, with the quality center following suit in the to boost awareness of the existing MTU fall. For 2013, Health Days are scheduled facilities and programs, health center, and for various departments in several centers; in-house sports association, and to give further Health Days are planned before the participants specific advice and tips on how end of the year. At the Ludwigsfelde and they can improve their health in the workHannover locations, there were Health Days place even with brief exercise routines. Exerin 2012 for apprentices and students from cise stations are provided and tailored to the university of cooperative education. The the requirements of the specific center or program was specially tailored to its young department. Participants then have the participants and included topics such as chance to delve deeper by getting individual healthy eating, keeping active, road safety, nutrition advice or taking courses in the bullying and preventing addiction. During MTU health center. 8 9 Vibration training more ergonomic workplaces in conjunction Occupational safety Location: Munich with occupational safety personnel and the The positive results from the pilot project company medical officer. At the Hannover A major component of a healthy working in 2011 prompted MTU to continuously exlocation, the back coach also provides a environment is of course a safe workplace: pand vibration training in the workplace at weekly open health surgery. The result of employees must not be exposed to any the Munich location during the reporting the pilot program will be used to establish a health risks while carrying out their work. year. Vibration training is a personalized fitset of standards for health-oriented working. As an aviation company, MTU is concerned ness program for efficient muscle building MTU will decide this year whether use of a not only with having the highest standards near the workplace. From mid-April 2013, physiotherapist should become a permanent as regards the quality and reliability of its vibration training will be available for all fixture of the company’s health services. products, but also with ensuring that the 4,550 employees at MTU headquarters. This products are manufactured and maintained was a goal MTU set itself back when vibraActive break using safe processes and methods. This is tion training was launched. The project, Location: Munich assured by means of comprehensive occuwhich is a unique undertaking in Germany, Since 2012, MTU personnel taking part in pational safety measures. Occupational is currently being analyzed as part of a lengthy meetings or conferences have had safety is a major part of MTU’s principles scientific study. A team from the Ludwigthe option of taking an active break. The of social responsibility. For us, observing Maximilians-Universität München (LMU) is active break consists of simple stretches and national regulations and standards is a evaluating the training results from 100 volexercises under the guidance of a trainer. matter of course. We strive for continuous untary participants aged 45 and over. The The exercise boosts participants’ concenimprovements by means of our manageresearchers are paying particular attention tration. Posters showing simple exercises ment system, which is certified to OHSAS to the effects on the musculoskeletal sysare hung in meeting rooms so that people 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety tem and on quality of life. The study began can take active breaks even when a trainer Assessment Series), verified annually and low level. Our aspiration is to bring the in early 2013 and will include additional is not available. recertified every three years. The system accident rate right down to zero. An occutesting in the company to scientifically dedefines the required measures, goals and pational safety campaign was launched at monstrate the positive effects of the trainHealthy eating responsibilities. A golden rule is that there the Munich location in 2012 to make people ing. Locations: Munich, Hannover, Ludwigsfelde is one person with overall responsibility for more aware of how dangerous stairs can MTU helps its employees to achieve a occupational safety at each location—for be and to show them how to avoid falls. Back coach healthy diet. During the company medical the headquarters in Munich, for example, After all, falls account for 40 percent of days Locations: Munich, Ludwigsfelde, Hannover officer’s surgery, every employee has the the chief operating officer plays this role. lost due to accidents. In the course of the 2013 is the first year in which the services opportunity to obtain dietary advice. Emcampaign, stairs were made safer by measof a back coach have been made available ployees can also seek referrals to external MTU’s Integrated Management System ures such as adding a second hand rail. in pilot areas of MTU. The selected areas nutrition consultants near their place of (IMS) encompasses the areas of quality, are ones where many employees are enwork. In the company restaurant at the occupational safety and environmental progaged in physical labor and disorders of the Munich location, a “light meal” option has tection. For more information, visit: musculoskeletal system are most common. been available every day since 2012. These www.mtu.de > The company > Quality Accidents at German locations Using a special camera, the physiotherapists meals are low in fat and calories and are per 1,000 employees observe and analyze the movements and nutritionally balanced, with an emphasis on Approvals and certifications guarantee the (End-of-year figures) posture of employees as they carry out food that is freshly prepared and not overly highest quality standards. They are docutheir work. They also ask employees about processed. The menus at MTU’s secondmented for the individual locations at: 2010 2011 2012 their existing back problems. Subsequently, largest location, Hannover, have featured www.mtu.de > The company > Quality Munich 4.1 3.0 2.9 they give advice on back-friendly posture, healthier meals since a new caterer took Hannover 0.6 0.6 3.3 explain useful prevention measures, and over. And finally, the canteen at MTU’s Our duty of care toward our employees is Ludwigsfelde 8.0 8.3 5.1 give tips on how to optimize the specific Ludwigsfelde location is due to be specially reflected in our sustained and determined Total (average) 4.2 3.9 3.7 workplace from an ergonomic perspective. renovated in mid-2013 to enable more efforts to prevent accidents. Information If required, they recommend to employees meals to be cooked in-house with fresh campaigns and accident analyses help us that they consult the company doctor or a ingredients. to keep our accident rate at a consistently back specialist. The overall goal is to design 10 11 4 Labor MTU’s attractiveness as an management culture. The “180-degree Principle 3: employer feed-back” program provides managers Businesses should uphold the with a structured process that enables freedom of association and the MTU sees itself as a fair and responsible them to compare their own image of themeffective recognition of the employer. We are committed to creating a selves with their image as perceived by the right to collective bargaining; work environment that encourages open members of their team and by their supercommunication and is imbued with the visors. Subsequent measures are agreed in Principle 4: values of mutual respect, trust and apprea personal interview with the HR departthe elimination of all forms of ciation. In other words a place in which all ment’s career advisors. forced and compulsory labor; employees can unfold their talents and contribute their individual strengths, know-how Principle 5: and ideas. There is strength in unity, and Fair working conditions the effective abolition of child efficient collaboration by highly trained, labor; and qualified and motivated employees is essenFor MTU, fair working conditions include tial to MTU’s success. This is why the comrespecting employees’ rights and guaranPrinciple 6: pany does everything it can to protect and teeing their freedom of association. MTU the elimination of discriminafurther its employees’ interests, including personnel are employed on the basis of tion in respect of employment offering them fair compensation for their collective bargaining agreements and the and occupation. work and socially acceptable working conterms of their employment contracts comditions. ply with the relevant legislation and supplementary in-house agreements. Fair and Every two years, MTU carries out an emappropriate remuneration is ensured by a ployee satisfaction survey at its three sites uniform, transparent and consistent comin Germany in order to obtain an up-to-date pensation structure. Compensation for picture of prevailing opinions. The last sursenior managers is linked to the company’s vey was held in 2012. This opportunity to long-term performance. Employees’ interexpress their views and deliver feedback to ests are represented by a works council at management was utilized by 76 percent of each MTU location in Germany in addition the workforce. The survey is a key tool for to the Group Works Council. The sites in honing the corporate culture and enabling Germany account for the large majority of employees to shape their own working enthe total workforce (7,248 out of 8,541 vironment. The survey covers issues such group employees at December 31, 2012). as employee commitment, leadership, inforThe Board of Management respects emmation and communication, efficiency and ployees’ concerns and maintains an open, continuous improvement. In several of these trust-based dialog with the Group Works categories, performance was rated higher Council on such matters. MTU enables its in 2012 than in 2010, indicating an improveemployees to participate in the company’s ment. Overall, the results show that emsuccess through various profit-sharing ployees and managers alike place great schemes. It also provides other supplementrust in the company’s executive managetary benefits, including company-funded ment, identify closely with the corporate pension plans. In keeping with our ethical goals and the MTU Principles, and are very values, we resolutely oppose all forms of satisfied with MTU’s qualities as an emforced labor and child labor, and all other ployer. A large majority of employees are abuses of human rights. confident that the company will continue to develop in a positive manner in future. The Occupational health and safety are prime employee satisfaction survey also provides considerations in the company’s concerns input for measures to improve the compafor its employees’ welfare. More information ny’s management culture. Relevant issues on the improvement processes we have will be followed up in discussion workshops implemented in this area can be found in between members of the Board of ManageChapter 3, Human rights, of this COP. ment and management personnel, and in team meetings in the individual business units. Feedback also plays a role in another new instrument intended to improve the < Vocational training is accorded a high priority at MTU, where apprentices made up 4.5 percent of the workforce in 2012. MTU relies on the capacity of its highly qualified and motivated employees to develop new ideas and bring them to fruition. 12 13 Diversity and equal opportunities Gender diversity The key element in MTU’s career advanceMTU is involved in numerous proment measures for women is a new system MTU is committed to ensuring equal opporAt present, women make up 13.7 percent grams and initiatives promoting the that provides personal career advice for tunities for men and women and supports of the MTU workforce. This means there are advancement of women: high potentials that enables them to choose targeted career advancement measures for still considerable untapped resources that the most suitable location for their future women in specialized and management pocould be deployed productively in our busiMunich Memorandum for Women activities. In the course of a two-day semisitions. Equal treatment of all employees is ness and innovation processes. To improve in Management nar, the candidates are asked to evaluate an important issue for the company. MTU this situation, MTU has set itself the target The engine manufacturer is one of the their individual talents, strengths and destrives to create a work environment that of increasing the proportion of women in co-founders of this initiative to estabvelopment potential and reflect on how values each person’s contribution and prothe workforce, and more particularly in lish mixed leadership in businesses these tie in with their professional ambivides a wide range of career opportunities management positions, to 15 percent by and organizations and promote more tions. The participants are then divided into for new recruits and existing employees. We 2015. This goal has been incorporated into women to leadership positions. groups to discuss the roles they will be reoffer interesting jobs and flexible workingour corporate objectives, and each business quired to assume within the organization as time arrangements. Our support for diversity unit is responsible for reaching its own speCross-mentoring specialists and managers, including genderin the workplace means integrating emcific targets. The new career advancement MTU has participated in this annually specific aspects. This new program has met ployees of all ages, men and women alike, program for women that was established in renewed program organized by the with a very positive response, and will probof many different nationalities and cultural 2012 is now being implemented on a conCity of Munich since 2003. The proably be expanded. backgrounds, including persons with retinuous basis through an extensive range of gram aims to promote a new generastricted mobility and other disabilities. We targeted measures. The main focus of these tion of female managers by facilitating Diversity also has an important role to play also have a policy of promoting the advanceefforts lies on persuading more women with the exchange of experience and knowin the Supervisory Board. MTU has attained ment of women in engineering and related high potential to join MTU and providing how between mentees and mentors its objective of increasing the number of professions. For a high-tech company like women employees with career planning adfrom different companies. In 2012, women on the board to two, one being an MTU, a diversified workforce with access vice and ongoing support throughout their two mentees and two mentors from employee representative and the other a to equal opportunities for career advanceprofessional lives. By mid-2013, MTU aims MTU took part in the program. shareholder representative. At the Annual ment is a distinct competitive advantage to increase the proportion of women among General Meeting in May 2013, Prof. Dr. and a valuable source of innovative strength. its heads of department to ten percent. MTU Studienstiftung Marion A. Weissenberger-Eibl was elected Scientific studies have proved that mixed Other measures include widening the range This non-profit foundation offers workas the second female member of the Superteams collaborate more efficiently, generate of options available to parents who need to shops and personal counseling to help visory Board. The Supervisory Board will more creative ideas, and produce more balance their professional and family comyoung women studying for vocational also pay attention to the goal of adequate successful results, because this approach mitments by working more flexible hours, and university qualifications in various representation of women when searching multiplies individual strengths and compenand organizing seminars to raise awareness scientific and engineering disciplines for suitably qualified candidates to fill vacant sates for individual weaknesses. People of of gender diversity issues within the workto succeed in their chosen careers. positions on the Board of Management. more than 100 nationalities work together force as a whole. in harmony at MTU locations around the Girls’ Day world. A buddy system in which new recruits MTU aims to strengthen its position as an MTU has participated in this nationare paired up with more experienced colattractive employer for future engineering wide event every year since 2002. By leagues provides a means of transferring specialists, with an emphasis on the upopening their doors to female school knowledge from one generation to the next coming generation of women engineers. The students, the various MTU sites in and ensures that essential skills are maincompany’s consistently high rating in surGermany aim to stimulate the girls’ tained within the company. In this way, veys to determine Germany’s top employers, interest in pursuing a career in a diversity also serves the interests of the a title that it received for the seventh contechnical profession. company by assuring the supply of future secutive year in 2013, demonstrates the experts in a time of demographic change. quality of the benefits that MTU offers its Research Camp for Girls employees. As part of our employer brandSince 2007, MTU has taken part in In 2010, MTU underpinned its pledge to proing activities, we have enhanced the comthis project addressing girls with an mote diversity in the workplace by signing pany’s image though a new communication interest in technology, organized the “Charter of Diversity”, a joint initiative strategy that directly targets women and jointly by a group of private compaof the German government and industry. draws attention to the attractive job oppornies in association with the training By signing the charter, companies accept tunities that MTU has to offer. As a result, centers of the Bavarian employers’ the obligation to create a discrimination-free we were able to attract a significantly higher association (BBW) and the Munich working environment that recognizes and number of female applicants in 2012, University of Applied Sciences. In supports the potential of each and every increasing their proportion among new 2012, 15 young women profited from member of the workforce. recruits from 14 to 24 percent. This dethis occasion to gain a foretaste of velopment is reflected in the company’s imthe varied professional opportunities proved ranking in the influential Universum available to women engineers. Young Professionals study published in the German business journal “Wirtschaftswoche”, where MTU was voted by women engineers into 21st place in 2012 after a ranking of 44th the year before. 14 15 Work-life balance company’s site in Munich, ever since the Investing in the future workforce center was founded over ten years ago. MTU is involved in numerous initiaMTU enhances the work-life balance of its A new initiative, “Sommerkinder”, was To invest in the training of new recruits is tives and educational projects deemployees with a range of offers and serrecently launched to help parents during to invest in the future of the company. Like signed to get children and teenagers vices. It provides its employees with a wide the long summer vacation, when their chilany other high-tech company, MTU relies interested in technology from an early range of working-time models, teleworking dren are not in school. In 2012, for the first on the capacity of its highly qualified and age and to introduce them to technioptions, a working-time corridor from 5:15 time, children aged from three to 12 were motivated employees to develop new ideas cal careers: a.m. to 8:00 p.m. as well as flexibility in able to attend this daily “summer camp” at and bring them to fruition. Consequently, taking time off. Parental leave and child/ the MTU headquarters in Munich. The “Somvocational training is accorded a high priorTraining Night: Annual company elderly care sabbaticals are arrangements merkinder” program will be offered again in ity at MTU, where apprentices made up event providing information to interthat enable staff to spend more time with 2013. Another example of continuous im4.5 percent of the workforce in 2012. At ested schoolchildren about training their families when this need is uppermost provement will soon be realized in HannDecember 31, 2012, 328 apprentices were opportunities at MTU in their lives. What is more, external familyover, where a new works agreement will employed at the company’s sites in Gerservice providers offer employees a compermit more flexible teleworking arrangemany. In keeping with MTU’s self-imposed Science Exhibition in Hannover prehensive package of additional services, ments. responsibilities as an employer, we aim to (IdeenExpo Hannover): Event for including debt counseling, help in finding provide apprentices with a full education teenagers and schoolchildren to exchild minders, and advice when next of kin covering all technical, social, and ecological perience and find out about science require long-term nursing care. A women’s aspects of their future work. All participants and technology and associated canetwork has been established to promote who pass the final exam are offered a perreers dialog and experience-sharing, as a means manent contract with MTU. We carry out of adapting the measures we implement to regular reviews of our training programs and Nature and Technology Days: promote equal opportunities and a better evaluate the content of our vocational trainInvolvement in special events organwork-life balance to the requirements of ing courses and dual study programs at ized by MTU partner schools the women we employ. MTU has provided twoto four-year intervals in order to keep financial support for the “TurBienchen” them aligned with the company’s needs. In Teachers in Industry: Program day-care center, situated next door to the 2012, this resulted in the creation of two sponsored by the Bavarian Ministry new advanced training courses: IT networks of Culture and the educational instiand software engineering, and production tute Bildungswerk der bayerischen and management techniques for mechanical Wirtschaft, in which teachers spend engineers. These replace the industrial manone year on the staff of participating agement course, which has been removed companies. from the curriculum. At the same time, the number of places available on the dual-study Long Night of Museums: The MTU program has been increased from 12 to 14. Museum in Munich opens its doors to To meet the increasing need for warehouse the public on the night of this event managers, a new vocational training course and on three or four other occasions for specialized logistics staff has been during the year. Among the exhibits on added to the curriculum. The number of industrial history at the City Museum apprenticeships for industrial mechanics in Ludwigsfelde, home of one of has been increased from 25 to 33 to meet MTU’s subsidiaries, there is an entire the requirements of the new blisk manuroom devoted to MTU, which opened facturing facility in Hall 077 of the producin 2012. tion site in Munich. 16 17 Internationalization ners. Internationality is an aspect of diverMTU@Social Media sity, and MTU is convinced that diversity is For a company like MTU, with activities a major factor in the company’s success. As MTU maintains an open dialog with its spanning the entire globe, effective cooperfar as possible, we recruit managers for stakeholders. The groups and organizations ation between international locations is our international locations on the local labor with which we communicate are listed on essential. One way in which this is achieved market. We offer training in intercultural pages 40-41 of our Sustainability Report is by training prospective managers in skills and encourage employees to spend 2011 “We help shape the future of aviation”. networking skills at an early stage of their time working abroad. At present, about 60 The various platforms and instruments that career. That is why the “Building on Talent” MTU employees at all levels of the hierarchy we use for communication and feedback (BOT) program, which was established at are on assignment in another country around are also described there. In addition, in the the company’s sites in Germany in 2005, the world. Trainees, too, can spend part of summer of 2012, MTU started to build up has also been available as an international their period of training at one of MTU’s a presence on social media websites that development program with training in international locations. are used by hundreds of millions of people English since 2012. The participants comthroughout the world every day. MTU’s prise young employees from the MTU locastrong position on the labor market is due tions in Canada, Poland, the United States, Leadership and management not least to the company’s ability to respond and China, selected on the basis of their feedback flexibly to changes of every kind, including potential as future members of higher manthe expectations of job applicants and their agement. The “International Building on Managers bear a special responsibility withmedia habits. In addition to YouTube and Talent” program is divided into two parts. in the company. They are expected to act Facebook, the popular Xing recruiting platThe first module concentrates on the indias role models and guide the conduct of form is another of the channels that MTU vidual’s capacity for innovation and ability the employees in their charge. In this leaderemploys in order to create a closer relationto reappraise their own set attitudes, preship role, they embody the corporate culture ship with its target groups and demonstrate conceived ideas, and behavior patterns. and their actions are judged by reference its openness to questions and new ideas. The mixed groups also discuss possible to the corporate values. To advise and supIn presenting careers information on these solutions to problems of conflict manageport them in this important function, MTU platforms, MTU is pursuing several simultament. The second module, which relates to has designed a new feedback instrument. neous objectives. This personnel marketing the conditions in the specific work location, For the first time, a uniform system is in approach familiarizes more people with the focuses on the application of each person’s place throughout the company to provide company and the activities of its various individual strengths in a management conmanagers at all levels with valuable inforlocations. It reinforces employer branding text. mation that will help them to assess their and enables job applicants to swiftly estableadership role and take targeted improvelish direct contact with the relevant human For MTU, the international dimension of the ment measures where necessary. The manresources officers. Typical content includes BOT program makes it the ideal platform for agement feedback is based on criteria deinterviews with current employees, reportanchoring a shared understanding of leaderrived from the rules and principles of the ages, information on job vacancies and ship across MTU locations, whatever their MTU Code of Conduct. Compliance with corporate events, and video clips illustrating size or area of business, in all regions. It these criteria is assessed by the managers the advantages of working for MTU. A presalso encourages the exchange of ideas and themselves, the employees in their charge, ence on LinkedIn, a platform with a particestablishment of contacts between people and by the manager’s direct superior. Parularly international character, is planned for of different nationalities and cultural backticipation in the feedback process is volunthe near future. grounds. Internationality is important for an tary and anonymous. The results are evaluengine manufacturer because development, ated by an independent consulting firm. production and maintenance activities take place in a global market context that involves collaboration with international part18 19 5 Environment MTU places a high value on environmental Cleaner Air Principle 7: protection. This is enshrined in the MTU Businesses should support a Principles, in each year’s corporate goals, The volume of international air traffic is precautionary approach to and in the company’s program of environgrowing steadily every year. Experts calcuenvironmental challenges; mental measures. We advocate companylate that passenger volume will increase by wide environmental responsibility not only an average of 5 percent annually as we Principle 8: in terms of our products themselves but move toward the year 2020. In view of this undertake initiatives to proequally in the ways they are developed, prognosis, there has never been a greater mote greater environmental manufactured and maintained. MTU takes need for cleaner, quieter and more efficient responsibility; and an active role in numerous technology iniaircraft and engines. The future of aviation tiatives and research programs that aim to demands sustainable solutions that will Principle 9: keep aviation’s impact on environment to a make this growth as eco-friendly as possible. encourage the development minimum, and puts considerable resources The lengthy development and technology and diffusion of environmeninto the development of fuel-efficient, lowercycles that are a feature of aircraft and tally friendly technologies. emission and quieter engines. engine production force design engineers to adopt a long-term attitude toward We make every effort to minimize emissions products that encompasses clearly defined and pollutants and we take great care to concepts and future plans; eco-efficiency conserve resources. Although production thus plays a significant role in MTU’s corat MTU continues to increase, our energy porate strategy. consumption remains the same and has even dropped in some areas. The guiding Following the roadmap drawn by the Adprinciples of our waste disposal plan are, visory Council for Aeronautical Research in first, to avoid the production of waste wherEurope, the European aviation sector has ever possible and, second, to recover the agreed upon fixed targets for the future of material or energy from waste that does air traffic to be realized by 2020 (ACARE arise. This enables MTU to achieve a con2020) and by 2050 (Flightpath 2050). MTU sistently high recycling ratio at its Munich, is offering its full support and considers Hannover and Ludwigsfelde sites in Gerthe following targets binding: many, which represent the vast majority of its production activities. The average recycling ratio achieved is over 80 percent, and by 2020 by 2050 this is set to remain unchanged despite inCO2 -50 percent -75 percent creasing production rates. NOx -80 percent -90 percent Noise -50 percent -65 percent A certified environmental management sysin the perceived noise level tem, in which all processes, responsibilities and goals are defined, ensures that consis(per passenger kilometer compared to the tently high standards are upheld throughout equivalent figures from the year 2000). the company. This integrated management system comprises the areas of safety, quality, environmental protection and occupaAchieving these targets involves setting tional health, and has the following certifiambitious ones for engines. The next cations: generation of aircraft engines must comply with the following: • EN9100 • ISO 14001 • CO2: -20 percent • EMAS Regulation (EC) No. 1221/2009 • NOx: -80 percent (Eco Management Audit Scheme) • Noise: -50 percent. • OHSAS 18001. The International Air Transport Association We are also a member of the “Umweltpakt (IATA) has also imposed similar requireBayern” initiative in Germany’s Bavaria ments. From 2020, growth in air traffic region, which was launched to encourage must be carbon neutral, with no rise in companies to take more responsibility for overall CO2 emissions. Furthermore, by environmental protection. We support our 2050, CO2 emissions from air traffic are to employees in practicing the environmentally be merely half of what they were in 2005. conscious behavior we expect from them. Moreover, we have been a member of the Munich-Upper Bavaria energy efficiency < We make every effort to minimize emisnetwork since 2010. sions and pollutants and we take great care to conserve resources. 20 21 Clean Air Engine: MTU’s techproved core engine with greater thermal truly and without overstatement represents Geared Turbofan on board Reduction of 75 dB noise contour due nology program efficiency, for example by using a heat exa milestone in engine development. A reto new geared turbofan technology at changer that utilizes thermal energy from duction gear unit decouples the fan from the • Bombardier CSeries— PW1500G Munich airport MTU gauges its performance against the the exhaust gas stream to operate the turlow-pressure turbine; the two were previous2014 Entry into service for launch ACARE 2020 and Flightpath 2050 requirebine. In the reporting period, MTU is laying ly connected by a shaft. Decoupling enables customers ments. The Clean Air Engine (Claire) techthe groundwork for an engine demonstrator the low-pressure turbine to run faster, and • Mitsubishi Regional Jet— PW1200G nology program brings together its research as part of the EU’s Clean Sky research prothe fan to rotate slower than before. This 2015 Entry into service for launch and development activities into sustainable gram. This will be used to test and validate helps both components to achieve very customers propulsion concepts and ties them to spenew technologies for high-pressure comhigh levels of efficiency, making the engine • Airbus A320neo— PW1100G-JM cific phased targets out to 2035: future pressors and low-pressure turbines belongdistinctly more economical and quieter at a 2015 Entry into service for launch generations of aircraft engine must achieve ing to the second-generation of Geared stroke. The Geared Turbofan is especially customers a 15, then 20, then 30 percent drop in CO2 Turbofans. effective in reducing aircraft noise, with • Irkut MS-21— PW1400G emissions. The ACARE goals for 2020 call 20dB lower noise emissions (compared to 2017 Entry into service for launch for engines that produce 20 percent lower the International Civil Aviation Organization’s customers CO2 emissions. MTU is right on course: the Green Engine: the Geared latest, most stringent ‘Chapter 4’ noise • Embraer E-Jets— PW1700G/PW1900G 0 1 2 Miles ©Wyle new Geared Turbofan (GTF) in which MTU Turbofan standard), which cuts the perceived noise 2018 Entry into service for launch has a significant share, represents pioneerlevel almost in half. In addition, the first customers ing technology for more eco-efficient flight The engine industry is itself currently setting generation of engines to feature the Geared and will reach the market in 2014. MTU the pace in terms of developing eco-friendly Turbofan—the PurePower® PW1000G famiMore information about Geared Turbofan engineers are already at work refining and aviation technologies. This is demonstrated ly—consumes around 15 percent less fuel applications can be found under Products/ improving this engine. The second phase of by the huge market success of the Geared than traditional engines, with a corresponServices at www.mtu.de. Claire will see the engine receive a more Turbofan, which has taken almost no time ding reduction in CO2 emissions. Together advanced type of fan in order to obtain to become popular among aircraft manuwith its partners, MTU is introducing an The Geared Turbofan is proving a popular greater propulsion efficiency. The third genfacturers and airlines and which sets entire engine family for all aircraft sizes engine option among airlines, too. There eration of engines is to be even more fuelgroundbreaking standards for eco-friendly based on the Geared Turbofan. MTU is reswere some 4,500 orders for the engine by efficient and produce even lower emissions. technologies. The Geared Turbofan is based ponsible for the engine’s key component, its the mid of 2013; deliveries will start in This is to be achieved by means of an imon an entirely new engine architecture that high-speed low-pressure turbine, and for 2014. This clear vote of confidence proves 0 1 2 Miles ©Wyle critical stages of the high-pressure compresthat MTU is right to strive for sustainable sor as well as for the brush seals. products and eco-efficient flight and justify SEL Contour (dB) the company’s high upfront investments for 75 80 85 90 95 Planned reduction in CO2 emissions through the Claire technology program product development and introduction. Runway Abatement Flight Track from MTU Aero Engines MTU’s award-winning turbines The new engine achieved important mileThe “noise footprint” of an aircraft powered by Base CLAIRE 1 CLAIRE 2 CLAIRE 3 In March and April 2013, MTU received two stones in the reporting period on the way geared turbofan engines is 70 percent smaller than that of today’s aircraft. German innovation prizes for its high-speed, to entering regular airline flight operations. Up to Up to Up to low-pressure turbine: the 32nd German In January 2013, the first member of this 15 % 20 % 30 % Industry Award given by the F.A.Z.-Institut engine family—PW1524G for the Bombardier as well as the German Innovation Prize. CSeries—received certification after comThese awards acknowledge outstanding pleting over 4,000 hours of testing. MTU scientific, technical, entrepreneurial and played a decisive role in the comprehensive intellectual innovations to come out of test program by carrying out critical test ARCARE goals German industry. In both cases, MTU won runs using its test rigs. Essential for certifithe category for major companies. MTU’s cation, these included endurance and stress award-winning turbine is characterized by tests as well as spin and load tests. The its high rotation speed and high structureengine meets all the load test performance mechanical resilience while also being lightcriteria set by developers and engine exweight. It lowers an engine’s fuel consumpperts without difficulty. In parallel, the tion and thus its CO2 emissions. PW1000G is also undergoing flight testing. At the end of 2012, testing got underway The Geared Turbofan’s success also extends on the first of the PW1100G-JM engines for to the market: five renowned aircraft manuthe A320neo, followed in May this year by V2500 Geared More advanced Highly efficient facturers have chosen the PurePower® the start of flight tests—a key step in bringTurbofan™ type of fan core engine, e.g. PW1000G for their regional and mediuming the engine to market. The highlight of heat exchanger haul models. In some cases, these manu2013 will be the maiden flight of the first facturers offer only the Geared Turbofan— CSeries prototype. from from 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2035 as in the case of Brazilian company Embraer and the next generation of its popular E-Jets. Market leader Embraer specializes in regional and business jets and decided to adopt the Geared Turbofan at the beginning of 2013. 22 23 Research collaborations through its cooperation with Technische high-pressure compressors and low-pres• using renewable fuels (vegetable oil Universität Braunschweig. For the first time, sure turbines for the next generation of powered cogeneration plant) As part of a leading technology company, aerospace engineering students were able Geared Turbofan. We are also responsible • using a more energy efficient comMTU’s experts are constantly setting themto undertake a practical seminar at MTU as for developing one of five engine demonpressed air supply selves new goals in a bid to strengthen our an integral part of their scientific studies. strators that are to be built and tested by • using energy efficient lighting systems core competencies. We are always striving 2015 to cover a range of performance clasto improve these key areas, which include ses and for different market segments. At the same time, these measures are set our low-pressure turbines, high-pressure MTU is one of the founding members of MTU’s GTF-based demonstrator will start to reduce electricity consumption by 25 percompressors, manufacturing processes and the Bauhaus Luftfahrt research institution. its first test runs in 2014 to prove the techcent (based on turnover in the period from repair techniques. MTU’s innovative advanThis pioneering and internationally oriented nological maturity of new, weight-saving 2010 to 2020). Cooling with well water, for tage stems from the new design features think tank develops innovative solutions for designs and materials in being able to withinstance, saves around 3,000 tons of CO2 we incorporate to increase efficiency, the future air transport systems. MTU was instand higher mechanical and thermal loads. annually, while using the cogeneration plant modern production concepts we develop volved in a number of different Bauhaus Tests will also be carried out on components avoids roughly 7,400 tons of CO2 emissions for high-tech components, and our innovaLuftfahrt projects during the reporting made of new materials or using additive per year. For several years now, modernized tive repair processes that offer customers period, and makes a valuable contribution manufacturing methods. Currently, the ventilation systems featuring the latest a uniquely in-depth maintenance service to research being conducted into new aircomponents are undergoing a comprehenrotary heat exchangers have been gradually while upholding the motto that “repair beats craft concepts for 2025 onward. MTU’s sive series of tests in order to prepare them increasing the amount of heat recovered replacement”. Besides ensuring we progress engines know-how is indispensable, as for integration into the demonstrator. from indoor exhaust air, with a significant as a company, these measures also save novel aircraft architecture exerts a strong saving of around 1,500 tons of CO2 emisresources and reduce our environmental influence on engine design. sions each year. In total, these measures impact. Alternative fuels will save around 23,000 tons of CO2 (greenhouse gas) emissions annually (based on Cooperation arrangements with universities EU research programs MTU is supporting the introduction of susaverage emissions over the last three years). and research institutions form a key comtainable aviation fuels in a number of ways: This equates to an average annual reduction ponent of our research and development MTU is deeply involved in European Union by carrying out studies commissioned by of 1.5 percent. activities. Strategic alliances have been research programs. During the reporting Bauhaus Luftfahrt; by being involved in the established with research partners in order period, the company was part of the followfirst practical application of these fuels in to strengthen ties between universities and ing large-scale projects: Lufthansa scheduled flights (Future Aircraft Best practice: Concept for the industry and safeguard MTU’s innovative Research, FAIR for short); and by being a new manufacturing building 077 capabilities. MTU and its scientific partners • Clean Sky member of aireg (Aviation Initiative for have set up six centers of competence • Lemcotec Renewable Energy in Germany), to name a When erecting new buildings or renovating across Germany, with each center focusing • Dream few examples. In May 2013, as part of the established ones, the company considers on a specific area of research. This reportEU’s Solarjet project, the Swiss Federal measures that guarantee efficient energy ing period, for instance, saw the further As part of Clean Sky, Europe’s largest aviaInstitute of Technology Zurich succeeded supply to be very important. MTU recently intensification of the research network tion technology program, MTU is working on for the first time in producing synthetic fuel built a new facility in Munich to produce using non-biological manufacturing proceshigh-tech engine components, integrally ses, by using process engineering methods manufactured blades and disks (blisks). Part Cooperation with universities and centers of competence on a laboratory scale. of the total investment of some 65 million euros in the new building was directed toward equipping the facility to be energy Centers of competence Cooperation with universities Eco-friendly manufacturing efficient. Energy efficiency and economic viability were MTU’s top priority in designing RWTH Aachen The Clean Air Industrial Site program the building. The entire building is conCompressor technology BAM Berlin DLR Berlin (CLAIR-IS) was initiated in 2009 at MTU’s ceived as a low-temperature facility with Uni & LZ Hannover TU Berlin Munich headquarters. The program sets cutting-edge ventilation technology and Maintnance Repair Overhaul TU Braunschweig similar climate objectives for manufacturing well-water cooling. Heating energy that is BTU Cottbus processes as Claire (Clean Air Engine), a still required is extracted by heat pump from DLR Cologne TU Darmstadt product-related technology project. In the the compressed-air compactor’s waste 2010 plus engine TU Dresden Uni Erlangen long term, CO2 emissions from the manuheat, and is also recovered from the waste Bauhaus Luftfahrt FHG Fürth facture and maintenance of products at the heat emitted by machinery. By recovering Munich TU Göttingen main plant in Munich are to be cut by up to heat in this way and employing additional Future concepts TU Hannover 25 percent by the year 2020 (compared to thermal insulation, the facility’s energy TU Heidelberg figures from the year 1990). The various costs are around 60 percent lower than TU Munich KFA Jülich measures for implementing energy efficient those of existing buildings—reducing the Structural design and TH Karlsruhe production Uni GH Kassel manufacturing are: building’s energy consumption to a sixth of DLR Stuttgart that of the existing, standard facilities. This UniBW Munich MPA Stuttgart • increased use of well water as coolant building concept enables the company to More Electric Engine in production processes keep its consumption of resources to con• renovation of the heating network cept minimum. The new manufacturing University of Stuttgart Turbine technology • improved heat insulation facility was officially opened in April 2013, • using a building control system with blisk machining having begun there at the end of 2012. 24 25 Further measures taken for factories and buildings at the MTU Group MTU Group MTU Group water consumption* heating energy consumption* electricity consumption* Munich location: (cubic meters per 1 million production hours) (MWh per 1 million production hours) (MWh per 1 million production hours) Heat recovery 50.000 12.000 17.500 All major production facilities have heat re11.500 16.500 covery systems incorporated into their ven45.423 45.000 11.000 16.000 tilation systems. These extract heat from 16.339 10.500 11.061 15.500 waste air and use it to heat the fresh air 40.000 10.000 15.000 flowing into the building. As several thou9.500 14.500 sand cubic meters of air flow through per 35.000 9.000 14.000 hour, using the energy reserves present in 35.904 35.812 9.321 14.228 8.500 13.500 13.856 waste air dramatically reduces the amount 30.000 8.000 8.347 13.000 of heating required. 7.500 12.500 25.000 7.000 12.000 Compressed air generation 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Compressed air is one of the most important forms of energy used in industrial manufacturing after electrical power. It is *average for each year across all production *average for each year across all production *average for each year across all production generated by modern, energy efficient comlocations, excluding well water locations locations pressors that significantly reduce electricity consumption and CO2 emissions. Waste heat from the compressed air generation Water use Best practice: Electroplating Waste accumulation process is used to heat the water supply to water circuit the canteen, and to heat the newly built MTU is using more well water as coolant at The volume of waste that accumulates at Hall 077. MTU regularly checks the comits Munich headquarters. Groundwater is In engine manufacturing, electroplating MTU is determined by workload. Dangerous pressed air network for potential leaks and extracted using MTU’s own on-site wells, involves certain coating processes that use waste stems primarily from electroplating, repairs these if any are discovered. and used for cooling in production processwater-based chemical process baths. An waste water treatment and, to a lesser dees. The quaternary water, which is not ion exchange plant is used to create a water gree, from production processes. As proLighting technology classed as drinking water, is pumped and circuit that enables large volumes of water duction volumes rise and fall, so too does When erecting new buildings or carrying out piped throughout the site. Compared to to be reused. In 2012, this facility circulated the amount of harmful waste produced. On basic renovations, we take care to illuminate conventional cooling methods, this method 451,609 cubic meters of water. The entire average, around 80 percent of waste genour factories, offices and floor spaces using saves energy and avoids the use of environcircuit has a volume of 257 cubic meters, erated in our German factories is recycled, energy efficient lighting technology. This is mentally damaging coolants, while also sigmeaning the full volume was cycled through be it via direct recycling of materials or, to another way to save resources, as such nificantly reducing CO2 emissions. MTU the system a total of 1,757 times in 2012. a lesser extent, via other recycling techsystems use less electricity and emit less has been gradually expanding its water Electroplating work was carried out on 286 niques. We intend to maintain the recycling CO2 while providing lighting that is as good extraction plants for years. Developments days during 2012, meaning the full volume quota at this level in future, too. as if not better than previous solutions. undertaken in 2012 mean the company can was circulated and reused 6.5 times a day. now extract 12.8 million cubic meters of Losses arising for example from evaporation Lower rated thermal input in the groundwater per year. were made up for by adding municipal Best practice: Improved logistics heating plant water. Only 13,744 cubic meters of water chain Boiler 6 in the heating plant at the Munich Systematic use of well water in cooling from used process baths was introduced site was successfully downsized during the processes has drastically cut drinking water into the municipal sewer system as treated During the reporting year, MTU Maintenance reporting period, dropping the heating consumption in Munich. Drinking water is waste water. constructed and opened a new logistics plant’s rated thermal input down to under mainly used by sanitary facilities, in the building at the Hannover site. This allowed 50 megawatts. Now that it no longer counts canteen and, to a lesser degree, in manucomponent transport routes to be improved, as a large combustion plant, its large boilers facturing. Drinking water consumption has such that the path from spare-parts wareare no longer started up several times a dropped significantly in recent years, as we house to production has now been cut from day, which was unfavorable from an ecohave been consistently working toward em15 kilometers to a mere 75 meters. This logical point of view. This considerably reploying water-saving technology and recirhas led to major improvements in the site’s duces fuel consumption and exhaust emisculating process water internally. Process logistics chain in terms of resources consions. water for electroplating and crack detection sumed and emissions generated. Further facilities is fed into the water recirculation work is currently underway to optimize system. Since most of the water is reused, traffic flows. To reduce the environmental only a small amount of waste water requires impact, a solar plant was fit to the roof of treatment before being introduced into the the building to heat service water. The municipal sewer system. logistics facility also features underfloor heating, powered by surplus waste heat from the compressors used in production 26 27 6 Anti-corruption We consider compliance with all applicable order to assess any potential risks of corPrinciple 10: laws and regulations to be part of our corruption. Additionally, consultants are to be Businesses should work against porate responsibility in the service of the reviewed by independent organization corruption in all its forms, common good. We deplore corruption, inTRACE. Only once the Compliance Board including extortion and bribery. cluding extortion and bribery, and all other has submitted a positive recommendation forms of corporate crime. MTU operates as will the CEO sign off on any particular cona fair business partner and client and advotract. cates equal and transparent competition. Integrity and responsible behavior are inOne of the Compliance Board’s key duties herent values of our corporate culture and is to prevent corruption and to increase our code of conduct lays out what we awareness of this issue among employees. expect of our employees, managers and Compliance training is provided to all emBoard of Management in upholding them. ployees, with special courses for employees Detailed information about MTU’s code of and managers in positions of trust. These conduct can be found in chapter 3, human courses are carried out at regular intervals; rights. the relevant MTU employees will undergo the next round compliance training in 2014. Corporate Governance Working alongside the central Compliance Board are MTU-wide group officers for indiThe term corporate governance stands for vidual topics, data protection for instance, the practice of administering and controlling who are responsible for making sure the a company in accordance with the princispecial rules in a given area are observed ples of responsibility and long-term added and that uniform standards apply across value. In all areas of the company, MTU the whole company in accordance with demonstrates good corporate governance, statutory regulations. The internal auditors which comprises mutual trust and efficient also conduct regular compliance audits, in collaboration between the Board of Managewhich they scrutinize business processes ment and the Supervisory Board, respect and procedures for legal conformity and for the shareholders' interests, and open adherence to internal guidelines. and transparent communication with all stakeholders. As a globally operating comAn ombudsman acts as a confidential conpany, MTU acts in compliance with the reltact person for information from managers, evant national and international standards. employees, suppliers, customers and partIn Germany, where the company has its ners in cases of suspected corruption. MTU headquarters, these standards are laid down risk management regularly evaluates corprincipally in the Stock Corporation Act ruption-related risks in organizational units (AktG), in the Co-Determination Act (MitbG) as well as measures taken to minimize risk. and in the German Corporate Governance Code. In the Corporate Governance Report Company-wide activities to adhere to ethical for 2012, the Board of Management and the principles are showing results. In the given Supervisory Board stated that the current reporting period, there was no indication to version (released May 15, 2012) would suspect any corruption whatsoever involving reflect all recommendations set out by the MTU, and the company’s successful efforts German Federal Ministry of Justice in the were also recognized by Transparency InterCorporate Governance Code. national: MTU had the independent organization conduct an audit and achieved a posAs part of the 2012 Annual Report, MTU’s itive evaluation. Corporate Governance Report is published online: www.mtu.de/Investor Relations MTU underscores its commitment to management integrity through its membership of the Aerospace and Defence Industries Compliance Association of Europe (ASD), which it joined in 2011, and its recognition of the associaMTU set up a Compliance Board back in tion’s standards combating corruption, brib2007, made up of the heads of its legal ery and unfair competition. department, corporate audit, and corporate security. The Board is committed to fully clearing up reported suspicions and cases < We consider compliance with all applicable laws and regulations to be of improper behavior. The Compliance Board part of our corporate responsibility in is also in charge of reviewing all new and the service of the common good. to-be-renewed consultant agreements in 28 29
