Lett Law Firm Global Compact Communication on Progress March 2013 Social commitment deeply Chief executive statement embedded in LETT LETT is a full-service law firm advising the corporate and public sectors on I am pleased to confirm that LETT reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the Danish and EU law. Due to LETT’s position as one of the leading law firms in United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment Denmark, we feel duty bound to engage in social responsibility to a greater and Anti-corruption. degree than dictated by law. This year, the main focus has been to word a CSR strategy as, in LETT, we wish to In 2012 when LETT joined UN Global Compact, it was a natural progression in a actively contribute to the community which we are part of and operate in. As a law social commitment that is deeply embedded in our firm. To join this compact means firm, we believe that we can make the greatest difference by focused efforts conthat, in a global frame, we are duty bound to respect the 10 principles that include nected to our professionalism and business. human rights, social matters, environmental and climate matters as well as anticorruption. Our work with corporate social responsibility is based on our vision, culture and values and topped up with the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, Protection of human rights and labour rights in the Nordic region is to a very large the CSR strategy contributes to defining our conduct and linking us together as one extent ensured by detailed national legislation and industry-specific codes of confirm. duct or recommendations. Therefore, we work on the principles in the context that makes sense to our firm and provides the largest value to the community of which As a result, our CSR contribution plays a vital role in the implementation of our viwe are a part. sion of being seen as a modern and innovative law firm proud of its professionalism which is a tool used actively to the advantage of our clients. This means that, as a In this first annual Communication on Progress, we will set out our integration of the part of our annual branding and marketing plan, we assess potential projects and 10 principles in our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations and the activities on plan specified activities within the four focus areas of the CSR strategy that we wish which we will focus during the coming working year. to implement during the year and correspondingly we evaluate implemented activities on the basis of the goals that have been set. Our values Our values provide the setting for what we do and make a promise to the outside We wish to contribute with active involvement of our partners and staff. The responworld about the approach and conduct represented in LETT. sibility for the implementation of the identified activities is, therefore, clearly embedded with a specified partner or manager, and the ctivities are included in our general CSR communication and reporting. Top standards Professional expertise First-rate quality Ambitious Peter Mejlby Decent Dynamic Chief Executive Officer Trustworthy Dedicated Responsible Our values Enthusiastic High ethics Client focus Straight-forward Unpretentious Personal Open Approachable Non-formal PerformanceA good sense of oriented humour Human rights LETT wishes to be a place of work for committed and professional emploPhysical working environment yees. We are business people and are only capable of realising our business Furthermore, LETT complies with the rules, guidelines and standards for working goals when we create and protect an environment and company culture that environment and indoor climate of the Danish Working Environment Authority. To supports, respects and appreciates our differences as people irrespective of ensure that LETT employees enjoy high employee satisfaction and a good health, gender, race, nationality, religion, faith, sexual orientation, age or disability, we offer a number of supplemental schemes which ia include safety insurance, a and when, at the same time, we succeed in creating challenging and develomassage-therapy scheme, vitamins/food supplements and flu vaccines, sports acping duties and responsibilities as well as continuing professional developtivities as well as a breakfast and lunch scheme, etc. ment together with job satisfaction. Mental working environment Staff investments LETT expects that everybody contributes to a sound working environment. ThePeople represent the pivotal resource in LETT. Therefore, in LETT, it is a top priorefore, it is expected that nobody bullies or harasses any colleague or employee. rity that, all the time, partners and employees are in a professional and personal Should anyone be exposed to problems of this kind or become aware that bullying development that matches the changing needs of our clients. Job satisfaction, chalor harassment is taking place, it is, therefore, expected that such person immedialenging and developing duties and responsibilities and a continuous professional tely takes action about the problem by, eg, contacting our CEO, HR manager or a development are decisive to ensure positive development. Therefore, LETT’s goal similar person in LETT, whom this person trusts. is to have the most committed and satisfied employees within the Danish legalprofession sector. Our internal climate analyses from 2010 and most recently 2012 Activities to ensure satisfaction and continued professional development and entell us that we are at the very top of these parameters. hance general satisfaction are based on LETT’s HR strategy. Employee satisfaction is monitored via internal climate analyses, of which the purpose is to identify the Professional working environment general climate and to see how we can become even better in our management The greater part of the professional development is via cases and assignments and the cooperation in and across job functions and office locations. which each individual employee solves in his/her daily work after having received instruction, sparring and feedback from the relevant case-responsible partner. This experience-based instruction is supported by a bit more formal instruction activiOur goals and activities ties, including further education and research, internal and external lecturing, secondments and stays abroad. Personal developments are supported ia via annual Career-trail project performance reviews, formative trips with the firm and goal-directed career develop• Preparing job descriptions for all lawyers including setting up workshops for all interested parties with a ment. lawyer connection in order to collect inputs to the job descriptions. • Preparing a range of career trails for all lawyers to create internal transparancy concerning development options. Rethinking LETT Learning Human rights principles of the • Ensuring a structured introduction and instruction of the junior lawyers to ensure a certain standard. • Ensuring a structured supplementary education and training of the lawyers. United Nations Global Compact Setting up a new performance-review concept Principle 1 • Introducing a new concept that supports exact performance feedbacks and specified development plans Businesses should support and respect the protecand supports the career-trail project and the job descriptions. tion of internationally proclaimed human rights. Setting up smart workplaces Principle 2 • Ensuring flexible, modern and professional IT workplaces (PC, telephones and dictaphones, etc). Businesses should make sure that they are not com• Introducing a new switchboard capable of further integration with Outlook, which will then enable us to proplicit in human rights abuses. vide better service to our clients and facilitate absence procedures internally in our organisation. Labour LETT respects and promotes diversity in terms of employment and our daily In LETT we have a full set of policies regarding Human Resources policies. These relations. Diversity makes us strong and in LETT we too are to reflect the include e.g policies regarding stress, pregnancy, illness, health, etc. surrounding community in a natural way. Therefore, we encourage everybody to apply for the advertised jobs, irrespective of background, and we will LETT acknowledges that all employees have the right to individual freedom of exclamp down on unsuitable conduct such as bullying and harassment due the pression and opinion and we encourage all our employees to express their opinions differences set out above. individually or in groups at performance reviews, meetings with the management and specified staff groups and at gen-eral section and office meetings and, in wriIn LETT, employees are employed and are treated on the basis of their professional ting, at internal climate analyses. capabilities, competences and conduct. As a result, no discrimmination is made concerning eg ethnics, religion or sexual preference. To ensure a uniform approach, all employments in LETT go via our HR department, which, by the right professional insight and tools, ensures that every single candidate is treated with professionalism and respect. Our recruitment committee consisting of a representative from our HR department and two partners is active in connection with all lawyer employments and at all levels. All other position recruitments are made in cooperation with the section head having a recruitment need. Labour principles of the United Nations Global Compact Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Our goals and activities Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Internal climate analyses • Complete internal climate analyses every second year to assess employee satisfaction and possibilities for Principle 5 improvement. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Recruitment committee • Setting up a new recruitment committee that acts as HR’s professional sparring partner at any employment Principle 6 of trainees and junior lawyers. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Retaining women lawyers • By LETT’s career-trail project and specified development plans for each legal-staff member, we will endeavour to retain more women lawyers in LETT. Environment Anti-corruption LETT pays attention not to cause more environmental harm than absolutely LETT is subject to the Code of Conduct for the Danish Bar and Law Society, necessary. As a service business, our environmental harm is first and foreand, on a regular basis, supervision is made to ensure that the Code is being most connected with our office buildings and office operations as well as observed. Our firm is subject to Danish authority regulation concerning antitransportation. Our approach is based on 3R reduce, re-use, recycle. money laundering including for the purpose of terrorism and an internal set of rules has been prepared and a procedure established to ensure that this LETT observes relevant legislation and guidelines concerning the environment. We anti-money-laundering regulation is being observed. continue to reduce our energy consumption and CO2 emissions and to focus on choosing more environmentally friendly and energy-wise products and solutions LETT has set up an ethics committee dealing with cases on conflicts of interests as for instance in relation to light sources, cleaning products or stationary. A part of well as making statements about issues relating to the Code of Conduct including LETT’s electricity consumption is windmill generated. ensuring implementation and observance of the Code. In addition, the work of the committee also consists of ensurring that those being complained against to the We respect and support measures for recycling and reduction, including waste sorcollegiate authorities or having been threatened with a complaint will get a sparring ting, re-use of cardboard and paper waste, environmental scrap, fat elimination, partner/assessor during the proceedings. two-flush functions, temperature reduction during the night and cleaning using environmentally products using water-saving methods. At least once a year, our staff is instructed in handling cases comprised by the Danish Act on anti-money laundering. When becoming employed, new employees Our initiatives concerning reduction and recycling are in our operations and seragree by their signatures that they will comply with LETTs internal instructions and vice function, which assesses new measures as regards the effect and derived rules on anti-money laundering and conflicts of interests. expenses. In a professional way, we participate actively in public debates within the environmental area. LETT’s team for environmental law is internationally recognised as being top of the line. Environmental principles of the Our goals and activities Anti-corruption principles of the Our goals and activities United Nations Global Compact United Nations Global Compact Better heat and ventilation regulation Setting up a pre-conflict committee Principle 7 • Introducing night cooling during the summer and Principle 10 • Setting up a committee authorised to make deciBusinesses should support a precautionary apoptimizing and improving our air-condition system. Businesses should work against corruption in all its sions which may react fast and ensure that LETT proach to environmental challenges. forms, including extortion and bribery. never represents more than one party in a transacElectricity-saving measures tion process and ensure that a case is clarified on Principle 8 • Initiating an analysis of light sources. the basis of the Code of Conduct as well as comBusinesses should undertake initiatives to promote mercial considerations. greater environ-mental responsibility. Change to a non-paper organisation • Limiting work routines by receiving letters electroLinking an ethics partner Principle 9 nically and filing letters electronically. Changing to • Linking a superior ethics partner who gets involved Businesses should encourage the development and electronic invoicing in our Finance as well as our should doubt issues about basic ethic problems diffusion of envi-ronmentally friendly technologies. Operations and Services departments. arise in the committee and who is also responsible for the ethic guidelines of LETT. LETT’s CSR strategy LETT is proud to be part of Global Compact, however, our community engaLegal assistance gement extends further than that. We wish to contribute and enhance where The basis of LETT’s contribution is to put our legal competences at the disposal on we can make a difference. pro-bono or low-bono terms. We focus on long-term cooperation in social, socioeconomic or cultural projects where LETT’s legal assistance can make a significant This is our strategic ambition for our CSR-related efforts: difference both in terms of the project itself but also indirectly in terms of the people being the target of the activities of the project. “ In LETT we contribute to creating a sustainable future for our clients, our employees and our community in general by active efforts emAn example: LETT’s legal assistance We have a number of lawyers that are counsels appointed by the Danish Supreme Court, which means that, following public appointment, they take on cases before the Court typically for people of typically limited means. “ In 2012, together with a Copenhagen housing association, KAB, and Ernst & Young, LETT agreed to provide bedded in our business and comptences. free legal and economic advice to families and persons who might be evicted. We provide legal advice free of charge to the tenants who might lose their homes. Our CSR strategy focuses on four specified focus areas, which, apart from The tenants of the KAB community will also get the opportunity to see the rock show ”Frankenstein reemployee investment and environmental focus, also include legal assistance, created” in the Playhouse, Copenhagen. This initiative is the outcome of a cooperation between the Danish research and knowledge sharing. Royal Theatre and the housing association KAB, where companies get the opportunity to invite less-frequent theatre-goers with limited means to the theatre. LETT was the first sponsor to come forward and bought tickets, which KAB will distribute among selected tenants. Research and knowledge sharing Knowledge and education constitute the core of our business. We attach great importance to sharing our legal knowledge because we wish to ensure and put our fingerprints on the ongoing development within legal professionalism. We write books and professional newsletters and hold a number of different seminars and courses. We are at the disposal as lecturers at external events. We are engaged within the education area in order to sharpen the skills of both LETT employees who, as part of their specialisation and career development, are in charge of the lecturing and the force safeguarding legal profession in the future. We take on positions of trust and are part of working committees in the fora within An example: our profession. Research and knowledge sharing Growth and innovation are the keys to safeguarding Denmark’s future. At LETT, we wish to make an active contribution to a healthy future development of the Danish business sector, setting the scene for the optimum use of the resources and potentials of enterprises. As a result, we published in 2012 the book (in Danish) ”Growth and innovation successful ownership transfers call for preparation”, which compiles a number of writings, which each in their own way describe the factors affecting the completion and outcome of ownership transfers as an inspiration to how to create the best possible framework for growth and innovation in Denmark. Lett Law Firm www.lett.dk Copenhagen Rådhuspladsen 4 DK-1550 Copenhagen V Tel. +45 33 34 00 00 Fax +45 33 34 00 01 Aarhus Rådhusgården Vester Allé 4 DK-8000 Aarhus C LETT is one of the leading law firms in Denmark. We provide specialist advice to private businesses and public Tel. +45 33 34 00 00 clients within all practice areas. We generate results through collaboration and close relationships. Fax +45 33 34 00 01
