Communication on Progress Year 2012 – 2013 Mission Development of Society through Leadership Entrepreneurship Ownership Vision Most admired Integrated Infrastructure Enterprise Company Profile As one of India’s leading companies, Lanco Infratech Limited has been driving growth across a chain of verticals comprising EPC, Power, Solar, Natural Resources and Infrastructure. Today, Lanco is among the top three private sector power developers in India with 4732 MW under operation, 4636 MW under construction, and 6840 MW of projects under development. Focused on fast-track execution of large capital intensive projects, Lanco’s EPC vertical provides world class solutions to its customers. The Infrastructure division of Lanco is developing roads of around 440 Kms on National Highways. Lanco’s solar business is building different verticals across the entire solar value chain including Project Development, EPC, Products & Systems and Manufacturing. Marking its foray into the global resources industry, Lanco has acquired Griffin Coal Mining Company, which owns the largest operational thermal coal mine in Western Australia. As part of its business strategy, Lanco has chalked out an ambitious growth plan – in Power and Solar energy. It also envisages aggressive plans for EPC with a strong order book growth. Global partnerships with top-notch companies such as Genting, Harbin, GE, Dongfang, Doosan, etc. have borne rich dividends for Lanco. A people driven organization, Lanco has a pan-India presence and international operations, with a human resource base of over 5555 people. Lanco is a privileged member of the World Economic Forum. Lanco is recognized for its Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives led by the Lanco Foundation. Strategic Business Units • EPC • Power • Solar • Natural resources • Infrastructure April 22, 2013 LANCO INFRATECH LIMITED | Sustainability Report 2012 – 2013 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Principle Human Rights Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principle 1: Businesses should support and • At Lanco we recognise the impact that can • All the employees have access to the respect the protection of internationally have on the realisation of fundamental policies through employee Standard proclaimed human rights. human rights. Operating Policies (SOPs). Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that • Through our business operations and our • Lanco also developed Value statements to they are not complicit in human rights citizenship efforts we seek to help more be adhered by every employee. abuses. people and organization realise their full • We are committed to maintaining a human potential. healthy work environment by protecting • Lanco has the following policies in place in the physical and emotional health and support of the Human Rights. well-being of all employees in the work 1. Policy on HIV / AIDS – The purpose of place. This AIDS policy is a direct AIDS policy is to reassure employees outgrowth of those commitments. It that AIDS is not spread through casual provides guidelines for situations when a contact during normal work practices question as to an aids virus-related and to reduce unrealistic fears about condition arises. There are two major contracting an AIDS virus related points: condition. This policy also protects 1. Employees who are diagnosed with an the legal right to work of employees AIDS virus-related condition may who are diagnosed with an AIDS virus continue to work if they are deemed – related condition and provides medically able to work and can meet guidelines for situation where acceptable performance standards. infection with the AIDS virus is We will provide reasonable suspected. Our policy is to encourage performance standards and sensitivity to and understanding for accommodate them reasonably if employees affected with a condition necessary to enable these employees LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 on the AIDS virus. to continue working. 2. Recruitment policy and procedures 2. We provide AIDS education for all employees to help them understand 3. Equal opportunity employer policy how the AIDS virus is spread and to reduce unrealistic fears of contracting as AIDS virus – related condition. • Every Year 16th December will be celebrated as Elder’s Day. Across 10 Lanco Plant sites celebrated the Elder’s Day on 16th December 2012 and 6500 elderly honoured. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Posters against sexual exploitation of women at workplace prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco • Posters against discrimination of persons with disability prepared and displayed in public places within Lanco Labour Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 3: Businesses should uphold the • We respect the Declaration on • Posters against employment of child freedom of association and the effective Fundamental Principles and Rights at labour prepared and displayed in public recognition of the right to collective Work of the International Labour places within Lanco. bargaining. Organization (ILO). • Lanco Foundation CSR posters displayed Principle 4: businesses should support the • Lanco does not encourage any forced across all the locations/plants & elimination of all forms of forced and labour, including child labour. As a policy headquarters across the group on. compulsory labour. Lanco does not recruit child labour, below  Supporting Education Principle 5: businesses should support the the age of 14.  Providing Safe Drinking Water effective abolition of child labour. • Lanco is an equal opportunity employer  Developing the Community LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Principle 6: Businesses should support the and no discrimination is shown with  Empowering the Disabled elimination of discrimination in respect of regard to the religion, region, caste,  Promoting health. employment and occupation. disability and sex. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Lanco Foundation has identified two • Though Lanco is following nonagencies that provide training to People discrimination in respect of employment with Disability (PWDs). of persons with disability, a Policy for • Lanco Foundation has trained 15 in Korba, elimination of discrimination is respect of Chhattisgarh and 51 PWDs in Vijayawada, employment of Persons with disability to Andhra Pradesh and arranged 6 be prepared. programmes to make PWDs economically • Lanco Foundation will continue the Skill independent and contribute to the society Development Programme It is an at large. initiative taken, to deliver employability training & skill building programs to enable “PWDs People with disabilities), to be economically independent & contribute to the society at large. Environment Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principle 7: Businesses should support a Health, Safety & Environment Policy – We • Celebrated World Environment Day precautionary approach to environmental are committed to safeguarding the Health (WED) on 5th June’2012 across 11 challenges. and safety of all our employees and protect locations. WED is celebrated by bringing Principle 8: Businesses should undertake our environment through:together Village Communities, NGo’s, initiatives to promote greater environmental • Institutionalising of HSE management local forest officials & local people. responsibility. process, with HSE organization. • Safety Day was also celebrated on 4th Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the • Regularly communicating, educating & March 2013 covering 14 locations. development and diffusion of imparting training on safety, health, • 1400, saplings were planted by site environmentally friendly technologies. hygiene and environment to all personnel during the campaign of WED. employees, contractors, contractors’ LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 staff and consultants or visitors. Recent HSE Activities:• Specifying and ensuring high standards of safety & environment at • HSE Dept., in total has conducted 3586 our site during construction & workshops, awareness camps, operation of our power plants etc. conferences, training programs for • Evaluating the HSE performance of our employees and contractors covering all employees & contractors against the sites – the main objective was to create HSE requirements. awareness on our HSE corporate • Conducting periodic Audit & Risk framework system and to have greater assessment by competent team. understanding and coordination of HSE efforts. Provide support to site HSE efforts The Health Safety & Environment policy will to improve the performance. be applied throughout Lanco Group via a set • Organised awareness sessions on health of documented company wide and local in various topics and nearly 600 policies and procedures. employees at Corporate Office attended. • We recognize that our activities as integrated infrastructure enterprise have an impact on the environment, and prioritize the issue of climate change: • Lanco has Environment Policy in place and are committed to achieve satisfaction of interested parties and protect environment by generation of Power by implementing prudent eco-friendly methods; and conservation of natural resources like natural gas and water; complying with all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements; continual improvement in the environmental LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 performance by minimizing the emission, discharges and prevention of pollution; use of environmentally friendly technologies and enhancing environmental awareness among employees, contractors and communities. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Implemented 3 layer audit system. • Proactive Hazards & Risk Management • Continuous focus is being made to create • Behaviour Based Safety (BBS) Programme HSE awareness at all levels • Contractor Safety Management • Visual HSE manual has been made at • Project Revamp HSE system development select locations depending on critical • Environmental awareness among activities. communities around the plant areas is • Replenished the already distributed planned. saplings • Sessions on awareness of Health related • Awards received during the Year 2012-13 issues. are • Planning to arrange 15 awareness  Golden Award from National Safety sessions on health at Corporate Office and Council conferred to Amarkantak also planned to arrange such health talks Power Project at all sites for the benefit of site  CII-EHS excellence award conferred to personnel, contractors and labour. Udupi Power Project  Green-tech Safety Award to Amarkantak Power Project  Environment protections and management Award to Lanco Tanjore Power Plant LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 Anti-corruption Principles Lanco’s Position Action Taken Principles 10: Businesses should work against 1. Policy against Bribery – Our core • Whistle Blower posters displayed and corruption in all its forms, including extortion value being Integrity, Honesty and we complaint drop boxes were installed at all and bribery. are committed to compliance with Lanco verticals. international anti-bribery standards as • Appointed committees to oversee stated in the Global Compact and local implementation of Sexual Harassment anti-corruption and bribery laws. policy. 2. Policy to curb sexual harassment at workplace – Lanco is committed to ensure that no employee is subjected to sexual harassment and all steps has been taken to prevent any acts of sexual harassment at the work place. This policy is designed to eradicate all forms of sexual harassment at workplace, to provide a forum for investigation into complaints of sexual harassment and to initiate disciplinary action against those who are found indulging in such acts of misconduct. Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year • Whistle blower policy prepared and • Lanco has 8 core values which will be widely circulated within Lanco. given high priority, and are one of the key • Posters about the policy widely circulated factors with which the employees will be across all the places. continuously appraised. • Integrity being one of the core Values and LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013 will be given high priority in all our actions. • Continuous Learning being one of the core values of Lanco Value system, and all employees across the group are part of regular Training programmes conducting across all verticals across the group. • Each employee will have a minimum mandates for training programme which they have to attend in the calendar year. LANCO Infratech Limited – Sustainability Report 2012-2013
