Playing Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2011-2012 Totalizator Sportowy for the Future Table of Contents Letter from the Chairman of the Management Board of Totalizator Sportowy.................. 5 I. Totalizator Sportowy and Its Environment ................................................................ 8 Lottery market in Europe and Poland ................................................................................... 10 We all win ............................................................................................................................... 12 How Totalizator Sportowy works? ......................................................................................... 13 Ready for challenges ............................................................................................................. 17 Social Responsibility at Totalizator Sportowy ....................................................................... 21 II. Responsible Gaming ...................................................................................................... 26 What does LOTTO offer? ......................................................................................................... 28 Who is a LOTTO player? .......................................................................................................... 33 Responsible Gaming............................................................................................................... 34 III. Work Environment ........................................................................................................ 44 Employees of Totalizator Sportowy ....................................................................................... 46 Responsible work environment ............................................................................................ 50 Safe work environment ......................................................................................................... 52 IV. Social Involvement........................................................................................................ 56 Dialogue with stakeholders ................................................................................................... 58 Community development ...................................................................................................... 59 Appendix 1: Selected financial data ............................................................................... 64 Appendix 2: Index GRI and Global Compact Principles .............................................. 67 Contact details ..................................................................................................................... 78 2 3 Ladies and Gentlemen, We are living in a rapidly changing world. We cannot stand still and hold on to the previously charted paths in the dynamically changing environment. We are aware that in the world like this universal values, such as responsibility, honesty and trust, become even more important. It is true for almost all areas of life, from culture to economy. Keeping this in mind, Totalizator Sportowy, with its goal of providing entertainment and positive emotions to millions of Poles, is doing everything to fulfill this mission in a safe and responsible way. At the same time, we strive, to the best of our ability, to meet the needs and expectations of our customers, employees and business partners. Totalizator Sportowy, the owner of the LOTTO brand is a unique company. Here, tradition and a wealth of experience meet with fresh and creative ideas of employees. Through the fusion of business activities and social goals, we achieve a synergy that brings tangible and positive effects felt by individuals and the whole society alike. Thanks to LOTTO customers, Polish sports and culture are developing dynamically. The system of surcharges existing in our country provides financing for many investments and events at the national and local levels. I have emphasised this many times before and I will repeat it on this occasion – it is our customers who are the biggest sponsors of Polish sports and culture. Therefore, in this Report, you will find examples of projects, which were implemented thanks to our customers. 4 5 The 2010-2012 Sustainable Development and Responsible Gaming Program allowed us to designate the most important areas, from both the Company’s and our stakeholders’ point For the first time… of view. Without a doubt, the priority is our Responsible Gaming program. Therefore, in the Report, you will find a lot of information about the projects supporting this initiative, about its …we report on the last 2 years effects and future plans. It is important to note that while working on projects ensuring safety of our players, we always adhere to the international responsible gaming requirements for lottery providers and that Totalizator Sportowy, as a member of the European Lotteries (EL) and the World Lottery Association (WLA), is obligated to fulfill these requirements. In 2011, we were successful in completing the required steps, which resulted in receiving the WLA certificate on 3 of the 4 levels. The year 2013 brought us the highest recognition in the industry, the EL Responsible Gaming Certificate. It is a confirmation that we have chosen the right direction. Obviously, we would like to uphold these high standards. We strive to create a development-friendly environment for our employees. Hence, a lot of information in the Report pertains to employment at Totalizator Sportowy. We also present projects undertaken for the benefit of the communities in which we are present. For the very first time, we also enclose the LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation Activity Report, to make the we clearly summarise picture of Totalizator Sportowy’s social responsibility activities complete. I hope you will find it interesting. what information can be Thanks to the highlighted The recent years have been the time of perfecting our processes, introducing technologically found on each page summaries of each section. advanced tools, and of continuing our commitment to sustainable development. We are aware of the challenges that Poland and other European countries are facing. The aging population, rapid development of innovative technologies, and the widening gap between social groups, all of these are real challenges that also affect our plans. It is our opinion that every economic entity impacts the future. Therefore, we support the Global Compact Principles initiative of the UN Secretary General, which touch on the matters close to everyone’s heart. we invite you to review The Report that we present to you is the summary of our employees’ most important work. It is also the result of a dialogue with our stakeholders. As a state-owned company we are the Report of the LOTTO especially aware of the responsibility we carry. To better fulfill our obligations, we listen to feedback from our community. We believe that only fair play brings true and lasting success. Million Dreams Foundation In business, as in sport, the winning laurel is given to the best and the most determined; to those that follow the rules. I hope you will find this report inspiring! we present examples of initiatives supported Wojciech Szpil by the system Chairman of the Management Board of surcharges Totalizator Sportowy and Its Environment European lotteries Lottery market in Europe and Poland in numbers After World War II, Poland had to rise from the A bit ashes. In the 1950s, the idea of sport betting In 2012, the total economic activity measured as gross gambling revenue of state licensed In 2012, in the European Union, average annual of history emerged. The revenue was meant to finance and controlled lotteries, members of the EL, was spending per capita on lotteries was 34.1 bn, 68 the construction of new sport facilities. It was € € I especially important taking into consideration t may be hard to believe, but lotteries that the national sport and recreation budget in 2011 it was In 2011, it was and draw-based games are not a modern invention. Their roots go back hundreds decreased after 1952. In 1955, the Totalizator Sportowy Resolution was passed1. € 34.6 bn. € 69 of years. The beginnings can be traced to ancient Rome and China. Today, lotteries around the world function as specialized companies, in most cases Responsible gaming is crucial for European In Poland, the history of lotteries began in state-owned. Their goal is to bring revenue Draw-based games are lotteries. Between 2011-2012 national the 18th century. Undoubtedly, the year 1768 while pursuing sustainable development, the most popular products lotteries of the member states was a crucial moment, when the Sejm supporting social causes, and promoting offered by the EU lotteries. spent over €30 million approved number lotteries as a source of responsible gaming. on this cause. revenue for the Treasury. The following centuries were the time of great historical Lottery business around the world is booming upheaval. In the 19th century, lotteries were and lotteries compete for potential customers. mostly leased by private entrepreneurs. National companies, which are members of The situation changed in 1862, when games professional associations, such as the World Thanks to advances in technology, more and more In 2012, European lotteries paid 20.9 bn European lotteries make their products accessible on of chance came under the management Lottery Association (WLA) or European of the Treasury. In the 1920s, the Polish Lotteries (EL), operating as national monopothe internet. In 2011, only 14 EU countries € (61 per cent of the annual revenue), in the form of taxes National Class (or Dutch) Lottery, managed lies or private enterprises, have been offering offered its games online. and other payments, to the treasuries of their respective by the Treasury, was established. It was modern and, at the same time, safer forms A year later, Internet gambling was countries. In 2011, these payments amounted to €23.4bn later replaced by the Polish Lottery Monopoly of entertainment, such as draw-based games, available in 21 EU countries. (68 per cent of the annual revenue). These funds benefit social causes as well as sports and culture. in 1936. lotteries or betting for many years. „ In the UK Camelot operates one of the world’s most successful lotteries, and has done so in a recognized responsible way. For us, success and responsibility are one of the same Polish lottery market revenue from the sale of games and lotteries as compared to 2011. In 2010, there was a big change on the Polish I and at a European level, it is clear that other lotteries agree with us. We are in a business of trust market – slot machines with small winnings and integrity and we are here to deliver a positive impact to society. This means that issues such as n Poland, the gambling market comprises were excluded from the catalogue of problem gambling need to be addressed seriously. A way that lotteries can show that they are genuine of draw-based games, cash lotteries, approved types of gambling. Currently, this about their corporate responsibilities is by obtaining the European Lotteries Responsible Gaming betting, sweepstakes, electronic gaming type of gaming is ongoing only until the certification. We are pleased to see the number of lotteries joining forces on the issue is growing machines and casinos. The main legal licences granted prior to the ban expire. at pace. It is also a great sign to see that Totalizator Sportowy was eager to take the challenge regulation pertaining to this industry is the However, it does not mean that the it is one clear step that marks its management and employees apart and shows that they are going Gambling Act of November 19, 2009 (List of electronic gaming machines are disappearing for success in a responsible manner. Acts and Regulations Nr 201, item 1540 with from the Polish market. According to the data subsequent amendments), which was from the Ministry of Finance, the number Laura Da Silva ratified on January 1, 2010. of illegal machines or machines not fulfilling Corporate Responsibility Manager, Camelot (UK Lottery) the requirements of the Regulations2 is In the last two years, the whole market growing. was showing a decline in comparison to In Poland, online gambling is illegal. Poland 1 Wójtowicz, G. Grającym 2 Ministry of Finance, Informathe previous years. This trend was not true is one of the very few European countries, sprzyja szczęście (Players tion about the implementafor draw-based games and cash lotteries. where entities from the lottery industry have all the luck). Warsaw: tion of the Gambling Law Totalizator Sportowy recorded an are not permitted to offer its products on Twigger S.A., 2006. in 2011, Warsaw 2012 approximately 15 per cent increase of total the Internet. 10 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 11 We all win How Totalizator Sportowy works? Totalizator Sportowy holds the state monopoly in managing draw-based Totalizator Sportowy is a sole-shareholder joint-stock company of games and cash lotteries. The company is among the most rapidly growing the State Treasury operating in Poland. The State Treasury, represented lottery enterprises in Europe. by the Minister, owns all shares of the company. The company respects human rights and to the new sales system introduced at the abides by the Polish employment law. It is a member of Polish and international initiatiend of 2011, Totalizator Sportowy provides the highest level of service. The newly To find out more about the The Supervisory Board continually oversees operations of the company. It may comprise ves for the advancement of social responsibility. implemented system is one of the most company and its operations, 3 to 12 members, including representatives LOTTO offers a wide range of products. Thanks technologically advanced worldwide. please visit Totalizator of the State Treasury and employees. The Supervisory Board Chair does not hold Sportowy’s webpage at any other positions in the governing bodies www.totalizator.pl of the company. The General Meeting of Stakeholders, in the person of the Minister Totalizator Sportowy: of Treasury acting on behalf of the owner, is the highest authority of the company. the owner of the LOTTO brand The governing bodies of the company comprise the General Meeting of Stakeholders, The Articles of Incorporation, the guidelines almost 900 employees in 18 branches and the head office the Supervisory Board and the Management of the State Treasury, and the Code of Board. The Management Board is elected Commercial Companies regulate the over 13,000 points of sale Totalizator by the Supervisory Board. It operates in requirements for the Management and Sportowy accordance with the Management Board Supervisory Board candidates, as well Regulations and the Articles of Incorporation. as control mechanisms and the relationship nearly 60-year presence on the Polish market provided to The Management Board manages the between the governing bodies. the Treasury: operations of the company. The Chairman tradition and innovation of the Management Board also acts as 2011 the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible 1.44 bn zł active member of international professional organisations for sustainable development. Giżycko sponsor of sports and culture safe products 2012 warmiA-maSurIA PROVINCE joy of winning 1.83 bn zł Ice Sports Centre – an indoor ice rink Every zloty spent Totalizator Sportowy plays an important role in the Polish economy. It is one of on LOTTO games the nineteen key importance companies means 19 gr for for the Treasury. Annually, Totalizator Sportowy brings significant revenue to the Treasury. the Polish sports The players, choosing LOTTO products, spend some of their money on Special Funds, which and culture! support the development of culture, sports and healthcare. 12 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 13 Organizational Structure of Totalizator Sportowy Membership of the Supervisory Members of the Supervisory Board Board by gender, as of December 31, 2012: as of December 31, 2012. 75% General Meeting of Stakeholders Wojciech Bielecki (Supervisory Board Chair) Women Men Supervisory Board Katarzyna Iskra 25% Management Board Chairman of the Management Board Justyna Banaczkowska PR & Communications Committee Małgorzata Kotapka (employee representative) Membership of the Supervisory Internal Compliance Board by age, & Security Committee in the reported period, the Board of Directors also as of December 31, 2012. Legal Committee included the following members: Executive Office Barbara Kołtun, 75% Occupational Health and Safety Monika Rolnik, Age 30 – 50 Paweł Łatacz, Age over 50 Advisers and Proxies Jarosław Sienkiewicz, Grzegorz Chachaj 25% Project Sales Organization Procurement Finance Administration IT Department Management & Marketing & Personnel Department Department Branches Membership of the Management Members of the Management Board Board by gender, as of December 31, 2012: as of December 31, 2012. Lottery Outlets Wojciech Szpil 100% (Chairman of the Board) Men Piotr Kamiński Membership of the Management (Board Member) Board by age, Totalizator Sportowy Group of Companies Grzegorz Sołtysiński as of December 31, 2012. (Board Member) LOTTOMERKURY Traf – Zakłady Merkury – Invest 66.66% Sp. z o.o. Wzajemne Sp. z.o.o. Sp. z o.o. in the reported period, Totalizator Sportowy Totalizator Sportowy Totalizator Sportowy Age 30 – 50 the Management Board also included Age over 50 owns 100 per cent of shares. owns 33.33 per cent of shares. owns 10 per cent of shares. Sławomir Dudziński Totalizator Sportowy also owns shares in the following companies: Totolotek S.A. 33.33% (2.5 per cent of shares) and PTE Polsat S.A. (1.99 per cent of shares). Another entity closely related to Totalizator Sportowy is the LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation funded by Totalizator Sportowy. The Foundation was established in 2010. 14 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 15 Events overview 2012 Ready for challenges JANUARY JANUARY FEBRUARY FEBRUARY Totalizator Sportowy, aware of the dynamically changing environment, The 55th Anniversary Introduction of the The largest win in the history Totalizator Sportowy signed of Lotto “Treasures of Poland” of the lottery – a player from the “Diversity Charter” is undertaking innovative steps to meet the growing expectations scratchcard to the market. Gdynia hit the jackpot and won of its players. The company tries to be one step ahead and be ready Proceeds from this product nearly 34 m zloty for future changes. support Historical Monuments energy savings and ensures more secure MARCH APRIL APRIL MAY Innovative transactions than in the past. LOTTO awarded the Honorary DEMES Totalizator Sportowy ranked 10th on the List Launch of the mobile webpage and m.LOTTO App for mobile Totalizator Sportowy signed the “Declaration of Sustainable sales for the ongoing support of Responsible phones, which enable mobile phone Development”, a joint initiative of of the Polish sport Companies users to check lottery results, the the Ministry of Economy, the Responsible In the early 1990s, Totalizator Sportowy, as I jackpot amount, and the location of the nearest lottery outlet Business Forum and PwC one of the first providers of national lotteries n 2011, Totalizator Sportowy introduced in Europe, introduced an online lottery playing new technological solutions. An innovate capability. It means that bets are placed in JUNE JUNE JULY JULY-AUGUST sales system, operated by GTECH and real time. The system being used by the Totalizator Sportowy joined Refreshed Internet LOTTO the main sponsor Totalizator Sportowy DataTrans, was implemented. The system company is the first computer system Employers of Poland in the communications – of the Polish Olympic Team announced its new Coalition for Responsible www.lotto.pl addressed to players, at the XXX Olympic Games business strategy offers multiple features significiant for implemented successfully on such www.totalizator.pl the corporate Business webpage providing information about in London for the years 2012-2016 Totalizator Sportowy, its sales agents, and a big scale. Company operations most importantly for the players. It brings NOVEMBER NOVEMBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER Totalizator Sportowy in the top ten LOTTO voted “Patron of Polish LOTTO awarded the LOTTO ranked as the 16th of the “2012 Leaders of Philanthropy” Sport” by The National Chamber prestigious 2013 “Most Valuable Polish Brand” contest: the 9th place among the companies, of Sport Superbrands title in the by Rzeczpospolita newspaper which provided the largest donations for the public good; the 6th place among the companies, Entertainment and Leisure which provided the largest percentage of their revenue before taxes for the public good category New business strategy I Events overview 2011 n 2012, the company and the Totalizator Sportowy Group of Companies developed a new business strategy. Totalizator Sportowy is one of the largest state-owned FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL APRIL Totalizator Sportowy The Chief Labour Inspector Totalizator Sportowy LOTTO Green Month companies in Poland. It wishes not only to received Level 3 World recognized Totalizator Sportowy for ranked 32nd on the List (ecology month) increase the economic value, but also Lottery Association (WLA) its efforts in improving workplace of Responsible Companies to be of value to society. certificate health and safety and for creating Wrocław friendly working environment APRIL MAY OCTOBER NOVEMBER LOWER SILESIA PROVINCE Introduction of a new brand, Galoppo, to the market. Introduction of the “Kaskada” lottery to the market Totalizator Sportowy in the top ten of the “2011 Leaders of Philanthropy” Implementation of the new, online sales system Modernization Galoppo provides horse racing contest: the 10th place among the companies, which provided the largest donations for the of the athletics stadium betting services in the Olympic Stadium public good; the 7th place among the companies, which provided the largest percentage of their revenue before taxes for the public good Complex – Phase I NOVEMBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER DECEMBER Publication of the Launch of the toll-free New image of the LOTTO Totalizator Sportowy received 2010/2011 Social help line for LOTTO players sales network the title of “Reliable Taxpayer” Responsibility Report for timely tax payments and for delivering in its obligations towards the State Treasury 16 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 17 New mission New vision To further increase donations to the community and to make dreams of our customers come true by developing entertainment services, such as games, lotteries and betting, while maintaining To be the leader on the Polish market in providing players with easy access to a broad range of innovative entertainment services while creating unique development opportunities „ Value of the company is not built on the spur of the moment. Only strategic, planned and consistent activity may bring results The strategy also takes into consideration the development of the strategic entity Służewiec Horse Racetrack, and the achievement of its full potential. In 2008, the highest standards of social for our employees and being a trustworthy in the future. To be present on the Totalizator Sportowy signed a 30-year lease responsibility. business partner. market as a profitable and strong of this property. Since then, it has been brand, the company must carefully working on bringing back the past glory monitor changes in the environment and charm of this special place and on and react accordingly; both on the increasing the value of the property, which micro and the macroeconomic scale. is state-owned. To realize this goal, Totalizator We cannot ignore the information that Sportowy announced a public tender for Totalizator Sportowy Group of Companies and opportunities present in the environment we receive and we do not disregard consulting services, which would assist the formulated its strategy for the years in which it operates. These risks and international trends. The current company in selecting investment and industry 2012-2016 after a thorough analysis of opportunities include legal requirements, economic changes demand flexibility partners for the project implementation. the European and Polish market trends. technological solutions and innovative approaches. We cannot A consulting company has been selected. The Management Board and the managers or the changing gaming landscape in Poland. ignore our impact on the society, either. Therefore, for our company it is not just The partners chosen to cooperate on the involved in the development of the strategy The company reviews its strategy periodically; the revenue and profit that are important, but also the way, in which the profit project include the Polish Horseracing Club, identified the areas and priorities of further it ensures that project implementation is made and how it is being used. The year 2012 was important for Totalizator the Historic Preservation Office, and the development for the company. The company is on track and it looks for potential threats. Sportowy for many reasons. The formulation of the new business strategy authorities of Warsaw. is aware that long-term planning supports The milestones achieved in the strategy undoubtedly was one of them. We have ambitious goals, which when realised, a stable and sustainable growth. Therefore, implementation are reported to will bring profit and will respect the society at the same time. it takes into consideration potential risks the Management Board. Konrad Komarczuk Director, Project Management Department Strategic goals Actively create value Look for innovative solutions Modernize the sales network Build new distribution channels Mogilno KUJAWY-POMERANIA PROVINCE Introduce a new outlet format Sports Arena Introduce new products meeting market requirements and facilities Better understand stakeholders Be a professional organization benefiting from the talents of our employees Fulfill the highest standards of social responsibility 18 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 19 The Horse Racetrack 2011-2012: 2011 2012 67 race days with 528 races 57 race days with 481 races special races and accompanying special races and accompanying events: events: – Derby, July 3rd – French Day, June 2nd – Arabian Day, August 21st – Lotto Gala, June 31st – The Warsaw Cup – Derby Gala, July 1st (Wielka Warszawska), October 16th – Arabian Derby, July 22nd – Arabian Day, August 26th – The Warsaw Cup (Wielka Warszawska), September 30th 90,630 people visited the Racetrack purchase of new starting gates The Służewiec Horse Racetrack Social Responsibility at Totalizator Sportowy T he Horse Racetrack Warsaw-Służewiec I Branch (later Służewiec Branch) focuses on the projects outlined in n the years 2011-2012, Totalizator Sportowy its activities to date, verify its goals our “Development of Horseracing” continued working towards the goals and assumptions for the following years, program. The program includes goals such defined in the Sustainable Development and review its stakeholder groups. as management of races as well as and Responsible Gaming Program, also the promotion of horseracing and of known as the Corporate Social Responsibility During the process of strategy development, the Służewiec racetrack itself. Strategy (CSR). The continued projects belonthe company identified its key stakeholders. Not everyone visiting the racetrack realizes ged to four main areas: Responsible Gaming, Groups crucial to the company’s existence that it is one of the historical places on the The Workplace, Social Involvement, and were identified based on the experience map of Warsaw. Renovation and restoration The Environment. Many of these projects and expertise of employees. works are ongoing to bring the track to its are ongoing, e.g. employee and sales agent Additionally, groups impacted by the former glory. All steps are consulted with training, research, and raising ecological company and those that impact Totalizator the Historic Preservation Office, because awareness among the employees. Others Sportowy were identified. Often these the Racetrack is on the list of the historical were postponed. They will be evaluated in influences are mutual. The company works monuments of Warsaw and is under the upcoming years to better align them on maintaining good communication between the protection of this Office. with the current environment. In 2013, the all entities. It chooses varied communication company began updating its CSR Strategy. channels to ensure open and honest During this year, the company will analyse dialogue. 20 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 21 Stakeholder Form Group of Communication Key stakeholders Customers ∙∙ Market and social research (re: CSR and risk of addiction) ∙∙ Webpages www.lotto.pl, www.totalizator.pl and www.fundacjalotto.pl ∙∙ Helpline ∙∙ Mobile App for smartphones Customers ∙∙ Mass media ∙∙ LOTTO outlets Employees ∙∙ E-mail and paper based correspondence The Owner, i.e. The Ministry of the Treasury Employees ∙∙ Project Team Meetings within the CSR Strategy framework Supervisory bodies ∙∙ Other face to face meetings ∙∙ Intranet communications Suppliers and business partners ∙∙ E-mail ∙∙ Market and social research Local communities ∙∙ Training Mass media The Owner: ∙∙ Meetings (including the General Meeting of Stakeholders) Partner organizations the Ministry ∙∙ E-mail correspondence of the Treasury ∙∙ Reports and periodic statements Beneficiaries Supervisory bodies ∙∙ Meetings ∙∙ Correspondence ∙∙ Reports and periodic statements Suppliers ∙∙ Meetings Communication with these groups is very Totalizator Sportowy supports external and business partners ∙∙ Correspondence important for Totalizator Sportowy. Each initiatives aligned with the CSR. In 2010, ∙∙ Training group is different and represents different the company joined the Global Compact ∙∙ Professional examinations areas of interest. More information on this initiative of the Secretary General of the UN. ∙∙ Intranet for LOTTO sales agents topic can be found in the chapter entitled It means that Totalizator Sportowy supports ∙∙ Online communications through online terminals ∙∙ Market and social research, satisfaction surveys “Dialogue with Stakeholders”. In the reported the 10 principles of sustainable development period, the company used various forms of and follows them in its day-to-day operaLocal ∙∙ Meetings communication, which were supposed to tions. The principles pertain to four main communities ∙∙ Support of cultural and sport events ensure the optimal exchange of information areas: human rights, labour, the environment ∙∙ Employee volunteer program and opinions. Thanks to this effort, the comand anti-corruption. Since 2010, Totalizator pany knows what topics are most interesting Sportowy has been a strategic partner of Mass media ∙∙ Press releases ∙∙ Press conferences to each of the groups. This information also the Responsible Business Forum, the longest ∙∙ Commentaries and interviews influences the structure of this report. operating organization in Poland promoting ∙∙ Correspondence Depending on the needs of the group, the standards of social responsibility. ∙∙ Meetings communication is ongoing or is planned in The membership in the Forum enables cycles, for example in the case of research. employees of Totalizator Sportowy to Partnering ∙∙ Meetings participate in working groups, seminars organizations ∙∙ Conferences and seminars (including professional ∙∙ Training sessions and workshops Key topics mentioned by stakeholders include: and conferences. The Forum is also a place industry organizations) ∙∙ Correspondence ∙∙ Product information for learning and knowledge sharing between ∙∙ Jackpot information the members. LOTTO participates more Beneficiaries ∙∙ Meetings ∙∙ Issues relating to the Responsible and more actively in the professional ∙∙ Correspondence Gaming program industry associations, such as the European ∙∙ System of subsidies Lotteries and the World Lottery Association. ∙∙ Social projects More information on this topic can be ∙∙ Financial information found in the chapter entitled “Responsible ∙∙ Management matters Gaming”. 22 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 23 Social reporting This report is the third publication about Totalizator Sportowy’s activities undertaken on the way to sustained development. It has been compiled Horse Racetrack. Totalizator Sportowy according to the Global Reporting Initiative GRI 3.0, Level A+, guidelines. Changes has leased the Racetrack and is planning The report has been audited by an external and independent third party. in reporting future development of this property. One of the Totalizator Sportowy branches F into account its main goal, i.e. increasing is located there. In this publication we What appears donations to society as well as market or the first time, this report presents are presenting the development plans in the report and why context. The scope of this report can be data in a biennial cycle. Why this and administration data for this property. determined only through these perspectives. change? Many projects take a long time T The information cannot be taken out of to implement. Thanks to the two-year The report includes the quantitative and he company intends to report comprethe business context. Therefore, the matter reporting cycle, we can present the projects qualitative data from the years 2011-2012. hensively on its operations. The inforof responsibility for the product has been and their effects in a more comprehensive It is a clearer and straightforward way of mation presented here was selected particularly stressed. The Responsible Gaming way. The company will also report some reporting. Therefore, with this report we have based on its relevance for the company program, which was created as part of the of the information more frequently on discontinued the previous reporting cycle, and its environment alike. Totalizator SportoCSR strategy, focuses on activities closely the corporate website. i.e. the quantitative data reported in wy takes into consideration the voices of both, connected with the business. A lot a 12-month cycle and the qualitative data the internal and the external stakeholders. of attention has been also devoted to This report contains information about reported in an 18-month cycle. In this What does it mean? The company would like the issue of the workplace. People are the whole company, the Head Office document, we also highlight some selected to know what the opinions and expectations the main asset of the company. One cannot and 18 branches, and its operations and the most important events of 2013. of all parties are. Therefore in 2011, Totalizator forget about the environment, in which on the territory of Poland. There is also Accounting methods have not been changed, Sportowy conducted a survey on perceptions the company operates. Hence, the report a separate section devoted to the Służewiec unless otherwise explicitly stated. of its operations in the context of social presents the local and national initiatives responsibility. What is important for various of Totalizator Sportowy. stakeholders? What else would they like to know? The company also monitors the In 2009, the company developed its Sustainable international situation. Due to the unique Development and Responsible Gaming character of the industry, it is especially Program 2010-2012. The Program is the result important to share experience and knowledge of combined expectations of the business, with other European lotteries that, usually, legal and social environment. Employees represent state monopolies or have been of the company, both the managers and the granted exclusive licences for gaming and members of various teams, were engaged in lotteries. This type of exchange is possible the development of the strategy. They created thanks to active membership in the internatiothe key stakeholders map and selected nal lottery associations, such as European the most important challenges and goals Lotteries and the World Lottery Association, for the coming years. A decision about social which are excellent platforms for best practice sharing. Membership in these organizations reporting was also made. Only long-term projects, implemented consistently can lead Hrubieszów lublin province helps the company to better prepare for future to a real change. challenges. Totalizator Sportowy also takes Athletics Stadium at the Sports and Recreation Centre 24 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY and Its Environment | 25 Responsible Gaming 26 | INFORMACJE UZUPEŁNIAJĄCE RAPORT O WYBRANE DANE ZA LATA 2011-2012 INFORMACJE UZUPEŁNIAJĄCE RAPORT O WYBRANE DANE ZA LATA 2011-2012 | 27 What does LOTTO offer? Draw games LOTTO is great fun and it provides positive emotions. Totalizator Sportowy strives to offer more and more interesting, but also safe, products. Our sales and marketing efforts focus on the needs of our customers. Lotto Customer care is the linchpin of our Responsible Gaming program, which is a part of our CSR Strategy. O L pen, optimistic and dreamy, these otto is the company’s flagship product are the adjectives that, according and, at the same time, the most popular to our players, best characterize draw game in Poland. It requires the player lotteries and draw games offered to choose 6 out of 49 numbers. A single by LOTTO. For the past few years, Totalizator ticket costs 3.00 zł (including surcharges). Sportowy has been actively improving its In September 2012, a new add-on, Lotto Plus, products. LOTTO is a mix of tradition and was introduced. With an additional payment of innovative approach. This combination 1.00 zł, a player may purchase a chance to win provides players with positive entertainment up to a million zloty in a separate draw. Draws while ensuring the highest standards of safe take place on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. and responsible gaming. Between 2010-2012, the percentage of adult Lotto players has increased from 39 to 53 per cent in Poland Offered products Over 50 per cent of the total revenue of Totalizator Sportowy LOTTO offers draw games and lotteries. and does not have a say in choosing them. comes from Lotto games To win in a draw game, the player must In the reported period, Totalizator Sportowy On average, every other correctly choose numbers or other symbols. offered five draw games: Lotto, Mini Lotto, Lotto ticket was purchased Lotteries belong to another game category. Multi Lotto, Keno and Joker. Moreover, with the Lotto Plus add-on Here, the player buys a lottery ticket with Kaskada, a terminal-based lottery, enjoyed the pre-determined numbers or symbols exceptional popularity. However, scratchcards indicated the most dynamic growth of all LOTTO products. The biggest prizes Each game and lottery has a separate set in the reported period: of rules and regulations approved by the Minister of Finance. The rules regulate Gdynia (February 9, 2012) 33,787,496.10 zł the process of placing bets, making draws, and winnings. The rules and regulaations Chełmno are available in the LOTTO outlets and on the company’s webside at www.lotto.pl. kujawy-pomerania province Bolesławiec (September 1, 2012) Protection of Chełmno’s 30,927,429.60 zł cultural heritage Bolimów (September 22, 2012) Phase II 29,465,370.60 zł 28 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 29 Multi Multi Keno M K ulti Multi allows players to make The biggest prizes eno requires the player to choose The biggest prizes a decision about the odds and from 1 to 10 numbers out of 70. the size of the jackpot. The player in the reported period: There are 20 numbers selected in the in the reported period: may cross from 1 to 10 numbers draw and the player decides how much on the ticket, and there are 20 out of 80 numKielce (August 7, 2011) to spend on the ticket (2.00, 4.00, 6.00, 10.00 Otwock (October 31, 2012) bers selected in the draw. A single ticket costs 2.50 zł. The player may purchase a multi-draw 2,745,383.60 zł or 20.00 zł). The maximum jackpot may reach up to a million zloty. Draws take place every 400,000.00 zł ticket and a Plus add-on that increases the five minutes, between 6:45 and 21:30. amount of the potential jackpot. Multi Multi Poznań (February 25, 2012) Results are presented in the selected outlets Nowa Dęba (October 25, 2012) draws take place daily, at 14:00 and 21:40. and on the Lotto website, www.lotto.pl. 2,021,173.50 zł 300,000.00 zł Multi Multi constitutes over 20 per cent of all Totalizator Warsaw (May 24, 2011) Kalisz (January 5, 2012) Sportowy sales. 1,362,591.10 zł 120,000.00 zł Joker Mini Lotto J oker is a game where matching one The biggest prizes M number may be the start of winning in the reported period: ini Lotto requires the player The biggest prizes a big jackpot. The player chooses 1 out to choose 5 out of 42 numbers. of 36 numbers and the remaining A single ticket costs 1.25 zł. in the reported period: 4 numbers are chosen at random. Matching Szczecin (June 20, 2011) 3,538,792.50 zł The maximum jackpot may reach one of the player’s numbers brings a 10.00 zł up to 350,000.00 zł. Mini Lotto draws take Gdańsk (April 21, 2012) win. Matching more than one number 307,846.30 zł place on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. increases the winning sum. A single ticket costs 2.50 zł. Draws take place three times a week, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Warsaw (January 9, 2012) Trzcianka (December 24, 2011) Fridays. 2,050,044.90 zł 304,771.50 zł Kraków (March 28, 2012) Sierpc (February 18, 2012) 683,001.00 zł 297,403.00 zł 30 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 31 Cash Lotteries Who is a typical LOTTO player? 1 Kaskada A person in the prime of life; the majority of players Lives K are in the 25-34 in a city askada, introduced into the market and 45-54 age group. with the population in May 2011, is the newest product in over 100,000. the LOTTO portfolio. It is a terminalbased lottery where a player receives a set of 12 out of 24 numbers for the price Makes lottery-purchasing decisions based of 2.00 zł. Matching all 12 numbers ensures on his/her financial status, a jackpot of a quarter million zloty. Kaskada as family income per capita lottery is available from Monday to Saturday for the LOTTO players is significantly in the LOTTO outlets and at the cash registers higher than for Usually, of the Real Supermarket chain as part of the non-players. plays one game from the LOTTO portfolio “Lotto at the Cash Register” service. (87.2 per cent of respondents), mainly Lotto (82.4 per cent of respondents), which enjoys lasting popularity. Los Milionos L os Milionos is an occasional, terminalUsually a secondary based lottery. A single ticket costs school graduate. 10.00 zł. The jackpot equals 55 per cent of the total price of all tickets. In the Would use the potential reported period, there were two editions winnings to buy Plays LOTTO of the Los Milionos lottery. Almost 650 thousand games for fun a house or a flat (42.4 per cent of respondents), (50 per cent a car (39.4 per cent) or to make the dreams tickets were sold in total. of a loved one come true (31.7 per cent). of respondents). Scratchcards S cratchcards are the LOTTO’s most dynamically growing product. Between 2011-2012, there were 60 new scratchcards introduced into the market, including many special occasion scratchcards, such as “Heart”, a Valentine’s Day card, or the “2012”, the 2012 EURO football championships card. The sales of scratchcards increased from 258.7 m zł in 2011 to 338.1 m zł in 2012. 3 “Polish draw games and lotteries market in 2012.” IQS Group. 32 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 33 Responsible Gaming R esponsible Gaming was the leading customers. Moreover, the corporate LOTTO In 2011, Totalizator Sportowy received Level 3 program of the 2010 CSR Strategy. Million Dreams Foundation, which from WLA Responsible Gaming Certificate (there Totalizator Sportowy focused its sales, the beginning was leading many projects are 4 levels of the Certificate). It means that CEOFRT IFICATE ACCREDITATION marketing, research and development, devoted to reducing the risk of gambling the company’s efforts in ensuring the safety Responsible Gaming Fram ework communications and employee training addiction, played an important role of its products and players are well advanced. This is to certify that z o.o. Totalizator Sportowy Sp. efforts in this area. The goal of all these in the implementation of this strategy. Additionally in 2013, Totalizator Sportowy ul. Targowa 25, 03-728 Warszawa, Poland activities was to provide the safest LOTTO joined the prestigious group of companies achieving has met the criteria for Level 3 of the 3 ing Framework WLA Responsible Gam Association in accordance products for the players. An open and honest The Responsible Gaming action plan was that had received the EL Responsible Gaming and has been granted accreditatio with the recommendation n by the World Lottery of the Independent Assessmen t Panel. communication was also crucial for opinion aligned with the international standards Certificate. 18, 2011 This certificate is valid until: February 18, 2014 Certification date: February sharing. To achieve all of these goals, the of the European Lotteries (EL) and the World This highest distinction in the industry clearly Jean Jorgensen Risto Nieminen WLA Executive Director company engaged its employees and sales Lottery Association (WLA). confirms that the company is implementing Maria Sallinpaa WLA President t Panel Chair Independent Assessmen agents, who have a direct contact with a comprehensive action plan. Moreover, since 2013, the Management Board Chair of Totalizator Sportowy is a member of the EL Executive Committee. European Lotteries spending on Responsible Gaming: 2011 2012 Gąbin The European State Lotteries and Toto „ The independent certification according to the EL Responsible Gaming Standards and a strong commitment to CSR are crucial elements for the long term success of Lotteries in Europe. It is not only a question of compliance but also a commitment to the opportunities it provides 21.5 m 22 m MAZOVIA PROVINCE Association is an industry association for the members of EL. € € A purchase of musical bringing together lotteries of several dozen Responsible gaming is about addressing social issues such as addiction countries. The EL members contribute funds instruments for for the public benefit and undertake activities and criminality and should be incorporated as the core of CSR strategies in each of our lotteries. Responsible behaviour embedded at all levels a music school promoting responsible gaming. The organizaof the organization guarantees that the Lottery’s message and integrity in Gąbin tion promotes sustainable development and is clearly understood by the general public . social responsibility of business. It provides Lotteries have always deeply cared about their players and therefore adapted a platform for knowledge and best practice strong policies to protect them; they contribute to communities by supporting sharing between its members. Additionally, good causes and raising tax revenues for the state which are often invested International standards it promotes communication between its in educational and cultural projects. of Responsible Gaming members, the institutions of the European From EL Lotteries’ commitment to CSR benefits both the Lottery and society Union and the governments of the European at large. Also, it is inspirational to work for an organisation that cares for countries. its stakeholders. Trust and consumer loyalty is the most important outcome EL and WLA promote standards Aspects of Responsible Gaming Standards: a Lottery as the one and only authorised and safe place to play can achieve of Responsible Gaming among its ∙∙ Research by its strong commitment to CSR. members. The standards provide day-to-day ∙∙ Employee training And, last but not least, regarding the current position of the EU Commission operation guidelines for national lotteries. ∙∙ Sales agents’ programs towards gambling, it is essential for EL Lotteries to point out and build Additionally, the standards indicate important ∙∙ Game design on their long standing experience in this area. CSR and Responsible Gaming aspects, which should be incorporated into ∙∙ Remote gaming channels as it is understood by the member lotteries of EL is a sustainable, ethical the Responsible Gaming programs. ∙∙ Advertising and marketing World Lottery Association is a global and responsible gaming model which will create long term value for society First of all, these programs are supposed ∙∙ Treatment referral professional association of state lottery at large, whether it is for players, state economies or the beneficiaries to ensure safe entertainment for the players. ∙∙ Player education and gaming organizations from more than of lottery funding. Both organizations have introduced a system ∙∙ Stakeholder engagement 80 countries. Its members adhere to of certificates, which guarantee that lotteries ∙∙ Reporting, measurement and certification the standards of responsible gaming. Friedrich Stickler follow the standards. ∙∙ Electronic Gaming Machines (EGMs) The organization enables knowledge and The European State Lotteries and Toto Association President information sharing between its members. 34 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 35 LOTTO Responsible Gaming Game design A ll LOTTO products undergo safety analysis during their design phase. In 2013, the company implemented Research formal game design regulations. Additionally in 2011, all products already on the market were examined with the use Game of an international program, GAM-GaRD, Reporting design which helps to diagnose the potential risk of addiction and of undesirable impact of the game. The program was developed in the United Kongdom by Dr Richard Wood and Dr Mark Griffiths, experienced psychologists, specialists in addiction research. Product GAM-GaRD identifies Responsible In March 2012, the Ekstra Pensja (Bonus) safety how risky a game selling scratchcard was introduced to the market. analysis is likely to be for It belongs to the category of games called a vulnerable player by Win 4life, where the payout of winnings examining its specific is staggered over time. This type of payment characteristics, such as is warranted in the psychological-social Introduction frequency of draws, size Marketing context: a steady income helps the of the of winnings, number of communication winners spend their money more rationally, product outlets, and methods of payment. GAM-GaRD preventing them from uncontrollable displays the results in three bands: low risk spending and helping them to avoid (green), medium risk (yellow) and high risk potential risks associated with such (red). This system pinpoints exactly where behaviour. Additionally, it is one of the ways the problematic elements of the game lie of minimizing the risk of gambling addiction. so that they can be amended at every design Research phase. Hence, the program helps to avoid unnecessary marketing costs, but most The Ekstra Pensja win provides the player with a one-time cash payment of 100,000 zł and an additional 3,000 zł per month for P of all it prevents negative social the next 2.5 years. The introduction of eriodically conducted research of consumers. Additionally, they provided and legal outcomes. this game was preceded by research into informs the company about players’ the company with the information about All LOTTO products fall outside of the the needs of players with respect to the expectations. Research also brings the opinions of its customers and also of those high-risk category. periodically paid winnings. The results a better understanding of the environwho do not use LOTTO services. Periodic testing and image research are allowed Totalizator Sportowy to define ment. The company pays attention to the Players acknowledge Totalizator Sportowy’s also helpful in the process of creating new the format of the product, i.e. the jackpot changes in the environment where it operates contribution to the Polish sport. The system products. They compare the plans of the amount and the number of payments. and it carefully follows the dynamically of subsidies is well received. Respondents company with customers’ expectations. shifting situation in the gaming industry associate LOTTO with sports more often in Poland and around the world. than with culture. In the reported period, Totalizator Sportowy Moreover, the LOTTO Million Dreams commissioned various research projects, Foundation contributed significanty for exaple on the image of individual games to Totalizator Sportowy’s research projects. and their social impact. The research also In the years 2011-2012, the Foundation helped to create a portrait of a typical player. commissioned research on the risk of The research projects focused on the image addiction and the social impact of not only and product support of games and the lottery. the LOTTO products, but of the games and They also explored the needs and behaviours lotteries market in Poland in general. 36 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 37 Training Promotion and marketing T otalizator Sportowy conducts Responsible Gaming training for hundreds of employees, individual sales agents and business partners. The training is also mandatory for sales Sales Managers and Sales Representatives. “7 Responsible Gaming Principles” are a part of the LOTTO’s Customer Service Standard. Since 2012, the LOTTO Foundation has also initiated a series of training sessions on T otalizator Sportowy pays a lot of attention to the implementation of its communication and marketing strategies. In the reporting period, the company prepared a document containing „ Every piece of marketing communication and advertising of the LOTTO brand is addressed exclusively to adults; agent candidates as well as for Regional responsible selling for the sales agents principles of responsible communication, to in their chain. During the first round of standardize its messages and to minimize hence the 18+ signs in our outlets. training, the Foundation trained 179 LOTTO the risk of negative influence on the players We do not appeal to the people Between 2011-2012, sales agents from Warsaw, Poznań, Gdańsk with respect to gambling addiction. especially prone to gambling over 25 thousand sales agents and Lublin. Training will be continued in 2013. The document was finally implemented addiction and we do not suggest in 2013. that LOTTO products are and sales agent candidates completed a remedy for all difficulties of life. Totalizator Sportowy does the Responsible Gaming training not address its advertising, Our message is clear: playing promotions or marketing is fun, but it will not make you communications to people more attractive, self-confident or wiser. Choosing our marketing business younger than 18 years partners, we also remember about our responsibility. Appreciating of age. The “OK18+” sticker is displayed in professionalism and creativity, we work with dynamic and ambitious all lottery outlets. firms. However, in our selection process we always pay attention not only It is worth mentioning that in 2012, Totalizator to their business success, but also to the importance they place on high Player education Sportowy joined Employers of Poland in the Coalition for Responsible Business. ethical standards. We teach our partners what responsible communication means and what issues are especially important to us. Prior to this, the company underwent The goal of this initiative is to educate players about responsible gaming. an external audit, which confirmed that Aleksandra Piszczorowicz T it meets the high standards of the Director, Sales and Marketing Department he LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation The Foundation’s webpage is the source “Responsible Business Code” and that it is one plays a huge role in this area. of useful information, such as: of the leaders of social responsibility among The Foundation has begun a close Polish companies. The Code also includes cooperation with distinguished PRESS ARTICLES AND OTHER INFORMATION responsible marketing communication. Polish academics specializing in the field about games and lotteries The company has not been audited for of addictions. Several scientific conferences compliance with these rules and regulations and open lectures on addiction resulted from prevention tips since joining the Coalition. this cooperation. Additionally, the Foundation conference materials co-financed the publication of a book on the risk of addiction ntitled “Gambling: the History, Risk and the Way Out”. adresses of support groups for people with addictionS responsible gaming standards Opole OPOLE PROVINCE In 2011, Totalizator Sportowy launched The 36th Opole Between 2011-2012, a toll-free helpline, 800 100 800, for people Theatre Confrontations: Totalizator Sportowy, participating in lotteries and draw games. “Polish Classics 2011” donated over 40 million zloty, The helpline provides callers with the in the form of subsidies, information about the nearest addiction event support groups in their area. to the Gambling Problem Solving Fund. 38 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 39 Responsible selling I n 2012, Totalizator Sportowy purchased Draws new draw machines and ball sets to ensure Retail network high standard of draws and to maintain transparency. All draws may be viewed live T on television, on the TVP Info channel, and on the LOTTO website at www.lotto.pl. A video otalizator Sportowy owns a wellof each draw is stored in the archives and is -developed retail network with over available for viewing for 7 days after the original date. The company also invites everyone 13 thousand outlets all over Poland, including outlets leased by individuals Sanok PODKARPACIE PROVINCE who is interested in the “behind the scenes” and outlets operated by legal entities. look at the studio, to take a virtual tour of Therefore, LOTTO products can be found Restoration the place at in retail chain shops, gas stations and at newsagents. of Carpathian icons http://www.lotto.pl/studio-lotto/ wycieczka-po-studio SALES NETWORK 2012 2011 2010 Outlets leased by individuals 795 814 820 Non-chain outlets operated by legal entities 9,066 8,646 8,654 responsible gaming. Additionally, they support Retail chain outlets operated by legal entities 3,336 2,888 2,874 sales agents and conduct training. Non-chain outlets operated by legal entities TOTAL 13,197 12,348 12,348 form the majority of the Totalizator Sportowy’s sales network. The company has also signed Regional Sales Managers (RSMs) and Regional contracts with retail chain partners that Sales Representatives (RSRs) play an imporconduct business all over Poland, and they tant role in the development of the company’s have been opening new LOTTO outlets. sales network. Their work focuses on face-toIn 2012, Totalizator Sportowy signed contracts -face meetings with the LOTTO outlet sales with 14 entities as part of its B2B-relations agents, ensuring adherence to the high development initiative. All of these are standards of customer service and promoting indefinite term contracts. Retail chain partner satisfaction survey L OTTO is keen on building good relations among its business partners to gather their with its retail chain partners. According opinions and expectations. The results of to its research, almost 63 per cent of the surveys are helpful in making improvements customers play in this type of outlets. in mutual cooperation. Every year, LOTTO conducts satisfaction surveys 40 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 41 other than lottery services to its outlets. Availability In 2011, the company piloted the use of Mystery of LOTTO products scratchcards self-service terminals. Eventually, Shopper testing in the next few years, the terminals will be T T working in an online mode and offer other otalizator Sportowy is innovative in LOTTO products as well. otalizator Sportowy conducts periodic creating new points of sale. In March Another interesting business development Mystery Shopper testing, to monitor Frombork 2011, the company implemented idea is providing bill payment and cell phone the level of customer service, the outlet a “Lotto at the Cash Register” service airtime refill services at the lottery outlets. image, and the adherence to the in the stores of Real supermarket chain. In 2011, a pilot program was run at 100 selecresponsible gaming principles. The goal of WARMIA-MASURIA PROVINCE It allows customers to purchase Lotto, ted LOTTO outlets. The idea of the extended the project is to support the sales network Mini Lotto and Kaskada tickets while paying service was well received by customers by ongoing monitoring of the key elements. Restoration of a 19th for their groceries. and sales agents. The sales agents were The Mystery Shopper testing helps to follow century astronomical One of the priorities of Totalizator Sportowy pleased with an opportunity to better realise the progress and the implementation of the telescope for the upcoming years is to increase the the potential of their outlets and with action plan. The company also conducts other availability of its products with the use of a possibility of increased revenue. types of testing to monitor customer satisfacinnovative technologies as well as bringing tion. In 2012, Totalizator Sportowy asked its Customer Service guidelines for their day-to-day operations. At the time of the Standards implementation, the company conducted multiple training sessions and prepared a sales agent „ Nowadays, constant improvement helps to build competitive advantage. In the past few years, we have been customers how they would rate the LOTTO outlets. 56 per cent of the respondents chose the “good/very good” rating. Additionally, over 60 per cent claimed that they were completely satisfied with their outlet. I handbook. “7 Responsible Gaming Principles” n 2010, the company developed its are an integral part of the Customer focusing not only on updating the Customer Service Standards, which were Service Standards. image of LOTTO outlets, but also implemented in 2011. The Standards Additionally, in 2011, Totalizator Sportowy on shaping selling bahaviours of document is a collection of best practices upgraded its selling system technology for our agents. Our goal is to ensure for LOTTO sales agents. It provides clear LOTTO products. The new technology ensures that our agents, who are in daily better customer service and decreases the risk contact with customers, undergo of system problems. It is also important that professional customer service training. Therefore, we are broadening the the new terminals create a better working scope of our training program to include the elements of product knowledge, environment for the agents. The interface selling techniques, and also the aspects of responsible gaming. Moreover, design makes the operation of the machines our agents participate in workshops that will prepare them for unexpected easy, ergonomic, and largely intuitive. situations and help them in their daily work. Additionally, in 2012, we Kielce ŚwiętokrzyskiE PROVINCE The terminals are energy efficient and they have the fastest printers in the industry; developed a sales agent grading system. Based on this system, a list of the best sales agents is currently being compiled. We would like to create ticket printing takes up to 2 seconds. a motivational system that meets the needs of our sales agents. A purchase of Franciszek Tomasz Cekała Kostrzewski’s painting Deputy Director, Sales and Marketing Department entitled “Hunting” to expand the collection of the National Museum in Kielce 42 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 43 Work Environment Employees of Totalizator Sportowy T otalizator Sportowy is a company opportunities that the company offers. Totalizator Sportowy employs people all over 2012; these numbers speak of stability with a long tradition. Good employment The company invests in human capital and Poland. The biggest number of employees in this area. In 2011, 81 employees left the conditions as well as stability relies on the potential of its employees. (approximately 48 per cent) works in the company, i.e. 9 per cent of the total number and safety that the company The company’s approach to employment policies Masovian Province. The company’s Head of employees as of December 31, 2011. guarantees are of key value to the employees. confirms that. The majority of employees work Office and two of its branches, the Warsaw They also appreciate development on a permanent full-time basis. Branch and the Służewiec Branch are also In 2011, the Finance Department underwent located in the Masovian Province, in Warsaw. reorganization. The company prepared Totalizator Sportowy is regarded as a good Voluntary Redundancy and Relocation Number of employees by type of employment contract employer, which is confirmed by the level Programs for the affected employees. Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage of employee turnover. Employee turnover Moreover, the employees were offered an Type of contract of employees of employees of employees is unavoidable, however the number Outplacement Program with career guidance, As of December 31, 2010 As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 of employees who left the company in 2012 training, and psychological counselling i.e. Total number amounts to 44, i.e. 5 per cent of the total support in finding other employment. of employees, 890 100% 867 100% 897 100% number of employees as of December 31, The program run until May 2012. including: Permanent 799 89.8% 809 93.3% 826 92.08% employees Term contract 70 7.8% 45 5.2% 52 5.80% employees Number of employees by location Contract employees Number of employees Number of employees Number of employees filling in for people 5 0.6% 6 0.7% 8 0.89% Branch on leave As of December 31, 2010 As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 Employed Białystok 21 18 20 16 1.8% 7 0.8% 11 1.23% for a trial period Bydgoszcz 39 33 34 Full time employees 881 98.99% 856 98.7% 890 99.2% Gdańsk 31 29 28 Part-time employees 9 1.01% 11 1.3% 7 0.8% Katowice 57 49 49 Sales Agents 1,460 1,434 1,477 „ Kielce 25 20 20 Koszalin 20 16 17 People are the most Kraków 46 40 40 important asset of Totalizator Sporotwy. We know how important the feeling of stability and Lublin 31 27 26 The company would like safety is for our employees. We also know that skills Łódź 42 36 35 to ensure the optimal training and development opportunities are equally vital for Olsztyn 21 18 19 work and development them. Totalizator Sportowy supports its employees and agents Opole 22 18 17 environment for its in these areas. Every year, our employees and agents participate employees, because the in various training sessions and seminars that help to develop Krynica 9 7 8 Training & Leisure Centre success of the company their competencies. We strive to create the optimal environment depends on them. for professional skill and knowledge development. Therefore, Poznań 47 40 40 “The Vision 2050: knowledge sharing on an international forum is also important. Rzeszów 31 25 25 The New Agenda for It enables us to learn about best practice in various areas, such as sales, marketing, and responsible Szczecin 27 23 24 Business in Poland” report gaming. Our human resources activities are not limited exclusively to training. We are also focusing Warsaw 60 57 57 emphasises that the key on promoting ecological and volunteer behaviours. We believe that through projects like these we inspire areas of development for the people who are the core of Totalizator Sportowy. We invest in the talents of our employees, because Warsaw Head Office 278 339 365 the Polish economy we want to build a strong and professional organization. Wrocław 39 33 33 are the social and human Służewiec 18 18 19 capital. Totalizator Magdalena Wojciechowska Zielona Góra 26 21 21 Sportowy also Deputy Director, Organization and Personnel Department Total 890 867 897 understands their importance. 46 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 47 Number of laid off employees by gender Employment by gender 2010 2011 2012 Number of laid Percentage of laid Number of laid Percentage of laid Gender Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Gender off employees off employees off employees off employees of employees of employees of employees of employees of employees of employees As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 Women 392 44% 376 43% 400 45% Women 56 69% 18 41% Men 498 56% 491 57% 497 55% Men 25 31% 26 59% Total 890 100% 867 100% 897 100% Total 81 100% 44 100% Employment by age Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Number of laid off employees by age Age of employees of employees of employees of employees of employees of employees Number of laid Percentage of laid Number of laid Percentage of laid As of December 31, 2010 As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 Age off employees off employees off employees off employees Up to 30 93 10.45% 88 10.15% 72 8.03% As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 30 50 509 57.19% 498 57.44% 528 58.86% Up to 30 12 15% 4 9% Over 50 288 32.36% 281 32.41% 297 33.11% 30 50 38 47% 26 59% Total 890 100% 867 100% 897 100% Over 50 31 38% 14 32% Total 81 100% 44 100% Employment by position and gender Women Men Total Women Men Total Position As of December 31, 2011 As of December 31, 2012 Diversity Upper Management 7 28 35 9 26 35 Charter Middle Management 27 55 82 46 55 101 Professionals & specialists 187 118 305 250 166 416 T Administration 136 114 250 76 75 151 otalizator Sportowy understands the importance of diversity in the workplace. Regional Sales Representatives 9 166 175 10 166 176 (RSR) In 2012, the company signed the Polish Diversity Charter, which is a clear Blue-collar employees 10 10 20 9 9 18 declaration of company’s values with respect Total 376 491 867 400 497 897 to relations with its employees. The Diversity * The change in the number of men and women in various positions in the organization from 2011 to 22012 is the result of a structural Charter is an international initiative promoted reorganization that took place in 2012. by the European Union. It obliges its signatories to actively support workplace diversity. The Responsible Business Forum coordinates this initiative in Poland. 48 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 49 Responsible work environment Poznań T otalizator Sportowy creates good environReliable Employer Employee development ment for knowledge and competencies Totalizator Sportowy offers good employment Totalizator Sportowy offers its employees WIELKOPOLSKA PROVINCE development. Employees take advantage conditions for its employees. Employees a wide range of tools for personal Malta Cultural of many additional benefits. The benefits receive competitive pay and other benefits, development. Internal product and are available for all employees regardless of for example profit bonuses and leisure policy training is ongoing. Additionally, Festival their terms of employment. subsidies. All employees are paid above the company pays for external courses, the minimal wage. training and conferences. The ratio of average pay for women and men Position by position 2010 2011 2012 Annual average number of employee training hours by position Upper Management 97% 104% 102% 2011 2012 Middle Management 105% 106% 102% Position Average Average Number Number Professionals & Specialists 90% 93% 92% Number number Number number of training of training of people of hours per of people of hours per hours hours Administration 101% 100% 97% employee employee Regional Sales Representatives 96% 95% 94% Upper Management 35 3,481 99.46 35 2,923 83.51 Blue-collar Workers 67% 67% 66% Middle Management 82 9,066 110.56 101 6,969 69.00 Professionals & Specialists 305 7,971 26.13 416 10,764 25.88 Administration 250 5,490 21.96 151 4,464 29.56 Totalizator Sportowy is open to feedback from singed by Totalizator Sportowy dictate its employees. The company believes that the length of operational change notice Blue-collar Workers 20 153 7.65 18 128 7.11 timely and effective employee consultations given to employees and their selected Regional Sales Representatives 175 14,837 84.78 176 12,840 72.95 help to implement operational changes with representatives. Provisions of the Collective minimal risk. The Code of Employment, the Employment Agreement are more beneficial Total 867 40 998 58.42 897 38,088 48.00 Employee Information and Consultation Act, for employees than those of the Code * Estimated data and the Collective Employment Agreement of Employment. Recently, the company has introduced an management and the sales force. The goal of e-learning training. In 2011, two e-learning the project is to develop employees’ compemodules, “Time Management” and “Strategies tencies. What sets the program apart is that it for Working Effectively”, were made available assumes participation of at least 20 per cent of payments in the future. The employer covers to all employees, in total 905 people. 442 people people over 45 years of age. It indicates comEmployee minimum payments. Towarzystwo Funduszy completed the “Time Management” module pany’s commitment to employment diversity. Pension Plan Inwestycyjnych PZU SA (Investment Company and 390 people completed the “Strategies for The “Academy of Learning” provides a wide PZU SA) manages the EPP. The pension plan Working Effectively” course. After training range of training. It helps employees to deveI contribution is set in the employment agrecompletion, the participants were asked to lop skills in the areas of time management, n November 2012, the company launched ement and equals 5 per cent of employee’s evaluate the e-learning modules. They apprenegotiation techniques, and age management. an Employee Pension Plan (EPP). Participasalary, brutto. Apart from the minimum payciated the fact that they could complete the Additionally, a special “Safe Driving” training tion in the Plan is voluntary. The program ment covered by the employer, employees training at their convenience. They also thought is offered to the sales force employees. was established in consultation with may voluntarily contribute additional payments that the learning materials were well balanced. Regional Sales Managers and Regional Sales employees as part of the pension system, to the plan. In 2012, the company paid To meet the challenges of the current social Representatives spend a lot of time on the which is supposed to ensure higher pension 671,219.84 zł to the EPP. environment, Totalizator Sportowy has also road. They had an opportunity to participate developed a comprehensive program called in a safe driving behaviours training. In 2012, “Academy of Learning”, addressed to its 192 employees completed in this training. 50 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 51 In 2012, the company continued the Foundation. Employees who wish to share Company’s Health and Safety Committee manufacturing plants. Therefore, the company e-learning training. It offered an their knowledge and skills and their analyses the causes and effects of all focuses its environmental efforts on promo“Interpersonal Communication” module positive energy with those in need, have incidents. The Committee acts as an advisory ting responsible use of resources, such as to complement the traditional training an opportunity to do so. More information organ and reports to the Chair of the Managepaper, electricity and water. The company available through the program “Academy on these projects can be found in the Report ment Board. Both, the representatives of does not monitor emissions of greenhouse of Learning: training and coaching for of the LOTTO Foundation. the company and of the employees sit on gas. There are no production processes at the management and the sales force”. the Health and Safety Committee. Totalizator Sportowy, which could emit this This event inaugurated a new learning The company takes good care of its The company promotes responsible behaviopollutant. The use of company cars by the mode, i.e. blended leaning, which integrated current employees and it also supports urs. Health and Safety training is mandatory employees is the only source of greenhouse traditional forms of learning with the remote, young people entering the work force. for new employees and refresher courses are gas. For now, the company monitors the computer aided activities. The training In 2012, for the first time, Totalizator conducted periodically for all employees. consumption of petrol in company cars, was available on the Internet for over Sportowy invited the winners of the Additionally, the company organizes prevenbut it does not calculate its CO2 equivalent. 800 employees. The “Academy of Learning” “Playing for Internship” program to gain tion and risk control programs. The Collective In 2011, Totalizator Sportowy managed to project ended in April 2013. valuable experience for their future careers. Employment Agreement includes Health and decrease its use of electricity. After an energy Three interns developed their skills in various Safety provisions. They mostly pertain to the audit, the company introduced energy saving Another initiative of Totalizator Sportowy departments of the company. At the promotion of Health and Safety standards and solutions, which helped to decrease its use of is the employee volunteer program, end of the internship, one person was provision of personal safety equipment afforelectricity by approximately 3000 GJ. However, managed by the LOTTO Million Dreams offered a job with the company. ded by the modern science and technology. due to the high cost of investment, not all auditors’ recommendations could be impleGreen work environment mented. It is worth mentioning, that during The operations of Totalizator Sportowy have the past few years the company has replaced much smaller impact on the environment than 12,500 terminals, which has brought savings operations of other companies, for example of 250 kW / per hour. Safe work environment Energy use by source T otalizator Sportowy strives to provide Health and Safety Source (GJ)* 2010 2011 2012 the best work environment. These Thanks to the types of jobs at Natural gas 5,301 5,364 5,436 efforts include the areas of health Totalizator Sportowy, the risk of occupational Electricity 15,595 12,542 12,963 and safety, safety of information, illnesses or injuries is very low. In the * numbers estimated based on data from Branches and the Head Office and respect at the workplace. The company reporting period, there were no incidents believes that this comprehensive approach of occupational illness or death. helps to create the right environment for The company is determined to extend the road during the year. It has an achieving its strategic goals. range of monitored data. Therefore, we are impact on petrol consumpincluding information on petrol consumption tion. The company striin the report. Some employees use company ves to maintain petrol cars. Due to the size of the company’s sales consumption on network, the Regional Sales Managers and Representatives spend a lot of time on the similar level each year. Szczecin WEST POMERANIA PROVINCE Incidents of Injury at Totalizator Sportowy Description 2010 2011 2012 The 8th International Petrol consumption Number of incidents 7 8 11 Saxophone Festival Petrol consumption Number of days-away-from-work 334 459 146 2011 2012 (litre) Lost workday incident rate* 47.7 57.36 13.27 Diesel fuel 420,064.30 434,134.22 * The company uses the following calculation method: Lost workday incident rate = Number of days-away-from-work / Petrol 292,435.60 305,333.60 number of incidents 52 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 53 Internal Security Water use and wastewater* New quality of security management protection with respect to the personal Totalizator Sportowy strives to provide the data information management systems. Category [m3] 2010 2011 2012 highest level of information safety and The company trained all employees and agents Total water including: 127,855 59,552 56,127 personal data protection. on the applicable legal regulations and internal Bottled water 315 296 635 In August 2012, the Management Board procedures. Thanks to the list of personal data Municipal water 32,611 31,010 31,951 of Totalizator Sportowy decided to implement files, the company effectively controls access an Information Security Management System to all personal data it manages. All customers Water from deep water wells** 95,244 46,246 23,542 aligned with the ISO/IEC 27001:2005 have full access to their personal data and may Wastewater*** 32,611 31,010 31,951 international safety standard. change or amend them at any time or may * Data is estimated and shown in the format required by the Central Statistical Office of Poland. Information pertains The goal of the new system implementation refuse to receive any product or service to the buildings owned by Totalizator Sportowy (TS), which is approximately one half of all buildings used by TS for is to guarantee safety of information managed marketing materials from Totalizator Sportowy. its operations. across the operations of the whole company. ** Water from deep water wells is mainly used to wet the grounds of the Służewiec Horse Racetrack, therefore it is Prior to the implementation, the company Physical safety and technical security not recycled. defined its particular needs resulting from Totalizator Sportowy ensures safety of its *** The company estimates that the volume of its wastewater equals the volume of water received from the municipal waterworks (2010 data was adjusted to reflect the actual situation). the analysis of risks and safety indicators of customers and employees by providing the safeguards currently in use. security systems, such as electronic anti-theft The implementation of a unified security and anti-burglar alarms, information back-up Paper use system, modelled on the best international systems, and information security systems practices, resulted in achieving synergy preventing access by unauthorized parties. Type of paper [t] 2010 2011 2012 between the following system elements: With the safety of the LOTTO sales agents in Office paper 27.6 27.5 29.6 ∙∙ the structure of security management, mind, the company prepared a “Sales Agent’s Thermal paper rolls and forms 1,064.0 1,509.0 1,480.0 ∙∙ classification and standards of information Handbook”, which describes what to do in Total 1,091.6 1,534 1,509.6 protection, case of theft or burglary. The ways of dealing ∙∙ risk management, with these safety threats are also a part ∙∙ Information Security Management System of the sales agent training. Totalizator Sportowy works to align its ecoloupdated regularly with interesting materials documentation, gical efforts with its operations. The company on environment related topics such as sustain∙∙ security incident management, supports environment friendly initiatives of its able transportation and responsible con∙∙ key business processes continuity employees; for example, it purchased bicycles sumption. The site offered interesting facts management, for one of the branches for use instead of cars and practical advice. The wide range of topics Moreover, Totalizator Sportowy is committed whenever possible. The company also helped broaden the knowledge useful from to prevention of corruption. The company supports hunting associations in their initiatithe point of view of an employee and conducts an annual risk analysis of all areas ves focused on the renewal of forest ecosysa responsible citizen alike. The project was potentially vulnerable to this problem. tems. Additionally, Totalizator Sporotowy evaluated after completion. Employees were All company entities must adhere to the participates in recycling. There are paper, glass surveyed on ecological awareness and formal anti-corruption procedure, which also and plastic recycling bins at the Head Office. engagement before and after the project. regulates its Information and Communication In 2012, the company collected approximately The survey results showed an increase in the Technology (ICT) and data security. 53 containers of recyclable materials. number of people who began using eco-driving In 2012, Totalizator Sportowy launched an techniques or noticed environmental problems Personal data Eco-mission (Ekomisja) educational program in their environment. An important part of Totalizator Sporotwy understands the Drzonków addressed to all employees. The goal of the the program was the contest for the best importance of protecting personal data of its initiative was to show employees that enviecological initiative. Employees were asked customers, employees and business partners. ronment friendly living pays off. The program to submit their proposals. The best ideas were Due to the high sensitivity and the value LUBUSKIE PROVINCE consisted of training, quizzes and a contest for financially supported by the company. Some of this data, the company ensures the the best ecological project. The program was of the implemented projects included the highest standards of safety in this area. A equestrian run from October to December. Additionally, installation of forty bike racks in the city of The company appointed an Information Security complex the company launched a new ecology tab on Olsztyn and collection of used batteries Administrator who is responsible for liaising its intranet. The new intranet section was at the Łódź Branch outlets. with the Inspector General for the Protection of Personal Data and for ensuring compliance with the current requirements of data and process 54 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 55 Social involvement 56 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Responsible Gaming | 57 Dialogue with stakeholders Community development L The idea of CSR is closely connected with dialogue. While building OTTO players support community devein the form of taxes and other obligations. a social responsibility strategy, it is crucial to align it with business goals, lopment. They enable Totalizator SportoMoreover, revenue from games and lotteries but also with the opinions of key stakeholders. wy to expand sport infrastructure and to finances three special funds: support various interesting cultural ∙∙ Physical Fitness Development Fund (FRKF), T initiatives. Every year, Totalizator Sportowy ∙∙ Culture Promotion Fund (FPK), he first year of the Corporate Social acknowledged benefactor of Polish sport. brings significant funds to the State Treasury ∙∙ Gambling Problem Solving Fund (FRPH). Responsibility and the Responsible It has been working for this title for many Gaming strategy resulted in a lot of years. changes within the company and in its Employees regard LOTTO as a reliable relations with the external entities. Therefore, employer, supportive of personal developthe logical next step was to verify how the ment. They appreciate the opportunity new strategy is perceived by the key to work on various projects and the possibility System of surcharges Zakopane stakeholders. of proposing their own solutions. Employees Hence in 2011, the company organized focus are familiar with the CSR programs and groups with people closely connected with company’s reports pertaining to these MAŁOPOLSKA PROVINCE T LOTTO, i.e. with employees, sales agents initiatives. However, they would like the and beneficiaries. These sessions allowed decision making process to be less formal. he system of surcharges was established Installation of an artificial the company to learn more about the opinions Stakeholders agree that the Responsible almost 20 years ago. In 1994, after the freezing system at the of its key stakeholders. Gaming program needs more attention as amendment to the Gambling Act, Totaliin-run track of the LOTTO’s contribution to Polish sport is it is closely related to the core business zator Sportowy was mandated to provide universally appreciated. Stakeholders value of the company. On the other hand, LOTTO a payment equal to 20 per cent of its stakes in Wielka Krokiew the support of sport teams, clubs or individual games are associated with safe entertainthe games of chance to the Treasury. A decade athletes as well as the financing of renovament. LOTTO allows people “to dream for later, due to an additional amendment to the tions and new sport facilities. LOTTO is an a small fee”. regulations, the amount of the payment was increased to 25 per cent with an additional 10 „ per cent of the lottery stakes. These regulations are still in effect today. Funds gained from these payments are divided into three ministerial arenas, multi-sport playing fields, indoor pools special funds. Totalizator Sporotwy has no and hockey rinks being built. Thanks to the During their career, each manager discovers that an organization is not just a bunch of individuals authority over these funds. Hence, every Physical Fitness Development Fund, two completing their tasks, but that it is a group of people connected by various relationships. The key customer who buys tickets for LOTTO games institutions where Polish athletes develop issue related to the success of an organization is fostering good relations in the company. Building open and and lotteries supports the development of their talents, i.e. the Central Sports Centre honest relationships with the external community is equally important. Stakeholders expect that the sports and culture in Poland. and the University of Physical Education, have organization will share with them the information about its successes and challenges. been renovated and modernized. Between A dialogue with stakeholders is an excellent opportunity to learn about their needs and expectations, therefore Surcharges are provided 2011-2012, the Physical Fitness Education Fund companies should not forget that it is an important aspect of trust building. Being open to the voices of the to the government as follows: provided over 650 million zloty for the deveexternal community and employees, confirms company’s mature attitude towards building a competitive ∙∙ Payments from draw games: ten days after lopment of sports infrastructure in Poland. advantage. In the turbulent environment, one never knows what will ensure a competitive advantage; will it be the day of sale an innovative product, the quality of customer service, the reputation based on trust of stakeholders or the ∙∙ Payments from lotteries: monthly, on the Funds from Totalizator Sportowy human resources policies attracting the best talent? 10th day of each month. support the following programs: Social aspects of the organization are an important contribution to sustainable development. ∙∙ investments of crucial significance to Division of surcharges: the national sport (so called strategic Agata Rudnicka Surcharges from the main product, i.e. Lotto: investments), President, CSR Impact Foundation price for one draw is 3.00 zł, including 20 per ∙∙ regional, multi-year sport infrastructure cent of surcharge (i.e. 0.60 gr). 77 per cent development programs (so called regional of the 0.60 gr goes to sport, 20 per cent to investments), culture, and 3 per cent to healthcare. ∙∙ public, multi-sport playing fields for LOTTO players help to finance the developchildren and youth building program, ment of sports infrastructure in Poland. ∙∙ artificial turf, full size football field building Every year, there are new gymnasiums, sport program. 58 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Social involvement TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Social involvement | 59 World Rowing Cup in Poznań. Local branches Association of the Marketing Communication Sport of Totalizator Sportowy are also keen on Support Agencies SAR. The goal of this initiative is to Sponsoring supporting local sporting events in their of cultural and local initiatives educate the public about national heritage lost communities. For example, the Warsaw due to wars, upheavals and lootings, and to F A branch sponsored the “Lotto Cup” Sailing look for opportunities of recovering the lost or many years, LOTTO has been Regatta. part from the investment in national artefacts. According to the founders, the associated with the Olympic Games. Apart from supporting the development sports, Totalizator Sportowy actively Museum was created to mostly “mentally” For decades, the company has been of sports infrastructure and providing the best promotes and supports Polish recover and preserve from oblivion the supporting the National Olympic Team in training and competition environment for the culture. Since July 2003, 20 per cent memory of hundreds of valuable works the biggest sport competition. The Olympics Polish Olympic Athletes, Totalizator Sportowy of surcharges are transferred to the Culture of art. In 2012, LOTTO co-sponsored a cultural are a global celebration of sport where fair has been working with the Bydgostia Regional Promotion Fund. The money spent by LOTTO event, “Warsaw Gallery Weekend”. During play is of paramount importance. In 1994, Rowing Association from Bydgoszcz for the players on games and lotteries supports the event selected Polish and international Totalizator Sportowy became a partner of the past 20 years. From the beginning of LOTTO local and national cultural initiatives in galleries presented new trends in modern art. Polish Olympic Committee and subsequently, sponsorship, Bydgostia rowing team have a significant way. It also helps to promote There were concerts, book promotions, a sponsor of the Polish Olympic Team. LOTTO been repeatedly winning the National Chambook readership, preserves national heritage, discussion panels and meetings with artists. supported the Olympic Athletes during the pionship and individual athletes on the team and finances improvements of cultural In addition, LOTTO offers a special product, Summer and Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City have won over 1,000 medals during National infrastructure. i.e. “Skarby Polskie” (“Polish Treasures”) (2002), Athens (2004), and Beijing (2008). Championships and several dozen medals in Apart from the surcharges allocated to the scratchcard. The scratchcard was introduced During the Winter Olympics in Vancouver various international rowing competitions. Culture Promotion Fund, Totalizator Sportowy to the market on December 31, 2011. All profits (2010) and the most recent Summer Olympics Since 2005, the company has been also often sponsores cultural and social events on from the sale of this product support historical in London (2012), Totalizator Sportowy was the supporting the AQUILA-LOTTO Małopolska bike its own initiative. One of the most interesting monuments and buildings as well as scientific main sponsor of the Polish Olympic Team. trial club. Bike trials is a discipline of mountain projects supported by LOTTO in recent years and cultural artefacts of exceptional value. The company also remembers about local biking in which the rider attempts to pass has been Muzeum Utracone (The Lost Museum Each player who buys the “Skarby Polskie” events and institutions. In the recent years, through an obstacle course without setting Project). It is a joint initiative of the Ministry scratchcard becomes the benefactor of Polish LOTTO helped to organize one of the oldest foot to the ground. The Aquila athletes belong of Culture and National Heritage and of the culture. „ and most prestigious fencing tournaments, to the best group of riders in the world. “O Szablę Wołodyjowskiego” (“Wolodyjowski’s They won over 30 medals in the World Sabre Tournament”). It co-sponsored the 5th and European Bike Trials Championships. and the 6th edition of the Zdzisław Ambroziak The cooperation with two icons of Polish Once again, the topic of culture sponsoring has become Memorial volleyball tournament and the sport, Adam Małysz, a ski jumper, and very fashionable. We have seen the return of the patronage Robert Kubica, the Formula One driver, institution. It pays to support celebrated artists and prestigious was undoubtedly a very proud moment projects to position oneself as a benefactor of high culture. for Totalizator Sportowy. The two athletes We are very pleased with this trend. As a company, we understand were supported and cheered on by the the value of involvement in such projects. We are proud to say that whole nation. together with our players we support the development of culture in Poland. Thanks to the system of surcharges, it was possible to support cultural events such as Ludwig van Beethoven Easter Festival or the 2012 MALTA Festival. We cannot forget about local initiatives, which could not happen without the system of surcharges. Some of these local events include Kraków “Elbląska Jesień Literacka” (“Autumn Literary Festival in Elbląg”) and the International Art Festival “Interakcje”. Additionally, the Culture Promotion Fund supports restoration and renovation of historical MAŁOPOLSKA PROVINCE monuments, buildings, museum collections, and archives. Thanks to our players, we can enable the development of current projects and we can also preserve our very valuable heritage. LOTTO players are the real Whitewater benefactors of Polish culture. kayaking course Agnieszka Libor Spokesperson, Head of PR and Communications Team 60 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Social involvement TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Social involvement | 61 Appendices 62 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Work Environment | 63 Selected financial data oraz zasady Global Compact Payments to the State Treasury and for special funds in the year Expense structure 2012 2011 2012 2011 Draw games, lotteries, and number games tax 660,271,435.00 577,646,682.00 Core operating expenses 3,137,031,007.23 2,808,281,328.96 Cost of goods sold 2,924,684,752.83 2,615,538,256.98 Current income tax* 79,637,329.00 50,424,134.00 Cost of sales 103,723,830.22 98,299,576.82 Net Cash dividends (paid)** 304,633,972.00 127,286,390.00 General and administrative expenses 108,622,424.18 94,443,495.16 Subsidy for the Fitness Development Fund 604,233,074.80 531,316,186.20 Other operating expenses 19,610,727.69 10,822,276.84 Subsidy for the Culture Promotion Fund 156,943,655.80 138,004,204.20 Financial expenses 5,324,332.97 5,185,912.79 Subsidy for the Gambling Problems Solving Fund 23,541,548.40 20,700,630.60 Total Expenses 3,161,966,067.89 2,824,289,518.59 Total payments to the State Treasury 1,829,261,015.00 1,445,378,227.00 Operating expenses structure * Without deferred tax ** 2011 data includes profit sharing paid during the year and the 2010 dividend paid in 2011. 2012 data includes profit sharing paid during the year, the 2011 dividend paid in 2012, and the advance towards 2012 profit sharing. 2012 2011 Amortization and depreciation 15,141,324.22 31,185,354.14 Consumption of materials and energy 52,055,427.34 41,629,120.58 External services 147,892,200.33 139,586,204.39 Income structure Taxes and charges 673,055,464.96 593,110,278.45 2012 2011 Payroll 129,798,547.62 110,642,616.57 Net revenue from sales of products, services and materials 3,431,202,043.44 2,991,386,442.06 Social security and other benefits 31,306,650.79 25,397,377.40 Net revenue from sales of products 3,421,777,451.47 2,982,743,530.06 Other costs by type 2,057,997,154.91 1,863,178,266.69 Lotto 1,843,362,115.20 1,599,899,728.80 Including lottery winnings 1,799,661,237.37 1,551,344,397.65 Lotto Plus* 78,406,728.00 0.00 Change in the balance of products -29,781,023.88 3,508,214.99 Mini Lotto 166,468,539.00 149,967,136.00 Multi Multi 628,346,466.00 628,209,014.00 Summary profit and loss statement Multi Multi Plus 122,511,828.00 120,153,884.00 2012 2011 Net revenue from sales of products, services and materials 3,431,202,043.44 2,991,386,442.06 Joker 17,449,396.00 23,160,980.00 Net revenue from sales of products 3,421,777,451.47 2,982,743,530.06 Keno 96,631,977.60 92,236,902.40 Horserace bookmaking fees 1,264,512.00 1,252,338.14 Lotteries 468,600,401.67 369,115,884.86 Net revenues from sales of other services 8 156 866,79 7,346,678.11 Horserace bookmaking fees 1,264,512.00 1,252,338.14 Revenue from sales of goods and materials 3,213.18 43,895.75 Net revenue from other services 8,156,866.79 7,346,678.11 Total cost of goods sold 2,924,684,752.83 2,615,538,256.98 Revenue from sales of goods and materials 3,213.18 43,895.75 Profit from sales of products, goods and materials 506,517,290.61 375,848,185.08 Other operating revenue 68,038,786.28 44,575,999.89 Cost of sales 103,723,830.22 98,299,576.82 Financial revenue 40,487,940.43 28,053,846.25 General and administrative expenses 108,622,424.18 94,443,495.16 Total Revenue 3,539,728,770.15 3,064,016,288.20 Profit on sales 294,171,036.21 183,105,113.10 Gross profit 377,762,702.26 239,726,769.61 * In 2012, an additional option, Lotto Plus, was introduced Net profit 303,326,803.14 193,120,793.14 64 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Selected financial data TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Selected financial data | 65 oraz zasady Global Compact Tabela Index GRI wskaźników GRI oraz and Global zasadyCompact Global Compact Principles Summary balance sheet 2012 2011 GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number Fixed assets 176,639,376.23 164,643,790.44 COMPACT Strategy and Analysis Current assets 689,290,245.73 624,393,874.26 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization Total assets 865,929,621.96 789,037,664.70 1.1 (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance 5-6 of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Equity 530,250,183.98 536,367,584.98 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10, 11, 19, 22, 34 Liabilities and provisions 335,679,437.98 252,670,079.72 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 12 Total liabilities 865,929,621.96 789,037,664.70 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 29-32 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 15 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures Additional information 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Warsaw Donations [zł] 2012 2011 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 13 Cash donations 2, 500,000.00* 2,510,000.00 covered in the report In-kind donations 27,715.07 1,498.91 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 13 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 2.7 13, 33, 78-79 * In 2012, provision for donation to the LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation in the amount of 2,500,000 zł. of customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization: − Number of employees; − Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues 2.8 (for public sector organizations); 28, 47, 65 − Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and − Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, Sokołów or ownership including: − The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, 2.9 None and expansions; and Małopolski − Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 16 podkarpaciE PROVINCE An indoor Report parameters swimming pool Profile report 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 25 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). October 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Biennial 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 78 Report scope and boundry Process for defining report content, including: − Determining materiality; 24 − Prioritizing topics within the report; and The company reviewed the 3.5 − Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. report with respect to the Include an explanation of how the organization has applied the ‘Guidance on Content Principles Defining Report Content’, the associated Principles and the Technical Protocol: ‘Applying the Report Content Principles’. 66 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Selected financial data TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 67 Tabela wskaźników GRI Tabela wskaźników GRI oraz zasady Global Compact oraz zasady Global Compact GLOBAL GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number COMPACT COMPACT Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 3.6 25 joint ventures, suppliers). 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the 2010/2011 Report, pg. 23 organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 25 2010/2011 Report, pg. 22 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced There is a conflict of interest 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from 15, 19 prevention mechanism in the period to period and/or between organizations. company’s internal regulations. If a conflict of interest situation Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest 4.6 arises, the Member of the 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators 24, 25 are avoided. Management Board in and other information in the report. question should abstain from Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier voting on the issue and ask 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, c 25 that the request be recorded in hange of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). the protocol from the meeting. 25 2010/2011 Report, pg. 22 Categories of data in the The recruitment process must chapter “Selected Financial follow the Regulation of the Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, Data” have been extended Council of Ministers on the 3.11 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of Recruitment Process for the or measurement methods applied in the report. to provide more comprehensive information 4.7 the members of the highest governance body and its committees, including Position of Members of the Changed reporting period any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Board for Some Commercial – 2 years Companies, dated March 18, 2003 (List of Acts and GRI Content Index Regulations Nr 55, item 476 with subsequent amendments) 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 67-77 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, 2010/2011 Report, pg. 30, 18 Assurance 4.8 and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance in this report and the status of their implementation. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, 3.13 24 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social 2010/2011 Report, pg. 23 explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or and 18 in this report relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Proces ewaluacji wyników działań najwyższego organu nadzorczego w odniesieniu 4.10 2010/2011 Raport, pg. 23 do kwestii ekonomicznych, środowiskowych i społecznych Governance Commitments To External Initiatives Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle organizational oversight. 4.11 18 is addressed by the organization. 4.1 Describe the mandate and composition (including number of independent members 13-14 and/or non executive members) of the highest governance body and its committees, Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 16, 22, 48 and indicate each individual’s position and any direct responsibility for economic, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. social, and environmental performance. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive international advocacy organizations in which the organization: 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and 13 − Has positions in governance bodies; 4.13 22 the reasons for this arrangement). − Participates in projects or committees; − Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number − Views membership as strategic. 4.3 and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent 14 and/ or non-executive members. Stakeholder engagement 14, 23 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 22 Trade Union representatives Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 4.4 may provide recommendations 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 21 or direction to the highest governance body. or direction suggested by employees Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 22-23 by type and by stakeholder group. 68 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 69 Tabela wskaźników GRI Tabela wskaźników GRI oraz zasady Global Compact oraz zasady Global Compact GLOBAL GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number COMPACT COMPACT Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Aspect: Indirect Economic Impact 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 22, 58 through its reporting. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided EC8 38 primarily for public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the EC9 59 Economic Indicators extent of impacts Aspect: Economic Environmental Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Aspect: Materials EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 64-66 retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Principle 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 54 53 Not applicable The company has not conducted Principles The equipment used by the EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. the climate impact analysis for 7,8,9 company requires the use of Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s other than just recycled paper. Principle 7 EC2 the Służewiec Horse Racetrack activities due to climate change. for the purpose of this report. At this time, the impact has been Aspect: Energy deemed insignificant. Principles 8,9 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 53 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 50 Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 53 The company did not receive any financial assistance from Principles 8,9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 53 the government. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Between 2011-2012 the Principles 8,9 EN6 53 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. company received grants from the European Union in the Principles amounts of: EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 54 7,8,9 2011 – 896,701.36 zł 2012 – 632,655.20 zł Aspect: Water Aspect: Market Presence Principle 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 54 In 2011, at the Head Office, EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not applicable the wages of blue-collar employees, which is the lowest Principle 9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not applicable job level at the company, equalled 226 per cent of the Aspect: Biodiversity minimal wage (1,386.00 zł). In Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage by gender compared to local minimum 2012, the ratio was 231 per cent Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Principle 1 EC5 Principle 8 EN11 2010/2011 Report, pg. 61 wage at significant locations of operation. of the minimal wage (1,500.00 zł) and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. We treat Warsaw as the main Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity location of the company due Principle 8 EN12 2010/2011 Report, pg. 61 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. to the largest number of employees working there. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable Therefore the data presented in the report pertains to Warsaw. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not applicable For the purposes of the Company’s Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant suppliers are local Polish suppliers. EN15 Not applicable EC6 affected by operations, by level of extinction risk locations of operation. The company works in the vast majority of Polish companies. Aspect: Emissions, effluents, and waste 100 per cent all senior The greenhouse gas emissions Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the Principle 6 EC7 management employees come from the operations of the local community at locations of significant operation. from the local community. Principle 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. company are insignificant; therefore the company does not calculate these values. 70 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 71 Tabela wskaźników GRI Tabela wskaźników GRI oraz zasady Global Compact oraz zasady Global Compact GLOBAL GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number COMPACT COMPACT The greenhouse gas emissions Aspect: Overall from the operations of the Principles 8,9 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. company are insignificant; In 2011, the company spent therefore the company does 10,700.00 zł on ecological not calculate these values. education and related events. The 2011, Ecological Fee was Principles 17,552.39 zł* EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 54 7,8,9 In 2012, the company spent 59,995.45 zł on ecological EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not applicable education and related events. The significant air pollutant The 2012, Ecological Fee was Principles emissions from the operations EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 28,153.49 zł* 7,8,9 *The Ecological Fees pertain of the company are Principle 8 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. to the Masovian Region, which inconsequential; therefore the company does not calculate is the significant area for the these values. company as the largest number of employees work Principle 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 54 there. The Head Office, 2 Branches, and the Rybienko The company does not calculate the Training & Leisure Centre are total weight of waste by type due also located there. to the fact that its multiple branches have waste collection contracts with Indicators of Labour Practices and Decent Work various service providers. In some Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. locations, the contracts do not Aspect: Employment stipulate the division into various types of waste. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken Principle 6 LA1 46-47 The company does not generate down by gender. any industrial waste. 48 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Principle 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable Principle 6 LA2 In this case, the region is the gender, and region. territory of Poland. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage Not applicable Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 2010/2011 Report, pgs. 42-43, Principle 6 LA3 of transported waste shipped internationally. part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. 50 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Aspect: Labour / Management Relations EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water Not applicable and runoff. 99 per cent of employees In 2011, 860 out of 867 Aspect: Products and services employees were covered by a collective bargaining Principles Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent agreement. In 2012, 889 out of EN26 54 Principles 1,3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 7,8,9 of impact mitigation. 897 employees. The employees located at the Due to the minimal use of Krynica Training & Leisure packaging the company does Centre are partially covered by Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed not monitor this aspect. the collective agreement. Principles 8,9 EN27 by category. The monitoring cost would be disproportional to the volume Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether Principle 3 LA5 2010/2011 Report, pg. 45 of packaging. it is specified in collective agreements. Aspect: Compliance Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 2010/2011 Report, pg. 45 Principles 8 EN28 0 zł for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker 100 per cent all members Principles 1,3 LA6 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health of the Health and Safety Aspect: Transport and safety programs. Committee are employees of the company. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Principles 8,9 EN29 and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members 53 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Principle 1 LA7 52 of the workforce. of work related fatalities by region and by gender. 72 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 73 Tabela wskaźników GRI Tabela wskaźników GRI oraz zasady Global Compact oraz zasady Global Compact GLOBAL GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number COMPACT COMPACT Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Aspect: Child labour Principle 1 LA8 assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious 53 diseases. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Principles HR6 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child No incidents LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 53 1,2,5 labor. Aspect: Training and Education Aspect: Forced and compulsory labour Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Principle 6 LA10 51 Principles category. HR7 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination No incidents 1,2,4,5 of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 2010/2011 Report, Principle 6 LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. pgs. 42, 51, 52 Aspect: Security Practices Performance and career Groups of employees Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development are periodically trained Principle 6 LA12 development reviews were reviews, by gender. on Operational Health & Safety not conducted. (OHS), ergonomics, first aid, Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity fire safety and evacuation Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures procedures. Some employees, HR8 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. i.e. the members of the OHS Principles 1,6 LA13 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 14, 49 Service, have special indicators of diversity. responsibilities in this area and hold additional 50 certifications. They undergo Additional information on this a periodic special training. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Principles 1,6 LA14 topic is confidential and will by significant locations of operation. not be disclosed as per the Aspect: Indigenous Rights company’s decision. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people HR9 Not applicable Human Rights Indicators and actions taken. Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Society Aspect: Local Community The company mostly uses Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts Principles services of Polish suppliers; 59 HR1 that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone 1,2,3,4,5,6 therefore it does not monitor 100 per cent of the company’s human rights screening. this type of data. Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact operations involve community SO1 assessments, and development programs. engagement. Buying LOTTO The company mostly uses tickets, customers provide Principles Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners services of Polish suppliers; funds to three Special Funds. HR2 1,2,3,4,5,6 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. therefore it does not conduct this type of screening. Aspect: Corruption Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related 2010/2011 Report, pg. 30 The company does not keep Principle 10 SO2 HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage to corruption. 55 this type of records. of employees trained. The company does not offer Aspect: Non-discrimination periodic training devoted solely to anti-corruption issues. Principles All new employees are trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 0 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies on security of information. This 1,2,5,6 Principle 10 SO3 and procedures. training includes antiAspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining corruption module. Moreover, the Procurement Department Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom conducts anti-corruption Principles HR5 of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, No incidents training from time to time. 1,2,3 and actions taken to support these rights. 74 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 75 Tabela wskaźników GRI Tabela wskaźników GRI oraz zasady Global Compact oraz zasady Global Compact GLOBAL GLOBAL GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number GRI GRI Guidelines Reporting/ page number COMPACT COMPACT 55 Aspect: Customer Privacy Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. No incidents Principles Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Aspect: Public Policy PR8 0 1,10 and losses of customer data. Principles Totalizator Sportowy Aspect: Compliance 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. is a State-Owned company 6, 7, 8, 9 and is not involved in lobbying. Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 0 zł concerning the provision and use of products and services. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, Principle 10 SO6 0 zł and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, Principle 10 SO7 0 and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Principle 10 SO8 0 zł for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Indicators Aspect: Customer Health and Safety 36, 37 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services In the reported period, game Principle 1 PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services development was the stage categories subject to such procedures. in which impact of products was assessed. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Principle 1 PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, 0 by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Principles Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage PR3 28 8,10 of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Principles Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 0 8,10 concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 16, 36, 43 customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Bystra SILESIA PROVINNCE PR6 39 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Modernization PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 0 of the W20 and W32 ski jump ramps 76 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Index GRI and Global Compact Principles | 77 Company Contact Information www.totalizator.pl Corporation www.lotto.pl Players www.torsluzewiec.pl Służewiec Horse Racetrack www.fundacjalotto.pl LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation Totalizator Sportowy Sp. z o.o. Bydgoszcz Branch Lublin Branch Rzeszów Branch ul. Targowa 25 ul. Poznańska 20 ul. Wolińskiego 20 ul. Geodetów 1 03-728 Warsaw 85-129 Bydgoszcz 20-491 Lublin 35-959 Rzeszów tel. 22 518 22 00 tel. 52 363 45 00, fax 52 363 45 01 tel. 81 759 33 00, fax 81 759 33 02 tel. 17 860 96 10, fax 17 860 96 30 fax 22 619 72 14 bydgoszcz@totalizator.pl lublin@totalizator.pl rzeszow@totalizator.pl centrala@totalizator.pl Gdańsk Branch Łódź Branch Szczecin Branch Spokesperson ul. Straganiarska 31/33 ul. Wodna 43/45 ul. Celna 1 Agnieszka Libor 80-837 Gdańsk 90-046 Łódź 70-644 Szczecin biuroprasowe@totalizator.pl tel. 58 692 15 61, fax 58 692 15 62 tel. 42 677 59 00, fax 42 677 59 02 tel. 91 480 85 46, fax 91 480 85 48 gdansk@totalizator.pl lodz@totalizator.pl szczecin@totalizator.pl CSR Questions and feedback about the report Katowice Branch Olsztyn Branch Warsaw Branch Martyna Strupczewska, Joanna Strzelczyk ul. Ligocka 103 ul. B. Linki 1 ul. Targowa 25 csr@totalizator.pl 40-568 Katowice 10-534 Olsztyn 03-728 Warsaw tel. 32 208 79 00, fax 32 208 79 02 tel. 89 521 71 40, fax 89 521 71 49 tel. 22 518 22 09, fax 22 619 72 14 LOTTO Million Dreams Foundation katowice@totalizator.pl olsztyn@totalizator.pl warszawa@totalizator.pl Bartosz Mielecki, President of the Foundation ul. Targowa 25, 03-728 Warsaw Koszalin Branch Opole Branch Wrocław Branch fundacja@fundacjalotto.pl ul. Piłsudskiego 56 ul. Kośnego 22 ul. Joannitów 16 75-525 Koszalin 45-056 Opole 50-525 Wrocław Warszawa-Służewiec Horse Racetrack Branch tel. 94 314 68 23, fax 94 314 68 25 tel. 77 406 61 01, fax 77 406 61 02 tel. 71 333 19 38, fax 71 333 19 66 ul. Puławska 266 koszalin@totalizator.pl opole@totalizator.pl wroclaw@totalizator.pl 02-684 Warsaw tel. 22 543 95 00, fax 22 847 50 26 Kielce Branch Poznań Branch Zielona Góra Branch sluzewiec@totalizator.pl ul. Targowa 18 ul. Palacza 81 ul. Kręta 5 25-520 Kielce 60-273 Poznań 65-770 Zielona Góra Białystok Branch tel. 41 343 78 01, fax 41 343 78 04 tel. 61 864 60 00, fax 61 864 60 30 tel. 68 322 17 60, fax 68 322 17 62 ul. Modlińska 1 kielce@totalizator.pl poznan@totalizator.pl zielonagora@totalizator.pl 15-066 Białystok tel. 85 665 51 00, fax 85 665 51 22 Kraków Branch bialystok@totalizator.pl ul. Olszańska 5a 31-513 Kraków, tel. 12 627 97 01, fax 12 627 97 25 krakow@totalizator.pl 78 | TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Company Contact Information TOTALIZATOR SPORTOWY Company Contact Information | 79 TRANSLATION ONLY TRANSLATION ONLY TRANSLATIONONLY TRANSLATION ONLY • Comparison of the CSR Report as presented by the Company against the GRI Application Level Checklist based on which we provided the Company with respective auditor’s comments, Limited assurance report • Examination of the relevant documentation regarding relevant systems and processes for gathering Limited Managementreport To the assurance Board of Totalizator Sportowy sp. z o.o. Limited assurance and analyzing report the data for the sustainability information named in GRI Content Index, Subject To matter and Criteria the Management Board of Totalizator Sportowy sp. z o.o. • ToInquiries the Management Board ofmanagement Totalizator members of the appropriate Sportowyassp. z o.o. well as personnel responsible for the Subject matter As per terms and of our Criteria dated 9 September 2013 (the “Agreement”) we have been engaged to Agreement reporting of the Subject matter and Criteria CSR information and performing of analytical procedures on the sustainability perform a limited assurance engagement over the sustainability information named in the GRI Content information named in GRI Content Index, As per terms of our Agreement dated 9 September 2013 (the “Agreement”) we have been engaged to As per terms of our Agreement dated 9 September 2013 (the “Agreement”) we have been engaged to Index table (“GRI Content Index”) presented on pages 67-77 in the “Corporate Social Responsibility perform a limited assurance engagement over the sustainability information named in the GRI Content Report 2011-2012. Totalizator Sportowy. Playing for the Future” (the “CSR Report”) and reported in • Comparison perform a limited of assurance the values of indicators engagement overinthethe aspect: Economic, sustainability information against namedthein2012 Financial the GRI Content Index table (“GRI Content Index”) presented on pages 67-77 in the “Corporate Social Responsibility Statements Index of Totalizator table (“GRI Sportowy Content Index”) Sp. z o.o.on presented pagesby audited BDOinSp. 67-77 z o.o, the and “Corporate Social Responsibility accordance with Global Reporting Initiative version 3.0 (the “GRI G3.0 criteria”). Report 2011-2012. Totalizator Sportowy. Playing for the Future” (the “CSR Report”) and reported in Totalizator Sportowy accordance with Global sp. z o.o. (the Reporting “Company”) Initiative management version prepared 3.0 (the “GRI the CSR Report ensuring its G3.0 criteria”). • Report accordance 2011-2012. Obtaining sample with Global evidence Sportowy. Totalizator Reporting Playing for the for the sustainability Initiative version 3.0 Future” (the information (the “GRI G3.0 “CSR in named Report”) criteria”). and reported GRI Content Index.in Sample analyzed documents included invoices/reports from external service providers and internal adherence to the GRI G3.0 criteria. The CSR Report presents quantitative and qualitative information reports including Totalizator Sportowy sp. z o.o. (the “Company”) management prepared the CSR Report ensuring its Totalizator Sportowydata sp. generated the Company’s reports frommanagement z o.o. (theas“Company”) IT-systems. prepared the CSR Report ensuring its on the Company’s corporate responsibility practices in the period of 1 January 2011 to 31 December adherence to the GRI G3.0 criteria. The CSR Report presents quantitative and qualitative information adherence to the GRI G3.0 criteria. The CSR Report presents quantitative and qualitative information 2012. on the Company’s corporate responsibility practices in the period of 1 January 2011 to 31 December on the Company’s corporate responsibility practices in the period of 1 January 2011 to 31 December Management’s Responsibility 2012. In2012. a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable Management’s Responsibility The Company’s management is responsible for the preparation of the CSR Report in accordance with Management’s assurance engagement. Responsibility the GRI G3.0 criteria. The Company’s management is responsible for the preparation of the CSR Report in accordance with WeThe Company’s believe that the evidence weishave management obtainedforis the responsible preparation sufficient of the CSR to and appropriate Report in accordance provide with a basis for our ThisGRI the responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the nonG3.0 criteria. the GRI limited G3.0 criteria. assurance conclusion. financial data and the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes which ensure This responsibility includes the selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the nonThis responsibility Limited assuranceincludesconclusionthe selection and application of appropriate methods to prepare the nonthe adherence to the GRI G3.0 criteria relevant for the preparation of the sustainability information financial data and the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes which ensure financial data and the design, implementation and maintenance of systems and processes which ensure using assumptions and estimates which are reasonable in the circumstances. Based on our limited the adherence to the GRI G3.0 criteria relevant for the preparation of the sustainability information the adherence to the assurance GRI G3.0 engagement, criteria relevantnothing has for the come to our preparation attention of the that causes sustainability us to information Practitioner’s using assumptions Responsibility and estimates which are reasonable in the circumstances. believe that the sustainability using assumptions and estimatesinformation which are as reasonable presented in in the CSR Report have not been prepared, in the circumstances. all material respects, in accordance with the GRI G3.0 criteria. Practitioner’s Our responsibility Responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion as to whether the sustainability Practitioner’s Responsibility information named in GRI Content Index and presented in the CSR Report has been prepared in Limitation of use and distribution Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion as to whether the sustainability Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion as to whether the sustainability accordance with the GRI G3.0 criteria. Performed procedures were chosen based on our judgment and Our limited assurance information named in GRI Content Index and presented in the CSR Report has been prepared in information named inreport preparedIndex GRI Content by PricewaterhouseCoopers and presented in the CSR sp. z Report o.o. (“PwC”) for Totalizator has been prepared in take under consideration our judgment of the risk of material misstatement for the CSR Report Sportowy sp. z 0.o. in respect of the Agreement is directed to sole use of the Company’s Management accordance with the GRI G3.0 criteria. Performed procedures were chosen based on our judgment and accordance with the GRI G3.0 criteria. Performed procedures were chosen based on our judgment and (definitions of the indicators and respective reference to the page of their reporting are presented in the Board. It should not be used for take under consideration our judgment of the risk of material misstatement for the CSR Report take under consideration ourother purposes. judgment of the risk of material misstatement for the CSR Report CSR Report in the GRI Content Index). (definitions of the indicators and respective reference to the page of their reporting are presented in the (definitions of the Thus PwC does not take any responsibility in reference indicators and respective respect of to thereport page of this tort are their reporting (contractual, presented (including the thatinfor CSR Report in the We conducted ourGRI work Content Index). with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 in accordance CSR Report negligence) orinany GRI Content theother) in respect Index). of any parties other than the Company. Respectively, regardless of “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information” (“ISAE the We conducted our work in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Weform of the actions, conducted our work whether in contract, in accordance withtort or other, within International the capacity Standard allowed on Assurance by the law, PwC Engagements 3000 3000”). does not take any responsibility, and any consequences coming out of the report for any person “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information” (“ISAE “Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information” (“ISAE Summary of the work performed 3000”). (excluding 3000”). the Company, based on rules described above) or for any other decision taken based on this report. Summary of the Our procedures work performed included: Summary of the work performed The CSR Report should be read together with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the GRI G3.0. • Our Analysis of the procedures sustainable development strategy of the Company as presented in the CSR Report included: Our procedures included: and examination of the supporting management documentation, • Analysis of the sustainable development strategy of the Company as presented in the CSR Report • Analysis of the sustainable development strategy of the Company as presented in the CSR Report • and examination Interviews of the supporting with persons responsiblemanagement documentation, for CSR management and CSR reporting in the Company in TRANSLATION and examination ONLY of the supporting management documentation, respect of the processes established for preparation of the CSR Report, • Interviews with persons responsible for CSR management and CSR reporting in the Company in • PricewaterhouseCoopers Interviews with persons Sp. z o.o. responsible for CSR management and CSR reporting in the Company in PricewaterhouseCoopers Sp. z o.o., established for preparation of the CSR Report, respect of the processes respect of Warsaw 25 October 2013the processes established for preparation of the CSR Report, Al. Armii Ludowej 14, 00-638 Warszawa, Polska PricewaterhouseCoopers Sp. z(22) T: +48 (22) 523 4000, F: +48 o.o.,523 4040, www.pwc.com PricewaterhouseCoopers Sp. z o.o., Al. Armii Ludowej 14, 00-638 Warszawa, Polska Al. Armii Ludowej 14, 00-638 Warszawa, Polska T: +48 (22) 523 4000, F: +48 (22) 523 4040, www.pwc.com T: +48 (22) 523 4000, F: +48 (22) 523 4040, www.pwc.com 2 www.totalizator.pl
