Calendar of key events in 2011 January March May ENEA S.A. launches a new educational The Management Board of ENEA S.A. signs Launching of the Employee Volunteer Program Internet website, promoting eco-attitude with the trade unions agreement to increase in the ENEA Capital Group. www.wkontakcieznatura.pl. salaries. At this same time the labour dispute ends, which has started in February 2011. ENEA Operator Vice-President for Network June Infrastructure appointed to the InterdepartmenENEA Operator implements the “Live-line tal Advisory Committee for the Development working 2010+” program which shall reduce Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power of Wind Energy. the number of power failures. Plant) and Rafako company sign the contract for implementation of the biggest in Poland Founding of a “Presidents-Volunteers Coalition flue gas denitrification system. February 2011” as a result of the ENEA S.A. President initiative. Members of the Coalition commit Commissioning of Hydroelectronic power plant A special tab dedicated to the issues of ENEA themselves to actively promote the idea of volin Oborniki Wielkopolskie owned by ENEA S.A. Capital Group corporate social responsibility unteering. with a total capacity of 330 kW. appears at www.enea.pl. ENEA S.A. acquires a 69.58% stake “Kozienice II” Sp. z o.o. merge with Elektrownia April in Elektrociepłownia Białystok S.A. “Kozienice” S.A. ENEA S.A. acquires a wind farm in Darżyno Launching of advertising campaign which During visit of French President Nicolas Sarkozy (Pomorskie province) with a total capacity addresses business clients “Join us. Change in Poland, members of the Trade Union NSZZ of 6 MW. to ENEA”. Michal Żebrowski the ENEA brand Solidarity protest against privatization of the ambassador encouraged to use ENEA S.A. services. Polish energy sector by French company EdF, ENEA S.A. becomes the general sponsor planning to purchase 51% of the ENEA S.A. of the Poland national speedway team. shares. July Fitch, the international ratings agency, sets to ENEA S.A. long-term foreign rating of BBB ENEA S.A. enables its shareholders to access and a national long-term rating of A. information via a dedicated for this purpose investor relations application for iPhone and Minister of the Treasury decides to close iPad. the process of disposal of ENEA S.A. 51% shares without resolution. The Management Board of ENEA Operator signs with the trade unions agreement concerning salaries, which ends a labour dispute in the company. ENEA S.A. introduces a “FIXED PRICE” offer with September November a price guarantee for electric energy to business customers. The offer is binding until 2014. ENEA S.A. becomes an official sponsor of Royal Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) Łazienki Museum in Warsaw. signs with the Warsaw University of Technology ENEA S.A. organizes, for the second time, a letter of intent for cooperation, the objective a competition for the best master and doctoral Volunteers of ENEA Capital Group take part of which is to facilitate students and college thesis on the subject of innovative, ecological in the celebrations of the European Year graduates access to postgraduate practical solutions for power industry. of Volunteering on 5 and 7 September in Warsaw. training in the Power Plant. A successful completion of ENEA S.A. dispute ENEA Operator implements in the next Branch with the city of Bydgoszcz related to the city October “Contactis Failure” which allows for automapayments for the street lighting maintenance. tion of handling failure information received Upon negotiations the Town Hall signs with ENEA S.A. enters into a lease agreement from the customers. the company an agreement for the maintewith Skalar Office Center, a company from nance of the street lighting. Poznan. ENEA S.A. moved into the new location at the end of 2011 and 2012. December August Launching of the FIXED PRICE campaign ENEA Operator in cooperation with the Poznan addressed to business customers, which proUniversity of Technology organizes a new field Transfer of ENEA S.A. client service to ENEA motes a new product that guarantees a fixed of study sustainable energy development Centrum which finalizes the first phase price for electric energy until 2013 (at present in the local governments planning . of the joint client service centre creation for until 2014). Michal Żebrowski the ENEA brand the entire Capital Group. ambassador encourages to use ENEA S.A. ENEA SA invites contractors to submit tenders services. for the construction of a new power unit Launching of the first offer for the companies in Elektrownia Kozienice . affected by flood under the Helping hand ENEA appeals against the decision motto. of the Regional Environmental Protection InspecENEA S.A. is the patron of the first “Radosnik” tor in Bydgoszcz and wins, thanks to which (children’s playing place) created by the ”Fakt” Operator of Elektrownia Biogazowa Liszkowo the Elektrownia Biogazowa Liszkowo (Liszkowo Foundation at the children's hospital ward (Liszkowo Biogas Power Plant), owned by ENEA Biogas Power Plant) hasn’t been closed. in Miedzyrzecze (lubuskie province). Capital Group, repairs the installation in order to minimize the negative impact on the enviWholesale trade in ENEA Capital Group is alloronment. cated to ELKO Trading company. Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 1 Contents Preface 3 1 ENEA Capital Group 5 2 ENEA Capital Group strategic management 13 3 Relations with the stakeholders 19 4 Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 23 5 Relations with employees – we give employment 37 6 Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 51 7 Public relations – we power communities 67 8 Information on the report 81 Table: Global Reporting Initiative Indicators 84 Table: Global Compact 86 Table: Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy of ENEA Capital Group 86 Contact 88 2 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Dear Sirs, Enea Capital Group operates in a dynamically changing market which poses challenges related to regulations, environment protection, new technologies, renewable energy sources and constant improvement of delivered services. It requires from us all investments on a greater scale. In 2011 we were preparing to announce a tender for construction of a new power unit in the Elektrownia “Kozienice”. This investment, exceeding 6 bn PLN is one of the biggest investments in the history of the Polish economy. Also this year the Capital Group acquired a majority stake in Elektrocieplownia “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) and 100% shares of DOBITT ENERGIA company responsible for the construction of biogas power plant in Gorzesław. Further investments into new, more ecological technologies for power generation are to be carried out during the next few years. Moreover, changes to the Capital Group organizational structure were introduced. Enea Centrum, client service company was founded and integration of generation has been started within Enea Wytwarzanie company. We also continued “Enea 2010+” program the goal of which is to increase efficiency and modernize processes and procedures. 2011 was also the first year of the “Strategy of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group” implementation. It’s goals are to support accomplishment of the business strategy and change to a company with a modern organizational structure. Implementation of CSR is not simple, especially in the time of constant structural and operational changes that take place in the Capital Group. Nevertheless, we plan to pursue with our activities in the chosen direction. Enea Capital Group accomplishes long-term projects and that is why securing of the Capital Group financing and development is the most significant. It is a challenge in the time of difficult to foresee economic changes. Portfolio of the subsidiary companies is the Capital Group advantage. The Capital Group integrates companies that generate and trade electric energy. Those companies have been under constant transformation for a few years already. Against our competitors we are the Capital Group that provides complex services and adopts to market changes. Combined with a very good financial results it is one of the most important advantages in the context of the potential privatization of Enea Capital Group. This report is the first one that reflects activities of the Capital Group in the context of sustainable development and is supplementary to information contained in the annual report. I would like to thank all those persons involved in the preparation of this report. I’m aware that it is not only the first report of Enea Capital Group of that kind but also the first report in Poland prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative standards in the generation, distribution and energy trading industry. I invite you to read this report. Janusz Bil Acting President of ENEA S.A. Management Board Vice-President of the Management Board for Commercial Affairs Preface 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 5 ENEA 1 Capital Group ENEA Capital Group1 is one of the largest companies in the energy sector in Poland ENEA S.A. held shares in the subsidiary compaand is the third-largest integrated energy group in the country. Its mission is to provide nies of total nominal value of 5 587 375,6 thouhigh quality services to customers while delivering a friendly working environment sand PLN which constitutes as at 31 December to employees, building shareholder value and caring for the natural environment. 2011 to 99.67% of the total nominal value of share capitals of these companies, amountThe Capital Group comprises more than 20 companies that employ in total more than ing to 5 568 823,5 thousand PLN. Major10 000 people. Almost 8% of the energy generated in the country comes from power ity of ENEA S.A. shares belongs to the State plants that belong to the Group. Production, distribution, trade and the provision of serTreasury (51,68%). vices in the field of electricity are the main business segments of ENEA Capital Group. ENEA was indicated as one of the energy groups Total generation capacity of Enea Capital Group amounted to 3 139,27 MW in 2011 and which shall be subject to privatization processes total sales within trade in electric energy ca. 15.5 TWh including sales to retail customin 2008-2011 in the document Privatization ers of ca. 14.7 TWh. ENEA Capital Group customer base includes 2.4 million individual plan for 2008-2011” adopted in 2008 and institutional customers. Total net revenues of ENEA Capital Group amounted by the Council of Ministers. The company’s to 9 688 949 thousand PLN in 2011. privatization plan included sale of ENEA S.A. shares in two stages – in a transaction made through public markets (I stage/February 2010) and then sale of more than 50% of the com1.1. pany’s shares to the industry investor. Works related to the planned privatization took place in 2011. Also numerous meetings with Organizational structure Illustration 1 . ENEA S.A. shareholding the investors were held. of ENEA Capital Group – as at 31.12.2011 Privatization plans were strongly criticised by the trade members who protested against As at 31 December 2011 the Capital Group acquisition of energy companies by the French consisted of the following entities: ENEA S.A. State investors. As at the 1 April 2011 the Minister which is listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange Treasury of the State Treasury decided to close the proand 20 subsidiaries. 51.68% cess of 51% of ENEA S.A. shares disposal Other without resolution. Apart from ENEA S.A. there are two other leading companies: ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A. 29.65% Still it was indicated in his decision that (until 25 May 2012 the company was called the ENEA S.A. privatisation process shall Elektrownia Kozienice” S.A.) and ENEA 18.67% be renewed as the investment in the new genOperator Sp. z o.o., independent operator Vattenfall AB eration capacities in Elektrownia Kozienice” of the distribution network. (Kozienice Power Plant) is finished. 1) In this report the names: the Capital Group and ENEA Capital Group are used interchangeably. ENEA Capital Group 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Table 1. Companies comprising ENEA Capital Group – as at 31.12.2011 Share of ENEA S.A. Company Basic scope of business activity in the company’s share capital % TRADE ENEA S.A. with registered office in Poznań ENEA S.A. is a dominant entity in ENEA Capital Group. The company is operating within trade of electric energy. DISTRIBUTION The core business, of the independent operator of electric energy is the distribution of electricity conducted since 1 July 2007 on the basis ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. of a licence issued by the president of the Energy Regulatory Office (ERO) (in short: ENEA Operator) 100% as at 28 June 2007 for the period from 1 July 2007 to 1 July 2017. Simultaneously, with registered office in Poznań on 30 June 2007 the president of the ERO designated ENEA Operator as the operator of an electrical energy distribution system for the life of the licence. Annacond Enterprises Sp. z o.o. The Company was prepared for commencement of operating activities 61% with registered office in Warsaw in distribution In 2011. POWER GENERATION ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A.* (in short: ENEA Wytwarzanie) with registered office The company’s core business is the generation of electricity and heat co-generated in Swierże Górne. Until 25 May 2012 the company 100% with electricity. operated as Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A. (in short: Elektrownia “Kozienice”). The company operates within generation of electricity and services within operation Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o. of water turbine plants and development of activity within generation of electricity (in short: Elektrownie Wodne) 99,996% coming from renewable sources through realisation of projects of wind farms with registered office in Samociążek and biogas power plants. Elektrociepłownia Białystok S.A. (in short: Elektrociepłownia Białystok) The company operates within production of heat and power energy. 99,94% with registered office in Białystok Miejska Energetyka Cieplna Piła Sp. z o.o. The company operates within generation, transmission and distribution of heat 65,03% (in short: MEC Piła) with registered office in Piła and generation of combined heat and power energy using cogeneration units. Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki Cieplnej Sp. z o.o. The company operates within generation, transmission and distribution (in short: PEC Oborniki) with registered office 91,02% of heat. in Oborniki DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z o.o. The company leads an investment of biogas plant construction with a capacity 100% with registered office in Gorzesław of 1.6 MW. CLIENT SERVICE, BUSINESS ACTIVITY RELATED TO POWER GENERATION AND TRADE OF ELECTRIC ENERGY ENEA Centrum S.A. (previously: Energetyka Poznańska Biuro Usług The company provides customer service services on behalf and for ENEA S.A. 100% Technicznych S.A.) with registered office in Poznań Energetyka Poznańska Przedsiębiorstwo Usług Energetycznych ENERGOBUD Leszno Sp. z o.o. The company’s core business is design, construction, modernisation 100% (in short: ENERGOBUD Leszno) with registered office and operation of electric power grids and associated equipment. in Gronówek ENEOS Sp. z o.o. The company operates within operation and maintenance of street lighting. 100% with registered office in Poznań BHU S.A. The company trades in electrical power equipment, tools and materials. 92,62% with its registered office in Poznań The company operates within, the maintenance, assembly, legalisation Energomiar Sp. z o.o. and standardisation of electricity meters, production of astronomical 100% with registered office in Poznań clocks, readings of electricity consumption and remote-control power services. OTHER BUSINESS ACTIVITY Hotel EDISON Sp. z o.o. The company operates within hotel, restaurant, training, 100% with registered office in Baranowo sports and recreation business. Energetyka Poznańska Zakład Transportu Sp. z o.o. The company established to provide road transport and vehicle maintenance 100% with registered office in Poznań services. Energo-Tour Sp. z o.o. The company provides hotel and restaurant services, organizes vacations, 99,92% with iregistered office in Poznań recreational and youth camps, provides tourism and healthcare services. Niepubliczny Zakład Opieki Zdrowotnej Centrum The company provides health resort services and services within health Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK Sp. z o.o. 99,94% and rehabilitation. with registered office in Inowroclaw ENTUR Sp. z o.o. The company provides recreation, hotel, tourism and restaurant services, 100% with registered office in Szczecin as well as healthcare. The company conducts operations in landline and wireless telecommunications ITSERWIS Sp. z o.o. and IT and computer services, as well as wholesale and retail selling of electronic 100% with registered office in Zielona Góra and telecommunications equipment, computers and software. The company’s core business is the retail of mechanical vehicles, accessories Auto-Styl Sp. z o.o. and fuels, servicing and repairing mechanical vehicles, and leasing means 100% with registered office in Zielona Góra of transport. 7 * Elektrownia “Kozienice” name is applied in this report. 1 Elko Trading Sp. z o.o.* company the shares Major organizational of which are held by Elektrownia “Kozienchanges in 2011 ice” S.A. is also associated to ENEA Capital Group. Moreover, ENEA S.A. company held 1. ENEA S.A. purchased majority of Elektrociepłownia Białystok S.A. shares. shares in the companies: Przedsiebiorstwo 2. ENEA S.A. purchased 100% of shares of DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z o.o. company Produkcji Strunobetonowych Zerdzi Wirowwith registered office in Gorzesław. anych WIRBET S.A. (49% votes), Towarowa 3. “Kozienice II” company merged with Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A. Gielda Energii S.A. (Polish Power Exchange) 4. Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o. company merged with Elektrownie Wiatrowe (1,02% votes), EXATEL S.A. (2,21% votes), – ENEA Centrum Spółka Akcyjna, Spółka komandytowa with its registered office in Samociążek. Tlocznia Metali Pressta S.A. (2,76% votes), 5. FINEA Sp. z o.o. was liquidated. TARPAN Sp. z o.o. (0,76% votes) and Monnari 6. Client Service Division of the ENEA S.A. Trade Department was moved to the EP BUT S.A. Trade S.A. (0,015% votes) – as at 31.12.2011. Further, the name of the company was changed from EP BUT S.A. to ENEA Centrum S.A. Those companies haven’t been included in this 7. Division of ENEA S.A. Elektrownia Biogazowa Liszkowo (Liszkowo Biogas Power Plant) report. was moved to Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o. subisidary company. 8. ENEA S.A. purchased 61% of Annacond Enterprises Sp. z o.o. company. Year 2011 was a period of important organi9. ENEA S.A. sold all shares held of PEC Śrem S.A. zational changes for ENEA Capital Group. Improvement of the ENEA Group strategic management efficiency and functioning of particular areas of its business was the basic objective of the organizational changes. Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. located on the left bank of the Vistula River, 75 km south of Warsaw, is the largest professional producer of coal-fired electric energy in Poland. * As at 18.10.2012 name of ELKO Trading Sp. z o.o. company was changed into ENEA Trading Sp. z o.o. For the needs of this report ELKO Trading Sp. z o.o. is applicable. ENEA Capital Group 8 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 In 2011, companies of ENEA Capital Group belonged, among others, to the following organizations: • Polish Association of Stock Exchange Issuers (ENEA S.A.); • Business Centre Club (ENEA S.A.); • Polish Euro-Atlantic Association (ENEA S.A.); • Central Europe Energy Partners (ENEA S.A.); • Polish Association of Energy Traders (ENEA S.A.); • Global Compact (ENEA S.A.); • Declaration on sustainable development in the energy sector (ENEA S.A. signatory to the Declaration); • Chamber of Commerce for Energy and Environmental Protection (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • Economic Society Polish Power Plants (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • The Power Plant Employers Union (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • Association of Polish Electrical Engineers, Branch in Radom (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • Polish Club POLLAB Laboratories (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • Polish Red Cross, Management Board in Kozienice (Elektrownia Kozienice S.A.); • Polish Power Transmission and Distribution Organisation (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • Energy Works Employers Association (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • Wielkopolski Capital Club (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • EDSO for Smart Grids (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • Partner Club of University of Economics (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • Lubuskie Association for Energy Development (ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.); • Polish Hydropower association (Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o.); • Polish Wind Energy Association (Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o.); • Association of Accountants in Poland (Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o.); • Polish Chamber of Commerce of Heat Engineering (MEC Piła Sp. z o.o., Elektrociepłownia Białystok S.A.); • Heat Engineering Polish Association of Employees (MEC Piła Sp. z o.o.) • The Combined Heat and Power Station Association of Employees (Elektrociepłownia Białystok” S.A.) • Poland's Northern Chamber of Commerce (MEC Piła Sp. z o.o.); • The Lubuskie Region Employers’ Organization (ITSERWIS Sp. z o.o.); • Chamber of Commerce for Energy and Environmental Protection (Elektrociepłownia Białystok” S.A.); • Polish Association of Professional Heat and Power Plants (Elektrociepłownia Białystok” S.A.); • Association of Polish Electrical Engineers (Elektrociepłownia Białystok” S.A.); • Polish Network of Health Promoting Hospitals (NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK Sp. z o.o.). ENEA Capital Group 9 1 1.2. Geographic areas of ENEA Capital Group Szczecin business operations Bydgoszcz Bia³ystok Gorzów Wlkp. ENEA Capital Group operations are mainly Poznañ based in the region of north-western Poland. Zielona Góra The main seat of ENEA S.A. company that manages the Capital Group and trades elecKozienice tricity is located in Poznań. Enea S.A. also has its trade offices in Szczecin, Gorzów WielkopolGorzes³aw ski, Zielona Góra and Bydgoszcz. Moreover, ENEA S.A. has an office in Warsaw, which supports the ENEA S.A. Management Board Office in Poznań. The most important locations of companies that belong to the Capital Group for environmental and social impact, outside of north-western Poland, include areas of Kozienice and Białystok. Table 2. ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. technical characteristics of the distribution system Enea Operator Sp. z o.o. the independent Specification Size operator of the distribution system and subTotal length of lines in conversion to one track in km, of which: 111 101 sidiary company of ENEA Capital Group holds High-voltage overhead 4 893 a distribution network that covers an area High-voltage cable 14 of approximately 20% of the country and more Medium-voltage overhead 36 039 than 109 thousand km of power lines (more Medium-voltage cable 11 310 than 129 thousand km including connections). Low-voltage overhead 33 838 Enea Operator company operates on the terLow-voltage cable 25 007 ritory of 58 213 km and five provinces: Total length of connections in km, of which: 18 096 wielkopolskie, zachodnio-pomorskie, lubuskie, Overhead 12 181 kujawsko-pomorskie, and in smaller extent Cable 5 915 dolnoslaskie. The company operates within Number of connections in items, of which: 779 687 the framework of five field branches located Overhead 549 018 in Poznań, Bydgoszcz, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Cable 230 669 Szczecin and Zielona Góra. Number of substations in items 35 197 ENEA Capital Group 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 1.3. 1.4. Generation capacities Financial Illustration 2. Increase of ENEA Capital Group net sales revenues of ENEA Capital Group results in 2008-2011 [PLN million] Total generation capacity of ENEA CapiNet sales revenues of ENEA Capital Group tal Group was 3 139,27 MW in 2011 out amounted to 9 688 949 thousand PLN of which the majority is the generation in 2011 which is an increase by 23,6% com9 689 capacity of Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A. pared to 2010. The above mentioned increase (2 905 MW). Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A. resulted from various factors. The Capital 7 837 7 154 is one of the biggest power plants in Poland. Group revenues consist mainly of revenue 6 158 It holds 10 highly efficient and modernized from sales of electric energy and distribution power units. The power plant has generated services, which account for 67,2% and 27,3% 11 888 791,5 MWh of gross energy in 2011. of the net sales revenues respectively. Increase of sales revenues in 2011 mainly results from Furthermore, ENEA Capital Group has addithe increase of revenues from the sale of energy tionally 60,14 MW in 21 hydropower stations, in Elektrownia “Kozienice” (increase of energy 2,13 MW in Elektrownia Biogazowa Liszkowo volumes sold by the “Kozienice” power plant 2008 2009 2010 2011 (Liszkowo Biogas Power Plant), 166 MW by 8230 GWh with an increase of average in Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) price by 1,1%). Additionally in 2011 revenues and 6 MW in Darżyno wind farm. from the sale of energy in Elektrocieplownia “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) were accounted for Illustration 3. ENEA Capital Group also generates and sales from 1 June 2011. Furthermore, distribution Share of particular segments in the net sales revenues of ENEA Capital Group in 2011 heat. Heat is generated by Elektrownia “Kozsales revenues increased as a result of increase ienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) (thermal power of energy delivered to end users by 117 GWh 266 MW), Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” (CHP accompanied by increase of average price Białystok) (thermal power 505,2 MW), PEC of sold distribution services by 2,3%. Oborniki (thermal power 35,89MW) and MEC Generation Piła (thermal power 160,65 MW). ENEA Capital Group revenues from sale of electric energy accounted for 6 508 001 thousand 31.0% PLN in 2011. Revenues from sale of distribution services reached amount of 2 642 110 Distribution thousand PLN. Revenues from sale of heat Trade 27.3% equaled 105 924 thousand PLN in 2011 and 39.6% constituted to 1,0% of ENEA Capital Group sales revenues. Other 2.1% ENEA Capital Group 11 1 1.5. • ENEA S.A. received title of “Well-Perce• The title of Leader of the World of Energy ived Company – Superbrands CSR 2011” in the category of Trading Company Awards granted as an appreciation of social responsibility of the Year for achievements in trade. to the companies and implementation of the corporate social Award was granted during XIV edition of ENEA Capital Group responsibility idea. of the International Energy Conference EUROPOWER 2011 (ENEA S.A.). • Title “Pearls of the Polish Economy” – granted • ENEA brand was recognized in the catefor the consistent implementation of the comgory “Electricity Provider” as a brand most • Great leader in the field of ecology, the title pany’s policy and strategy and a leading posienvironmentally friendly in pan-European for the “Kozienice” Power Plant granted tion among the most dynamic and effective research of Trusted Brands 2011. by “Echo dnia” daily. companies in Poland (ENEA S.A.). • “Kozienice” Power Plant was awarded • Elektrownia “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power a honourable title Donor of the Year Plant) awarded in the ranking “Pillars of the “Healthy Child” Foundation. of the Polish Economy”. • Award in the Ranking of Listed Companies • ENEA Operator was awarded by the Pre– The Fastest in building the value, “Newsident of Zielona Góra in the category sweek”, and A.T. Kearney (ENEA S.A.). “Production Company”. ENEA Operator was recognized for its activity and involve• Award of Poland's Northern Chamber ment in the development and promotion of Commerce and President of Piła to celeof the Region in 2010. brate jubilee of 35 years of the company by the Northern Chamber of Commerce • Award in the Action investor for fast and and President of Piła. reliable exchange of information between individual investors and listed companies • ENEA S.A. was awarded medal Acanthus (ENEA S.A.). Aureus for the best stand to match marketing strategy during trade fair Expopower • Elektrownia “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power in Poznań. Plant) received certificate “Eco quality of the year 2010” granted in the com• ENEA Operator received the winning trophy • ENERGOBUD Leszno was granted a gold petition organized by the daily “Dziennik in the “Tryton” competition in the category medal during Expopower trade fair for Gazeta Prawna”. “Complex of the Year” for the expansion the transformer station MV/LV in concrete of the power station offices in Świnoujście. housing with external support UKL 3119. • ENEA S.A. won the title Business Superbrands. ENEA brand was recognized as one of the strongest business brands of B2B sector (Business-to-Business) on the Polish market. ENEA Capital Group 12 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 ENEA Capital Group strategic management 13 ENEA Capital Group 2 strategic management 2.1. The Company is managed by the Management on the WSE . More information concerning Board which is directly supervised by the Superthe Management Board operations is described visory Board. in the Annual Report “Declaration of the appliManagement Bodies cation of corporate governance principles”. of ENEA Capital Group The functioning of both bodies is regulated by the “Code of Commercial Companies”, Members of the ENEA S.A. Supervisory ENEA Capital Group is managed by ENEA S.A. “ENEA S.A. Supervisory Board Regulations Board were elected for the VII term of office company which has been listed on the Warsaw in Poznań”, “ENEA S.A. Management Board of three years by the Resolution of the General Stock Exchange since the end of 2008. Regulations” and “ENEA S.A. Statute”. Shareholders Meeting as at 30 June 2009. ENEA S.A. key shareholder is the State Treasury The company obeys principles of corporate The Supervisory Board responsibility is also (51,68% shares). governance defined in the appendix to the Resto appoint two independent Committees, olution of the Warsaw Stock Exchange Board i.e. the Audit Committee and the Nominations No. 20/1287/2011 as of 19 October 2011 and Remuneration Committee. entitled Good Practices of Companies Listed Table 3. ENEA S.A. Management Board Composition since 1 January 2011 Name and surname Role Responsibility President Maciej Owczarek* Co-ordinates issues related to the company’s and the Capital Group overall operations. of the Management Board Member Supervises and coordinates all issues related to the preparation and implementation Krzysztof Zborowski of the Management Board of development strategies and supervises ENEA Capital Group subsidiary companies operating for Power Generation in the area of electricity and heat generation. Member Supervises and coordinates all economic, financial and accounting issues along with risk Huber Rozpędek of the Management Board management in the company and ENEA Capital Group. for Economic Affairs Member Maksymilian Górniak** of the Management Board Supervises and coordinates all issues related to the electricity trade and client service. for Commercial Affairs * On 1 October 2012, the ENEA S.A. Supervisory Board dismissed Mr. Maciej Owczarek, who has held the function of the President of the ENEA S.A. Management Board. The decision was made in connection with the submission on 27 September 2012 by Mr. Maciej Owczarek of a notice of the Service Agreement within management termination. Until the new President of ENEA S.A. Management Board is nominated, the position shall be held by the Member of the Management Board for Commercial Affairs – Mr. Janusz Bil. **On 5 December 2011 the ENEA S.A. Supervisory Board adopted a resolution on dismissal from the composition of the company’s Management Board – Mr. Maksymilian Górniak, Member of the Management Board for Commercial Affairs. ENEA Capital Group strategic management 14 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 2.2. Corporate Strategy completes a previously Table 4. ENEA S.A. Supervisory Board in 2011 commenced program “ENEA 2010+” which consists of a number of programs to increase Name and surname Role Strategic approach efficiency such as centralized car fleet and to ENEA Capital Group real estate management. Corporate Strategy Wojciech Chmielewski Chairman of the Supervisory Board corporate responsibility as well as “ENEA 2010+” program are not only to contribute to the creation of a more Vice-Chairman Jeremi Mordasewicz of the Supervisory Board Year 2011 was for ENEA Capital Group efficient Capital Group in the long-term but a period of many significant changes related also a company with a modern organizational Secretary Michał Kowalewski of the Supervisory Board to the Capital Group organization structure culture. as well as implementation of key processes Member Małgorzata Aniołek of the Supervisory Board for achievement of its strategic objectives Implementation of the Capital Group new busiand efficiency. Our activities were focused ness model is the integral part of the Corporate Member Strategy. Model, to which we aspire, ultimately Paweł Balcerowski of the Supervisory Board on implementation of approved a year ago “Corporate Strategy for 2010-2015 with assumes six business areas in the Capital Group: Member a perspective to 2020” (hereinafter referred Corporate Centre, Power Generation based Tadeusz Dachowski of the Supervisory Board to as the Corporate Strategy). on fossil fuels and renewable energy sources, Member Wholesale trading, Sales, Distribution and shared Mieczysław Pluciński of the Supervisory Board CSR -Corporate Social Responsibility or CorServices Centre. It should increase the efficiency Member porate Sustainability and Responsibility is one of the Capital Group management and enable Paweł Lisiewicz of the Supervisory Board of the three pillars of the Corporate Strategy cost synergies to be obtained from the cenMember described as a goal “Creation of the socially tralised management of the Capital Group Bartosz Nowicki of the Supervisory Board responsible business”. ENEA S.A. Supervioperations and a shared client service system. Independent Member sory Board approved “Strategy of corporate Graham Wood of the Supervisory Board social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group” “Strategy of corporate social responsibility as at 16 November 2010. The Strategy is a fully of ENEA Capital Group” (in short: the CSR On 29 June 2011 the Extraordinary Genintegrated document with the “Corporate Strategy) is to support, develop and refine eral Meeting of Shareholders dismissed from Strategy for 2010-2015 with a perspective provisions of the Corporate Strategy. Such the composition of the Supervisory Board to 2020”. close connection of provisions of the corporate Mr. Bartosz Nowicki and at the same time social responsibility with the Corporate Strategy appointed to the composition of the Supervisory emphasizes a high priority of CSR practices Board of VII term Ms. Agnieszka Mańkowska. implementation in the Capital Group. On 1 August 2011 as a result of death a term expired of the Supervisory Board Member Mr. Paweł Balcerowski. His place was taken by Mr. Sławomir Brzeziński, representative of employees, who was appointed to the composition of the Supervisory Board with more than 50% of votes cast by the ENEA S.A. employees. ENEA Capital Group strategic management 15 2 The Corporate Strategy defines three areas that support the achievement of a superior business goal i.e. the creation of the ENEA Capital Group value. I Goals of the Corporate Strategy “Development of the Capital Group key business operations” 1. Development and diversification of the power generation capacity. Year 2011 was the time for us to create founda2. Development and modernization of the distribution system. tions of corporate social responsibility manage3. Development of wholesale trade operations. ment. The CSR strategy became the basis for 4. Securing hard coal supply from optimal sources. the consistent implementation of the social 5. Increasing profit from electric energy sale. responsibility practices by the individual com6. Securing technical and technological development. panies of ENEA Capital Group and achieving synergy effect in this respect. A separate post dedicated to coordination and implementation II Goals of the Corporate Strategy “Improvement of the Capital Group efficiency” of the CSR Strategy was created in ENEA S.A. in 2011. Furthermore, the first structure was 1. Optimization of the fundamental processes. created for CSR reporting on two levels: indi2. Optimization of the support functions. vidual companies and the Capital Group. 3. Ensuring the operational integration of the Capital Group. 4. Reorganization of business operations of the subsidiary companies. CSR Strategy assumptions are systematically implemented by the Capital Group companies through detailed operational plans which III Goals of the Corporate Strategy “Creation of the socially responsible business” take into consideration the specificities of particular companies. Every year, companies that (in accordance with the detailed provisions of ENEA Capital Group strategy of corporate social responsibility): implement the CSR strategy prepare an action 1. Ensuring well-balanced human resource management. plan for a given year. Its stage of perforThis goal focuses on internal issues such as the development of staff competence, knowledge mance is reported to a dedicated CSR person sharing and communication. in the ENEA S.A. company, who coordinates 2. Ensuring a dialogue with stakeholders and the local community and taking their voice into the implementation of the Strategy of corporate account in business operations. social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group. The second goal focuses on relations with customers and their service and on taking into account A personal commitment and a good response the local community in the business operations. It also includes social and charitable actions perto CSR of persons who aside from their daily formed by the Capital Group companies. responsibilities support the development of CSR 3. Promoting pro-environmental practices and behaviours. in their companies and report to the manger This objective focuses on two key aspects: reduction of ENEA Capital Group negative impact for corporate social responsibility in ENEA S.A. on the environment by enforcing modernization processes and new investments as well as widely is very important for the success of the CSR understood environmental education. Strategy. ENEA Capital Group strategic management 16 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Illustration 4. “Strategy of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group” establishing in the Corporate Strategy CORPORATE STRATEGY GOAL: Creation of the socially responsible business Strategy of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group GOAL1 GOAL 2 GOAL 3 Ensuring well-balanced human Ensuring a dialogue with stakeholders Promoting pro-environmental resource management and the local community and taking their voice practices and behaviours into account in business operations Joanna Maderska Manager for Corporate Social Responsibility ENEA Companies of the ENEA Capital Group specialize in different areas. We had to take it into account during the planned process of goals setting and then implementation of the CSR Strategy. From the very beginning our key goal was to engage all representatives of ENEA Capital Group companies and take into account their different perspectives. We have developed the Strategy of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group on the basis of workshop model. The process of strategy building was for us a time of knowledge extending about the tools and principles of CSR implementation in practice. It allowed us also to analyse our activity in terms of CSR and strengthened our relationships with stakeholders with whom we have contacted in the course of the strategy shaping. The implementation of such developed strategy wouldn’t have been possible without the support of my colleagues from the Capital Group companies. It's their time, commitment and support which is the basis of the CSR strategy implementation. ENEA Capital Group strategic management 17 2 Integration of the corporate social responsibility In 2011, ENEA S.A. also joined Global Comissues at a strategic level is also reflected by propact, the international UN initiative. This same motion of the principles and ideas coherent year, the company also supported a special with the CSR rules. Even before setting out event during the first Polish Presidency the CSR Strategy for the entire ENEA Capital of the European Union. ENEA S.A. became Group, ENEA S.A. company was among the first a partner of the EU conference Shared responsignatories of the Declaration on Sustainable sibility – how to increase visibility and effectiveDevelopment in the energy sector . ness of the EU CSR framework , which was held in September in Gdansk. ENEA S.A. signatory to the Global Compact Global Compact is the world's largest, voluntary initiative for corporate responsibility and sustainable development. Inaugurated in year 2000 by UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, the Initiative is a call to apply 10 rules in the areas of human rights, labour, natural environment, anti-corruption and corporate social responsibility. These rules are to promote corporate responsibility (CSR) to community. ENEA S.A. by joining the Global Compact in 2011 publicly agreed to respect these principles and actively implement them in the business operations. For more information about the initiative visit at www.unglobalcompact.org. ENEA Capital Group strategic management 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 ENEA Capital Group strategic management 19 Relations with 3 the stakeholders Implementation of corporate social responsiIllustration 5. Map of ENEA Capital Group stakeholders and forms of their involvement bility rules in the ENEA Capital Group business wouldn’t be possible without taking into account the needs of our business surrounding, STAKEHOLDERS i.e. stakeholders. During the past two years we • Investor Relations have analysed our business surrounding twice. • Face-to-face meetings with investors It consisted of the stakeholders identification • Meetings, such as road shows, participation in conferences, and understanding their expectations and events and lectures • Applications for investor relations, available on appliances opinions. We performed stakeholders mapiPhone/iPad and Android smartphones ping during the process of the CSR Strategy • Website • Current and quarterly reports creation for the first time. For the second time • Annual Report we engaged our stakeholders in the process • CSR Report of this report drafting. Hereunder we present the map of key stakeEMPLOYEES holders and forms of communication. Stakeholders were placed on the map on the basis • Employee satisfaction research • Meetings, trainings, team building of their impact on business, and our impact • Cooperation with trade members on them. • Intranet • Newsletters • TOP 300 meetings and newsletters • Broadcasting system • Employee volunteer program • Annual report • CSR Report • Community engagement report CLIENTS • Direct contact with the Client Service Office • Customer Hotline • Customer satisfaction research • Special website tabs at www.enea.pl dedicated to different customers, such as Energy for Home , Energy for Business • Customer Forum at www.enea.pl, chats, blogs • Channel ENERGIA NEWS at www.elko.com.pl • Customers environmental education through actions such as In contact with nature, and dedicated educational and social portal www.wkontakcieznatura.pl • Meetings and events organized for key business customers • Annual report • CSR Report Relations with the stakeholders 20 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 CONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS LOCAL AUTHORITIES • Direct communication with dedicated people from individual companies of the Capital Group appointed for cooperation • Direct meetings, participation in local events • Website • Representatives of ENEA S.A. take an active part • Competitions and tenders in the working group appointed by the governor • Industry meetings, trade fairs of Wielkopolska. Its goal is to identify the essential social • Annual report needs and planning measures for their implementation. • CSR Report • Channel ENERGY NEWS www.elko.com.pl • Website • Conferences • Community engagement report • CSR Report INDUSTRY ORGANIZATIONS • Meetings • Trade fairs • Membership in organizations LOCAL COMMUNITY, PUBLIC OPINION • Participation in working groups, authorities, • Direct meetings and cooperation with representatives industry organizations of the local communities • Annual Report • Communication with local and national media • CSR Report • Participation of ENEA Capital Group and ENEA S.A. employees in activities for the sake of local communities within Employee Volunteer Program • www.enea.pl website, including extensive website tab dedicated to corporate social responsibility, ENEA S.A. strategic goals in that respect and their implementation MEDIA • Profile on Facebook dedicated to environmental education • Lectures and participation in industry events and events • Press office and communication dedicated to corporate social responsibility • Contact by the dedicated e-mail • Community engagement report • Website • CSR Report • Meetings with media representatives • Community engagement report • CSR Report NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS, BENEFICIARIES, SOCIAL PARTNERS, SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS • Website PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION • Application form for beneficiaries • Direct contact • Reports • Dialog during the implementation of shared projects • Annual report • Community engagement report • CSR Report • CSR Report • Direct meetings • Conferences Relations with the stakeholders 21 3 “Ensuring a dialogue with clients and the local At the same time, we faced a number of chalcommunity and taking their voice into account lenges such as relations management with in business operations” is the second goal, clients who have experienced interruptions which arose as a result of our CSR Strategy in the delivery of our services or citizens neighanalysis. This objective requires a change bouring with our investment in e.g. Liszkowo in the company’s approach to building relatown. Here, in the various chapters of the report tionships with our business surrounding. Quality we present in more detail impact of the comof relationships with stakeholders translates pany’s activities on stakeholders and actions directly into the business, not only in the contaken by us. text of maintaining the customer base, but also in the planned and on-going investments Year 2011 proved that while we are on the right as well as the use of existing infrastructure. track, we need to face and implement succesThus, CSR Strategy involves the Business Stratsive initiatives. egy and supports it. During the year, we managed to accomplish a number of activities enclosed in the CSR Strategy business plan, i.e.: reorganization of the client service area, customer satisfacPaweł Oboda Director of Corporate Communications Department ENEA S.A. tion research, implementation of the “Strategy of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital In ENEA S.A. I am responsible for the overall corporate communication Group” or the employee volunteer program. and building relationships with stakeholders. In response to both: international trends and challenges facing companies in the energy services market I have initiated in 2010 the process of strategic CSR implementation in the company. The process of CSR Strategy drafting was not easy, that is why I believe that its approval and putting it into action is a success. This report which shows the complexity of ENEA Capital Group, problems it faces and successes it achieves, is one of the results of the adopted CSR Strategy. During the past two years many communication activities focused on communication of CSR activities. This was the starting time of our marketing campaigns with eco elements and strengthening them with CSR activities focused on environmental education. Therefore, we welcomed the assessment of our actions by the consumers and awarding us with the Superbrands title and “Most Environmentally Friendly” brand. I believe that CSR translates not only into the relationships with all stakeholders, but it also creates ENEA brand. Relations with the stakeholders 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 23 Relations with the customers 4 – we develop for our clients ENEA Capital Group delivers services to more In the ENEA Capital Group structures operates than 2.4 million customers per year. These How is the tariff for electricity ENEA Operator – an independent distribution include individual customers, small and established? system operator. The company provides energy medium-sized companies, the largest comdistribution services to customers not only buypanies in Poland, the local authorities as well In accordance with Article. 47, paragraph ing energy from ENEA S.A. but also purchasing as the entire local communities. Our responsibil1 and section 2 of the Act – the Energy it from other electricity suppliers. ENEA Operator ity involves undisturbed delivery of our services Law, an energy company which holds customers are all, so called, users of the systo meet our clients expectations and services the concession sets the tariff for electem, or any entity that is delivering electricity at a competitive price. tricity and its duration. The proposed to the system, entity supplied with electricity tariff is subject to approval by the Presiby the system, any entity holding a license Our major services include sale of electricity. dent of the Energy Regulatory Office, for electricity trade and any potential user In 2011, we sold energy to more than 2.4 milif it is in accordance with the rules and of the system, i.e. an entity applying for conlion customers, including over 2.1 million indiregulations referred to Article. 44-46 nection to the system. Currently ENEA Operator vidual customers and approximately 0.3 million of the Act – the Energy Law. provides services to more than 2.39 million business customers. ENEA Capital Group procustomers. These are customers connected vides comprehensive services i.e. sale of energy to the network, for which ENEA Operator and distribution services. The Capital Group also sells energy without energy distribution ENEA Capital provides electricity distribution services within complex service offered by the ENEA Capital services (including contracts with the customers connected to other than ENEA Operator distriGroup has more Group or under a contract for the provision of electricity distribution services. bution system). In 2011, we sold ca. 2.1 TWh than 2.4 million Status of an independent distribution netcustomers to customers connected to other than ENEA Operator distribution systems. work operator as well as the fact that thanks to the geographical area of the provided services we have a dominant position in the distribution services on the local market covering ENEA Capital Group services north-western Poland, we are particularly sensitive to ensure equal access to the services and Power generation, distribution and trade are the basic areas of the ENEA Capital Group fair treatment of our stakeholders. Hence, such business operations. Besides that, the ENEA Group companies also provide the folloinitiatives like the “Code of Good Practices”. wing services: No actions aimed at improving our standards • the construction, expansion, modernisation and repair of electric power equipment means that we would run the risk of proceedand networks, ings and penalties imposed by the control • design, construction, production and sale of electrical and power equipment and apparatus, institutions and such risk directly translates • services related to the maintenance of street lighting and low-voltage networks, into our business activities. • transport services (including the sale, servicing, repair and leasing, of vehicles), • social activity (tourism facilities, restaurants and recreation services, health protection). Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 ENEA Operator Program of Compliance Year 2011 was for ENEA Operator an exceptional time. We have implemented a largeAs the ENEA Operator is the independscale modernization and investment programs ent distribution system operator it needs that will improve the quality of services and to fulfil special responsibilities. Therefore, secure the ever-increasing demand for power. We spent significant resources on connecting in accordance with Article 9d paragraph 4 new customers and renewable energy sources to the system. Furthermore, we have initiated of the Energy Law, we have developed and the implementation of the company's four strategic projects, which in the future shall have applied the Program of Non-Discriminatory a positive impact on its business performance. Treatment of the ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. System Users”. With ENEA Operator lie particular responsibilities and as such liability resulting from the nature and scale of our operations as independent distribution system operator. Activities in the area of good The objective of adopted by us Program market practices in the context of corporate social responsibility are particularly significant to us. of Compliance is to ensure equal and nondiscriminatory treatment of the current and Being an independent operator of the distribution system is primarily ensuring equal treatment potential users of the distribution system. of all current and potential users of the distribution system managed by the company. This The Program of Compliance is valid from is also reflected in the transparent communication and a fair sharing of the same information 30.06.2011. It was adopted by the resolution to all users of the distribution system. of ENEA Operator Management Board dated 21.03.2011, and then approved by the PresiEffectiveness of our daily operations translates directly into the life quality of millions of citizens dent of ERO with decision No. DPK-7124-9 of the north-western part of Poland. We are responsible for the continuity of electricity supply (5) 2011/MiKo as at 30.03.2011. to nearly 2.4 million individual, business and institutional customers. First of all, our priorities include expansion and development of energy infrastructure and ensuring failure-free usage Areas in which ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. of our equipment. By managing the energy infrastructure of more than 20% of the whole guarantees equal treatment and non-discountry territory, we are aware that we have a significant impact on the polish landscape and crimination: the environment. It is very important for us to modernize and develop our network in harmony • connection to the distribution network, with nature, hence so many projects related with the environment protection is led in our com• provision of distribution services and pany. Cooperation with the local authorities is also one of the important aspects of our social change of the services provider, responsibility. It is an important development element in the six provinces in which we operate. • complaints handling, Local authorities are also our social partner and a significant client. We try to recognize their • elimination of disruptions and failure, needs systematically and take them into account in our business. • provision of measurement data used for settlements, balancing, and settlement We follow the principles of corporate social responsibility on the basis of defined for ENEA of the system users imbalance, Operator action plans, that fit into the strategic goals of ENEA Capital Group. At the same time, • protection of sensitive information, we are one of the largest companies in the ENEA Capital Group, and this stirs our commitment • provision of information to current and in the process of ENEA Capital Group CSR reporting for 2011. The size of the company and potential system users. scale of projects undertaken by us under the social, environmental and economic responsibility make ENEA Capital Group CSR report to be incomplete without the ENEA Operator. Full text of the program is available at www.operator.enea.pl Artur Różycki President of the Management Board, ENEA Operator Sp. z.o.o. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 25 4 4.1. Strategic changes Sławomir Kreczmański in the Client Service President of the Management Board, ENEA Centrum S.A. organization In 2011, we have started implementation of strategic from the point of view of ENEA Capital Group processes which aim to increase the quality of client service. We wish to be a key weapon One of the main strategic objectives of the ENEA in the battle for customer satisfaction and loyalty. We shall expand our operating skills and sysCapital Group is to increase the satisfaction tematically develop all contact channels with the customers. We place our customers and their of current customers and attract new ones needs in the centre of our attention and all undertaken by us, in the coming years, activities. Hence, in my opinion, the name of our company very well reflects philosophy adopted by us. by improving the quality of client service. In 2011, we transformed Energetyka Poznańska Biuro Usług Technicznych S.A. company into ENEA Centrum S.A. in order to improve In 2011, we also introduced changes tools – CRM billing, implementation of modthe individual customer and small business in the wholesale trade management. Comern standards and client service procedures, companies service. petences in this area held by ENEA S.A. optimization of business processes i.e. billing were transferred to a newly established, and debt collection. Competence centre within client service which SPV (Special Purpose Vehicle) company has emerged as a result of transformation ELKO Trading Sp. z. o.o. The company shall Implementation of objectives in these three is the key competitive advantage of the ENEA handle all contracts related to wholesale trade. areas shall allow us to respond to the growCapital Group in a fully liberalized energy maring competition in the sector. From 1 July ket. It is also our next step to adjust the Capital Already introduced organizational changes are 2007 all electricity customers have a right Group organizational structures to the internathe basis for the implementation of our plans to choose energy supplier. Consequently, year tional standards in the energy market. for 2012 and following years. Key activities 2011 proved that there is a growing awareness shall focus on improvement and development of this possibility not only among business of efficient and friendly contact channels with customers, but also households. According the customer, i.e. the Contact Centre, Client to Energy Regulatory Office data, 14 thousand Service Office, implementation of modern IT of commercial customers and 13 thousand of households changed their energy provider in 2011. To date, almost 40 thousand recipients Paweł Oboda have changed their energy supplier. Director of Corporate Communications Department ENEA S.A. Our customer shall have opportunity to be advised in ENEA Centrum on which tariff or product to choose, how to pay bills or make a complaint. From the point of view of the customer the place of such cases settlement is naturally the central point of the company. For many customers it is the only contact with the company. The term Centrum (“Centre”) includes a full range of advisory and consultancy activities of the new, in the structures of the ENEA Capital Group, company and at the same time it is closer to the consumer. The new name of the company is in line with the ENEA brand architecture. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Janusz Bil Acting President of ENEA S.A. Management Board Vice-President of the Management Board for Commercial Affairs There are challenges ahead of us, to which we need to be open in order to meet the growing demands of the energy market, especially the needs of our current and future customers. We wish to build ENEA Capital Group market advantage based on the long-lasting dialogue and satisfying cooperation with our customers. We also wish to offer a diverse portfolio of products at competitive prices and create new sales and client service channels. In 2011, we have commenced implementation of strategic from the point of view of ENEA Capital Group processes which aim to improve the quality of the customer service. The turning point in this respect was the separation of ENEA Centrum S.A. in August 2011, the company which supports Individual customers, to which structures Client Service Division was transferred from ENEA S.A. We have also prepared ourselves for the demanding process of separating client service of ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. and allocating its duties to ENEA Centrum S.A. Moreover, activities undertaken in 2011 in the structures of ENEA S.A., the company dedicated to electricity sale, aim to strengthen our competences as efficient sales organization focused on the accomplishment of clearly raised, ambitious goals. The new management of the Department of Commerce2 was appointed, at the same time we have started works to modify our organizational structure. Furthermore, we have commenced work on a new sales strategy, to which we invited representatives of organizational units handling wholesale trade and representatives of the ENEA Centrum S.A. specializing in client service for ENEA Capital Group clients. I am convinced that the effort allocated to such deep changes within implementation of the highest standards in the client service area shall bring measurable benefits to us and customers, the trust of which we cannot and we shall not disappoint. Sales Office for Business Clients in Poznań. 2) New management bodies have been appointed in 2012. This change is a result of reorganization in 2011. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 27 4 4.2. Table 5. Actions aimed at improvement of the client service in selected companies of ENEA Capital Group Company Examples of activities Building relations with the customers • Implementation of a new billing system in order to adapt to the new market requirements; • Implementation of a new invoice template for the provision of distribution services; • Expansion of the IVR system – an automatic system for handling information Year to year we improve our products and on failures or disruptions in the supply of electricity, thanks to which Call Center ENEA Operator develop our expertise in the field of customer functionality was extended; • Training program to raise staff qualifications and partial funding of postgraduate relations in order to strengthen our position education in schools, MBA etc.; • Modernization and reconstruction of existing assets to improve the quality of services in the market. We not only facilitate our cusin the amount of 344 504 thousand PLN. tomers business planning thanks to a fixed Energobud Leszno • Customers research within assessment of the quality of work, sales and after-sales service. price of selected services. We join the interna• Meetings between maintenance crew and trade staff of CHP Białystok and basic tional companies that offer a green tariff and customers of the Heat and Power Plant on which current issues of cooperation between the maintenance crew and trade services are discussed. They allow at the same time we direct to our customers Elektrociepłownia for the exchange of operating experience, technological and organizational changes “Białystok” and to discuss investment plans. During the meetings cases of failure are analyzed. a number of social programs which build their Furthermore, reported by customers’ requests and proposals to amend rules environmental awareness or increase safety of cooperation upon the conducted analysis and verification are carried out and implemented. awareness. • Opening a client service office in a new location with amenities for disabled persons which made the office better accessible and increased reliability of the company MEC Piła in the customers eyes; The combination of a competitive offer, organi• Extension of the electronic communication channel. zational changes focused on competences • Internal training for staff in the area of client service techniques, self-presentation, in the client service area and social initiatives public speaking and negotiations; IT SERWIS • Meetings in the form of trainings or conferences for the company’s business partners are complemented by a range of activities on the subject of modern IT solutions at least twice during the year. which aim to develop relationships with our NZOZ Centrum • Running a modern website, preceded by marketing research; • Live Chat in English and German; customers. Responding to the customers’ expecUzdrowiskowe • Participation in a project run by the Management Observatory Foundation, ENERGETYK tations requires from us changes and new tools, the purpose of which is to even better adapt the website to the needs of its users. sometimes complex and difficult to implement, • Commissioning of the modern high bay warehouse with sales hall BHU S.A. in Gorzów Wielkopolski, which improved the efficiency and quality of service; and from our employees continuous learn• Running of sales and advisory platform www.e-bhu.pl. ing of how, in the time of a change, provide better value to our customers. We hope that the efforts made by them shall be noticed by our customers. Representatives of ENEA S.A. take care for customer relations. In 2011 aside from organizational changes which are to improve our customer service, individual companies performed a range of activities. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 28 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 MEETING CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS 4.2.1. FIXED PRICE Client satisfaction research In October 2011, ENEA S.A. introduced a modified offer FIXED PRICE . It extended the guarantee of fixed prices by one year, that is, until 31 December 20133. The basic practices necessary to create sucThe offer is dedicated to small and medium-sized companies. In this way, cessful relations with the client is to examthe company facilitates their business planning and investment, and allows ine the expectations and satisfaction level them to protect against price increase in the following years. of the provided services. Companies of ENEA Capital Group that provide services and deliver products to institutional and individual clients use different forms of customer satisfaction Andrzej Banaszyński Mayor of Mieścisko District research. During the performance of my functions as the mayor I have had contact with the Management In 2011, a client satisfaction research was carBoard and employees of the ENEA Capital Group several times. The course of our cooperation and ried out by ENERGOBUD Leszno (research within our mutual understanding directly affects the development of our region. I know many employees assessment of the company’s quality of work, for years now and I can count on their commitment, for example, in the need for a quick response to potential network failures. Moreover, I appreciate the openness of ENEA Operator Managesales and after-sales service), ENEA Operator ment Board. Last time that we met we had an opportunity to talk about the needs and plans (research in late 2011 and 2012), ITSERWIS, of the investment in energy infrastructure of our region. Focus on cooperation brings measurable Auto-Styl, Elektrociepłownia Białystok (CHP benefits. Our consultations facilitate effective implementation of significant to us investments. In 2011, we took decision jointly on a location of the new substation (Main Power Supply Station) Białystok), MEC Piła and BHU S.A.. 110 kW line in Piastowice. It's fair to say that the investments of that kind are for our community “infrastructure window to the world” which shall significantly influence opportunities of economic Elektrociepłownia Białystok (CHP Białystok) development in the region. sends to its customers surveys examining client satisfaction once a year. Filled in surveys are evaluated by the team appointed MEETING CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS to this task. The client satisfaction research LIGHT INSPIRATIONS of Elektrociepłownia Białystok (CHP Białystok), is subject to annual audit being conducted Light Inspirations is an event organized in Szczecin by Eneos Sp. z o.o., by an external company. In the BHU S.A. ENEA S.A. and ENEA Operator. A seminar was an important part of this event. company level of customer satisfaction was Its aim was to present the latest technological solutions which answer the needs measured according to “client satisfaction of the local government. Furthermore, during the seminar also good practices survey” included in the procedures. Research in cooperation between the local companies and ENEA Capital Group for the sake is carried out on a quarterly and annual basis of regions and local communities were presented. Participants of the seminar in all BHU business units. could, among others, take part in the lecture Solar Energy – new prospects for the local governments and Infrastructure versus economic development of the country”. Light Inspirations event was accompanied by the evening multimedia performance on the facade of the National Museum. 3) Currently, the offer is valid until 2014. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 29 4 IT SERWIS Sp. z o.o. conducts research consiMEETING CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS sting of the so-called “Quality League”, HELPING HAND FOR FLOOD-AFFECTED BUSINESSES which elements include a mystery shopper, i.e. satisfaction research by an anonymous client Until 30 September 2011 companies affected by flood could have benefited and the client satisfaction research by means from a specially prepared by ENEA S.A. offer Helping Hand . It was addressed of the electronic survey. NZOZ Centrum Uzdto the electricity consumers using services of other than ENEA energy providers rowiskowe ENERGETYK conducts research and which belonged to the segment of large, medium and small enterprises. by means of direct interviews and client satisfacENEA S.A. guaranteed to those companies fixed and attractive energy price tion survey which is available at the reception. and no other charges for client services until 31 December 2012. ENEA S.A. also extended payment period to 40 days from the date of invoice, while the standFor 2012 the employee satisfaction research ard payment period is 14 days. is planned in ENEA S.A., ENEA Centrum S.A. and MEC Piła companies. This offer was on the one hand, a reply to the customers’ needs and on the other hand it contributed to the business development, thus responding to the expectations of our investors. 4.2.2. Customer Communication channels Małgorzata Polkowska It is particularly important for the ENEA Capital Spokesperson of GAZ-SYSTEM S.A. – ENEA S.A. client Group to provide customers with public and friendly communication channels with the comCompany’s management from the perspective of sustainable development is one of the GAZpany. Individual companies of the ENEA Capital -SYSTEM S.A. strategic directions, which also defines the relationship with the suppliers. Building Group provide customers with their own comresponsible relations with the suppliers is a complex and long process that requires effort from both munication channels, including direct contact sides. When selecting our contractors we guide ourselves by the price-performance ratio according to the Quality for Price principle, but we also draw attention to the credibility and transparency in the company’s seat and client service offices, of the suppliers. We take care for our tender requirements and procedures to be clear for all concerned. contact via the Internet, e-mail and telephone. ENEA Operator and ENEA S.A. service the largest number of customers. In 2011 part of separate Client Service Offices of ENEA Operator and ENEA S.A. were located in the same buildings. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 30 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Illustration 6. Main customer communication channels in 2011 On the other hand, ENEA S.A. individual clients as well as small or medium sized business may contact the company directly in the Client service Offices located in the area of Poznań, Zielona Company website, mailing form for e-mail comments or questions, information portal and e-shop electronic client service office, Góra, Gorzów, Bydgoszcz and Szczecin. Large special hotline, blog, chatbot, live chat companies are being serviced in ENEA S.A. by five, so called: Sales Offices for Business Clients. Additionally, ENEA S.A. customers may contact with the company by means of hotline E-mail Contact by phone (telephone no. 800 66 00 06) and a contact form published at www.enea.pl. Leaflets, brochures and On the ENEA S.A. websites the customers may Traditional post printed materials, information in the press and media also use the calculator for energy tariffs and a guide called “Customer Guide”. In 2011, we have also launched the virtual advisor – chatbot Eve. Eve not only provides general Client Service Office Meetings, events and information on the ENEA Capital Group but – direct contact with training for customers the customer also helps customers to select right for them energy offer. ENEA S.A. virtual advisor Our aim is to fully separate location of ENEA in in the area of Bydgoszcz, Gorzów, Poznań, Operator from ENEA S.A. Client Service Offices. Szczecin and Zielona Góra. Large companies are Chatbots are figures usually generated being serviced by five service offices, so called: in a computer program, which are increasCustomers of ENEA Operator use i.e. electronic Sales Units of Distribution Services located in ingly popular interactive forms of comClient service Office and free energy emerPoznań, Gorzów Wielkopolski and Zielona munication with the customer. In 2008 gency hotline (telephone no. 991). Furthermore, Góra, Szczecin and Bydgoszcz. they were on the websites of only 2 polish there is a possibility to talk with the consultenterprises, two years later on 40, and ant online on the ENEA Operator website. ENEA Operator runs a blog on its website, in 2011 they could have been found on 80 Direct contact with ENEA Operator is provided the www.operator.enea.pl, which allows business websites. to individuals, small and medium-sized busicustomers and all interested parties to learn nesses by the Client service Offices, so called: on various aspects of the energy industry and ENEA S.A. virtual advisor through softSales Regions of Distribution Services. Sales its development especially towards increased ware recognizes the question and gives Regions of Distribution Services are located energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. the best possible answer. This conversation is a form of text chat and it allows to get a quick answer the question. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 31 4 A new BHU S.A. website was launched in 2011. It combines functions of information portal that contains specialised advises and an internet store. Store www.e-bhu.pl offers modern technological solutions that meet standards related to environment protection. A new website of e-bhu Internet store. Piotr Koczorowski President of the Management Board, Eneos Sp. z o.o. Meetings with the customers play a special role in building relationships with them. Annual “Listening intently to the needs of our customers is one of our duties and at the same time key meetings with representatives of the local to success. Our clients are mainly local authorities and the effects of working with them transfer into the quality of life of entire communities. Knowledge of problems and government needs helps governments and Eneos Sp. z o.o. customus to develop an offer directly corresponding to the expectations of local communities. We try ers are the company’s tradition. In 2011, for to suggest new, efficient solutions. the twelfth time the company had a pleasure Annual seminars organized by Eneos company are an example of our approach. The give opporto host presidents, mayors, mayors of cities, tunity for local governments to meet with energy and lighting companies. Our goal is not only municipalities and representatives of the energy to provide knowledge of the latest, energy efficient lighting solutions and ways to manage it, environment for the seminar Modern light but also provide a floor for experience exchange. In 2011, we conducted a dedicated training for management . The meeting was held on 19-20 school directors on energy-efficient, and consistent with the highest standards, lighting. Aside from the School in a good light program our customers enjoy our offer with use of photovoltaics. May 2011 in Kolobrzeg. It is worth to mention that innovative, energy-efficient technologies have met with immediate interest of the local governments”. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 During the seminar, Eneos Sp. z o.o. presented Modern light management seminar among others, its light modernization program School in a good light . This offer is mainly The main objective of the seminar was to present objectives of the program for an investment repayment from savings resulting modernizing lighting in educational institutions and hospitals. Piotr Grocholewski, from the lighting modernization. Thanks to this director of the Eneos Sp. z o.o. Branch in Poznań pointed out that the law imposes school gains excellent lighting parameters that on the authorities, to which these institutions come under, a number of duties including comply with the standards and electricity savensuring consistent with the Polish standards lighting. Unfortunately, in most of schools ings especially important for budget and thus lighting is not only outdated and energy-consuming, but most of all it doesn’t meet lower payments for lighting. Furthermore, Eneos the normative parameters of lighting due to which local governments are subject Sp z o.o. prepared a similar offer in this area to administration penalties. for hospitals managing bodies. During the seminar, attorney Tomasz Ogłódek presented rights and obligations resulting from the property right of lighting equipment. Ph.D. Eng Dariusz Czyzewski from Warsaw University of Technology presented tests for street lighting with use of LED lighting. Artur Różycki the President President of Management Board of ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. discussed the rules of the company’s cooperation with local authorities and the partners of the seminar: Philips Lighting Poland S.A. and Thorn Lighting Polska Sp. z o.o. presented the latest lighting solutions for roads and streets. The seminar created opportunities to discuss issues related to lighting and gave opportunity to exchange experience on the subject. Treatment room in the hospital – before and after lighting modernization. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 33 4 Eneos Sp. z o.o. also organizes free of charge ENEA Operator, the independent distribution ENEA Operator also organizes meetings trainings under the project School in a good system operator, also leads an extensive cooperaon energy security and infrastructure devellight . Its goal is to provide school directors tion with the local authorities to develop regional opment in the region. In April 2011 a workwith the necessary knowledge on lighting infrastructure. Company’s representatives are ing meeting on this subject was organized and to convince them that proper lighting actively involved with the local authorities in new in Szczecin with ENEA Operator Management is necessary for the health and proper children investments planning on the ENEA Operator Board and the marshals of provinces: zachdevelopment and moreover, provides students business operations region and obtaining EU odniopomorskie, wielkopolskie and lubuskie. and teachers with the right conditions for subsidies. Thanks to cooperation of this type with learning and work. The first specialized trainthe Management of the Zachodniopomorskie ing for school principals under the School province a subsidy was acquired for investments in a good light program was held on 5 July in Wałcz (station 110/15 kV) under the Regional at the Eneos Sp. z o.o seat. Their participants were directors of schools in Poznań. Operating Program of Zachodniopomorskie Province for 2007-2013. ENEA Operator investments MEETING CUSTOMERS’ NEEDS ENEOS INITIATIVE FOR EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS in infrastructure No funds for the lighting replacement is the main reason cited by the directors accounted of education institutions in response to the question: Why do children learn in artificial light which does not comply with the standards? . The proposed for more than by Eneos Sp. z o.o. lighting modernization gives the local authorities the possibility to take investment decisions, the cost of which does not exceed the current fees 800 million PLN for the electricity used for lighting in institutions with outdated lighting systems. Representatives of Eneos Sp. z o.o. offer to educational institutions a lighting in 2011 audit, which helps to identify in detail the needs of the school within lighting modernization. Upon modernization the cost of these fees may decrease by up to 50%, and the money saved cover the costs of investment. Classroom for classes 0 in the Gen. Józef Dowbór Muśnicki Primary School in Lusowo – before and after lighting modernization. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 4.3. 20% of the country. The company informs of maintenance crew cooperation between about the proceedings in case of failure on its Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” S.A. and cuswebsites. Customers may twenty-four hours, tomers IP-3-D1, Manual of maintenance and Reaction seven days a week, report failures under a free operation of equipment and installations to failure phone number 991. The Company has not in Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” S.A. IP-3-D3. adopted the maximum response time in case Our services are basic for business, governof failures. Failure notifications are carried out ment and households. For the local authoriimmediately in accordance with legal requireLive-line working 2010 + ties ENEA Operator services and energy inframents. A priority is given to those notifications structure being built is the proverbial window which are associated with the risk of life and Live-line working is a project the aim to the world and a key factor in the region health. These are given a priority service. ENEA of which is to introduce in ENEA development. New installations allow to win Operator is guided by a special procedure Operator LLW technology that allows new investors and construct factories. PR-2 Liquidation of disruptions or failures to reduce time of power outages. LiveThe importance of the services we provide in the distribution system”. line working also allows for network to such a wide range of customers is a great development and connection of new responsibility. Therefore, a key aspect of our Its purpose is to minimize the duration customers without a need to cut off business operations is to provide continuof the failure in the supply of electricity other customers. The company has ity of supply including energy supply to our to customers through appropriate coordinabeen carrying out program since 2010. customers. tion of operations related with the network In 2011, ENEA Operator trained 292 and network elements failures. The procedure employees and conducted the tender In 2011, our customers experienced unplanned defines the conduct and persons responsible for purchase of live-line working tools interruptions in the services supply. Thus we try for the elimination of the network and netand equipment. The project is to be to introduce even better forms of contact work elements failure taking place in the ENEA fully implemented by the end of 2012. in the event of failure, and we adopt proceOperator distribution system. The procedure dures to facilitate the removal of failures and applies in the ENEA Operator Distribution Units. invest to improve the quality of client service. In Elektrociepłownia Białystok (CHP Białystok) Depending on the services we provide, indiin case of failure the maintenance crew immedividual companies adopted appropriate proately proceeds with the liquidation of its effects ceedings to failure reaction. They result from and restore supplies to its clients (heat, process the internal procedures, instructions as well steam, electric energy). The Company adopted as contracts with customers. These mechanisms a number of instructions for the maintenance are an important part of client service and crew, including: Manual of maintenance building good relations with them. crew cooperation between Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” S.A. and MPEC Sp. z o.o., Manual From this point of view, a special role plays in ENEA Capital Group procedure in the case of failure adopted by ENEA Operator, ENEA Operator introduces “Live-line working 2010 +” program which shall reduce the number the infrastructure of which covers about of power outages. Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 35 4 Table 6. Proceedings in case of failure in ENEA Capital Group selected companies Company Rules of procedure • Information for customers on failure proceedings at www.operator.enea.pl; ENEA Operator • Freephone number 991; • Procedure PR-2 – Liquidation of disruptions or failures in the distribution system”. • Manual of maintenance crew cooperation between Elektrociepłownia “Białystok”S.A. and MPEC Sp. z o.o.; Elektrociepłownia • Manual of maintenance crew cooperation between Elektrociepłownia “Białystok”S.A. “Białystok” and customers IP-3-D1; • Manual of maintenance and operation of equipment and installations in Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” S.A. IP-3-D3. PEC Oborniki • Heat Network Work Program for the heating season 2011/2012. • PZ-14 procedure “Failure Proceedings”; MEC Piła • 2 hours – time from the information until removal of the failure. • Detailed procedures and failure removal time is included in the contracts ENEOS with contractors. In PEC Oborniki company failure issues related by PZ-14 procedure “Failure Proceedings”. with the heat supply are regulated by the “Heat Adopted by the company response time from Network Work Program for the heating seathe notification until removal of the failure son 2011/2012”. It was developed in accordis two hours. In the case of failure in the delivery ance with the Energy Law Act and Regulation of Eneos services the reaction is immediate when of the Minister of Economy as at 15 Januthe failure is associated with the risk of life and ary 2007 on the specific operating conditions health, i.e. damage to lighting lines or lighting of the heating systems. According to the regudistribution cabinets. However, if the failure lation the reaction upon client’s failure notice relates to a single light point, the company is immediate. However, the removal of the failhas seven days from the date of notification. ure depends on the location and type of damDetailed procedures and failure removal time age. On the other hand, in MEC Piła company is included in the contracts with contractors. the proceedings in case of failure are regulated Relations with the customers – we develop for our clients 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Relations with employees – we give employment 37 Relations with employees 5 – we give employment To what degree we accomplish our strategic and operational goals in separate areas of ENEA Capital Group business operations depends on the involvement and competence of our employees. Employees create corporate culture, generate profit and have the greatest impact on the Capital Group operations. In total in 21 Capital Group companies with different business profiles, we employed over 10 000 people in 2011. Table 7. Total workforce in ENEA Capital Group broken down into posts and gender Number of employees Women Men Management Middle level Operational Management Middle level Operational Number Office Office Directors Directors Company Total Number number of women of men bodies managers employees personnel bodies managers employees personnel ENEA S.A. 395 219 176 0 u u u u u u u u u ENEA Operator 5 376 1 203 4 173 18 4 na 940 na 80 908 na 3 182 na 245 Elektrownia „Kozienice” 2 328 336 1 992 1 na 19 131 185 15 na 93 1 682 333 Energobud Leszno 603 139 464 2 na 11 125 2 na 40 407 Energomiar 201 58 143 4 na 6 33 15 4 na 11 120 8 Elektrociepłownia „Białystok” 186 47 139 1 na 6 9 7 4 na 12 91 0 BHU S.A. 176 48 128 2 na 8 17 21 9 na 9 82 11 MEC Piła 167 29 138 0 0 2 12 15 1 2 13 103 19 ENEA Centrum 137 103 34 2 na 5 96 4 na 1 29 Elektrownie Wodne 165 22 143 1 na 4 3 14 2 na 17 113 11 ENEOS 124 27 97 0 0 na 1 26 2 2 na 59 34 NZOZ Centrum 80 66 14 0 1 3 57 6 1 0 1 9 3 Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK ITSERWIS 92 50 42 0 1 na 24 24 2 0 na 13 27 Auto-Styl 47 11 36 0 na 1 4 6 1 na 5 30 0 Energetyka Poznańska Zakład 60 8 52 u u u u u u u u u u Transportu PEC Oborniki 38 4 34 1 na 0 0 3 2 na 0 29 3 Energo-Tour 22 17 5 1 na 3 0 13 1 na 3 0 1 Hotel EDISON 22 15 7 0 na 3 4 8 1 na 0 6 0 na (not applicable) – means that the company does not have such a category of posts u (unknown) – informs on the lack of data 4) In the ENEA Operator terminology these are supervision posts. In the list these were assigned to the level of director. Relations with employees – we give employment 38 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 ENEA Capital Group is a stable employer. In 2011, the turnover of employees differed Working conditions are governed by relDynamic structural changes that have taken significantly depending on the company. evant regulations. Moreover, the employees place in the Capital Group in 2011, did not The highest turnover in ENEA S.A. resulted of the part of ENEA Capital Group companies involve a substantial change in the volume from organizational changes, which involved are covered by collective bargaining agreeof employment. In some companies operthe transfer of Client service Division to ENEA ments that specify the guarantee conditions ates a voluntary leave program, for example, Centrum and moving employees to ELKO Tradof working and pay, and guarantees of employin 2011, in ENEA Operator company. ing company, handling wholesale trade. ment durability. Companies in which there are no such agreements, or that the employees are not covered by them include: MEC Piła, Table 8. Total workforce by employment contract IT Serwis, Auto-Styl, NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK, Hotel Edison. Working hours Type of employment contract Number Part time Fixed-term Civil law Full time Indefinite Company of employees Trial contracts ENEA S.A. 395 381 14 5 19 371 u ENEA Operator 5 376 5 357 19 1 48 5 327 0 Elektrownia „Kozienice” 2 328 2 327 1 3 126 2 199 32 Energobud Leszno 603 558 45 3 43 557 93 Energomiar 201 196 5 0 3 198 101 Elektrociepłownia „Białystok” 186 185 1 0 2 184 6 BHU S.A. 176 170 6 5 39 132 6 ENEA S.A. Office in Poznań. MEC Piła 167 167 0 4 12 151 0 ENEA Centrum 137 133 4 5 12 120 0 Elektrownie Wodne 165 162 3 0 2 163 8 ENEOS 124 122 2 0 8 116 4 NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe 80 80 0 0 20 60 6 ENERGETYK ITSERWIS 92 90 2 2 4 86 1 Auto-Styl 47 46 1 0 2 45 2 Energetyka Poznańska Zakład 60 60 0 0 0 60 u Transportu PEC Oborniki 38 38 0 0 3 35 0 Energo-Tour 22 21 1 0 0 22 0 Hotel EDISON 22 22 0 0 10 12 0 u (unknown) – informs on the lack of data. ENEA Operator employees. Distribution region in Chojnice. Relations with employees – we give employment 39 5 Table 9 Number of employee leaves and turnover in ENEA Capital Group broken down by gender and age Turnover in % Number of women turnover Number of men turnover To 30 years 30 -50 years To 30 years 30 -50 years Total Above Above Women Company turnover Total Men number Total 50 years Total 50 years ENEA S.A. 44.56 52.51 35 176 115 23 75 17 61 8 45 8 ENEA Operator 5.13 8.98 4 276 108 15 14 79 168 4 28 136 Elektrownia “Kozienice” 4.68 4.76 5 109 16 2 5 9 93 8 25 60 Energobud Leszno 3.81 2.16 4 23 3 1 0 2 20 2 8 10 Energomiar 2.49 0 3 5 0 0 0 0 5 0 2 3 Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” 2.15 0 3 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 3 BHU S.A. 8.52 6.25 9 15 3 1 1 1 12 4 1 7 MEC Piła 6.59 10.34 6 11 3 0 2 1 8 0 1 7 ENEA Centrum 1.46 0.97 3 2 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 Elektrownie Wodne 3.03 0 3 5 0 0 0 0 5 0 0 5 ENEOS 7.41 0 2 2 0 0 0 0 2 0 2 0 NZOZ Centrum 8.75 10.61 0 7 7 2 5 0 0 0 0 0 Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK ITSERWIS 20.00 9.52 7 10 4 1 2 1 6 4 2 0 Auto-Styl 4.26 0 6 2 0 0 0 0 2 1 0 1 Energetyka Poznańska Zakład 6.67 0 8 4 0 0 0 0 4 0 1 3 Transportu PEC Oborniki 13.16 50.00 9 5 2 0 1 1 3 0 0 3 Energo-Tour 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Hotel EDISON 9.09 13.33 0 2 2 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 Table 10. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Percentage of employees covered Company by the collective bargaining greement ENEA S.A., Energobud Leszno , Elektrociepłownia “Białystok”, Elektrownie Wodne, Eneos, 100% Energetyka Poznańska Zakład Transportu, Energo-Tour PEC Oborniki 97.36% Energomiar 90.55% ENEA Operator 89.1% Elektrownia “Kozienice” 83.20% BHU S.A. 69.31% ENEA Centrum/ MEC Piła, IT SERWIS, Auto-Styl, NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK, Hotel Edison nd/u Relations with employees – we give employment 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Trade unions also take an active part in disENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. Code of Good Practices cussions on the future of the ENEA Capital Group. In 2011 during the preparation for In 2011, the company implemented Code of Good Practices , which is a formal set privatization process and negotiations with of principles, values and standards of ethical behaviour, defining the treatment and behaviour potential investors, trade unions protested and relationships in the company’s micro world, as well as with the environment outside against privatization by French investor. – especially with customers and partners. The Code is designed to increase employees commitment and enhance employees attitudes appropriate to form and strengthen idenMoreover, employees are involved in decisions tification with the workplace. Commitment to a particular course of action was grouped which relate to the Capital Group by having into five major categories: possibility to elect members of the Super• internal relations visory Board under the terms defined • relations with customers in the “ENEA S.A. Statute”, generally applicable • relations with business partners law and regulations of the Commercialization • relations with media representatives and Privatization Act. • relations with local communities. In the individual companies The Code was shaped in 2011, and it involved work of more than 60 people from the crew of ENEA Capital Group operate from all factual and territorial areas of the company. It constituted to actions for developthe following trade unions: ment of corporate responsibility in the company. 1. Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Pracowników Ruchu Ciągłego ENEA S.A. Trade (Inter-enterprise Trade Union of Continuunions Relations between trade unions and the manous Maintenance Employees of ENEA S.A.); agement boards are not an easy partnership. 2. NSZZ Solidarność Komisja MiędzyzakłaEmployees are represented by the trade unions. Positions of the two sides are often different, dowa (NSZZ Solidarity Inter-enterprise Position of trade unions in the power secin particular as regards remuneration, which Commission); tor is strong because of the scale of employwas expressed by two labour disputes in 2011. 3. Międzyzakładowy Związek Pracowników ment and the strategic impact of this sector However, they were successfully completed Grupy Kapitałowej ENEA S.A. (Inter-enteron the economy. Trade unions play an important by the agreement on 16 March in ENEA S.A. prise Employee Organization of ENEA role in the daily functioning of the ENEA Capital and on 8 July in ENEA Operator. Still, despite Capital Group); Group and relations with them directly affect the differences of opinion in the daily activities 4. Związek Zawodowy Inżynierów i Techników many management decisions which translate it is possible to reach agreement by means Międzyzakładowa Organizacja Związkowa into the company’s condition. of negotiation. Agreement of trade unions przy ENEA S.A. (Trade Union of Engineers representatives and management boards and Technicians – Inter-enterprise Trade Level of unionization also depends on the comon conditions of employment and social conOrganization in ENEA S.A.); pany, e.g. in Elektrownia “Kozienice” (Kozienice ditions during transfer of part of ENEA S.A. 5. Międzyzakładowy Związek Zawodowy Power Plant) 65,2% of employees belongs and Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Pracowników Grupy Energetycznej ENEA S.A. to trade unions and there were three trade Plant) employees to ELKO Trading company „KADRA”. („KADRA” Inter-enterprise unions in the company in 2011. is a good example. Trade Union of ENEA Capital Group Employees). Relations with employees – we give employment 41 5 5.1. • material assistance or support of sports and Benefits offered to employees of all ENEA recreation activities organized in the form Capital Group companies include: of various forms of recreation, mass sport • Subsidizing recreation of employees and Benefits provided events and purchase of tickets for sport their families, to employees events, • Ability to benefit from the Social Benefits • funding of Christmas gifts for children and Fund in the form of interest-free loans and Aside from the basic salary, the companies subsidy of children stay in crèches and non-repayable allowances, of ENEA Capital Group offer to their employees kindergartens. • Ability to spend sick leave in the sanatorium; a number of additional benefits. Their scale • Ability to obtain funding for studies and and nature vary depending on the company Aside from the Social Benefits Fund there learning of foreign languages. and correspond to staff needs and company is Employee Savings and Loan Associapossibilities. Each company individually detertion operating in some of the companies In addition, eligible employees may receive: mines employee benefits packages. (i.e.: Elektrownie Wodne, PEC Oborniki, ENEA S.A., ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o.). 1. Higher than generally applicable additional Within the Company's Social Benefits Fund remuneration: (I) for working overtime; (II) employees may benefit from financial and In many companies employees have a posfor night work; (III) for working on Saturin-kind support. Depending on the company sibility to use additional health benefits days, Sundays and public holidays; (IV) for and individual needs of its employees, support (e.g. Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A.) thanks technical emergency service, (V) for sick may have various forms, such as: to the company’s medical care or Health Care leave; • financing or subsidizing leisure of children Centre of the Ministry of Interior and Adminand youth, family holidays, istration (e.g. Energomiar). In the most com2. Allowance for working in conditions harmful • financing or subsidizing preventive treatpanies an employee may receive a partial or to health, particularly arduous or dangerous; ment holidays and stay in sanatorium, total coverage of studies by the employer • financial and material assistance for employon the principles established in the contract 3. Monthly seniority allowance, entitlement ees in a difficult situation, with an employee. Moreover, Elektrownia for the period of employment in the power • financial and material assistance to save Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) introduced industry, i.e. companies listed in the Nationthe health or life of the employee and his/ facilitations connected with travel to work: wide Collective Bargaining Agreement; her family, it enables employees to get to work by an • financial or material assistance for cultural organized transport and covers 40% of costs. 4. Prizes for the detection and elimination and educational activities, of illegal consumption of electricity and ENEA S.A. employees had an opportunity energy intake not in conformity with to participate in foreign language classes, the agreement; organized by the employer during working hours. Relations with employees – we give employment 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 5. Award on the occasion of the Power Engineer’s Day in the value not lower than 25% Employee Pension Scheme of the average basic salary in ENEA S.A.; Employees of the ENEA Capital Group companies have a possibility to participate 6. Annual, mandatory bonus paid from in the Employee Pension Scheme. It is a form of organized, group and systematic money the annual bonus fund, which amounts saving for future retirement. This program is within voluntary third pillar of the pension to 8.5% of payroll budget from the previous system. Inter-enterprise agreement contains detailed conditions of participation. The deciyear; sion to join the Employee Pension Scheme is taken independently by each employee. By participating in the Employee Pension Scheme employee gathers additional resources 7. Preferential use of electricity by employees for future retirement. Within the Employee Pension Scheme there are two types of penof the Capital Group regulated by the Annex sion fund contributions: basic contribution – funded by the employer in the amount to the Collective Bargaining Agreement; of 7% of the employee salary, and an additional premium – funded by the Employee Pension Scheme participant from his/her salary. Funds collected under the Employee 8. Gratuity related to retirement or disability Pension Scheme are inherited. pension in the form of gratification in cash. Its value depends on employment time and value of received remuneration; 9. Jubilee awards. Their value depend on employment time in power sector and in other employees, and value of received remuneration; Justyna Tomczyk Director of Human Resources, ENEA S.A. 10. Right to a reduced payment for electricity used by a household in the amount Condition of ENEA Capital Group and level of implementation of the company’s goals is closely linked to the level of competence and commitment of our employees. ENEA S.A. is an employer with of 3 000 kWh a year. long-standing traditions that we try to cultivate, while accomplishing new targets and responding to new market challenges. Respect for the current and former employees belongs to those traditions. In fact satisfaction of all our clients depends on the employees efforts. As an employer we are responsible for creating a safe workplace and giving favourable conditions for continuous improvement. I think this is what singles us out i.e. the scale and scope of the system benefits provided to both: current and former employees. We offer benefits to employees such as reward on the occasion of the Power Engineer Day, annual mandatory bonus paid from the annual bonus fund, jubilee awards or the right to a reduced payment for electricity for household needs. Employees also have opportunity to use funding for post-graduate studies and various trainings, which allows them to develop skills and competencies and ensures a more efficient execution of daily tasks. We enabled our workers to use the sanatorium treatment, which costs shall be borne by the employer. In ENEA S.A., like in the other companies of the ENEA Capital Group, operates the Employee Pension Scheme that offers insurance under attractive terms. It is worth to mention that pensioners are also a significant group of stakeholders to us, who also use the number of provided by ENEA S.A. benefits. We are proud of the relationships built through years with our retirees and their active role in this relationship building. Relations with employees – we give employment 43 5 5.2. Companies of the Capital Group give to employees opportunity to buy voluntary life insurance. OSH Competition Individual companies conclude separate contracts with insurance companies and as such Occupational health In 2011, the IV edition of OSH Competition there are 59 contracts signed in the Capital and safety in ENEA S.A. was organized in branches Group with such insurance companies like: and regions of ENEA Operator, organiPZU Życie S.A., TU na Życie WARTA S.A., Issues related to health and safety are a priority zational units of Elektrwonia Kozienice AVIVA TU na Życie S.A., STU na Życie ERGO in the power sector, where employees operate (Kozienice Power Plant) and in Energobud HESTIA S.A. Insurance policies in each case specialist equipment for e.g. Elektrownia “KozLeszno branches. Every employee of ENEA guarantee to employees and their families ienice” (Kozienice Power Plant), work live-line Capital Group could take part in the comfinancial compensation in the event of loss for e.g. ENEA Operator or maintain distribupetition. Competition has three stages and of life or health of insured persons. In 2011, tion system, by modernizing it and replacing it is aimed to increase employees awarea decision was taken to systemize the issue transformers for e.g. ENERGOBUD Leszno. ness and broaden knowledge of a safe of insurance policies in order to replace conwork performance and basic regulations. tracts with many insurers with agreement with Health and safety regulations are defined At every stage, the participants receive gifts one insurance company5. Activities in this area by rules of procedure, the Company’s Collecin-kind and the winners receive cash prizes. are planned for the next year. tive Bargaining Agreement, instructions and In addition, all participants of the first stage procedures, which vary depending on the comwho give a correct answer to 50% of quespany. Formal committees on the occupational tions take part in a lottery with a special Employee shares health and safety operate in the companies. prize – notebook. Furthermore, there are also social labour inspecAs at 15.02.2010, the State Treasury distors performing their duties. posed free of charge ENEA S.A. shares which constituted to 16,05% of the company’s share capital. Starting from 16 May 2010 eligible employees are entitled to acquire ENEA S.A. shares. 41 638 955 of shares are allotted to that purpose. More information on shares acquisition by eligible employees may have been found at www.enea.pl in the Employee Shares tab. Furthermore, information was also available under a free info line in 2010. Final of the OSH Competition took place on 9 June 2011 in “Edison” hotel in Baranów. 5) In 2012, a tender was conducted as a result of which “PZU Życie” Insurance Company was selected. Relations with employees – we give employment 44 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 In 2011, a number of companies have taken, on a special skid mat, how easily one can cross burns. Currently, employees of the company in addition to certain legal requirements, the “limits of physics” and how a car reacts hired on the positions where it is required additional measures which have impact when it goes into a skid. Later on, managers to have a certificate of service qualification, on the increase of occupational health and could prove their knowledge and skills practiundergo additional training in first aid. Expert safety in the Capital Group. cally in extreme situations. trainings for installation electricians shall be the next step, carried out by the divisional and An example of an interesting initiative was Technical emergency services of ENEA Operator district rescue coordinators. Their objective will “Safe Driving” action held by Zakład Transportu distribution branches in Szczecin and Gorzów be to set up rescue teams based on emergency Sp. z o.o. company (Transport Centre) and Wielkopolski received new cars with emergency and operation teams. Auto Akademia (Auto Academy) of Tomasz equipment. These were: Toyota Hilux and Ford Płaczek, Polish racing champion for the manRanger which perform very well in difficult and agers of the Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” demanding weather conditions in which employ(CHP Białystok). Within this action, the manees of technical service often work. Aside from 114 employees participated in the Energomiar company training in first aid using defibrillators, agers of Elektrociepłownia Bialystok (CHP the necessary equipment and tools, the cars are which the company acquired for its branches. Białystok) improved their ability to drive safely, equipped with spine board with head stabilizer, which included emergency breaking, overfastening straps and rescue bag. Moreover, set taking obstacles and driving through a bend. of rails needed to immobilize fractures, cervical The participants of this training could find out collars and dressings to compress bleeding and Practical skills trained during Safe Driving training. Our safety depends on our reflex. Relations with employees – we give employment 45 5 Table 11. Selected OSH initiatives in ENEA Capital Group in 2011 Company Initiative • Training and exam for employees to transport hazardous materials and explosive ADR; • Training of regulations and standards in the field of electrical SEP (Association of Polish Electrical Engineers); • Training and state examinations for appointment to the fire protection units; • Training of employees in connection with the introduction of new issues, the rules relating to radiation protection; • Training in first aid; • Training in risk assessment; • Modernization of lighting in buildings carburizing 200 MW units; • Modernization of the carburizing horizontal gallery 2x500 MW; • Construction of renewable energy sources; – The installation of biomass dosage; – Phase II: – installation of explosion proof central vacuum system; • Performance of an automatic installation of fire drencher system for transformer TR4 50MVA 230/6, 3 kV; • Replacing devices – replacing of the old type clutches to new one Omega type; Elektrownia • Completion of the installation of sound insulation for 3WPI, 3 WP2; ”Kozienice” • Modernization of the correction station with hydrazine and phosphate; • Installation of steam supply system for the coal pulverizer from MKM-33 K1 to K6 MKN-33; • Construction of a measuring position of 6 kV motors for testing station TRE; • Modernization of unit no. 4 – roof replacement of a boiler house with development of flaps acting as smoke exhaust ventilation and aeration equipment; • Modernization of administrative building including air-conditioning in the rooms on the north side and design of the building superstructure along with adjusting it to the current legislation in the field of fire protection; • Modernization of passenger elevator in the SZPILKA building; • Adaptation of the room for the locker place in a former electrolytic plant; • Renovation of the bathrooms in the building of pump for water cooling of 200 MW; • Construction of gas cylinder position with the installation; • Expansion of laboratory sampling and sample preparation of fuels, including modernization of the existing site; • Change of the engine termination cabinet covers 6 kV of units 1-3 coal pulverizers – pcs 8 (anti-implosion device directed towards the engine block which eliminates risk of use); • Change of the CO2 cylinder transport technology on the hydrogen positions 1-9 from manual to mechanical pcs 9. • Gradual replacement of occupational safety equipment including personal protective equipment; Elektrownie Wodne • Annual OSH training for workers employed on positions related to the operation of electrical equipment. • Construction of ramps for disabled, including the replacement of a terracotta tiles in front of the main entrance to the administrative office building; MEC Piła • Purchase of personal locator (monitoring of) the driver, and the employee responsible for site guarding. • Refresher training (practical) in first aid for members of the technical rescue group (41 people); • Verification IP Guide – 9.1 / 1 Detailed rules for occupational health and safety training for employees and service providers in first aid and obtaining Elektrociepłownia energy permissions. Verification IP Guide – 9.1 / 1 with elements of the environmental management may increase the level of environmental awareness ”Białystok” among employees of external service providers; • Training for contractors employees, carried out prior to works commencement at heat & power plant, during which they are acquainted with environmental aspects required at Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” (CHP Białystok). • 30 emergency coordinators passed the state exam and received the title of Basic Life Support Rescuer; • Purchase 330 car kits for the company cars; • Training of 30 employees on a 5-day training course called Advanced first aid ; • A series of 3-day refresher trainings in the form of maneuvers in five Distribution Branches for 300 people; • Emergency Maneuvers in Jelenia Góra organized by the Voivodeship Police Headquaters in Wroclaw – 7 teams were directed to this training; ENEA Operator • Purchase 150 sets of medical emergency OSP R – 1 for car accessories of ENEA Operator Sp. z. o.o.; • Purchase of 10 sets EMS PSP R – 1 with a set of Kramer rails to equip rescue teams; • Training Instructor BLS / AED for 30 employees; • Purchase of 300 posters with the first aid instructions and 3000 leaflets and 500 books for ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. employees; • OSH training for installation electricians extended to 12 hours in first aid. • Purchase of five defibrillators, one for each Branch; Energomiar • Training for all staff in first aid with AED equipment. • Purchase of defibrillators (1 per Branch); • First Aid Training in the use of defibrillators; ENEOS • Purchase of breath analyzers (1 per Branch), which have been subjected to calibration and verification; • Training for installation electricians and their managers in terms of traffic management; • Vaccination against influenza in the company’s branches50 willing employees were vaccinated. NZOZ Centrum • Current control of technical equipment, annual measurements of the antielectric shock effectiveness and equipment insulation; Uzdrowiskowe • The use of chemicals with anti-slip formula (floor); ENERGETYK • It is one of a few healthcare facilities in the province that has a fully automated and integrated with other services emergency fire system. Relations with employees – we give employment 46 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Table 12. Total number of injuries or injury rate Agnieszka Żyro in ENEA Capital Group Vice-president of the Management Board of Human Resources ENERGOBUD Leszno provides a variety of energy services, which include i.e. installation and service of devices. These services are specifically regulated by OSH. Therefore, the most important safety Total number Company of injuries aspect of the company is to secure safety by controlling working conditions and compliance with or injury rate the occupational health and safety rules and principles. We focus especially on securing appropriate workplace safety. Our employees are required to inform the current employer on the identified ENEA S.A. 2 occupational hazards with the conclusions aimed at removing of these risks. ENEA Operator 44 ENERGOBUD Leszno undertakes a number of measures to improve safety and reduce accidents Elektrownia „Kozienice” 6 to a minimum. Numerous trainings and discussions related to workplace safety are organized. Furthermore, OSH controls often take place in the company. At least once a year, committed to this Energobud Leszno 146 task employees, prepare and submit periodic analysis of the employer's safety and health. Analysis 10.9% female contain proposals of technical and organizational undertakings aimed at prevention of life and health injury rate risks and improvement of working conditions. Energomiar 6,5% male injury rate Due to the need of promoting new technologies that meet our clients’ needs, EP PUE ENERGOBUD Elektrociepłownia „Białystok” 5.3% injury rate Leszno completed trainings for 46 employees to work in the live-line technology. It was also necessary BHU S.A. 2 to perform all indispensable and formal arrangements for the application of live-line work technology work in the area of ENEA Operator – Distribution Branch in Poznań. MEC Piła 2 ENEA Centrum 0 Elektrownie Wodne 1 ENEOS 3 Social labour inspectors NZOZ Centrum 0 There are in total 86 social labour inspectors in various companies in the entire Capital Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK ITSERWIS 1 Group. They are elected by the employees, and the basic scope of their activities is defined in the Act of 24 June 1983 on the Social Labour Inspection (Journal of Laws June 30, Auto-Styl 0 1983). In ENEA S.A., for example, the social labour inspector is elected by the employees Energetyka Poznańska Zakład Transportu 1 for a four-year term. Acting as a social labour inspector is a social service, performed by staff to ensure safe and hygienic working conditions and to protect the employee rights PEC Oborniki 2.64% injury rate specified in the provisions of labour law. Duties of the social labour inspector include: Energo-Tour 0.25% injury rate control of buildings, machinery and sanitary devices from the OSH point of view, control Hotel EDISON 0 of compliance with labour laws, i.e. collective agreements and work regulations, participation in the control of compliance with regulations of environmental protection, participation in the analysis of the causes of accidents at work, control of incidents of occupational In 2011, fatalities were reported in ENEA S.A. disease and monitoring of the application in the workplace of appropriate preventive (1 accident, cardiac arrest in the workplace), measures in this direction. Social labour inspectors interact with the National Labour ENEA Operator (2), ITSERWIS (1). Inspectorate and other supervision and control bodies for work conditions. 6) In Branches (WiNN, Szczecin, Zielona Góra) in ENERGOBUD Leszno Sp. z o.o. in 2011, there was no accident concerning employees. In Branches: Bydgoszcz, Gniezno, Gorzów Wielkopolski, Leszno, Piła, Poznań there were 14 accidents at work. These accidents were classified as minor and non-threatening life of injured workers. Relations with employees – we give employment 47 5 5.3. In 2011, 21 employees from the areas of ENEA Operator Distribution Branch in Szczecin passed development program. This included drivers, equipment operators and unskilled workers. the exam for the post of power equipment speThe training was organized by the ProvinEmployees cialist. The company enabled staff to improve cial Club of Technology and Rationalisation development their professional competences within the secin Szczecin and included 130 hours of lectures ond edition of professional qualifications and 51 hours of practical classes. Companies of ENEA Capital Group, by lookTable 13. ing after professional development of their Average number of training hours in the companies of ENEA Capital Group in 2011 employees, perform tasks aimed at improving Integration in the workplace skills and competences of its workers. Trainings are one form of such development. Trainings Apart from trainings, companies of ENEA Number of training Company hours per employee and their number as well as number of training Capital Group, organize various meethours differed and resulted from the companies ings and events for employees that allow ENEA S.A. 757 individual needs in 2011. In the newly created to spend time in a less formal atmosphere ENEA Operator 15.91 ENEA Centrum procedures for the provision and get to know work colleagues better. Elektrownia „Kozienice” 5.36 of training services were prepared in 2011. New Year and Christmas meetings as well Energobud Leszno 18.72 as team building are also popular. New Energomiar 12.78 Companies of ENEA Capital Group support Year concert was one example of such Elektrociepłownia the development of its employees not only initiative, organized by the Elektrownia „Białystok” 4.438 through training, but also by enabling them “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant). BHU S.A. 5.50 to participate in post-graduate studies. In 2011, Employees could hear to the most famous MEC Piła 18 nearly 50 employees of eight companies operas, operettas and musicals. Radom Not applicable. of ENEA Capital Group (ENEA Operator, Eneos, Chamber Orchestra under the direcCompany began business activity IT SERWIS, Energormiar, Energobud Leszno, tion of Maciej Żółtowski performed ENEA Centrum in the mid-2011 BHU, ENEA Centrum and ENEA S.A.) officially on the stage. The solo parts were sung and during the first months training needs commenced postgraduate studies International by: soprano Anna Kutkowska-Kass, and were analysed. Financial Reporting Standards”. Studies organMargarita Elia from Cyprus and famous Elektrownie Wodne 20.39 ized by ENEA S.A. are conducted by the lecturtenor Marek Szymański. Another example ENEOS 4 ers of the Warsaw School of Economics and are events associated with specific anniverNZOZ Centrum Ernst & Young Academy of Business. In January saries in the company’s histories. 20-year Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK 0.69 2012 after nearly 200 training hours students anniversary of BHU S.A. celebrated ITSERWIS 11.20 took the final exam. in 2011 was a good example. On this Auto-Styl 48.5 (VW) i 27 (SEAT) occasion the company organized a special Energetyka Poznańska meeting for its employees in Prusim. During Zakład Transportu 3.73 that meeting employees that worked for PEC Oborniki 3.46 the company since it foundation received Energo-Tour 0 commemorative medals. Hotel EDISON 0 7) This includes English language classes, in which 181 employees took part in the academic year 2010/2011 and 195 persons in 2011/2012 (all ENEA S.A. offices). 8) Estimate. 103 trainings took place and eight hours of training for each was adopted. Relations with employees – we give employment 48 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 5.4. XX Power Engineers Championship in tennis In September 2011, a jubilee tennis tournament was held in Szamotuły, which was Sport activities organized by ENEA Operator. of employees ENEA VI Championships in swimming ENEA Capital Group is not only a sponsor of recognizable sport events, but also encourVI Championships were held at Sierakowska swimming pool. It was attended by more ages its employees to engage in sport initiathan 30 competitors. A team from the Distribution Branch in Bydgoszcz won, the most tives. In 2011 a number of sport initiatives exciting, 4x50 m free style relay. It overtook the remaining teams – ENEA S.A., two took place with participation of ENEA Capital teams from Szczecin and Międzychód. Group employees: Alpine skiing competition ENEA Capital Group competition in Alpine skiing for the ENEA Operator President's Cup were held in in March on ski slopes with artificial lighting in the complex Ski & Sun Świeradów-Zdrój. 40 competitors took their chances. The competition consisted of two men and women runs in three age categories: up to 35 years, from 35 to 50 years and over 50 years. DAL Sailing Club operating at Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) Elektrownia Kozienice organized for all avid sailors in the ENEA Capital Group two events. First of which was a Sailing Picnic in May, which took place at the Sailing and Recreation Centre Wichrowe Wzgórza in Ryn. The second event was the two-week expedition on the Baltic Sea in a 14-meter yacht Bavaria. XVII Bowling Tournament for the Cup of ENEA Operator President Bowling has its followers also among the employees of the ENEA Capital Group. More than 30 competitors from ENEA Capital Group, i.e. from Poznań, Wrzesnia and Opalenica took part in the tournament organized in Leszno. STRADA Cycling Association On the initiative of the ENEA Capital Group employees STRADA Cycling Association was founded in Szczecin. In 2011, the Association organized a number of initiatives, including cycling trips with their families. Szczecin II Bike Days organized in September were one of those initiatives. Within II Bike Days cycling competitions were organized, in which 143 children took part. Relations with employees – we give employment 49 5 5.5. Pensioners are an active group which is reflected related to health, tourism and culture. Members in the activities of the Senior Club at ENEA S.A. of the Senior Club at ENEA S.A. take an active The Club operates since 1997 and any penpart in competitions and exhibitions organized Pensioners and retirees sioner of the ENEA Capital Group companies under the motto of Manual Skills , Christmas of ENEA Capital Group may participate. Senior Club organizes numermeetings and events. Seniors also have an ous social meetings, during which the most opportunity to participate in excursions, includENEA Capital Group consists of companies recent information related to the ENEA Capiing organized in the spring a 5-day foreign with tradition of many years. The history tal Group is shared as well as educational tour. Also a male choir “Orły Białe” (White is reflected by relations with employees who meetings, lectures and workshops at which Eagles) operates at the Club. have retired from workforce. Pensioners and invited experts share their knowledge on issues retirees of ENEA Capital Group enjoy a number of privileges even after their employment. In 2011, within the joint social activities of ENEA Capital Group pensioners and retirees may take advantage of the following: 1. Assistance for housing and health expenditures in the form of a loan; Krystyna Tomczak-Siatkowska President of the Senior Club at ENEA S.A. 2. Subsidizing holidays in a form of family Management Board Member of the „Zakładowa Organizacja Związkowa MZZP” vacations, healthcare holidays, stay in sana(Inter-enterprise Trade Organization) of ENEA Capital Group in Poznań. torium etc.; Senior meetings 3. Subsidizing of holidays for children and young people; – It's not just coffee and cake, but also meetings with interesting people and outings to concerts. For many years I have been responsible for the company’s contact with the Poznań Philharmonic. 4. Financial and material assistance in a form I also encourage my colleagues to take part in the summer concerts in Meridian. It is a great place of a non-repayable allowances; to listen to music and pensioners truly got to like those meetings. In the winter during the cold 5. Subsidizing recreation, sport, educational weather we moved from company’s seat at Nowowiejskiego street to Strzeszyńska. As usual, and cultural activities; I ordered coffee and cake for 60 people, but I told the girls at the same time that probably not so many people will come because of cold weather and poor public communication. And yet, 6. Subsidizing participation in organized sport 62 people came. tournaments, recreation and sport festivals; 7. Subsidizing trips or group excursions orgaWe also organize excursions twice a year. One is always a 5-6-day foreign trip. We already visited Vienna, Budapest, Vilnius, Lvov, and many other beautiful places. The second trip, because nized within the joint social activities. of the smaller funds is much nearer, across Wielkopolska region. Now I get down to organizing this longer one in September. Many pensioners travel and visit new places in this way, as they wouldn’t be able to afford them on their own. Mrs Krystyna retired in 1997. She founded pensioners association, consisting of people who have retired, but still wish to stay in contact with the company. First it was about 30 people and then over 100. Action initiated by Mrs Krystyna is still evolving. Relations with employees – we give employment 50 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 51 Impact on the environment 6 – we protect the environment Access to natural resources and the growing scale of regulations related to environEnvironmental issues are closely related to those mental protection, including subject of climate change, have a direct impact on our strategic objectives of ENEA Capital Group such operation. Environmental standards tighten, costs of raw materials are rising, there are as development and diversification of generalimitations of greenhouse gas emissions associated with allowances for emissions. Our tion capacity, development and modernization companies engaged in the power generation are adjacent to areas of exceptional natural of the distribution network or provision of techbeauty. Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) is located in a close proximity nical and technological development. Whereas of Kozienice Natural Landscape Park, and Elektrociepłownia Bialystok (CHP Białystok) promotion of pro-environmental behaviour is located near Natural Landscape park of Puszcza Knyszyńska. All of these factors make and solutions became one of the three key the relationship between the state of the environment and activities of ENEA Capital directions of the “Strategy of corporate social Group companies to be one of the most important subjects included in our strategic responsibility of ENEA Capital Group” which development plans. This is especially related to implemented and planned investments is the development of the “Corporate Strategy in the power generation and distribution segment. for 2010-2015 with a perspective to 2020”. Adopted strategic directions put pressure Management norms and policies on environmental management of ENEA Capital Group through modernizations, new invest• Company implemented Quality, Environmental and OSH Integrated Management System for generation and trade of electric energy and generation, transfer and ments and by means of a widely understood distribution of heat in compliance with the following requirements: Elektrownia ”Kozienice” • PN-EN ISO 9001 PN-EN ISO 14001, PN-EN ISO 18001 and OHSAS 18001; environmental education. Specific objectives • The strategic goals for environment protection are set by the Integrated System in this regard are set in separate, annual operaManagement Policy. tional plans of companies that implement ENEA S.A. • Environmental Policy of ENEA S.A. ENEA Capital Group CSR Strategy. It results • Environmental, Quality, and OSH policy; Elektrociepłownia • ISO 14001; from the nature of individual companies, their ”Białystok” • OHSAS 18001; • ISO 9001. possibilities and significant differences between • ISO 14001; them in a scale of environmental impact. MEC Piła • ISO 9001; • PN – N 18001. • Environmental and Quality policy; Elektrownie • ISO 9001; Wodne Sp. z o.o. • ISO 14001; • ISO 14001; ENERGOBUD Leszno • ISO 9001; • Energy safety certificate issued by the Internal Security Agency (ABW). • Highest Quality certificate issued by the “Centrum Badań i Monitorowania Jakości WSBJ” (Quality Research and Monitoring Centre WSBJ); BHU S.A. • Primus Nominatus Certificate (management quality) for the quality parameters of offered accessories and equipment, issued by BCBC; • ISO EN 9001:2008. Elektrociepłownia Bialystok S.A. became an inherent part of Białystok history and landscape. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 52 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 In our business operations we act in accordance with the law and try to prepare ourselves, in advance, for the next stricter environmental requirements in the power sector. In 2011 no penalties for non-compliance with laws and regulations related to environment protection dr inż. Krzysztof Sadowski Member of the Management Board, Director of Strategy and Development, were imposed on the companies of ENEA Elektrociepłownia Bialystok S.A. Capital Group. Tightening of legal requirements influences, among others, our attitude towards environment protection, still this is not our only motivator for setting high standards in this area. Health and As one of the largest energy groups in the counlife quality of our closest neighbours including CHP Białystok employees and their families depends on our environment actions. Therefore, we always set ambitious objectives in the area of reducing try we take active part in team works and the negative impact of our operations on the environment. Our actions in 2010 were finalized discussion forums on the subject of energy. with a successful implementation of the Quality Integrated Management System, Environmental In 2011, Arthur Kowalczyk ENEA Operator and Occupational Safety, which helps us to connect purely business aspects of our business with the priorities of environmental and social responsibility issues. We especially focus on training our Vice-President for Network Infrastructure, was employees from occupational health and safety and on implementing pro-environmental solutions. appointed to the Interdepartmental Advisory Committee for the Development of Wind Our approach is also associated with next investments on a large scale. Commissioning of a heat Energy. Advisory Committee was established accumulator in 2011 allows us to rationally manage heat distribution, which translates directly into the energy efficiency of our operations. In 2011, we also commenced conversion of the second by the Minister of Economy following the last coal boiler to a biomass one. Thanks to this we shall be generating up to 50 MW of energy from year adoption of Energy Policy of Poland until RES and more than 100 MW of so-called green heat . We also plan to implement first in Poland 2030 by the Council of Ministers. installation to recover heat from exhaust gases produced by combustion of biomass. This will allow us to recover up to 13-14 MW heat of commercial parameters. In 2011, we participated in a series of conferences on energy and environment. A series of 10 conferences across the country organized by Puls Biznesu daily under the motto How to improve energy efficiency? is one of examples. We presented a report Analysis of possible saving areas in a company – how to prepare the company to implement innovative solutions”. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 53 6 6.1.1. 6.1. Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka S.A. is the biggest Consumption of raw materials supplier of coal for Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant). The coal mine provided ENEA Capital Group Hard coal is the main raw material used in 2011 approximately 3.1 million tons of coal, environmental impact by the power generation segment of the ENEA which accounts for about 61% of coal used Capital Group. Companies which belong in the Power Plant in the processes of power Monitoring and continuous improvement to the power generation segment used for generation. The selection of Lubelski Wegiel of activities aimed at reduction of the negageneration purposes in total 260 868.71 Bogdanka S.A., as the main supplier was tive impact of ENEA Capital Group business tons of hard coal out of which Elektrownia affected by i.e. close proximity to Elektrownia operations is one of our superior responsibilities. “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) consumed “Kozienice”. Selection of a supplier located Impact of ENEA Capital Group on the environ4 801 127.5 tons of coal to produce electricity nearest the Power Plant reduces environmental ment includes four main areas: resources conand heat. MEC Piła used 384 370.4 tons of hard burden associated with transport. It is worth sumption, greenhouse gas and dust emission, coal. Moreover, PEC Oborniki used 6 440.005 to mention that the majority of coal delivered water and sewage management system and tons of fine coal and consumed 714 072 m3 to Elektrownia Kozienice is delivered by rail waste management. of natural gas. Coal consumption in Elektrownia transport. Kozienice will increase in the coming years Table 14. as a result of the planned construction of a new Direct energy consumption of ENEA Capital Group companies as per size of consumption power unit of ca. 1 000 MW. Energy consumption Company in MWh Elektrownia ”Kozienice” 894 047.038 Elektrociepłownia Białystok 75 632.265 ENEA Operator 34 521.324 MEC Piła 3 341.4 Elektrownie Wodne 1 811.9 ENEA S.A. 1 392.2809 PEC Oborniki 783.203 Energobud Leszno 780 BHU S.A. 541.32 NZOZ Centrum 490 Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK Energo-Tour 422.694 Energomiar 244.8 ENEOS 190.849 Energetyka Poznańska 80.511 Zakład Transportu Hotel EDISON 72 In Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. production of demineralized water to refill the boiler circulation of water and steam is carried out entirely with water from the Vistula river. In order ENEA Centrum 19.13 to protect the river against thermal pollution, carried by spent cooling waters, effective fan cooling towers are being used. ITSERWIS 0.36 unknown – included Auto Styl in the lease cost 9) All locations are accounted for, still the data from the location at Dziadoszańska street in Poznań is included for the first year-half, while the data from the Gorzów Wielkopolski, Szczecin, Zielona Góra, branches for the first year-half are a flat rate in the total costs and are not included in the total amount. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 54 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Companies of ENEA Capital Group use biomass in the production of heat and electricity. Construction of heat accumulator In 2011, in Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) 219 302.8 tons of biomass was In Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) a heat storage system was commisused, thereby avoiding the emission of carbon sioned as at 1 December 2011 which is dedicated to storing excess of heat production dioxide in the amount of 357 286.3 tons. and it allows to increase the amount of heat given off to the district heating network In Elektrociepłownia Bialystok (CHP Białystok) at an increase of demand for heat production without any additional load of basic to produce energy and heat 278 886.089 tons generation system. Its launch allowed for a more stable operation of basic generation of biomass was used, and in Elektrownia Biogasystem. Having a heat storage reduces the frequency of the peak device use, which zowa Liszkowo (Liszkowo Biogas Power Plant) is the boiler K4, and reduces use of electricity condensing turbine TZ-4 for the genera38 711.73 tons. Companies of the ENEA Capital tion of electric energy. With the launch of the heat accumulator environmental effect Group consumed in total 317 597.819 tons is expected in the form of reduction of coal consumption by 3 200 tons/year, reducof biomass in 2011. tion of carbon dioxide emissions by 7 000 tons/year and reduction of waste from coal combustion by 400 tons/year. Our aim is to increase energy efficiency of our everyday functioning, including energy efficiency of power generation processes. Our activities in this respect include, among others, commissioning in December 2011 Marek Cackowski President of the Management Board of NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK the heat storage system in Elektrociepłownia Bialystok (CHP Białystok). This investment sigI manage NZOZ Centrum Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK – a specialized medical nificantly increases energy efficiency of the Heat institution with a long tradition of a health resort. Protection of the natural and Power Plant operations. environment and reduction of maintenance cost is a priority for us, thus we constantly modernize our building, i.e. through thermal renovation and construction of a new district heating substation. All of our investments include Modernization of the of the low pressure turenvironmental issues. In the coming years we would like to introduce another bine 200 MW, and the high-pressure and lowsustainable solutions, i.e. recovery of thermal energy from the water after our patients baths. We are involved in local community life by organizing open pressure turbines of 500 MW, which translates lectures on health care for our patients and our town citizens. We invite directly into efficiency of the energy generaeveryone to learn about our offer during open days. tion and reduction of carbon dioxide emission into the atmosphere is an example of activities undertaken by Elektrownia “Kozienice” to increase energy efficiency. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 55 6 Numerous modernization works performed Table 15. Selected activities aimed at energy efficiency improvement by ENEA Operator, the independent distribution operator, also have significant impact on the energy efficiency. In 2011 the company Company Actions taken signed an agreement with the National Fund for • Commencement of a project concerning replacement of 1692 transformers; Environmental Protection and Water Manage• Introduction of environment-friendly live-line works; • Application of modern time switches in the light systems which are changing ment to subsidize project Reduction of energy ENEA Operator lighting time automatically, depending on the season; • Modernization of heat accumulation in the Main Power Supply Stations losses through exchange of transformers MV/LV involving the exchange of furnaces to more efficient and building modern control systems. to energy-efficient in ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o. within measure 9.2 Efficient distribution • Exchange of energy intensive, old street lighting fixtures to new, sodium ones, giving energy savings of ca. 50%; Eneos Sp. z o.o. of energy , priority IX of the Operational • Replacement of lighting on the parking in Szczecin Branch Office from traditional one to LED technology. Programme Infrastructure and Environment Elektrociepłownia 2007-2013. This project involves the replace• Construction of a heat accumulator. „Białystok” ment of 1692 pieces of old transformers with • Gradual replacement of light sources in the company's sites to energy-efficient, ENERGOBUD Leszno and buildings insulation under renovation and modernization program. large energy losses to new units with a much lower energy loss. Energy efficiency is also Elektrownie Wodne • Launching a new small hydropower plant on the Wełna river. increased by introduction of new live-line work PEC Oborniki • Replacement of pumps and heaters in the boiler houses. technique. • Modernization of boiler dust removal system WR-25/2 on the KR West, MEC Piła thanks to which dust emissions were reduced by about 80 tons per year. • Turbines modernization; Elektrownia • Implementation of highly efficient technologies to further reduce negative „Kozienice” impact on the environment in accordance with the BAT requirements (Best Available Techniques). • Replacement of starters in the fluorescent lamps, to energy-efficient, electronic ballasts – 259 pieces; • Lighting modernization in A building (treatment base and medical offices, NZOZ Centrum buildings B and E (rooms, bathrooms, staircase and hallways) and H building Uzdrowiskowe (studios and bathrooms) through the use of energy-saving fluorescent lamps „ENERGETYK” and modern fittings such Imola, Monza, Solar, Torino, Finestra, Clik Intelligent; • Installation of motion detectors in all corridors; • Controlling of lighting at night by an astronomical clock. Live-line work is a project, the goal of which is to introduce in ENEA Operator live-line work technology, which allows to reduce time of power outages. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 56 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Elektrownia “Kozienice” S.A. is the main generation capacity of ENEA Capital Group and the largest professional, coal-fired power plant in Poland. Our generation capacity is 2905 MW. Almost one in ten Polish families use the energy generated in Kozienice. We generate electricity by means of 10 highly efficient power units and more than 2 thousand employees – experts in their field. Therefore, rules of corporate social responsibility are close to us on a global scale as well as within activities undertaken for local communities, of which we are an important part from the time of the power plant construction in the seventies of the twentieth century. Demand for electricity in Poland is growing dynamically. Our key responsibility is therefore to play and active role in ensuring the power safety of the country. Modernization of the energy sector in Poland is one of the most important tasks in the coming years, to which we significantly contribute by implementing a number of modernization processes and commencing new investments. It would not have been possible without the use of efficient and environmentally friendly technologies. They will be fully exploited for our planned construction of power unit no. XI. This investment will significantly increase our generation capacity by ensuring maximum of complex control and reduction of our negative impact on the environment. Construction of the power unit no. XI shall allow for the Power Plant development and ENEA Capital Group joining of the European energy league. We continue to invest in modern equipment and technologies that reduce environmental impact of the electricity generation processes on the natural environment. This is one of our priorities. Thanks to developed by us modernization processes on a greater scale the Power Plant meets all environmental requirements. Our actions today are well ahead of the planned for the future EU directives restrictions concerning emissions of greenhouse gases, sulfur and nitric oxides and other environmental aspects of the Power Plant operations. Our business operations are also reflected in the economic and social development on a local scale. We are members of the Kozienice community in which our employees and their families live. We are jointly responsible for the creation of a friendly, for the community, living conditions and we try to take an active part in social life and solve the social problems of the region. We are aware of the vast scale of responsibility in every area of our business. This helps us to plan development activities in the long term in a manner that answers numerous expectations toward us. Krzysztof Zborowski, President of Management Board, ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A. (previously Elektrownia „Kozienice” S.A.) Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 57 6 6.1.2. 2013 it is planned to cancel completely free Elektrownia Kozienice has its own chemical Emissions of charge allowances for carbon dioxide emislaboratory since 2008, tasks of which include sions for power sector and replace them with monitoring of carbon dioxide emission. Power Companies with the highest level of emissions, auctioning system of emission allowances. Plant has high-performance electrostatic prei.e. those involved in power generation, aim Although there is a chance that certain percentcipitators for dust emissions in all units. to reduce emissions of carbon dioxide by their age of power shall be obtained by the comactions. This issue is particularly important for panies free of charge. However, this depends In 2011, electrostatic precipitator was replaced ENEA Capital Group i.e. in the context of introon a number of factors, such as approval in unit no. 4 and a contract was signed for duced Emissions Trading Scheme and growing by the European Commission of the prereplacement of another one. Elektrownia „Kozdemands of the regulators towards power secpared by the Polish government investment ienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) also focus tor in that respect. Emissions and related climate program related to the protection of climate on the reduction of sulphur and nitric oxides issues result with concrete financial effects change in the amount corresponding to the size emissions. In connection with the proposed for our Capital Group. Generation of elecof free of charge emission allowances. A need after 2015 tightening of nitric oxide emistricity is determined by the level of granted to purchase more allowances is related with sion standards, the Power Plant has signed an allowances to emit carbon dioxide as well a significant increase of costs for us. agreement for the redevelopment of the instalas other gases and substances. For the period lation for catalytic denitrification of flue gas 2008-2012 Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice In accordance with applicable legal requirein units 4-8. It shall be the largest installation Power Plant) received free of charge allowances ments, monitoring of carbon dioxide emisof that type in Poland and will provide 80-perin the amount of 9.6 million per year. sion is performed in the following companies: cent reduction in nitric oxides in the flue gas Elektrociepłownia “Białystok”, Elektrownia at the full power range. The targeted amount This amount is lower by 8.6% compared “Kozienice” MEC Oborniki and PEC Piła. is 1 500 kg/h of removed nitric oxides thanks to amount from the previous years. From to the installation. Table 16. Emissions by weight in the companies of ENEA Capital Group responsible for power generation segment in tons. Company SO2 NOx CO CO2 Dust Elektrownia ”Kozienice” 31 279 20 375 994 10 299 069 1 048 Elektrociepłownia Białystok 1 353.42 1 389.42 216.45 485 047 61.76 PEC Oborniki 65.30 26.94 77.60 12 420.79 10.5 MEC Piła 161 73 104 86 081 69 Catalytic Method (Selective Catalytic Reduction – SCR) holds BAT technology status granted by the European Union, which means that it is the best technology among all available methods for reduction of nitric oxides. Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. seen from the right bank of the Vistula river Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 58 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Simultaneously, in reply to planned in the next years tightening of sulphur dioxide emission Investment projects of Elektrownia Kozienice (now ENEA Wytwarzanie) standards, Elektrownia Kozienice developed the location concept of flue gas desulphurisaMain investment projects in Elektrownia Kozienice planned to be implemented within tion plant with capacity of 800 MW in 2011. the next few years due to the implementation of the Directive on industrial emissions (i.e. IED directive): Elektrownia “Kozienice” has its own ash and • Construction of flue gas desulphurisation plant FGD IV for the 200 MW power units slag landfill with an active storage site of 313 of equivalent power 800 MW in the years 2014-2015; ha. The company seeks to maximize the use • Construction of a flue gas catalytic denitrification system for OP-650 boilers in 200 MW of combustion wastes arising during its operapower units no. 4-8 in the years 2012-2016; tions. In 2011, the utilization rate was 72.62%. • Construction of a flue gas catalytic denitrification system for AP-1650 boilers in 500 MW 140.2 thousand tons was recycled out of 149.5 power units no. 9 and 10 in the years 2017-2018; thousand tons of gypsum generated as a by• Construction of a flue gas catalytic denitrification system for OP-650 boilers in 200 MW product of primary operations of Elektrownia power units no. 1-3 in the years 2012-2016; Kozienice . Furthermore, 518 265.83 tons • Replacement of electrostatic precipitators in 200 MW power units no. 8 in 2013 and of fly ash, 1 477.45 tons of dry microspheres 500 MW power unit no. 9 in 2017. and 23 676.35 tons of ash and slag mixtures in a wet form was sold. Flue gas desulphurisation plant in Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. 28.2% ENEA Capital Group operations of investment within power generation depends on the level of assigned carbon dioxexpenditures ide, other greenhouse gases and in Elektrownia Kozienice substances emission allowances for a given settlement period. Allocation of carbon dioxide allowances is performed on the basis of the Emis(Kozienice Power sion Trading Scheme. For the period 2008-2012 Elektrownia Kozienice Plant) was (Kozienice Power Plant) received carbon dioxide allowances associated with in the amount of 9.6 million per year. environment protection. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 59 6 Mirosław Kowalczyk Manager of the Environmental Protection Department, Elektrownia Kozienice Companies from the power industry have to manage their impact on the environment in an inteEmission rate grated way. The thing that makes us unique among other plants is the implementation of measures aimed at reduction of an negative impact on environment, resulting from increasingly tightening Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power regulatory requirements, always on the basis of technologies which guarantee the highest reduction Plant) has a low carbon dioxide emission of emissions into the environment. rate. In 2010, this was 880 kg/MWh, Increase of generation capacities from 2600 MW to 2905 MW through the improvement of geneand in 2011, 866 kg/MWh. Elektrownia ration efficiency parallel to limiting negative impact on the environment is our greatest success. Kozienice also has one of the lowest Our biggest challenge is, invariably, staying in the group of the largest and most efficient producers of electricity in the Polish and European market in a full compliance with existing and future rates of coal consumption per MWh environmental requirements. of generated electricity. In 2011, it was 0.402 t/MWh. For comparison, carbon From the perspective of year 2011 and planned in that year activities for the coming years we have selected priorities. It is primarily adjusting to the new, more stringent requirements related dioxide emission rate in Elektrownia to the introduction of Directive on Industrial Emissions (IED) from 2016. Our task is to build Opole (Opole Power Plant) which belongs the fourth flue gas desulphurisation plant and a flue gas catalytic denitrification system in all to the PGE company was 875 kg/MWh, power units. Another key objective is to increase generation capacities through the construction and the rate of coal consumption per MWh of the most modern power unit for supercritical parameters – 1075 MW gross. Furthermore, it is planned to build a check dam stabilizing water level on the Vistula River. This will increase of generated electricity was 0.425 t/MWh safety of surface water supply for industrial purposes. in 2011. In Elektrownia Rybnik (Rybnik Power Plant) which belongs to EDF company carbon dioxide emission rate was 815 kg/MWh, and the rate of coal consumption was 0.425 t/MWh in 2011. Control room 500 MW 2 in Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 60 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 6.1.3. In total Elektrownia Kozienice transfers Water consumption more than 80% of waste for recovery. Comand waste management panies which doesn’t generate electricity have a smaller impact on ENEA Capital Group waste Waterworks are the main source of water management. ENEA S.A. generates 481.80 m3 drawing for the companies. In addition, a part of municipal waste. Size of segregated waste of water drawing in ENEA Operator comes from in the company equals 66 m3. In Eneos weight deep water wells (6 809 m3) and in Elektrownia of segregated waste is 92.091 tons. Table 19. Total weight of segregated by ENEA Operator Kozienice 301 017 m3 of water comes from waste by type, in tons underground waters. In Elektrownie Wodne Table 17. Total water withdrawal in m3 in the companies company 159 m3 of water comes from the comof ENEA Capital Group pany’s own water intake. Total weight of segregated waste 1 2004.999 of which: Total water Such companies like Elektrownia “Kozienice” Company withdrawal Used devices and other 7 032.247 (Kozienice Power Plant) or Elektrociepłownia Elektrownia „Kozienice” 5 222 986 Concrete waste and rubble 1 603.089 from renovation and demolition “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) conduct solely selecElektrociepłownia 911 536 Iron and steel 1 409.668 tive waste collection as it facilitates waste „Białystok” handling. Elektrownia “Kozienice” for example, ENEA Operator 93 327 Slime from holding tank 517.000 ships for recovery 100% of waste oils and MEC Piła 5 663 247 288.8 tons of combustion waste annuElektrownie Wodne 3 726 Soil, earth including stones and others 376.020 ally. All waste generated in the Elektrownia ENEA S.A. 5 791,28 Wood, glass and plastics wastes or “Kozienice” is stored selectively. 197.132 PEC Oborniki 2 389 railway sleepers Energobud Leszno 1 090 Aluminium 159.415 BHU S.A. 1 158 Ceramic and other equipment wastes 113.667 NZOZ Centrum Aerators on faucets significantly decrease water 25 800 Uzdrowiskowe ENERGETYK consumption in offices of ENEA Capital Group companies. Cables and others 71.790 Energo-Tour 3 523 Used devices with dangerous elements 69.586 Energomiar 839 ENEOS 1 219 Metal mixture 55.275 Energetyka Poznańska Plant-tissue waste eternal 44.620 715 Zakład Transportu Concrete, rubble, ceramic, data wasn’t collected 40.600 and other equipment waste ENEA Centrum due to the company’s foundation Soil with stones including danger ITSERWIS 936 39.069 PCB substances Auto-Styl included In rental cost Brick rubble 38.280 Hotel EDISON 2 000 Other 237.541 Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 61 6 Table 18. Waste generated by the companies of ENEA Capital Group power generation segment in tons Other, than Company Hazardous waste hazardous waste Elektrownia „Kozienice” 87.091 1 042 287.2 Elektrociepłownia „Białystok” 0.817 35 637.5 MEC Piła 0.7 6 493.86 Elektrownie Wodne 3.496 132.711 Ecologically in the workplace Promoting of the pro-environmental attitudes is particularly important among ENEA Capital Group employees. Moving to a new location at Górecka street starting in December 2011 created favourable conditions for eco-friendly solutions in ENEA S.A. In the new office From July 2011 in all offices of ENEA S.A. in Poznań, Szczecin, Bydgoszcz “stickers” located in communal areas remind the employees on enviand Zielona Góra bins for waste segregation were introducedas one ronmentally friendly habits. Furthermore, multifunction devices of the eco-practices of education campaign aimed to raise environmental awareness of the employees. were introduced for cost-effective printing. Sixty-seven printers, which have been replaced by multifunction devices were handed over to social organizations such as foundations, associations and educational institutions. Containers for waste segregation are placed on the corridors of the previous and new seat of of ENEA S.A. company. In 2011, waste segregation system was implemented by such companies as: ENEA Operator, Elektrownia „Kozienice”, Elektrociepłownia „Białystok”, PEC Oborniki, Elektrownie Wodne and Energetyka Poznańska Zakład Transportu. In order to reduce the negative impact of ENEA S.A. on the environment, on the walls of the new company’s offices mainly in kitchens, bathrooms, on office devices, in the employees rooms, on the corridors – educational “stickers” were hanged with texts that promote ecological behaviour and attitudes among staff. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 62 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 6.2. Strategy of ENEA Capital Group includes development of wind energy capacity to the level of 250-350 MW. In March 2011, we purchased Renewable energy sources a wind farm of generation capacity 6 MW. in ENEA Capital Group The farm is located in Darżyno in Pomorskie province. Furthermore, in November 2011, Coal is the main raw material used by the ENEA ENEA S.A. signed a preliminary agreement for Capital Group to generate energy, but purchase of 100% of a company shares, which the development of renewable energy sources was owner of Bardy wind farm. Bardy wind Wind farm in Darżyno. (RES) is one of the important for ENEA Capital farm consists of 25 turbines with a total capacGroup development areas as for a company ity of 50 MW. We anticipate that the wind farm actively responding to the economic and enviwill produce about 150 000 MWh of energy ronmental challenges facing Poland. Currently per year. We also look for wind farm projects, the generation capacity from renewable energy which ENEA Capital Group could acquire at sources of ENEA Capital Group include: Bardy the stage of a building permit or use permit. wind farm with a capacity of 50 MW, Darżyno Wind farm projects of a total generation capacwind farm with a capacity of 6 MW, Liszkowo ity of 200 MW are at various acquisition stages. biogas plant with a capacity of 2.1 MW and 21 hydropower plants with a capacity of 60.14 MW. In 2011, we launched a new, twenty-first hydropower plant of ENEA Capital Group. The power 21 hydropower Hydropower plant in Dobrzyca. station is located in Oborniki Wielkopolskie. plants of a total Its generation capacity is 0.33 MW. Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o. company with registered capacity 60.14 MW office in Samociążek manages operations belong to ENEA of hydropower plants. Capital Group Table 20. Janusz Herder ENEA Capital Group power structure in 2011 President of the Management Board of Elektrownie Wodne with registered office broken down into used energy sources in Samociążek Each next hydropower plant translates to more energy from renewable energy sources. Construction Source Contribution of the Small Hydropower Plant in Oborniki on Wełna river was preceded by a long preparation Convencional sources 97.83% period. Hydropower plant is located in the area of “Słonawy” Natural Landscape Park and “Natura 2000” area, which resulted in the need to fulfil a series of additional requirements necessary Water energy 1.91% to obtain permits to implement the project. During the implementation we remembered about Wind energy 0.19% ecology and the local community. Hydropower plant is equipped with a fish ladder. Furthermore, local citizens were given a possibility to safely and comfortably cross the river and floodplains Biogas 0.07% created a convenient holiday destination. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 63 6 In January 2008, Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) began power generaThanks to biogas plants in Poland. Installation was built by Agrogaz company from which this plant tion from renewable energy sources thorough the biomass boiler was bought and then its management was biomass co-firing with conventional fuel (coal) thanks to the installation for 200 MW units. fuelled solely commissioned. After commencement of its activities the local citizens began to complain In Elektrownia Kozienice already in eight out with biomass, about the odour. Voivodeship Environmental of ten power units biomass was used in 2011. Protection Inspector in Bydgoszcz performed Installation for the generation of combined Elektrociepłownia until Autumn 2011 seven control proceedings heat and power with the use of coal and biomass is also operating in Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” consumes and inspections, after which took the decision to suspend operations of the biogas plant. We “Białystok” (CHP Białystok) thanks to adapting 120 thousand tons appealed and as such biogas plant operated to this process one of the two boilers. Furthermore, Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” plans of coal less and in 2011. However, management of the biogas plant begun repair and maintenance works at to modernize until the end of 2012 the second replaces it with 270 our request10. boiler for biomass co-firing. thousand tons Despite the difficult first experience in Liszkowo of biomass. biogas plant we intend to continue our investments in biogas. On the other hand MEC Piła prepared project Power generation The Construction of a Cogeneration unit We build from scratch biogas plant in Gorzesław in Elektrociepłownia Bialystok for biomass in ORC technology for District in Dolnośląskie province, Oleśnicki disBoiler House KR-Koszyce in Piła . This project trict with the planned generation capacity Process of power generation received funding from the European Union 1.6 MW. In May 2011, ENEA S.A. acquired in Elektrociepłownia “Białystok within measure 9.1 Highly Efficient Energy DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z .o.o. company which takes place in the combined system, Production , priority IX of the Operational is the owner of the construction project in which chemical fuel energy is used Programme Infrastructure and Environment of biogas plant in Gorzesław designed to generfor production of heat and power. 2007-2013. ate energy from agricultural substrates. In June, It is the most effective method for we commenced the construction of biogas generating heat and electricity, which In January 2010, ENEA S.A. bought Elekplant, which till the end of 2011, was brought brings measurable economic, energy trownia Biogazowa Liszkowo (Liszkowo Biogas to lockup stage of fermenters, tanks for postand ecological benefits. Power Plant) in Kujawsko-Pomorskie province, digestate and technical building. CommisRojewo district, which acts as a utilization plant sioning of the biogas plant is planned for of biomass by-product. It is one of the first December 2012. 10) In September 2012 the Agricultural Market Agency suspended the operation of the biogas plant. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 64 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Table 21 Energy generated from renewable energy sources and cogeneration in MWh Specification 2010 2011 White certificates Energy generated from RES for which Elektrownie Wodne received 155 239.305 160 479.361 – new responsibilities green certificates of origin. Production volume and number of certificates of origin from Elektrownia 7 451.976 6 175.880 White certificates are certificates of energy Biogazowa Liszkowo (Liszkowo Biogas Power Plant). Energy generated in Farma Wiatrowa Darżyno (Darżyno Wind Farm) – 12 918.996 efficiency introduced by the Energy Effifor which company Elektrownie Wodne received green certificates of origin. ciency Act as at 15 April 2011. Their goal Energy generated from RES unit of Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” 114 027.455 194 269.865 is to achieve measurable energy savings. (CHP Białystok). Energy generated from CHP unit of Elektrociepłownia “Białystok” The Act imposes an obligation on energy 461 385.110 464 440.926 (CHP Białystok). companies related to acquiring and remisEnergy generated from RES of Elektrownia “Kozienice” thanks to biomass co-firing (green certificates). 319 150.283 393 077.915 sion of property rights in form of white Energy generated in Elektrownia “Kozienice” from cogeneration certificates. In 2011, there hasn’t yet been 65 982.939 55 164.919 (red certificates). corresponding entries in regulations that would allow participation in tenders for Enea Operator, the independent distribution In the context of ENEA Operator operations white certificates. With the announcement operator, plays an important role in the develclimate change and its impact on the developof such tender by the President of ERO opment of renewable energy sources in Poland. ment of renewable energy sources is not only individual companies of ENEA Capital From the efficiency of ENEA Operator operainvestment and business opportunities, but Group may apply for white certificates. tions depends accessibility of network for all also risks. In accordance with the Energy Law, current and potential users of the distribuENEA Operator the energy distributor is obliged tion network, and scale of renewable energy to conclude agreements for grid connection sources connections. The company continues with entities that request such connection, network investments to enable connections including RES. If ENEA Operator refuses to conof RES. 116 MW of power generated by renewclude such an agreement, it is required to notify able energy sources was connected to the ENEA the President of the ERO and the aforemenOperator distribution system in 2011. tioned entity, stating the reason for refusal. Refusal is connected with proceedings carried out by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, which as a result may create financial implications. Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 65 6 6.3. ENEA Capital Group investment plan focuses on the implementation of numerous investments until 2020, which are related to expendiInvestment plans ture of ca. 18.7 billion PLN. Those investments of ENEA Capital Group shall have influence on our impact on the environment. They are aimed at three directions: ENEA Capital Group is in the process of transformation of strategic importance, which 1. Development of conventional energy 3. Renewable Energy Sources (RES) and shall translate into its structure and efficiency sources (41% of the planned expendicogeneration: in the coming decades. ENEA replies in this ture): a. development of energy from wind and manner not only to the market but also envia. construction of a new coal unit in Koziebiogas, ronmental challenges. ENEA Capital Group key nice with capacity of 1 075 MW gross, b. increase of power generated by ENEA stakeholders expect i.e. actions for the country’s commissioning of which is planned for Capital Group wind farms to the level power safety, implementation of large-scale the second half of 2017, of 250-350 MW, pro-environmental solutions, sustainable develb. gradual modernization of the remaining c. increase of the installed power in biogas opment and financial stability. Completion power units in Kozienice. plants to the level of 40-60 MW. of these expectations is for us at the same time a big challenge and an opportunity to build 2. Distribution: ENEA position of a leader among energy groups a. connection of new users and producers in Poland. (RES) to the existing power grid; b. increase of coverage and modernisation of the existing grid for enhancing efficiency, c. decrease of grid losses, d. replacement of the most worn out sections of the power lines. ENEA Operator projects ENEA Operator received a subsidy in 2011 for a total of four projects under the Regional Operational Programme of Zachodniopomorskie Province for years 2007-2013: 1. Construction of the 110/15 kV substation in Wałcz with HV power line 110 kV and MV power lines 15 kV ; 2. Conversion of the 110 kV line Dąbie – Pomorska ; 3. Conversion of the 110 kV line Pomorska – Załom ; 4. Conversion of the 110 kV line Załom – Goleniów . Impact on the environment – we protect the environment 66 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Public relations – we power communitiesi 67 Public relations 7 – we power communities Companies of ENEA Capital Group engage in socially responsible practices and support, in various ways, activities for the sake of local communities, as those companies feel a part of those local communities. Social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group is not only limited to a direct financial support of beneficiaries and other social partners. Companies initiate original programs dedicated to significant from the social point of view subjects, develop actions within the employee volunteering program and give weight to building lasting relationships with their surrounding and local authorities. 7.1. Strategy. Its creation was preceded by an analysis of the Capital Group impact, its social role Application form and rules of community commitment are available on-line on the ENEA S.A. and analysis of the stakeholders expectations. corporate websites. It allows all interested parPolicy of ENEA ties to submit willingness to cooperate within Capital Group The Policy regulations help individual comcommunity engagement. The form and posted community engagement panies to select social actions in accordance on the website information on the directions with the ENEA Capital Group CSR Strategy of community engagement indicate to benCompanies of ENEA Capital Group differ and to achieve synergies of individual initiaeficiaries what information is crucial for us in the scope of their activities of a social nature, tives which fill in the key directions of comin the process of social activities selection. due to the scale of operations, the nature and munity engagement from the Capital Group social circumstances. In April 2011, the Capital perspective. The Policy introduced also new tools Policy of community engagement sets two Group adopted Policy of ENEA Capital Group which improve the implementation of framed directions of social activities: Environment community engagement to make the most directions of community engagement by indiand Community . of individual companies social activities and vidual companies and co-operation with social unify them with Strategy of corporate organizations. These include the application Environment social responsibility of ENEA Capital Group . form to facilitate contact and evaluation form includes initiating and supporting projects and The development of Policy of ENEA Capital to perform objective, transparent analysis activities for environment protection and educaGroup community engagement (hereinafter of the numerous requests for support submitted tion through foundations, associations, schools, referred to as Policy) was one of the specific by potential beneficiaries and the social partners. colleges, welfare associations, hospitals and objectives in the implementation of CSR other institutions working for the public good. Public relations – we power communities 68 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 “Community” include projects and activities aimed at supporting local development through education and innovative solutions that develop social capital of local communities, develop competences and knowledge of members of these communities and reinforces active attitudes for the common good. ENEA Capital Group also supports projects, healthcare activities and promotion of healthy lifestyle. Such initiatives include: support of the rehabilitation processes, ENEA S.A. regularly helps the blind – in 2011 the company supported a workshop “Przemiany conducted by the Association Cultures counteract social exclusion due to disability Forum in Poznań – photo by Andrzej Dobosz. or ill health, promotion of healthy lifestyle and healthy social attitudes – conducted by associations, schools, colleges, welfare associations, Dr Marian Król President of Hipolit Cegielski Association hospitals and other institutions working for the public good. Hipolit Cegielski Association operates to promote economic and cultural development of Wielkopolska province. It does so in the spirit of positivism, which developed in the nineteenth century Moreover, in 2011, as a result of charting in the region. Companies of ENEA Capital Group are historically associated with the region Policy of ENEA Capital Group community of Wielkopolska, which translates into activities of the Capital Group for the local community. It is proved by consistent cooperation with the Association. What unites us is, however, a common engagement a new shape of the Rules for goal, to support local social initiatives, to support educational and environmental projects, which the granting donations by the Management is a work from scratch. From the beginning of our cooperation we could count on substantial Board of ENEA S.A. was approved. These support in the conducted by us projects and partnership in our initiatives. Decision to cooperate with the Association was not accidental which translates into the quality of our cooperation. straight forward rules are also communicated to potential beneficiaries and social partners ENEA Capital Group supports our two major projects undertaken as part of activities for the deveby means of www.enea.pl website in the tab lopment of social capital – THC Scholarship Fund and the Club of Young Positivists. By supporting dedicated to corporate social responsibility. the Fund, the company helps to shape Polish future through investing in the education of young people. Companies of ENEA Capital Group also appreciate the potential and importance of the young In 2011, the companies of ENEA Capital Group generation by supporting the Club of Young Positivists, which brings together outstanding students handed over for social activities donations and graduates, perhaps, the future elite of our country. Thanks to the support of its partners, in the total amount of 1 451 979.72 PLN. the Association may pursue its goals. In the case of the ENEA Capital Group it is a great value that financial support is accompanied by the faith in the meaning and purpose of these activities. Public relations – we power communitiesi 69 7 7.2. How to improve energy efficiency. Solutions for business Environment Experts of ENEA S.A. together with representatives of the daily Puls Biznesu organized a series of useful for entrepreneurs conferences. Power engineers Implementation of the social actions within explained how to perform energy consumption and savings analysis in the comEnvironment direction is one of our priorities pany, what factors influence the price of electricity, what a typical invoice and due to its nature and held by ENEA Capital the agreement with the energy provider include and what are the possibilities Group competences. of contracts negotiating. The project was carried out by employees of ENEA S.A. Service and Trade Departments. Conferences were held in Gdańsk, Poznań, Wrocław, in Katowice, Kraków, Bydgoszcz, Rzeszów, Lublin, Łódź and Warsaw. 7.2.1. Sharing expertise 7.2.2. Eko-logiczni.com.pl Winners of Eko-logiczni.com.pl with the prize, We share expertise and promote pro-enviwhich will allow them to save up to 40% of energy. ronmental attitudes among our stakeholders. Eko-logiczni.com.pl is a implemented already A series of ENEA S.A. articles promoting enviin 2010 by ENEA S.A. program in the convenronmentally friendly behaviour and published tion of Internet reality show the basis of which in national and local media is an example was a competition for energy-efficient activiof our commitment in this direction in 2011. ties introduced in households. RepresentaENEA S.A. experts discussed various solutives of three different types of households, tions to reduce the consumption of electricselected from the close circle of nearly 600 ity in households and companies. Readers Internet users, described on their blogs ideas of the following dailies: ”Super Express”, to reduce energy consumption. Blogs were ”Dziennik Gazeta Prawna”, ”Rzeczpospolita”, located on the Internet website containing ”Fakt”, ”Gazeta Lubuska” could learn about many tips on energy efficiency and were writadvises of ENEA S.A. experts. ten by: a single, an elderly couple and a young married couple with a child. In February 2011, winners of the competition received awards which increase energy efficiency at their homes. Public relations – we power communities 70 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 7.2.3. the ENEA brand ambassador was also ambasIn contact with nature sador of the initiative, a guide to the site and a member of the jury granting awards in subseIn contact with nature (“W kontakcie quent editions of the competition for the most z naturą”) directed to a wide range of ENEA interesting environmental initiatives, reported Capital Group stakeholders was a continuation and described on wkontakcieznatura.pl website. and development of environmental education idea “Eko-logiczni.com.pl launched in 2011. In contact with nature, stands out thanks to a comprehensive approach to the subject of environmental education and combination of three aspects necessary to change attitudes: a) increases knowledge and encourages its practical use, b) reinforces a positive attitude to environmental protection and builds ecological The main elements of In contact with nature \community involving Michał Żebrowski, is a www.wkontakcieznatura.pl website with the project ambassador, Main site of educational platform In contact with nature. database, environmental initiatives, calculac) puts emphasis on action, initiates and protor of energy consumption and carbon dioxmotes any action related to environment ide emissions, quizzes, expert advice, and protection. the cyclical competition for the most interesting environmental initiatives. The contestants (individuals, schools, foundations and associations, companies) describe in their blogs Rafał Serafin President of the Polish Environmental Partnership Foundation and on www.wkontakcieznatura.pl website their environmental initiatives. Jury comprising, According to cyclical research of Poles environmental awareness conducted by the Ministry among others, Michał Żebrowski – the ENEA of the Environment, 84% of respondents believe that a person has an influence on the state brand ambassador as well as the Internet users, of natural resources through his/her personal activities. However, 56% of respondents doesn’t think if what he/she does has an impact on the environment in everyday life. It is one of many choose the most interesting initiative and give examples proving that a positive attitude to ecology does not always translate into pro-environattractive awards. The project also involves mental behaviour. How to change this situation? How to encourage Poles to actually reduce impact social networking members i.e. by means on the natural environment in their daily lives? of Facebook active profile. Experiences of the Environmental Partnership Foundation shows that the example does not always have to come from above . Imperatives and prohibitions have their limitations. Often it is easier Until December 2011, 67 initiatives were and more effective to adopt practice from a neighbour, friend, employer or young people at submitted to the competition. Polish Environschool. It's about learning practical approaches used successfully by others and adapt them to own needs, constraints and opportunities. In Poland, there is no shortage of innovative ideas and good mental Partnership Foundation is the contents practices in minimizing amount of waste, energy or water saving, active environment and public partner of the project which is implemented space protection and other environmental activities. under the auspices of the international initiaThe Foundation supports ENEA Capital Group In contact with nature project, as it encourages tive UN Global Compact. Michał Żebrowski Poles to report and share practical solutions to the ecological problems in everyday life. By collecting and propagating ideas and solutions, the website and cyclical competition In contact with nature prove that each of us can do something for the protection of the natural environment. Public relations – we power communitiesi 71 7 7.2.4. ENEA Operator takes care 7.3. of the white stork Community Involvement of ENEA Operator employees in a systematic protection of the white stork is an example of actions within “Environment” 7.3.1. area. White stork often choses power poles for Proud of Heritage nesting. They are a good location for the stork, program as potential enemies have a more difficult access to the nest. Furthermore, young have an easy ENEA S.A. as at 1 August 2011 became a patron take off from the nest while learning to fly. of Royal Łazienki Museum in Warsaw. During Storks every year inhabit the same nests, which three years of sponsorship we shall replace after a few years, can weigh even a ton. Such the entire electrical installation in the complex Belvedere pond in Warsaw's Royal Łazienki – upon of the lighting modernization. a heavy nest may fall. The wet twigs sticking and install spectacular lighting of historic buildout of the nest can touch the wires and cause ings. Patronage to Royal Łazienki Museum a short circuit, and even a fire. This can cause in Warsaw is a first phase of the Proud In 2011, within the framework we illuminated failure or disruption in the supply of electricity. of Heritage program through which we wish Myślewicki Palace. Moreover, we illuminated to express our commitment to the Polish culture Belvedere palace, replaced energy installation ENEA Operator employees for the sake and its place in the minds of people around in the attic of the Officer Cadets School, we of the white stork and in order to ensure contithe world. Technical concepts, design and shall modernize lighting of the second floor nuity of energy supply place nests on a special implementation of works related to the lighting of Sculpture Gallery in the Old Orangery, build platform. On ENEA Operator area there were are performed by ENEOS Sp. z o.o. company power grid along the China Avenue and install 2 856 nests on the power poles in 2011 out which belongs to the ENEA Capital Group. lighting in the Palace on the Isle. Until 2013 of which 2 589 were elevated on the platform. we plan to replace installation and install effective lighting of the royal residence selected historic buildings. Detailed information on completed and planned activities can be found at www.dumnizdziedzictwa.pl. Bike rental in Poznań During the holiday season ENEA S.A. opened in Poznań free bike rental – ecological transportation. Bike rental was opened as at 11 June 2011 in the Tennis Park “Olimpia” in Poznań, and it was open daily from 10 till 19 until 31 August 2011. The cyclists could choose from 35 bicycles, helmets and fastenings. From the bike rental benefited 1 650 people. Public relations – we power communities 72 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Tadeusz Zielniewicz Director of the Royal Łazienki Museum in Warsaw Lesson in a school under “Electricity ENEA is one of the elite Museum Club Patrons, which expressed willingness to finance specific is not so terrible” project projects for the Royal Łazienki during the next three years. Thanks to these funds main power grids are being modernized and Palace on the Isle, Myślewicki Palace, historic pavilions and Belvedere gardens are illuminated. ENEA expresses in this way its social responsibility for the national heritage and gives to Royal Łazienki new energy . Furthermore, the summer residence of King Stanislaw August is becoming energy safer and more beautiful. Our foreign tourists appreciate this and most willingly visit even more magical Royal Łazienki, on the other side, Warsaw citizens believe that our gardens are the happiest place in the capital. 7.3.2. Employee Volunteer Program 14 141 persons General Rules for Employee Volunteer Proconcerns, but above all provide practical skills benefited from gram in the ENEA Capital Group were adopted in 2011. These result directly from the approved needed to give first aid. Employees learn how to behave in case of direct danger of death the support in the same period “Policy of ENEA Capital or in accident and how to help a victim while of ENEA Capital Group community engagement”. We launched two projects of the employee volunteer prowaiting for the ambulance. Demonstrations are run by qualified volunteers – rescuers Group volunteers gram which have their programme and educawith use of professional medical devices, such in 2011 tional materials for group projects, under one as phantoms. logo and program name: From the impulse of the heart . Gala of Benefactor of the Year 2011 competition. Its XV edition was supported by ENEA S.A. Under the First Aid – premedical rescue program, ENEA Operator employees engage in activities aimed at popularizing knowledge on the first aid. They not only eliminate Public relations – we power communitiesi 73 7 Whereas, employee volunteer program “Electricity is not so terrible” is directed for children aged 5-9 years. Volunteers conduct classes in schools and kindergartens, raising awareness of the youngest in the safe handling and Przemysław Pacia respect for electricity. In a special presentation, Province Vice-governor in Wielkopolska children friend – Krzyś Elektryk (Krzyś Electrician), explains how electricity is produced and ENEA is one of the well-known and recognizable brands not only in the Wielkopolska region, why it should be saved. In order to strengthen but throughout the country. It is a very important company for the Polish energy security and a significant employer. knowledge on electricity, children receive from ENEA Capital Group employees educational For me as a volunteer it is essential that ENEA and its subsidiary companies have attached packages including i.e. books “Electricity is not great significance to corporate social responsibility for many years. I was endeared the most by the employee volunteer program in the company. Personally, I had the opportunity to observe so terrible” with electric puzzles and crosshow ENEA employees help to those in need. During “Day of the Sick”, along with volunteers I visiwords. The program has an honorary patronage ted sick children in hospitals in Poznań at the beginning of the year. I was impressed by openness of the Minister of National Education. and commitment of ENEA employees. I really liked the idea of organizing by ENEA I Poznański Korczak Day . I had the honour and pleasure to take part in this action and I even read excerpts of King Matt the First. I saw the smiling faces, happiness and positive energy. I am convinced that In 2011, employee volunteering involved 171 we will organize more of such actions together. employees from companies of the Capital Group. Employees devoted for educational activities in total 1 463 hours. The classes were attended by nearly 14 141 beneficiaries. Academy of a Safe Kindergarten Pupil – project of ENEA Operator implemented in cooperation with PGNiG and Municipal Police Headquarters in Poznań Academy of a Safe Kindergarten Pupil includes organizing preventive meetings, the purpose of which is to promote safe behaviour of children on the way to kindergarten and back home, safe stay in the facility, the yard and at home, acquainting pre-schoolers with the safe use of electrical equipment and skilful recognition of different risks. Meetings take the form of talk, during which children listen to advices and tips provided by the representatives of ENEA Operator and the Police and ask various questions about their safety. Children also receive a set of gadgets which are Volunteers during local family festivals explained useful and remind of the right behaviour in case of emergencies. to the youngest the rules of first aid. Public relations – we power communities 74 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 7.3.3. 7.3.4. Coaliton “Radośniki” “Presidents-Volunteers 2011” of “Fakt” Foundation ENEA Capital Group not only implements ENEA S.A. became in 2011 the patron program aimed at encouraging its employees of “Radośniki” (children’s playing place) in voluntary activities, but also takes an active created by the ” Fakt” Foundation, which part in the promotion of volunteering in Poland. is a excellently equipped playing area and rest “Presidents-Volunteers Coalition 2011” belongs rooms for sick children at the Children's Ward to the most significant activities in this respect. in Międzyrzecze and Ward II F in the OrthoCoalition was officially established on 21 March paedics Major Building in Poznań. 2011 from the initiative of Maciej Owczarek (President of ENEA S.A.) and Paweł Łukasiak “Radośniki” of Fact Foundation are friendly (President of the Academy for the Developspaces for children which are equipped with ment of Philanthropy in Poland). Six members toys, appropriate furniture and home elec– CEOs signed under appeal “Time for Business, tronics. Time for Support” on that day. Presidents are active volunteers and at the same time support the development of employee volunteering in their companies and among other business people in Poland. Jan Domaniewski Vice-president of the “Fakt” Foundation Action of “Radośniki” creation which are playing and educational rooms on hospital wards for children, Fact Foundation treated and treats as a real opportunity to impact on the lives of sick Signing of the appeal “Presidents-Volunteers Coalition 2011”. children. This action was sentenced to success, we could not afford to resign. I believe that ENEA became a partner to our action so willingly, because it is a company that values real changes in the surrounding reality. Changes for the better! “Radośniki” action continues and develops, while our partner ENEA doesn’t pay the role of a marketing and profit-oriented corporation, but simply a devoted friend. Without any conditions, enjoys the results of working together. Just because it was possible to help someone. This and next year is a time of a great debate on CSR in Poland. Some argue in this discussion, that companies need to convince themselves to the idea of socially responsible business. Meanwhile social responsibility, sensitivity, is not a result of any action, but the cause. In fact there is no need for CSR term, decent company is enough. ENEA is exactly such a decent, good company. Public relations – we power communitiesi 75 7 7.3.5. 7.3.6. Construction of Elektrownia Kozienice Women’s Energy Unique relations (Kozienice Power Plant) in the seventies with the local community was accompanied by intensive development Women's Energy is a project that focuses of neighbouring Świerże Górne town and on improving the situation of women. CamCompanies of ENEA Capital Group are a part entire Kozienice district. Development of archipaign conducted by Gazeta Wyborcza daily of local communities and take an active part tecture an infrastructure of neighbouring with and “Wysokie Obcasy” (High Heels) was in their lives. Co-operation of Elektrownia the Power Plant areas took place along with launched in 2011. It is to support changes “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) with the growing number of employees, both: curin all areas of life where women are not treated local authorities and other representatives rent residents of the region as well as workers as equal with men. Experts and practitionof the Kozienice district local community coming from entire country. Today Elektrownia ers help to find the ways for using women’s is an example of special relations with the social “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) under power in business. Therefore, ENEA Capital environment. It is connected with the history the name of ENEA Wytwarzanie is the largest Group became a partner of this action. Among and region development. employer in the region which highly appreciates the series of materials, on Wyborcza.pl, one may cooperation with all social partners for the sake find interviews with women working in ENEA of high quality of life of the employees, their Capital Group, who use their energy with families and the entire local community. success in the professional and private field. Support for women after mastectomy Leading Polish and foreign pole-vaulters ENEA S.A. supported women in the Love participated in an international meeting in the pole jump. life campaign which promotes prevenFirst jump for Marek in Kozienice – photo from the Archives of the Municipal Office tive screenings to detect breast and cerviin Kozienice. cal cancer. The campaign was organized in Świętokrzyskie province, which occupied the last place in the ranking for the number As part of the volunteer action of ENEA Capital Group “Electricity is not so terrible” employees of Elektrownia of preventive screenings by means of bill“Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) conducted educational lessons how to safely handle electricity in schools boards 3D Flip technology enabling to place here a lesson in Public Elementary School in Sieciechów. two images on one carrier. The action was supported by the exhibition “Women after mastectomy in Świętokrzyskie province”. “Love life” campaign. Public relations – we power communities 76 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) undertakes activities which include healthcare ENERGY NEWS and financial support for the district hospital in Kozienice, gives donations to Kozienice FounStakeholders of Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) expect constant dation Healthy Child , the Polish Association information on the company’s plans and current activities. In response to the residents of the Blind, the Polish Red Cross, or Centrum interest, Elektrownia Kozienice together with local television, launched a program of Burns Treatment in Siemianowice. Furthercalled ENERGY NEWS in December 2011. Producers in this programs bring Power Plant more, the following actions may be also treated closer, describe its current affairs, investments, also introduce employees of the Power as elements of the corporate social responsiPlant to the audience along with their various interests. The program is broadcasted bility, this is: the contribution of Elektrownia once a month on Kozienice Chronicles channel. It is also posted on the company’s Kozienice in social housing (district hospital, Internet and Intranet website www.elko.com.pl. clinic, indoor swimming pool Delfin , kindergartens, nursery), support granted to public associations and organizations, patronage over the activities of the Special Educational Centre in Opactwo, and Primary School no. 3, as well as organization of economic conferences and environmental meetings with the young people of the Kozienice district schools. Grzegorz Mierzejewski Specialist for the stock exchange information ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A. (until 2011 under the name Elektrownia „Kozienice”) Involvement of ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A. employees in the employee volunteer program From the impulse of the heart and St. Nicholas’ Day action for “PANDA” charges of Socialization Centre in Kozienice were for us the most valuable social activities in 2011. 26 volunteers from Elektrownia “Kozienice” engaged in the project “Electricity is not so terrible”. Volunteers conducted classes in the schools of the Kozienice district. 1500 students from 25 schools and educational institutions were involved in the project. This action lasted 14 days, and volunteers spent with children in total 74 hours. The program also included participants of summer camps organized by the Afterschool Centre “Ogród Jordanowski” (The Garden of Jordan) in Kozienice. On the other side St. Nicholas’ Day action for “PANDA” charges of Socialization Centre in Kozienice resulted with prepared by the volunteers 26 large boxes with toys, school materials, books, clothing and footwear, hygiene products and cosmetics which were handed over to the charges of this institution. Campaign to improve the residents safety of the Kozienice district “Safe Kozienice District . Public relations – we power communitiesi 77 7 Zofia Karaś Director of „PANDA” Socialization Centre 7.3.7. Children's Home in Kozienice has been operating for nearly 30 years. It is a home for children Promotion of active lifestyle in a difficult life situation, both: in good physical shape, as well as children with mental retardation and health restrictions. Usually there is around 35 children in our facility. It is a large group and all kind of support is necessary. Albert Einstein said, Only a life lived for others is worth Under the Community direction ENEA Capiliving . Employees of Elektrownia “Kozienice” (Kozienice Power Plant) understand these words tal Group draws attention to the promotion and engage in helping our institution. We live next door, but also together – help we receive, of healthy lifestyle, physical activity and sport. speaks for it the best. It is one of the important aspects of achievWe appreciate support received from Elektrownia Kozienice . Employees of the Power Plant ing the objectives of the “Policy of ENEA whom we had the opportunity to meet in person, understand the needs that accompany us every Capital Group community engagement”. This day in taking care of children. I am pleased that they approach our children with such kindness, when they visit our facility. What's more, employees of the Power Plant are open to a long-term is reflected in both: in sponsoring international cooperation and we know that we can count on them. It means a lot to us. and national sporting events, as well as in supporting local activities. We operate in this area on a large scale. In 2011, ENEA S.A. supported within sponsorship or donations the following sport events: • HOPE FOR EURO. International Polish ChamMałgorzata Bebelska pionship of Children from Care Homes First Deputy Mayor of Social Affairs, Municipality Kozienice in Football; • Dance and theatre workshops for blind within the International Contemporary Elektrownia Kozienice (Kozienice Power Plant) is the largest company in the city and the region, which employs ca. 2 thousand workers, about 8% of the town residents and Kozienice district. Dance Workshop in Poznań. Location of the Power Plant in the seventies of such a high potential resulted with the population growth of 10 times, thereby stimulating the development of the social structure, development of construction, infrastructure, which automatically created many levels of cooperation with the local authorities. Elektrownia Kozienice is a strategic partner of the municipal government in the implementation of investment, cultural and sport undertakings. We are joined by common objectives and activities for the sake of the community, we regularly organize concerts: New Year and Beginning of Music Summer – with opera artists, Power Engineer’s Day and Summer Farewell, Municipal Meeting for Christmas Eve with residents and sporting events on a national and international level. Goals and tasks merge together. Educational institutions, health care facilities and Children's Home are institutions of public interest and support from the Power Plant. We together create a structure of the Football Club Management Board and participate in its funding. Vision of Power Plant expansion creates hope for stability of the labour market and economic development, furthermore a constant contact of the Management Board of the Power Plant with the Kozienice Municipality creates a sense of place identity. Public relations – we power communities 78 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 • Senior World Cup in Canoeing-Poznań 2011. • Final of Individual Polish Championships 2011 in speedway racing in Leszno (ENEA S.A. in 2011 became the general sponsor of the Poland national speedway team for seasons 2012, 2013, 2014). • Volleyball: World League Intercontinental Round in Poland in Łódź, Płock and Katowice, the World League Finals 2011 in Gdańsk, World Grand Prix Championship in Poland in Bydgoszcz and Zielona Góra. • 15 European Short Course Swimming Championships in Szczecin. Public relations – we power communitiesi 79 7 • Polish Cup in Men's Beach Volleyball • VII Polish Championship of Power Enginein Kozienice. ers in Beach Volleyball ENEA CUP 2011 in Pogorzelica. • ENEA CUP 2011 – Polish Cup Final in men's volleyball in Warsaw and the Polish Cup final in women’s volleyball in Inowrocław. • Poznań Open ATP Challenger Tour. Nordic walking workshops organized Marking of Nordic walking routes in parks in Poznań and Warsaw. as a launch of In contact with nature program inscribe in the course of our efforts to promote sport and active lifestyle. All willing persons had a chance to benefit from lessons conducted by the Nordic walking trainers in Sopot, Warsaw and Poznań and take part in the march which was accompanied by refreshments and other attractions. Tomasz Trzciński Marketing Specialist, MEC Piła Sp. z o.o. Activities related to social commitment are for MEC Piła company, most of all, promotion of active lifestyle. We support activities related to the promotion of sport, and they include: League PTPS Piła in Women's Volleyball, Girls Volleyball National Championship and local football games. Supporting of the Guinness World Record for the longest game of Futsal was an important event for us. Aside from sport, our actions are directed towards different cultural initiatives. Patronage over Music Festival & Master Class, which is a unique idea of promoting very talented string musicians worldwide was one of the most important to us. Social responsibility also relates directly to our actions directed to our customers. It is our priority to provide effective solutions that enhance the safety of our region residents thanks to i.e. liquidation of gas stoves in our customers’ homes. Nordic Walking workshop at the beach in Sopot. Public relations – we power communities 80 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Public relations – we power communitiesi 81 Information 8 on the report Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group describes operations 8.2. of 18 companies of the Capital Group for 01.01.2011 – 31.12.2011, unless otherwise Methodology stated in the report. The report presents ENEA Capital Group in the context of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development. This is the first report of ENEA Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group of this type and it is complementary to the annual report. This report, Capital Group was prepared in accordance according to international standards, is also first in the Polish market among companies with international reporting standards – Global which operate in generation, distribution and sale of electricity. Reporting Initiative (GRI) its latest version G3.1. application level C. On this application level presentation of at least 10 indicators is required 8.1. The above companies are included in the report in division to: economic, social and environmenEntities included except for three companies: Annacond Entertal indicators. This report presents 18 indicators. in the report prises Sp. z o.o., DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z o.o. Calculation methods specified in the GRI guideand ENTUR Sp. z o.o. (i.e. 18 companies). Their lines are applied in this report. An approach ENEA Capital Group comprises 21 companies: exclusion from the reporting doesn’t affect was adopted in which data presented in division ENEA S.A., ENEA Operator Sp. z o.o., Annacond the overall picture of ENEA Capital Group to individual companies where it was possible, Enterprises Sp. z o.o., ENEA Wytwarzanie S.A. impact. Exclusions primarily result from the size allows its Readers to evaluate the entire impact (previous name Elektrownia „Kozienice”S.A.), and nature of these companies. Two new of ENEA Capital Group and individual key Elektrownie Wodne Sp. z o.o., Elektrociepłownia companies Annacond Enterprises Sp. z o.o. companies. This report is the first CSR report „Białystok” S.A., Miejska Energetyka Cieplna and DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z o.o. employ two of ENEA Capital Group. Hence the company Piła Sp. z o.o., Przedsiębiorstwo Energetyki persons. Furthermore, ENTUR Sp. z o.o., which hasn’t yet taken decision on the review policy Cieplnej Sp. z o.o., DOBITT ENERGIA Sp. z o.o., delivers services to ENEA Capital Group and of this report. For the CSR report, the annual ENEA Centrum S.A. (previous name: Energetyka other clients employs 5 persons. reporting cycle was adopted. Poznańska Biuro Usług Technicznych S.A.), Energetyka Poznańska Przedsiębiorstwo Usług Additionally, ELKO Trading Sp. z o.o. is asso8.3. Energetycznych ENERGOBUD Leszno Sp. z o.o., ciated with ENEA Capital Group and all its The process ENEOS Sp. z o.o., BHU S.A., Energomiar shares are held by Elektrownia Kozienice S.A. of report preparation Sp. z o.o., Hotel EDISON Sp. z o.o., Energetyka Moreover, ENEA S.A. holds shares in the folPoznańska Zakład Transportu Sp. z o.o., lowing companies: Przedsiębiorstwo ProdukThe very process of reporting for 18 different Energo-Tour Sp. z o.o., Niepubliczny Zakład cji Strunobetonowych Żerdzi Wirowanych companies involved a number of individuals, Opieki Zdrowotnej Centrum Uzdrowiskowe WIRBET S.A. (49% votes), Towarowa Giełda not only employees of ENEA Capital Group ENERGETYK Sp. z o.o., ENTUR Sp. z o.o., Energii S.A. (1,02% votes), EXATEL S.A. (2,21% companies, but also its external stakeholders. ITSERWIS Sp. z o.o., Auto-Styl Sp. z o.o. votes), Tłocznia Metali Pressta S.A. (2,76% In this process, ENEA Capital Group was supvotes), TARPAN Sp. z o.o. (0,76% votes) and ported by CSRinfo advisory company. Monnari Trade S.A. (0,015% votes) – as at 31.12.2011. Those companies haven’t been included in this report. Information on the report 82 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 When defining the contents of the report we Key issues include: Feedback were guided by GRI principles, in particular 1. Environment protection, including in parthe four principles: materiality, stakeholder ticular energy-saving solutions, minimizing Corporate Communications Department inclusiveness, sustainability context, and comof negative impact of coal combustion, Brand Strategy Office pleteness. Key issues in the report were deterCO2 emissions in the context of generaphone. +48 / 61 884 54 35 mined by the approved in 2010, “Strategy tion and distribution, innovation and new e-mail: csr@enea.pl of corporate social responsibility of ENEA Capital investments, including renewable energy fax: +48 / 61 884 59 70 Group”. Subsequently, feedback from internal sources. www.enea.pl and external stakeholders, other strategic docu2. Relations and cooperation with local authoul. Górecka 1 ments, policy, issues important to the industry rities, including relations with municipalities. 60-201 Poznań and economic environment especially acquired 3. Services and products offer to customers for the purposes of the reporting process. including energy and service pricing poliResults of this analysis in the form of a list cies, quality of client service, including time of issues were organized during workshop of response to failures, communication with meeting which was attended by representatives the client and research of its satisfaction. of the Capital Group companies. As a result 4. Accuracy and fairness of the company. of this process a list of key material issues, 5. Occupational health and safety. referred to in the report, was established. Illustration 7 Prioritization of significant issues in the report Joanna Maderska Manager for Corporate Social Responsibility ENEA priority to stakeholders This CSR report is the first in the ENEA Capital High priority Group history and also the first report according to the GRI international standards among companies operating in generation, distribution and sale of electricity in Poland. We realize that we set new standards in the ENEA Capital Medium priority Group and in the market. As such we value most all comments and opinions from the most important persons – Readers and Users of this report. Please send and call to share with personal reflections and observations on the report. Lower priority I would like the next reporting materials to even better match Your expectations. Lower priority Medium priority High priority impact on the company Information on the report 83 Table Global Reporting Initiative Indicators Indicator Guidelines GRI G3.1 Reporting level Reference In the report Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent 1.1 Full 3; 25; 57 senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. Organization profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Full 6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Full 6; 24 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 Full 6; 7; 8 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Full 7; 10; 88; 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. Full 6; 10 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Full 6; 7; 8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 2.7 Full 10; 24 and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Full 6; 10; 11 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Full 8 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Full 12 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period. Full 82 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Not applicable – 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Full 82 3.4 Contact person. Full 83; 88 3.5 Process for defining report content. Full 82; 83 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 Full 82 joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the repor. Full 82 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period Full 7; 8; 82 and/or between organizations. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, Not applicable – nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 3.11 Not applicable – or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Full 84-86 84 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Indicators Guidelines GRI G3.1 Reporting level Reference in the report Supervision, liabilities and commitment Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance 4.1 Full 14; 15 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, 4.2 Full 14 their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender 4.3 Full 15 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 4.4 Full 15; 20; 41 to the highest governance body. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international 4.13 Full 9 advocacy organizations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Full 20; 21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Full 20 Economic indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments Partially 11; 69 to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due EC2 Partially 3; 57; 58; 59; 63 to climate change. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public EC8 Partially 73; 74; 76; 77 benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Partially* 54; 55 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Partially* 54 Partially EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (reporting doesn’t include 61 division by source) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Partially* 58 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Partially* 58 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially* 59; 61; 62 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance EN28 Full 53 with environmental laws and regulations. Social indicators: labour practices and decent work Partially LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. (reporting doesn’t include 38; 39 division by source) Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, LA2 Partially* 40 and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part time LA3 Partially* 42; 43; 44 employees, by significant locations of operation. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Partially* 40 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number LA7 Partially* 47 of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Partially* 48 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according LA13 Partially* 14; 15; 38 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Social indicators: product responsibility Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 Partially* 20; 28; 29; 30; 31; 32 customer satisfaction. *Reporting level results from the fact that there was no data available for all of companies covered by the reporting process. 85 Table Global Compact In 2011, ENEA S.A. joined the UN Global Compact, and thus publicly agreed to respect the following principles and actively implement them in the business operations. The table shows which actions described in the report relate to the Global Compact principles. Principle Reference In the report Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 18 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 41 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition 41 of the right to collective bargaining. 37 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. (in 2011 there was no initiatives dedicated to this topic) 37 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. (in 2011 there was no initiatives dedicated to this topic) Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 76 Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 54-66 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 71 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 52-57; 63-65 Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 41 Table Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy of ENEA Capital Group Since 2011 CSR Strategy has been implemented in individual companies of ENEA Capital Group. The CSR Strategy was adopted in 2010. The table below shows results of individual companies in the implementation of three directions of CSR Strategy. Strategy objective Reference In the report 1. Ensuring well-balanced human resource management. 41-45; 48; 49 2. Ensuring a dialogue with stakeholders and the local community and taking their voice into account 20-22; 68-80 in business operations. 3. Promoting pro-environmental practices and behaviours. 52-66; 71 86 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of ENEA Capital Group for 2011 Acknowledgements We wish to thank to all persons who contributed to the report. This is the first report of this kind in the Capital Group and we treat it as the opening report and the first experience of this type reporting. It was our aim to present ENEA Capital Group not only on the basis of financial results or press releases, but also in terms of our environmental and social impact. This report wouldn’t have been created if it wasn’t for a huge commitment of many persons, both: employees of ENEA Capital Group as well as our social partners and persons whose opinions helped to develop and define the content of the report. We especially thank to those persons who gave interviews to the report. We wish to thank to employees of all companies, who participated in the development of the CSR Strategy. Without it, we wouldn’t be the first company in our industry which has published the report in accordance with the international reporting standards – Global Reporting Initiative. Among the large number of the ENEA Capital Group employees who were involved in drafting of the first CSR report and patiently answered to all necessary questions, we especially thank to the following people: Beata Alkowska, Przemysław Andrzejewski, Karolina Bartkowiak, Piotr Błasiak, Jarosław Błotny, Izabela Brzezińska, Sławomir Brzeziński, Marek Cackowski, Joanna Chojnowska, Marcin Cichy, Sławomir Cybertowicz, Katarzyna Górko-Narożniak, Alina Dakowska, Jarosław Długiewicz, Anna Dobrzyńska, Janusz Durowicz, Anna Dygus, Lech Dziubiński, Jacek Flis, Lidia Gawron, Paweł Górski, Adam Grochulski, Magda Hilszer, Katarzyna Jarzębińska, Luiza Jelewska, Grzegorz Jeziorny, Marek Jędrzejczak, Dorota Kania, Bogdan Klepas, Marcin Kliks, Mirosław Kowalczyk, Ewa Krzyżanowska, Sylwia Lebiedź, Marcin Lew, Dagmara Lewandowska, Piotr Ludwiczak, Katarzyna Łaszcz, Agata Łuczak, Przemysław Łyczyński, Marzena Macioszczyk, Agnieszka Małecka, Grzegorz Mierzejewski, Ewa Mikołajczak, Marek Mikulski, Katarzyna Mińkowska, Barbara Moszczyńska, Tadeusz Markowski, Elżbieta Darol-Matuszewska, Agnieszka Nowicka, Anna Orłowska, Paweł Oboda, Witold Olejniczak, Maciej Pietrula, Dagmara Prystacka, Daria Półrol, Edyta Romańska, Danuta Schaefer, Zbigniew Słowiński, Danuta Stec, Dariusz Sułkowski, Wojciech Szczerbiński, Tomasz Szewczyk, Julita Szlachciak, Danuta Tabaka, Marcin Taisner, Marta Tomaszewska, Justyna Tomczyk, Mirosław Trajman, Ewa Dobrzańska-Trela, Luiza Trocka, Ewa Troszczyńska, Tomasz Trzciński, Tadeusz Waltrowski, Jolanta Warat, Karolina Werner, Dariusz Wicher, Anna Dolska – Zaghdoudi, Olga Zawada, Arkadiusz Zdulski, Piotr Żuberek, Agnieszka Żyro. We also thank CSRinfo company, which has supported us since the beginning of ENEA Capital Group CSR Strategy setting, for their support in the reporting process. Thank you, Reporting team 87 Contact ENEA S.A. ul. Górecka 1, 60-201 Poznań phone. +48 / 61 884 55 44, fax +48 / 61 884 59 59 e-mail: csr@enea.pl Addresses of individual companies of ENEA Capital Group are available at www.enea.pl 88 W trosce o środowisko naturalne, raport został wydrukowany na papierze spełniającym najwyższe standardy ekologiczne, przyjete przez Forest Stewardship Council.
