United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 RASTGAR ENGINEERING COMPANY (REC) ISLAMABAD, PAKISTAN www.rastgar.com Communication on Progress Rastgar Engineering Company [hereby referred to as Rastgar] takes pride in the fact that ever since its inception in 1967, its dealings with all its customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders have always been upright and based on universally accepted ethics and principles of human rights and green and corruption-free environment. With this background, Rastgar found it reasonably comfortable to be one of the first Pakistani companies to sign up for Global Compact in 2006. Since then, it continues to support those principles not only within Rastgar Engineering Company but also in the business community around it. Our most recent and distinguished achievement in this behalf is the 4th International Conference on UN Global Compact held in Islamabad on 31 Jan 2013, with active participation of Rastgar Group, headed by our Chairman Mr. Imtiaz Ali Rastgar, the Conference Convener. The group took leading active part in arranging the conference under the auspices of the Pakistan Network of Global Compact, Employers' Federation of Pakistan, and the Islamabad Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The conference was attended by the Federal Secretary for Human Rights, various Senators, and delegates from 70 companies. Some pictures of the conference are also attached. Remarkable success of this conference is evident from the fact that no less than 26 business organizations signed up for the UNGC at the conference end. These companies are:1: Ovex Technology (Pvt) Ltd. 9: Cyber Vision International (Pvt) Ltd. 2: A Company of Maqbool Enterprise (Pvt) Ltd. 10: Hypercomp (Pvt) Ltd. 3: Karachi Steel Mills Ltd. 11: Salman Mansoor & Associates. 4: Pearl Pharmaceutical (Pvt) Ltd. 12: Shezan International Ltd. 5: PowerTel (Pvt) Ltd. 13: Daud General Trading. 6: Petracon Engineering (Pvt) Ltd. 14: ASTRO System. Inc 7: Tariq Mustafa Ramzan & Company. 15: Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd. 8: Quantum Geoservices (Pvt) Ltd. 16: Taxila Cotton Mills Ltd. 17: Sihala Four & General Mill (Pvt) Ltd. 22: Dynamic Tooling Services (Pvt) ltd. 18: Elektro Control Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 23: Global Group of Companies (Pvt) Ltd. 19: International Polymer Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 24: Channel 7 Communications. 20: Al karam Textile Mills (Pvt) Ltd. 25: RASTGAR & Company (Pvt) Ltd. 21: Iqbal Group Ltd. 26: Roots School System. 4th National Global Compact Conference, Islamabad We at Rastgar firmly believe that the business world can play a pivotal role in eradicating poverty, helping the cause of education, combating corruption and safeguarding our environment. We therefore continue to strongly support all the 10 Global Compact principles. Achievements of Rastgar during the recent years have regularly been communicated to all our stakeholders through various channels including: • Annual Report to share holders, creditors, bankers etc • Declaration on our website www.rastgar.com • Defined policies on Human Rights, Manpower, Environment and anti corruption • Annually updated Employees Handbook • Standard operating procedures • Emails to our suppliers, customers and employees • Prominent notices and posters in our premises • Occasional written communication to all stake holders Our policies on human rights, good labour practices, greener environments and corruption-free business, besides quality and occupational hazards & safety management, are communicated thoroughly within Rastgar right from managers to the workers at all levels. These policies are displayed within our premises through notice boards, audio-visual announcements, banners, objective statements and occasional conferences and celebrations. Our adherence to the internationally accepted policies and principles has enabled us to achieve recognition and certification under International Standards, including: • ISO 14001: 2004 Environment management • OHSAS 18000: 2007 Occupational Hazard and Safety management • ISO 9001: 2008 Quality Management • SA 8000: 2008 Social Accountability • ISO/TS 19649: 2002 Quality Management for Automotive Parts Manufacturers Our employees, supervisors and managers agree on periodic targets and goals to be achieved and measured periodically. We monitor our managers' performance against those targets. Production under ideal conditions conforming to all the 10 principles of UN Global compact is a major target. Specific targets and goals prominently displayed all over the work place include: • Reduce CO2 consumption by a certain percentage • Encourage females to compete for suitable positions to improve their ratio with male employees • Plant minimum number of trees each season • Reduce consumption of natural and other resources • Ensure proper disposal of harmful effluents and other wastes • Recycle as much material as possible • Encourage employees' participation in daily floor meetings, cleanliness drives, safety programmes, healthy activities, cafe management affairs, plantation drives, • Timely action on allegations, if any, of improper labour or corrupt practices, violation of safety precautions, and any discriminations etc., We ensure that everyone in Rastgar Engineering Company takes active part toward achievement of prescribed goals. Non conformity, if any, of the policies and practices on human rights, labour, environment and anti corruption is discussed and reviewed in higher management meetings. In case of non conformity being established, strict action is taken and all necessary remedial and preventive measures are introduced. Performance of our managers is also judged by their success in conforming to the standards and achieving the goals / targets. Some notable measures and practices, taken in adherence of the 10 principles of UNGC, as well as under staff welfare policies and other goodwill designs are stated briefly below. Some pictures are also given in illustration of the activities HUMAN RIGHTS We are strong believers in the universally accepted human rights and we take special care to ensure that we do not, even in a small way, indulge into the abuse of any human rights. As mentioned in our Corporate Social Responsibility, we believe our workers to be our most valued and precious asset. We do not discriminate between them on the basis of gender, race, faith or political beliefs etc. There is absolutely no concept of any child or forced labour in Rastgar. All our employment is on mutual consent basis, and employees are at liberty to quit as per defined terms and conditions. In genuine cases, even the notice period may be waived to suit an individual. MR (Management Representative) meets regularly with WR (Workers’ Representative) and workers to discuss workers’ current issues and other work related problems. Human Right Policy MR Meeting with Workers Equal Rights of opportunity Rastgar Engineering Company is committed to providing a working environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and conduct that can be considered harassing , coercive, or disruptive , including , sexual harassment, action, words, jokes or comments based on individual’s sex race, colour, national origin, age, religion, disability etc. We have an Inquiry Committee against Sexual Harassment; the objective of this committee is to make the work environment more professional and dignified, which will make the organization more efficient and productive. Names of Committee members with contact numbers are displayed on Notice Boards in all prominent places of company for the knowledge of workers. Employees are free to express their views and suggestions. All employees with questions or concerns about any type of discrimination/harassment in the workplace are encouraged to bring these issues to the attention of the Inquiry Committee with full confidence. Employees can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Inquiry Committee against Sexual Harassment LABOUR There is absolutely no concept of any child or forced labour in Rastgar. We don’t hire below 18 and do not discriminate on basis of gender, race, faith or political beliefs etc. Employees are given full rights and opportunities to reach highest position. The company fully abides to all local laws such as Minimum Wage Rate, Overtime payment, Social Security, and Government Pension etc. Moreover, our company is shouldering other wider responsibilities towards the society in general and employees in specific. We believe in providing good working environments, training opportunities to improve the skills and salaries of our employees. The company subsidises canteen meals, and rewards teams for achieving distinction in their output. Financial assistance is provided for performing of Hajj and special financial assistance is provided in case of extraordinary medical bills. Company grants are made available for the employees’ children education. Similar financial assistance is also made available on occasions like marriages and death in the family. We keep in mind the services of our deceased team members also, and ensure that the needy dependents receive some regular financial support. Rastgar has introduced following workers benefits for the betterment of our labour: • Educational Scholarship to workers’ children • Scholarship for brilliant students of different universities • Financial support/ pension to deceased workers’ dependants • Special financial grants on dependant’s marriage • Special paid leaves on employees marriage • Special paid leaves in case of family bereavement • Free meals to employees up to certain level and subsidized meal to others • Reimbursement of extraordinary medical cost • Distribution of special Ramadan gift packages • Mark up free loan to workers for purchase of motor cycle • Payment of Overtime Overtime authorization Slip Training to all employees Food packages for employees Distribution of cycles to employees ENVIRONMENT Reduction of CO2 Rastgar has taken technological advancement steps directly to reduce CO2 gas usage by over 80% and reduction in disposal of waste sand in same percentage. Now recyclable (Green) Sand is used in preparation of moulds. Another achievement is the introduction of routing hot air from furnace through shower tanks where smoke, soot and heat are absorbed in water, instead of escaping in full in atmosphere. Reduction in Paper Consumption Rastgar has taken significant steps to reduce paper consumption in company. We always prefer to use recycled paper for stationary/ printing. We encourage suppliers to use recycled paper to print the company record books. In office; paper consumption has been reduced by over 40% from last year. We also use recycled paper in office. Separate recycle box is placed for the recycling the paper. Inter office memo is also sent to all team members as a refresher. These steps have not only reduced the consumption but also reduce our cost. As per the requirement of ISO 14001 Environmental Management System, environmental friendly processes are being used in Rastgar. All the machinery and equipments are calibrated periodically to keep them maintained including Fork Lifter, Generator, drinking water; Dust collector etc. Reduce the Consumption of Natural Resources Rastgar has also reduced consumption of electricity by using energy-saving equipment. We have introduced LED lights as an experiment if it goes successful we will implement this technique in all areas of company. LED lights have reduced our electricity consumption by 60%. We have reduced natural gas consumption by using Solar Geyser in Rastgar. Solar Geysers are being used in company and it has reduced our natural gas consumption by 30%. Solar Geyser in REC Solar Geysers at Rastgar LED Lights at REC Energy saving Lights at REC Air Purification System at REC Plantation Activity 5S Activities & After 5S Code of Conduct for suppliers under Anti Corruption / Bribery Policy Reminder to REC Members to deposit Gifts / Diaries /Calendars with REC Administration CERTIFICATIONS Rastgar Welfare Activities Bar B-Q Activity Employee’s Birthday Celebrations Students’ Visit Rastgar Celebrations Best Team Award Female Employees Get Together Rastgar Celebrates Pakistan Independence Day Iftaar Party Educational Policy Rastgar Suggestion Box Online Suggestion Box is also available on our website www.rastgar.com Detail of CSR Activities is available on www.rastgarblogspot.com Rastgar Engineering Company (Pvt) Ltd. 307, Street 3, I-9/3, Industrial Area, Islamabad44790 Pakistan. Tel: +92-51-4433544-7, Fax: +92-51-4433548 www.rastgar.com
