2012 At the heart of our values Sustainable development report PROFILE CONTENTS 2012 Arc International, l’ Art de la Table* 1825 GOVERNANCE At Arc International, our commitment to Sustainable Development means building Arc International employs 11.841 people worldwide including 6,384 in France. The Group, whose head office is located in Arques, in the French Pas-de-Calais region, achieved a and implementing long-term strategies shared by all. 8 turnover of 1 billion Euros in 2012. Armed with its know-how in glassware, it developed ECONOMICS globally and markets today a full range of tableware products in more than 160 countries. The Group covers the Consumer Goods and Food Service markets through a portfolio of In a constantly changing world, brands, Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques® Paris, Pyrex®** and Chef & Sommelier®. Arc International is continuing its transformation projects. 14 For more than 40 years the Group has also been addressing professional customers – industrialists, traders, manufacturers of semi-finished and finished products, and service ENVIRONMENT For a group that produces and distributes worldwide, providers – by offering them tailored-made solutions to meet their specific requirements (for industry, advertising, premiums and customer loyalty programmes). it is natural to have the environment at heart. 20 Arc International is present in five continents with production sites (France, USA, China, UAE, Russia), distribution subsidiaries (France, US, Spain, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Japan) SOCIAL A group is built on know-how, and sales offices. Finally, the Group has adopted a strategy of sustainable development in order economics and above all the people that work there. 34 to balance economic requirements, social responsibility and respect for the environment, and joined the U.N.’s Global Compact in 2003. COMMUNITIESBy investing in actions of solidarity and sharing, 44 * Tableware 3 Arc International remains true to its values and highlights its uniqueness. ** Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Inc., licensed by Arc International Cookware SAS in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa Key figures € 1 billion in turnover 2012. 11,841 employees, of whom 6,384 are in France. More than 70 Research Development engineers. About 5 million items produced every day. 3 markets : consumer goods, hotel & restaurant and BtoB. 5 main brands : Luminarc®, Arcoroc®, Cristal d’Arques® Paris, Pyrex® **, Chef&Sommelier®. A sales presence in over 160 countries on 5 continents. 6 production sites in France, the United States, China, the United Arab Emirates and Russia. Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission. Interview Is there a particular focus on energy? Absolutely. Energy is a key issue in our business. We cannot produce glass without heat, and energy accounts for 15 to 20% of our costs. So we have to ensure our operations are efficient. To achieve this, the teams from different sites are working together to design economical processes and next-generation furnaces, and to spread best practices to manage energy as effectively as possible. This is a key concern on all the Group’s sites, as reflected in our Energy Policy. GUILLAUME DE FOUGIÈRES, What are the priorities in social terms? CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD The completion of the Employment Protection Plan for the Arques site was one of the success stories in 2012. Employment is a central issue in our decision-making, not just in France but in all the countries in which we are present. Due to the decrease in production at our site in the United Arab Emirates, we unfortunately had to make a certain number of staff cuts. Support was a key aspect in the process, and the staff concerned by redundancies were offered new jobs in other companies in the region thanks to the assistance provided by site’s HR Department. How would you summarize 2012? Safety is a key priority for the Group. The «A Safe Arc Together» project aims to change the 4 company culture and establish safety as one of its essential pillars. This is a great challenge 5 2012 was a difficult year, but it ended on a positive note with the completion of the Employment because the local culture specific to each site means that safety is not taken into account Protection Plan on the Arques site a month ahead of schedule. in the same way. For safety to become second nature, we have established the same rules However, Europe is still in the midst of the economic crisis which makes it difficult to forecast and rituals in every country, for example the «safety review» at the beginning of meetings, how business will evolve. The beginning of 2012 was also marked by a significant drop in sales the focus on safety during factory visits and the safety committees that I chair each month. in the Middle East, due to great political tension in the region. The Americas are holding up well. These actions and the training that has been deployed have started to bear fruit. In 2012, we The Chinese economy, and indeed Asia in general, showed signs of weakness, even though exceeded our target in terms of lost-time accident frequency. All accidents can be avoided if China remains a promising growth area. everyone pays attention to their own safety and that of others. We have already proven our capacity to adapt and I am convinced we have the means to ride out the crisis by leveraging different mechanisms: innovation and by seeking sales volume. More specifically, how would sum up the year in terms of sustainable development? What are the priorities of your innovation policy? All the actions that I have mentioned above concern sustainable development! So despite In terms of products, we are focusing on the development of more robust, economical, and the difficult economic climate, sustainable development continues to be an increasingly environmentally-friendly materials, more colorful decorations, greater functionality and greater important factor in our operating modes and even provides added value for our employees resistance to scratches and dish-washing, as well as reduced packaging. We are also working and our business. What’s more, our partners recognize this. For example, we received the to develop more efficient processes that consume less energy and resources. Responsible Economy Trophy from the «Réseau Alliances» (Alliances Network) in July 2012 Environmental and social impacts are taken into account right from the research and and the Carrefour Sustainable Development Trophy for suppliers in November 2012. development phase and throughout the product design cycle. This is an integral part of our sustainable development policy and our role as a responsible company. Sustainable development report LOCATIONS IN THE WORLD Moscow Gus-Khrustalny Arques Pine Brook Châteauroux New York Mill ville Seoul Tokyo New Delhi Nanjing 6 7 Shanghai Tai pei Ras al Khai mah Dubaï Mexico City Singapore Brondby Dublin Arques Lille Cologne Sao Paulo Ville pinte Roissy Châteauroux Paris Johannesburg Milan Melbourne Saragosse Men-Martins Production sites : Offices Arc International France (AIF) creation date 1825 : Arques, Aire-sur-la-Lys (France), 5 880 employees Production sites Durand Glass Manufacturing Company (DGMC), creation date 1982 : Millville, New Jersey (The United States), 862 employees Distribution subsidiaries Arc Glassware Nanjing (AGN), creation date 2003 : Nanjing (China), 1 119 employees Arc International Middle East (AIME), creation date 2004 : Ras-Al-Khaimah (United Arab Emirates), 1 520 employees Arc International Cookware (AIC), part of the Group since 2006 : Châteauroux (France), 510 employees Opytny Stekolny zavod (osz) part of the Group since 2011 : Gus-Khrustalny (Russia), 1 183 employees Sustainable development report The concept of governance sometimes seems a little abstract, At Arc International, and not always easy to translate into tangible terms. our commitment to Sustainable The governance of the company and its sustainable development Development means building policy is linked to a management system which establishes the and implementing long-term main rules used to make and control decisions that affect the strategies shared by all. Group’s viability and long-term performance. As such, when applied to sustainable development, governance is the system GOVERNANCE The DGMC site used to manage the policy and measure its effects. The DGMC site in the United States launched a major sustainable development initiative in 2012. While the factory had launches a major been involved in sustainable development actions for several sustainable years, the installation of a new smoke filter for the furnaces development marked a real shift in awareness and created a genuine desire initiative to progress and take things to a new level. In February 2012, we conducted an internal audit based on the ISO 26000 standard. This exercise helped us take stock of good practices and note areas for improvement. For example, labor relations and working conditions were identified as a strong point, along with skills development and safety. On the other hand, governance was an area in which there was room for improvement, which is quite normal when the process has just been launched and the management structure is gradually being implemented. Every department was involved in preparing and conducting the 8 9 audit, and they all made positive, enthusiastic contributions to the process. At the end of the audit, a working group was set up with a representative from each department. The group meets every month to define actions and priorities and to monitor their implementation through an action plan. Among the actions launched in 2012, we can note the development of recycling, ISO 26000 is the benchmark international energy control and local community relations (universities, standard concerning corporate social municipal authorities, etc.). responsibility (CSR). The standard has The project was launched a year ago and won the support of existed since the end of 2010 and is starting every employee to ensure that the actions moved forward in to be acknowledged throughout the world. each field. Actions such as the installation of the smoke filter It is based on seven key issues: for the furnaces and the sustainable development project have Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices generated real motivation among all the teams and resulted and Working Conditions, Environment, Fair in tangible ideas to meet customer expectations and build Business Practices, Consumer Issues and sustainable relations with our stakeholders. Community Involvement and Development. Photo : Remy Nesvabda The sustainable development reference This audit tool will ultimately be deployed across all the Group’s audit was created in 2011 based on this sites. This will allow us to assess, measure and develop the standard. It covers seven issues that make skills of local teams and ensure everyone speaks the same it possible to establish a broad-ranging language as regards sustainable development. status report, while indicating areas for improvement and the priority actions to be implemented in different areas. Sustainable development report The internal process is being deployed step by step in the different The results were announced at the awards ceremony, where subsidiaries of the Group. Even before the project is launched, many Arc International won the Gold Award for the exemplary initiatives are being developed throughout the company based on its core implementation of its Employment Protection Plan over recent historical values. years. Against the backdrop of the difficult economic climate in France and Winning this award highlights the company’s humanistic values around the world in recent years, some of the initiatives and actions stand and conduct. Finally, it rightly underlines the efforts of those out as examples in certain areas, such as social issues. who work to preserve this spirit. Following this event, Guillaume de Fougières, Chairman of «As President of the «Réseau Alliances», I am particularly attentive the Board, was invited to speak at the World Forum in Lille, to what is happening in the region’s companies; there are ups and organized by the «Réseau Alliances». downs as well as periodic and longer-term actions. I was particularly He took part in the opening conference alongside Jeremy Rifkin, impressed with the actions undertaken by Arc International as part of President of the «Foundation of Economic Trends», Vianney their re-organization plan. The company showed initiative, developed Responsible Economy Award Mulliez, Chairman of the Board and President of the Executive dialog with the stakeholders and was tenacious. The jury of the Committee of the Auchan Group, Daniel Percheron, President Responsible Economy trophies was unanimous concerning the quality of the Nord Pas-de-Calais Regional Council, and Pierre de of the company’s submission and was very pleased to award the prize to Saintignon, Senior Vice President of the Nord Pas-de-Calais such a company. It is important for the region to have world leaders who testimony Region. The conference addressed the subjects of energy and act as standard bearers for the local economy and regional expertise; it Philippe Vasseur, the third industrial revolution and was entitled «How to combine also shows local SMEs that growth and internationalization are possible Former French the political and economic strengths of a region to succeed in and necessary for a company’s long-term survival. Minister, President the third industrial revolution?» Arc International has a regional culture, history and roots that it has of Réseau Alliances He also spoke at a second conference on the subject of «How managed to preserve despite the development and changes the company and the Lille World to build a sustainable international presence», alongside Moez 10 11 has experienced over the years. Its respect for people and its active Forum (france) El Shohdi, the President for the Middle East and Africa of Style interest in the region bear testimony to a truly responsible company. Hotels International and Co-founder and CEO of the Egyptian Their industrial activity has an impact on the environment and I cannot Food Bank. This was an opportunity for him to talk in greater stress enough the importance of remaining vigilant and continuing to detail about the Group’s international regionalized strategy, make progress in this field. I believe the dialog between stakeholders whose goal is to develop regional production to serve local was a key factor in the success of the Group’s transformation and this markets. The strength of this unique strategy is based on two aspect should be increasingly developed, at the very earliest stages of key points: projects.» Adapting to the cultural environment of the host countries Preserving the company’s core values, based on sustainable development, and social, environmental and community responsibility In July 2012, the «Réseau Alliances» (Alliances Network) awarded Arc Responsible International its Responsible Economy prize, «Gold» distinction, in the Economy large company category. Award The «Réseau Alliance» aims to support companies in their CSR practices by setting examples. A competition is held each year and rewards good practices in companies. In April, Arc International submitted a file based on the ISO 26000 standard and was one of three companies selected based on its overall actions, and particularly its Employment Protection and Re-Organization Plan, deployed between 2004 and 2012. After this, to designate the winner, the short-listed companies had to give a short presentation of the good practice on which their nomination was based. Award ceremony Sustainable development report AIC’s entertaining Initiatives are certainly important, but they are nothing without the support of the staff. It is essential to involve them in the development of Sustainable Communication uses various channels, including traditional poster campaigns or more entertaining and participatory and cheerful actions, in their success or simply to raise their awareness concerning the development week initiatives such as the sustainable development week. communication importance of sustainable development in general. (france) The French National Sustainable Development Week took With this in mind, AIC decided to develop its internal communication linked place from 2 to 6 April 2012. This is a major opportunity to raise to sustainable development. Since 2011, a newsletter, poster campaigns staff awareness about sustainable development issues through and quizzes have been used to provide staff with information about events and activities. In 2012, the sites in Arques, Chateauroux sustainable development and familiarize them with the topic. The poster and Villepinte organized many varied actions such as the campaign was based on themes such as the environment, social issues promotion of electric vehicles and organic, fair-trade products, and the economy. Each theme was introduced gradually and remained in as well as ecological actions developed in-house in conjunction place for a few months, before a new subject was addressed. with suppliers and local partners. To complement the events, The tone of the communication was intentionally cheerful, entertaining poster campaigns were deployed and a quiz was organized to and colorful, rather than sad and preachy. test and improve the staff’s knowledge in a fun way. In addition, the «365 initiatives» newsletter, which is sent regularly to staff, AIF invited companies such as Séché Environnement, Aprolis keeps everyone up to date about the «Cook n’Care» project. and Biocoop to provide entertainment and special menus SD week – AIF The project has been truly successful, since the employees have embraced based on organic produce in the self-service cafeteria. the concept and are increasingly sensitive to sustainable development and In Villepinte, AIC organized funny, flash animations in the more involved in the actions deployed. relaxation area to raise staff awareness about issues such as biodiversity or carpooling, and also distributed an eco-citizen passport listing good environmental and societal practices. These events encourage people to react or ask questions and enable the company to communicate differently with 12 employees. They complement the more formal or institutional 13 Group communication. Get your In 2012, we organized the Group’s first photo competition on the subject of sustainable development. It had two goals. Firstly, to raise staff awareness cameras out! of sustainable development and understand how they perceived the issue, k – AIF and secondly to showcase the winning photo entries in our sustainable SD wee development report. The contest was greatly appreciated by the Group’s employees, even though they were not particularly used to participating in this kind of event. We received pictures from France, Spain and the United Arab Emirates. The event will be renewed in 2013 to continue to raise awareness and to add to our internal library. We hope even more employees will take part next time, particularly at the sites where we had a low turnout in 2012. Ceremonies to award the prizes and showcase the photos were organized at the three sites with the highest levels of participation: Arques, Prize giving – AIME Chateauroux and Ras Al-Khaimah. Many photos had already been used to illustrate the 2011 report, and notably the cover shot by the Group’s overall winner, which has now become the emblem for sustainable development in the company. You will find additional photos in this year’s report. Prize giving AIF SD week – AIF Sustainable development report In a constantly changing world, Arc International is continuing its Europe Division: The strategy implemented by the Europe Division has not only enabled the Group to maintain its market share, but also to transformation projects. A successful seize opportunities in the eastern markets, particularly in the strategy from Consumer Goods segment. East to West The Europe Division maintained its market share in 2012, ECONOMICS despite the economic downturn in European Community countries and Western Europe, where sales fell to the levels of 2009. This was achieved by adapting production, reducing stocks and implementing flexibility measures. Growth remained A few definitions: strong in the countries of the Commonwealth of Independent Consumer goods : States (CIS). «In Russia, we are benefiting from the emergence Mass-market retail products of a middle class that appreciates innovative French-made Food service : products,» notes Oliver B. Hasler, CEO of the Europe Division, Hotels, restaurants and local authorities highlighting the 84% increase of Zenix® product sales in the Bto B : country. Direct sales to manufacturers or businesses Stable market share For the European region as a whole, Consumer Goods sales grew by 6%, while the Food Service and BtoB activities decreased (by 11% and 10% respectively). However, the new Food Service collections launched in 2012 did twice as well as the previous year’s collections. All segments managed to 14 preserve their market shares, and even to increase them in 15 certain countries. Growth for Luminarc® The sales campaigns launched in different European countries «Luminarc® products made in the made a positive impact. Thanks to the success of our new OSZ factory» ranges, Luminarc® posted an average growth of 4% in Europe, «2012 marked a turning point: it partly driven by the vibrant markets in Eastern Europe. Cristal was the first year we marketed d’Arques® Paris also demonstrated its potential in Eastern Luminarc® products made by our European, reflected by a9% increase in sales. Finally, the OSZ factory, located near Moscow. Chef&Sommelier® brand posted good results in the retail There we have the benefit of highsector with a 59% growth in business! performance production facilities The Europe Division can look forward to 2013 with confidence, capable of providing a quality level thanks to the concerted efforts made in 2012 to adapt to the in line with the brand’s standards. difficult market conditions in the region. This will allow us to increase the volume of local production in terms of drinkware. At the same time, the TESTIMONY Arques site will produce more for the François Bonneville, dinnerware segment, which is central CEO for Russia, to the business development activities the CIS and Eastern of our sales teams..» Europe Sustainable development report Integration of OSZ After double-figure growth in 2011, the International Division At the end of 2011, Guillaume de Fougières, Chairman of the Board, International recorded in 2012 a backward drop of its activity. This disappoinannounced the acquisition of a majority stake in the Russian glass Division: ting performance is due to geopolitical tensions in the Middle manufacturer OSZ (Opytny Stekolny Zavod). The factory located in GusTargeted Growth East, which are paralyzing economic activity in certain regions, Khrustalny, around 300km east of Moscow, produces soda-lime glass and the slowdown of growth in several emerging countries. and employs 1,200 people. This operation marked the beginning of our «Our business grew by only 5% in China, 3% in South-East industrial presence in Russia.OSZ is the leading producer in terms of Asia, 15% in Africa and remained stable in India», explains Bart tonnage in the drinking glass segment. The company will enable us to Muller, CEO of the International Division. develop our business by offering adapted products to local consumers at competitive prices. We will also be able to distribute a comprehensive range of tableware items produced in France (drinking glasses, dishes Improved competitiveness and cookware products) and thereby develop our overall offer. In this difficult context, the International Division has reduced The factory is being gradually integrated into Group through the costs and improved its competitiveness. Recruitment has been deployment of new projects such as «A Safe Arc Together», in order to frozen in the Middle East and 400 jobs were cut on the site in adapt the factory’s operating modes and take new requirements into Ras Al-Khaimah – as part of staff re-classification program. In account, such as safety and environment issues. addition, an action plan was put in place in February to improve the competitiveness of the site in Nanjing (China). Management of distribution channels At the same time, sales and marketing actions were developed Americas Division: The Americas Division posted good results in 2012. The operating profit even exceeded the forecast by two million dollars. The Food Service and to increase sales in certain targeted markets. Offices were Upturn in BtoB segments, which are central to our strategy in the North American opened in Turkey and Pakistan, and an ambitious growth plan Consumer Goods market, had contrasting results: the Food Service business experienced for the markets in South-East Asia is being prepared. Other 16 in America renewed growth with a 4.5% increase in sales, after a decrease in 2011. initiatives targeted markets with high growth potential, such as 17 However, the BtoB segment shrank by 3%, due to lower than expected North Africa, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. sales on high-added value contracts. In January, about a hundred of the Division’s salespeople followed a training course to improve their skills in managing «Made in America» distributors. The good news in 2012 was the return of growth in the Consumer Goods The International Division will continue to innovate in order to segment in the United States: Arc International recorded a 24% increase Grands Cépages in business and has a market share of around 4% in a sector worth Pinot Noir increase sales in 2013. New products, designed by the teams approximately 840 million dollars. This is the result of increased capacity of Arc International France, Arc Glassware Nanjing and Arc at our Millville plant and the «Made in America» label on all our products. International Middle-East, will be launched with the support of Our brands were present at the «International Home + Housewares Show» marketing campaigns. in Chicago and have been exhibited in a new showroom in New York since last summer. «We have reinforced our credibility among distributors,» sums up Fred Dohn, CEO Americas Division, whose objective is to achieve Algeria, the leading market on the African continent 7 to 8% of the market share within the next five years. «With a turnover of 7.2 million dollars, Algeria became Arc International’s largest market on the African continent in 2012, ahead of South Africa Protectionist measures (6.5 million dollars). There are five reasons behind this: the close Business in South America was more difficult: the increase in sales partnership with our local distributor, the positioning of Luminarc® was less than expected in Mexico, and business even decreased across all product categories, the development of specific products – in Brazil and Argentina, as a result of protectionist measures such as tableware sets –, the absence of customs duties between Dubai TESTIMONY that were introduced to restrict imports. and Algeria which enables us to offer competitive prices, and the first Jean-Yves Grand, With the economic recovery in the United States and Mexico, vice president sales advertising campaign by Luminarc®, which greatly boosted sales and the Americas Division expects another growth year in 2013. and marketing, reinforced our reputation. And we should not forget the excellent work of our sales team in Algeria.» africa Sustainable development report Five years after its launch, the Focus transformation program has entered The AIF file particularly attracted our customer’s attention New impetus a new phase. The program is now managed by Neal Johnston, Senior and the company was invited to continue the selection process for Focus Vice President supply chain and transformation. It focuses on two types and participate in the Sustainable Development Trophies for of projects: the first serve to drive the business model (optimization of Carrefour suppliers. the product offer and value chain) and the second projects are aimed at After an on-site audit, the jury presided over by Isabelle dealing with the effects of the economic crisis. «More than ever, Focus has Autissier, the President of WWF France, voted AIF the best become a vital transformation tool for the Group,» says Neal Johnston. supplier for 2012 in terms of sustainable development in the The 35 projects in progress this year are structured on: non-food category. It was with immense pride that AIF accepted Tools and methods to optimize and forecast production, stocks, etc., the award, which recognizes the social and environmental Product innovation, new decoration techniques, food preservation, and initiatives deployed on the Arques site. In addition, the more efficient processes that consume less energy, Carrefour-branded glass products manufactured by AIF will Economic development, such as identifying new markets or increasing benefit from special promotion in the stores. The on-site audit production at OSZ. was also an opportunity to have an outside view of our business and helped us pinpoint a few areas for improvement. We have The 3D project concerning sustainable development, launched as part of a long-standing relationship with Carrefour, with whom we the Focus program in 2011, aimed to: have been working for 10 years. This prize also rewards the Structure the sustainable development policy, so as to assess its impact joint commitment of our two companies and the desire to move and make improvements, forward together. Communicate in order to firmly establish the policy. Since these two objectives have been achieved (or are in the process of being so) thanks to the procedures implemented, the 3D project was closed during 2012. Since monitoring in project mode is no longer necessary, sustainable development is now monitored through actions or 18 19 projects implemented in the different entities. From an economic point of view, sustainable development is an Smaller, We cannot talk about customers without mentioning catalogs. These marketing and communication tools are essential for increasingly important issue. Many of our customers are keen to work with «responsible suppliers» and therefore include charters, questionnaires, more accessible presenting our products, but they have two major drawbacks: self-assessments or audits in their purchasing process in order to ensure catalogs they are heavy and use a lot of paper. that their suppliers use responsible practices. While this used to be In line with our policy of continuous improvement and further anecdotal, the practice is becoming increasingly widespread and has a to remarks by salespeople, the catalogs have been revised, direct impact on the final purchasing decision. making them lighter and more accessible in digital format. The layout has been redesigned and resulted in significant gains. Below are a few figures that clearly highlight the excellent work carried out by the marketing and design teams. For the Luminarc® catalog between 2012 and 2013, the number of pages has decreased from 408 to 248, and the number of print catalogs from 2,700 to 1,850, i.e. a gain of more than 58%. This redesign work was carried out on all the different brand Carrefour Since 2009, suppliers working with the Carrefour Group have been able catalogs, (namely six catalogs) and has enabled us to decrease to participate in the company’s Sustainable Development Trophies. As Sustainable part of the event, AIF and AIC carried out a self-assessment based on the number of printed pages by 52%, meaning a reduction of Development various criteria covering four sustainable development themes: Company 21.5 million pages and 19teqCO2! Trophy management and policy, societal and environmental responsibility and economic performance. Both sites noted a marked improvement compared with their previous participation in the event and achieved the «Gold» performance level, reflecting an «excellent level» of commitment to sustainable development. Sustainable development report For a group that produces and distributes worldwide, it is natural to have As an industrial company, Arc International has a duty to the environment at heart. control its impact on the environment, whether in terms of waste, atmospheric or aqueous emissions, or the consumption of natural resources, such as energy and raw materials. Optimizing all these aspects is an integral part of our business ENVIRONMENT activity. Energy, Energy consumption is one of our key concerns, although it is highly dependent on the workload in the factories. The glass always industry is a heavy industry and variations in the level of activity a priority issue in production units have a direct impact on energy and water consumption. For example, production lines may be stopped, thereby cutting energy consumption. However, shutting down a furnace is not easy and they are usually placed in standby mode, which reduces energy consumption but does not completely cut it. Production-related energy consumption is therefore directly linked to the level of activity. In 2012, some sites were not at full output and furnaces had to be placed in stand-by mode, resulting in higher consumption levels per ton of glass produced, despite the overall improvement in energy 20 efficiency in our production sites. Among the various actions 21 implemented around the world, the project on the Arques site reflects the general trend, namely the integration of the energy component in the management of production facilities and performance. Moving In 2012, in order to further improve the competitiveness of the Arques site, the GAP (Performance Improvement Group) towards energy continued their work, particularly on the subject of energy. This management working group had two objectives. The first goal was obviously to reduce energy consumption by exploring new areas for action, while the second was aimed at the long-term. The different actions, and R&D or industrialization projects over recent years have enabled us to reduce consumption. However, Eco-Design Trophy the principles of continuous improvement and performance monitoring as regards the new facilities were sometimes difficult to control after a few months. Consequently, the project aims to bring energy consumption under control through a macro process. The first steps involved mapping consumption to have a better understanding of the most energy-intensive work stations and to establish priority actions. Sustainable development report Then, the working group looked at the actions to be conducted, while Upgrading equipment to make it more efficient is essential, but keeping an open mind so as not to exclude any possibilities. Operating this is not the only aspect that needs to be taken into account. standards were also created in order to consume as little as possible The behavior and habits of each employee can influence energy while ensuring the quality of the products manufactured. These actions consumption. As such, the operating standards were revised. will continue in 2013 and will bring energy consumption under control on Regarding the furnaces, for example, this means finding low the Arques site. points in order to apply the optimum heating needed for the raw material. These modifications were made to all the sodalime furnaces, for high and low tonnages, as well as on the Thermal 2012 Consumptions Melting Forming Treatment Finishing work Other Total feeders, in order to optimize equipment settings in the event Gas of stoppages. Electricity Oxygen Others Total Mapping of energy consumptions Eliminating In reality, addressing the issue of air leaks obviously translates into energy saving. Compressed air is supplied by compressors air leaks that operate on electricity. Various types of actions are regularly implemented across different A team of people is responsible for identifying air leaks in the processes to gradually improve the energy efficiency of our industrial compressed air system. When a leak is identified, it is assessed facilities. Below are a few examples. according to its location, its flow and related cost, then added to High-emissivity paint which favors flame radiation on the furnace vault the action plan. Repairs are naturally prioritized according to the was used for the renovation of a furnace in 2012. The forecast energy extent of the leakages but also according to their accessibility. 22 23 saving of 3.5% due to the renovation and the new process were validated The maintenance department is in charge of the repairs. and the operation will be gradually used for other furnace upgrades or This action helps improve energy efficiency and also ensures re-builds. better working conditions for employees. Additional heat insulation was also installed on the vaults to reduce loses, as well as better seals on furnace observation windows. As regards feeders (facilities that transport the molten glass from the furnaces to the production lines), optical glasses were installed to measure the temperature of the glass, cooling it if necessary by introducing air. The optical glass supports were changed and now make it possible to inject a Arc International After the earthquake on 11 March 2011, the electricity supply was greatly diminished. Like most homes and businesses, AIJ finer jet of air. The gain is notable in terms of energy, as well as during Japan (AIJ) : made many efforts to reduce its consumption. maintenance. Model predictive control of glass is also being deployed on continuing the Continuing the impetus begun after the accident, the employees the feeders. It displays the working temperatures and impetus have chosen to carry on their efforts to find other areas for makes it possible to adjust them automatically and improvement. accurately throughout the transfer of the glass. Thus, in 2012, energy saving continued, mainly in offices, Today, indicators provide consumption levels meeting and exhibition rooms by: instantaneously, by zone, by linear meter and 1) Adjusting the temperature and switching off air conditioning for 24 hours on each feeder. in unused areas. 2) Removing certain ceiling lamps 3) Stopping water heaters in the lavatory block in summer › The electricity used in the offices was reduced by approximately 85% during the summer. Sustainable development report Control Reducing atmospheric emissions is one of the major focuses to improve our environmental impact. The actions carried out enable us to comply A new furnace for After two years of study and two months of work, the AIC furnace in Châteauroux was rebuilt in during the middle of the of atmospheric with value limits and also to anticipate new regulations to reduce these the Châteauroux year. It has been operating for a few months and is living up to emissions emissions. factory expectations! The main atmospheric emissions from our activities are SOx (sulfur This was a truly ambitious project. The specifications integrated oxides), NOx and dust. In our case, the significance of the SOx issue is the principles of sustainable development and were highly reduced, since we do not use fuel-oil-powered furnaces. specific about the targets to be achieved. They addressed a key Definition : NOX : compounds of nitrogen Arc International is actively working to reduce emissions at source, question: «How to produce more, with better quality and over a and oxygen which include gases of nitric particularly by refining its combustion techniques. However, these actions longer period?» acid and nitrogen dioxide. They are mainly sometimes have limitations that need to be addressed by the installation The teams of AIC, AGMS and Arc International worked closely produced by the combustion of fossil of filters. together in order to model and validate the concepts tested, fuels. and to develop innovative solutions. The results exceeded the NOX, which main molecules are NO and Conventional technical solutions are reaching their maximum processing expectations of the specifications and equaled those of the NO2, contribute to the phenomenon of levels and effectiveness as regards current and future emission limits. models. acid rains and by indirect effect in the Consequently, Arc International chose an upgradeable alternative that As such, the furnace’s energy consumption was reduced by increase of the greenhouse effect. responds effectively to the problem. 10%, while its output was improved by 12 points and its lifespan The catalytic pot decreased emissions The company pioneered the use of a new process: an active filter, fitted increased by 25%. stemming from cars, however diesel with catalytic ceramic candles that process acid gases, dust and NOx in the These impressive results were achieved thanks to vehicles are not equipped. In France, same piece of equipment. This technique has other advantages; its takes comprehensive knowledge of the facilities and technologies, country where the rate of diesel is the Furnace of AIC up less space, optimizes reagent consumption and energy recovery, and teamwork, and supplier support, as well as the project team’s highest, in 2010, the road transport was decreases the electrical power needed for the facility. open-minded approach, which embraced new ideas and in about 55% responsible of the NOX The technique turns the large majority of NOx emissions into nitrogen, proposals and left no stone unturned in seeking new solutions. emissions, what makes it one of the first oxygen and water. 24 25 ones responsible for the road pollution. A first filter of this type was installed on the S furnace on the Arques site. It was the pilot project, which helped to fine-tune and stabilize the technique applied to our facilities. Waste management Waste has been a key environmental issue for a long time, whether for companies or households. It is a central concern Following the tests, this technique was then deployed on the Millville site, in our operations. Waste is produced by all the company’s and is a first for the United States. The single facility is used for the three activities: manufacturing, catering, administration, etc. furnaces. It includes three modules for each furnace, i.e. a total of nine Waste sorting is now second-nature for employees modules. throughout the Group, as for the majority of citizens. This new equipment has contributed to making the Millville site «The Some 88% of manufacturing waste and cullet are recycled cleanest factory in the world in its sector,» says José-Maria Aulotte, the internally. This figure is 97% for overall waste. To achieve Group’s Senior Vice President Human Ressources, communication and this level of recycling, efforts have been made to sort waste Sustainable Development Director. at source and according to the specific materials. Cullet is mainly generated along the production lines, either by sorting Filter of DGMC To anticipate new regulations and be pro-active, different techniques are related to the product quality or during production changes. To being tested to reduce our NOx emissions. avoid the waste going to landfill because it is mixed with other These processes are being tested on different furnaces and will be materials, many actions have been implemented to improve deployed once the development is complete. Reduction at source is of sorting. All these actions obviously contribute to the marked Sorting of cullet in th course the best solution, since gases are treated before they reach the e finishing department rise in the recycling rate. chimney; however, these techniques based on the furnace piping require a Since this is a sector where different types of glass are relatively long test period in order to assess the full impact on the furnace produced, we decided to set up an advanced sorting system and glass. during the product completion phase. Because of the variety of waste generated, the risk of mixing in this sector was higher and potentially problematic for recycling purposes. Filter of the furnaces HL Sustainable development report The whole sorting system was redesigned. Different recovery skips were installed with the relevant signs clearly displayed. The cullet is now Innovation Innovation is one of Arc International’s strategic priorities. It is the key to designing and manufacturing products that are more recovered in clearly-labeled containers in a marked, dedicated zone. A serving people and friendly for the environment and consumers; products with a pre-crusher was installed so as to reduce the number of trips required to the environment longer lifespan, that can be recycled more easily. Innovation take the cullet to its storage place. also results in production processes that consume less energy, Genuine visual management was implemented along with procedures to water and raw materials. support the change. In addition, symbolic cost values were used during Eco-design principles are becoming increasingly integrated an awareness campaign, to drive home the concept and ensure all staff in the design and manufacturing processes and contribute to adhered to the process. improving the products’ features. There are still many areas for Finally, an additional work station audit was implemented: the glass improvement, but the few actions mentioned above reflect this sorting audit. It is carried out by the staff at the work station and takes growing interest and desire to improve. various criteria into account. The audit grid also allows auditors to add their own suggestions and comments, which are taken into consideration for the continuous improvement of this new process. Photo : Gonzage Lacroix All these measures help to increase the amount of cullet recycled internally, by adding it to the raw materials placed in the furnaces. Healthier A revolution is currently taking place in the food conservation sector, with the removal of BPA from food containers. Arc International’s food storage storage range eliminates this risk because the products are made 0 CUP = 0 WASTE Zero cup to achieve zero waste; this is the aim of the initiative to remove of glass. plastic cups from the administrative buildings. To further improve the range and make it lighter, we have In an effort to reduce consumables and to replace them with «sustainable» established the following guiding principle: to produce a more articles, while being coherent with our business sector, an initiative was robust material that prolongs the life of the product and reduces its deployed to remove plastic cups in the offices and provide employees with 26 weight, while respecting the product’s technical and 27 glass mugs, for use at water fountains or for coffee and tea. This initiative functional characteristics. The improvement of the was tested in one of our buildings in 2011 and was very well received. thin press process has made it possible to extend Today, the scheme has been implemented in most administrative its use to the «storage» range. As a result, these buildings on the Arques site, representing around thousand people. items have seen their weight reduced by 15 to Following on from the example of the Cook n’Care project on our AIC 20% on average, while maintaining their strength, site in Villepinte and to take the scheme further, the Work Environment durability and conservation properties. Department is thinking about extending this principle to all the coffee This process was developed in the Group’s machines on this site. Research & Development Department. It has been extensively tested and is being deployed on production lines. The cleaning company employed on the Arques site is responsible for Giving waste paper recovering waste paper from shredders. It is then sent to the import/export Developments are being made in other areas and are already bearing fruit: a second life, department which uses it as padding for fragile parts (mechanical parts, The removal of materials that require great internally refractory materials, etc.) sent to subsidiaries in the Group. This practice Keep’n Box collection care in handling and may put employees at risk, provides suitable padding to protect the materials, while avoiding the use of The use of organically-based decorations, that contain no heavy wood or polyurethane foam. metals and are baked at lower temperatures, The optimization of packaging (see below for more details) As regards other waste from our activity, many actions are deployed across The reduction of internal goods transportation; almost 4,000 all the Group’s factories. This includes the extension of plastic sorting to internal transport shipments were avoided thanks to direct loading, the United States and China, the removal of plastic cups and the search for without prior warehouse storage. new sectors to improve recycling of waste that is unusable today, but which might eventually be used as a raw material by other industries. This sector is developing rapidly and real progress will certainly be made in the years to come. Sustainable Wedging development report The eco-design As mentioned earlier, eco-design is becoming increasingly incorporated into our work operations, in the design and manufacture of products obviously, Arc International has a dedicated in-house packaging trophy, an but also in periodic operations, such as the production of an award trophy department, including a laboratory, which tests all the characteristics, from the materials to the over-wrapping. inspiring project for the regional competition specifically dedicated to ecological design. The department is organized as follows: The CIGED (design, This eco-design competition, organized by the CD2E Avnir platform and industrialization, graphics, packaging, decoration) unit and Ter supported by the Lille Chamber of Commerce, the Nord-Pas-de-Calais Créa (the trade name for activities outside the Group). Region and ADEME, was open to local businesses to promote their initiatives The department produces some 6,000 photo shots, around 5,000 in this field as well as their eco-friendly products. The winners’ trophy was print pages and 5,200 packaging studies a year. designed in partnership with the R&D teams and the Avnir platform. The The test laboratory’s primary goal is to simulate package creation process raised the team’s awareness of eco-design. Its original transport and handling, testing product reactions when the hourglass shape symbolizes time and durability, while its components Cutting table package is dropped as well as resistance to vibrations. were designed in line with the competition’s goal. The hourglass was made Cartons&Plastiques is a Group subsidiary specialized in of glass containing a mixture of sand and cullet, recycled glass, symbolizing transforming cardboard. Using its cutting tools, it produces the raw materials used to produce glass, but also the end of its lifespan. packaging from cardboard panels. This ensures local supply and The atlas was made from waste wood used for making the mold. The a cross-entity collaboration to carry out tests as early as possible. packaging was custom-designed in-house, using recycled, recyclable As such, we work closely with our suppliers to ensure the quality cardboard. It has a dual role serving to protect and showcase the product. of our materials. Each year, this activity represents 22,000 tons of The project had a truly unifying effect and the magnificent end result was transformed materials. made possible by the work of our R&D team. Arc International is proud to have created this trophy for the first eco-design competition in the NordAs mentioned earlier, packaging must satisfy two main functions: Pas-de-Calais region and intends to take part in the 2013 competition the technical aspect, concerning conditioning, protection, although this time as a candidate. storage and transport, and the marketing aspect, since it is Through this partnership, we were offered a free AFAQ eco-design represents the company’s image and must meet the product’s 28 29 assessment, which took place in March 2013. This was the opportunity for es tests sales objectives and also provide consumer information. the Arques site to showcase all the measures implemented in this field and Laboratori to establish areas for improvement. Technical functions of packaging: The department strives to design the packaging as an overall concept. The packaging must preserve, protect, and group items together, while facilitating transport and storage. Packaging is often criticized; there is either too much or too little, it is either From this point of view, it is important to consider the primary Continual too difficult to open or too fragile...However, packaging is essential and has packaging but also the secondary and tertiary packaging, such optimization of various functions. as pallets. When seeking improvements, it is important not to product packaging Undeniably, packaging is a marketing tool used to sell a product and to neglect the impact that a modification on primary packaging inform consumers. As such, it needs to be attractive, practical and visual, so may have on other packaging levels. Improving the primary that the consumer can take in most information at a glance. packaging that covers the product must not result in the need Nonetheless, it is primarily a technical tool used to protect and transport the for stronger tertiary packaging for transport. product from the place of manufacture to point of use. This is especially true While taking care to preserve the properties and functions of for tableware items, which have the same packaging constraints as eggs: packaging, we work on optimizing materials and resources the packaging must provide maximum protection while allowing buyers to during manufacturing. see the items before purchase. If we look at all the different packaging containers designed by All these conditions must be taken into account, as well as two others. our teams, 85% are entirely made from cardboard and 15% use The first is a regulatory requirement pursuant to the French Environmental a mix of cardboard and plastic film. Cardboard is the preferred Code: «Designed and manufactured to reduce its size and weight to the material for all our products; it is recyclable and recycled. minimum requirement for ensuring a sufficient level of safety, hygiene and Cutting table acceptance.” The second is an internal company requirement: to incorporate eco-design principles throughout the design and manufacturing.. Sustainable development report Practical case: In 2012, the “Point Vert” (French Green Point) celebrated its 20 years. This “Point Vert”, development of packaging recognized by 75% of the population, embodies for plate sets Packaging design studies are based on two key aspects: the responsibility which companies assume • reducing the amount of packaging: quantity of materials used, with Eco-Emballages (French eco-organism) TESTIMONY •Original packaging: simplification of production processes and reduction in the size and volume Eric Brac since 1992 to develop the waste sorting and Offset four-color printing for box; of the packaging, with a view to optimizing pallet transportation. de La Perrière the recycling of the domestic packagings in France. There is financing the 1 bottom panel; pallet transportation. selective collection, 4 billion Euros were invested by companies since 1992 CEO of 1 reinforcement strip; • improved printing techniques: reduction of additives, glues and inks. and 3,6 billions will be invested too before 2016. But this responsibility is Eco-Emballages 3 partition panels; Each change to the printing process requires a supply of materials for the also to reduce packaging at the source and to inform the consumer about 3 plastic shrink-wrap supports proper setting of the machines. By keeping the same print quality, we seek the gesture of waste sorting. 9 primary packaging components , to reduce the number of steps, the number of colors and processes. And we can say that the results are very positive. Within a generation, 30 packages per pallet The goal is to carry out printing and cutting in a single step. sorting became the 1st environmental gesture of the French people, 67% of For example, the inside of our new packaging is plain, even if it is can packaging are recycled and the deposit of packaging decreased in 8% since sometimes be seen by the consumer. 1997 even when the consumption increased. Minimizing the printing in this way saves between 500 and 800 sheets of If the traveled path is impressive, there are still important margins of cardboard per process. progress to reach the 75% of recycling rates planned by the Grenelle (French environmental multiparty debate) and to reduce even more to the source. Marketing functions of packaging: inform, stand out, raise awareness, To give a boost to waste sorting and to recycling, Arc International mobilized convey the company’s values beside Eco-Emballages by signing last December the “Pacte Point Vert” At first glance, the product’s packaging is a sales tool. This is why it should (Green Point Pact) which will have visible results from 2013: • Improved packaging: be attractive. The consumer can find different pieces of information such 1. Make sensitive its consumers in the gesture of waste sorting through the 30 partition panels removed: as the product picture, the price or barcode, advice for proper use and 31 notification of the instructions of sorting on the packaging for the Luminarc® the reinforcement strip integrates maintenance, different logos such as «Made in France» or the «Green dot», novelties and the Carrefour store brands, as well as a communication on the separating elements directly; recycling instructions, etc. web sites brands and institutional, from December 2012. Space saving thanks to different type However, we should not lose sight of the fact that packaging ultimately 2. Make sensitive its executive committee and about 5 700 employees of of stacking; ends up as trash, and everything must be done to ensure it can be recycled. the Arques site in waste sorting and recycling, in particular during the 7 primary packaging components , «Eco emballages» is a French state-approved environmental organization sustainable development week of April 2013. 36 packages per pallet that organizes, supervises and provides support for recycling household 3. Eco-design its packaging, by integrating the criteria of eco-design into the gain of 5% in eco-tax per set packaging in France. On behalf of the companies it contractually represents, development of the new packaging, and pursue their reduction, from 2013. the organization manages its members’ mandatory financial contribution to These concrete commitments taken by Arc International France with Ecosupporting the collection, sorting and recycling of the household packaging Emballages are going to contribute to strengthen and to feed a strong link waste that these companies put on the market. between these brands and the consumer to transform the waste in new Arc International France decided to participate in these initiatives and resource. voluntarily signed the «Green dot» charter, launched by the organization on its 20th anniversary. All the most significant actions will be implemented between the end of 2012 and mid 2013. Since we continually seek to improve and measure our progress, the AFAQ eco-design assessment conducted by AFNOR (scheduled for march 2013) will evaluate the company’s production activities as well as packaging, and indicate areas for improvement. Sustainable development report CO2 EMISSIONS 2008 2010 2011 2012 RECYCLED WASTES PRODUCTION (METRIC TONS) Metric tons of CO2 emitted per Europe 1,03 1,17 0,90 0,94 metric ton of glass produced International 1,62 1,35 1,35 1,27 Americas 1,11 1,19 1,18 1,19 GROUP 1,25 1,23 1,06 1,06 PLASTICS 2008 2010 2011 2012 2008/2012 -15,8 % Europe 688 553 516 638 International 186 211 235 164 CO2 emissions as water are dependent on the activity of furnaces but the Americas 0 0 0 30 efforts made to reduce energy consumption succeeded and emissions TOTAL 875 765 751 832 remain broadly stable compared to 2011 and remain a net decrease of 2008/2012 -4,9 % 15% compared to 2008. METALS 2008 2010 2011 2012 WATER CONSUMPTION 2008 2010 2011 2012 Europe 2936 1660 2704 1684 M of water per metric ton of 3 Europe 7,50 7,70 5,76 6,61 International 119 120 144 169 glass produced International 4,07 4,72 4,34 5,30 Americas 183 12 117 118 Americas 4,21 5,72 5,94 5,68 TOTAL 3238 1792 2965 1971 GROUP 6,29 6,67 5,38 6,14 2008/2012 -39,1 % 32 33 2008/2012 -2,5 % Water consumption is highly dependent on the activity of the furnaces and if the industrial process is not saturated, water consumption per ton of glass produced increase. This is the case in 2012. But overall it is still PAPER 2008 2010 2011 2012 slightly down 2.51% compared to 2008.. Europe 8662 8126 6883 5233 International 851 915 1051 784 Americas 836 448 529 350 TOTAL 10348 9488 8436 6367 2008/2012 -38,5 % RECYCLED WASTES 2011 2012 Included production wastes Europe 89,7 % 94,2 % In 2012 the decrease continues to approximately 38% compaInternational 96,4 % 93,5 % red to 2008 for metal and paper and -5% on the plastic. It repreAmericas 98,4 % 96,8 % sents a real consideration of waste production right from the GROUP 92,5 % 95,2 % source. Actions such as reducing the amount of packaging or impressions begin to show real results. However, the production of metal waste remains highly dependent on the activity of This represents the amount of waste generated by the activity that have the furnaces. been recycled. In this figure are included waste production, cullet and We can note the good progress of DGMC in the United States other recyclable materials such as cardboard, for example. This part is henceforth that recycles its plastic waste. important and tends to improve with such actions like valuation of cullet. Sustainable development report A group is built on know-how, economics and above all the people that work there. Managing skills As part of the company’s Strategic Workforce Planning agreement, a skills audit is carried out each year. This provides within an overview of the staffing situation and forecast departures, the company including an analysis of labor requirements over the next five SOCIAL (france) years. This job-position audit then assesses the skills replacement potential within the company in order to prepare for the future. There are two options in terms of recruitment: internal mobility or external recruitment, potentially calling upon work-study trainee programs. Priorities are then established in order to maintain the requisite skills level in the company. Anticipating requirements also aims to forecast associated costs in the budget: salaries or training programs. Moreover, in some job areas, the training requirements cannot be fulfilled because the requisite training programs are unavailable. For example, we are currently working to re-open the Vocational Aptitude Certificate (French «CAP» qualification) in «tooling for metal molds». This course could be taught as of the next school year at the Lycée Jacques Durand (High School). 34 35 The company places great importance on training and helps its employees to acquire skills, as early as possible. Since 2004, more than 490 VAE (Validation of skills through occupational experience) programs have been approved and for 30% of the employees concerned, this was their first diploma, thanks to the company. The VAE scheme provides employees with an opportunity to validate their knowledge and skills with a diploma, and recognizes their success. Finally, the training department also provides individual counseling for people with career projects, assisting them in deciding on the most appropriate actions and routes to achieve their goals. This represents about 250 individual meetings a year, with a 98% success rate in terms of the projects developed. The focus is therefore on helping each employee succeed, as reflected by the exemplary process for integrating new apprentices. Genuine educational support, adapted to each individual, is provided to ensure that each trainee fully seizes their opportunity. Skills grid Some fifty work-study contracts were signed for the new 20122013 school year. Sustainable development report course will be extended to OSZ (Russia) and AIC (France) in «I sent my application to Arc International France after seeing the advert 2013. To date, some 500 people have followed or are following for their vocational training offer. I wanted to join the group because this training module in the Group. of its reputation and international dimension. I found a professional At OSZ (Russia), which joined the Group a year ago, actions environment with all the dynamism and diversity linked to Human are being progressively implemented to bring operations up Resources management. In addition, working for a company of this size to Group standards. For example, PPE was distributed to all enables you to work on highly attractive cross-functional projects, and TESTIMONY employees. This is a simple operation but it marks the start of a is an impressive reference on your CV. When I arrived, a lot of things Inès Nébot genuine safety policy at the site. trainee on a vocational had already been prepared to help me integrate the company. I had the training contract On the Arques site, the «safety contact» principle was opportunity to spend time in the factory to familiarize myself with all the in the HR Department implemented. This is systematically included in work meetings. company’s professions and understand the manufacturing process. I was also introduced to all the different people in my department, and The principle involves the manager highlighting a fact, a rule or appointments were made for me to meet people in the departments that an anecdote concerning personal safety. It is a routine safety I would be working with, such as the Training Center and the Social and management ritual, reinforced by its repetition and frequency. Legal Affairs Department. Discussions about safety follow on from this. The managers I feel perfectly integrated in the team; my managers listen to me Safety training visit the shop floor to meet staff and talk about safety. These and devote time to reviewing my current tasks or discussing future dialogues between staff and managers take place once a week assignments. At the same time, I have enough autonomy to carry out and are a key component of our local management philosophy. my different projects, such as monitoring work-study trainees. While being a long-term initiative, this work is essential if every This year, there are around fifty of us with work-study contracts. Within member of staff is to adhere to the safety policy the first few months of our arrival, breakfast meetings were organized in small groups to meet Oliver Hasler, the CEO for Europe, and Dominique All these actions enabled the group to achieve its target for 36 Bouquet, the HR Vice President. This allowed all the young people on 2012, i.e. a lost-time accident rate of 5.8. 37 vocational training contracts to present themselves and gain an insight This reflects the success of the measures taken, and endorses Graduation ceremony into the company’s strategy. It was also an opportunity to get to know the goals of the current action plan. It proves that we are all each other and talk about our different experiences. We were able to responsible for safety. build relationships, which is also important in company life.» All accidents This is the core belief of the new safety policy, which was revised and can be prevented distributed this year as part of the Group’s «A Safe Arc Together» project. Improvement AIF: Ergonomics Actions to improve working conditions were implemented Its aim is to ensure that everyone integrates the company’s safety culture, which is measured by the lost-time accident frequency rate. The goal for of working in the sampling workshop, which prepares glass items and 2012 was to achieve a rate of 7 and progressively reach 3 by 2016. conditions provides the shipping service with various documents, and the A Safe Arc The main focus is on behavior in the work place. Each risk linked to a «Flégards» workshop, in which operators perform small tasks Together gesture is analyzed, and entails a need for employee training. requiring light tooling (printing, plastic coating, bill boards, etc.). All these workshops employ people with special needs, or Consequently, the teams have been made aware of risks through a training program called «STOP», which aims to encourage employees indeed disabled workers. to observe work practices and behavior. It is based on reactions, working positions, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE), procedures, order, the The layout of the product sampling workshop was completely environment and work areas. redesigned. These courses were launched at AIF (France) and then organized at AIME (United Arab Emirates), AGN (China), and DGMC (United States). The Sustainable development report The operators now have semi-electric forklift trucks to facilitate picking. AIJ: Implementation of flexible work time The workstations have been set up nearer the windows to provide better In order to improve employees’ work-life balance, the working lighting and the scrap destruction workshop was insulated to reduce times were modified during the summer period (mid-April to noise pollution. late September). Following an employee vote, working hours The paper sampling workstation now has an elevating table fitted into the were changed so employees could finish the day earlier and floor to adjust the working height and facilitate the transport of loads. enjoy longer sun-lit evenings. Most employees appreciated the The «Flégards» workshop was redesigned following a participatory review initiative and many want to repeat the experience in 2013. process involving operators. The primary goal was to reduce risks linked to physical activity and notably repetitive movements. All of these actions contribute to providing employees with a more pleasant and adapted working environment. Inauguration The «Atelier du Lobel» (Lobel Workshop) is a disability-friendly AIF: Hardship workshop integrated in AIF. It employs people with mild A 3-year action plan established with the trade unions is being deployed. of the new Lobel intellectual or psychological disabilities. In October 2012, the It sets out actions to reduce occupational hardship factors: load carrying, Workshop premises workshop moved to more adapted premises, and now has a extreme temperatures, noise, repetitive movements, etc. surface area of 3,000m2 devoted to packaging, minor forming Forklift One of the goals is to install new air-conditioned cabins in the production and ironing. workshops to protect workers from noise and heat. Another goal is to Support was provided during the move to ensure that the improve collective protection measures by installing cladding to block heat transition went smoothly for employees and that work was not and noise and by placing padding in scrap skips to reduce noise levels. interrupted. All the employees participated in the layout of the premises (choice of colors, paint, etc.) and we took advantage of 38 AIF: Continuous Improvement the move to completely redesign the facilities in terms of safety, 39 Several continuous improvement projects have been implemented ergonomics and working conditions (lighting, ventilation, this year. The objectives were to increase productivity, while reducing heating, etc.). occupational hardship and improving working conditions. As the President of the association since its creation, Annick The projects’ managers were specifically trained to observe occupational Ibled, a shareholder, underlined the company’s commitment tasks and behavior. They then made all the groups aware of risks and to this workshop, which provides social support and specific problems in order to prevent musculoskeletal disorders. educational methods to help young people develop their skills erie Workshop The success of these projects has provided the impetus for another 20 Inauguration of the Briquet and progress in their activity. The workshop’s management and similar projects that will be deployed in 2013. supervisors were also acknowledged for their human qualities and commitment. This move also enabled the «Atelier de la AIF: Working conditions Briqueterie», which takes in young people on professional Field improvement groups were set up. The groups are made up of field integration schemes, to move from its former premises (which operators and their goal is to take note of minor actions that may improve were becoming too small) to those left vacant by the Atelier their working conditions. The groups are completely autonomous and the du Lobel. As such, everyone has new premises that suit their results have been very positive in the units concerned. Following this initial activities. ovement success, the further deployment of these groups is one of the priority Continuous impr actions for 2013. AGN: Noise-level mapping Lobel Workshop An outside consulting firm performed a noise-level study to determine risk zones in the company. A safety committee will be set up in 2013 to improve the working environment. Sustainable development report Alcohol prevention As part of the «A safe Arc Together” project, the company deemed alcohol consumption to be a major risk in our activity. To prevent abnormal behavior and reduce accidents, the management decided to improve “Lee Hecht Harrison Gulf had the opportunity to work with Arc communication about this issue and to raise awareness among all International to assist eligible employees with career transition managers concerning the importance of managing these risk-provoking services. The program was designed to provide skills needed to situations. A section devoted entirely to alcohol-related issues was posted conduct an effective job search. on the intranet. It includes a message from Oliver Hasler CEO for Europe We worked closely with the HR team and provided proactive and a video from Gilles Tosin Vice President Industry France, which communication throughout the process. were directly sent to all employees, as well as other support documents and materials for managers. In the «Aide & Ecoute» (Assistance and TESTIMONY Outplacement is a new concept in the region, with no legal Listening) menu, employees can find information about the «TER» KAREN OLIVER obligation for companies to provide this type of assistance. We («Tolérance Ecoute Respect» [Tolerance Listening Respect]) Group, which MANAGING DIRECTOR congratulate Arc International and its HR team for joining with Lee Hecht Harrison organizations in the region setting a benchmark in HR practice to was specifically created to address the issue, as well as general preventive Gulf Dubai – UAE provide career transition support to individuals leaving as the result information and useful contacts. of a restructure.” Alcohol prevention poster As part of the World No Tobacco Day, the Arc International France medical No-tobacco day department organized a health forum on this topic. Employees could receive advice from the medical team and take part in quizzes on the subject of nutrition and tobacco. After several difficult years, it was a great relief for everyone Departures In 2012, our subsidiary in the United Arab Emirates was hit hard by the End of Employment to close the employment protection plan in November 2012, a 40 in the United economic and geopolitical crisis and production volumes had to be Protection Plan few months earlier than expected. The results are impressive 41 Arab Emirates drastically reduced. Business in the region was down. In this context, we had to make 400 of the site’s 1,900 employees redundant. at AIF and, in hindsight, extremely positive. Between 2004 and 2012, the number of employees on the site decreased from 12 000 In line with the Group’s social values, the HR Department at the AIME factory to 5 900, ie a drop of more than 50%, but with no forced provided support for the employees affected by this difficult measure. As redundancies. Departures were organized through different part of the support scheme, the employees were offered positions at other schemes: early-retirement, the Assisted Voluntary Departure factories in the region. Initially, people were surprised by this initiative to Scheme (PDVA) and normal departures. These difficult mobilize the local network of manufacturers, providers and out-placement years and actions took place in a relatively good laboragencies, since this practice is truly innovative in the region. However, the relations environment, considering the situation. The staff, efforts were successful. From the point of view of local jobs and the site’s union organizations and all the different stakeholders acted long term viability, we obviously hope that this crisis is only temporary. France responsibly and showed great patience throughout the process. Over the eight year period, no less than 800 meetings were held with the works council and Health and Safety Committee to “Arc International Middle East is one of our key business partners within the region. It has discuss the reorganization plan. been a pleasure working with them in terms of their business requirements. Some of the key initiatives implemented include training, When Arc decided to move ahead with the outplacement of employees, they went to with an average of 3.37% and the organization of 400 training great lengths to interact with reputed employers in the UAE manpower market and courses leading to qualifications, support for employee mobility involved G4S to absorb as many of the employees as possible. The process was well (including forums and the site’s employment and mobility Testimony planned and coordinated very professionally considering the overall impact on those that center), and contribution to the development of businesses in Ben Grib were affected. the region of Saint Omer. managing director The consistent efforts of the team led to a smooth transfer of employees for other A page of the company’s history turns but we pursue our facility opportunities. activities to assure the perennity of the site. services G4S We are definitely proud to be business partners with them and hope that this initiative will be taken back by companies having the same problems. » Sustainable development report DISTRIBUTION 2011 2012 INCLUSION 2009 2010 2011 2012 OF THE EMPLOYEES Europe 7275 7898 Employment of people Rate of employment 7,82 % 7,30 % 8,14 % 9,48 % IN THE GROUP On 12/31/2012 International 3217 2714 with disabilities (AIF) Legal rate in France 6% 6% 6% 6% Americas 1003 1018 TOTAL 13506 13642 Consideration of disability remains a priority and various activities to integrate or retain working people with disabilities have succeeded as evidence the employment rate of 9.48%. Globally the group’s staff little evolved between 2011 and 2012 but it’s not the case by zone. Europe saw its staff increase in particular with the new production site in Russia and in spite of the cessation of ADF, distribution LOBEL WORKSHOP subsidiary, and the end of the preservation plan of AIF. The factory of 2009 2010 2011 2012 AIME in the United Arab Emirates saw its staff decreasing because of the Workforce 41 41 40 37 reduction on the activity in 2012. Supervisors 5 5 6 4 Nb of people succes36 38 38 38 fully graduating Nb of people who 3 0 1 1 obtained the CACES ACCIDENTS 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, there were no outflows of the workshop. Training in AT WORKPLACE Europe 8,34 10,13 9,88 7,81 CACES, allowing disabled works to work as a forklift and thus Frequency rate International 9,22 9,57 8,64 2,40 enhance their employability. One more person has obtained the Americas 5,91 4,33 1,91 4,94 permit, bringing to four the number of CACES obtained since GROUP 8,42 9,43 8,79 5,62 2009. 42 43 Severity rate BRIQUETERIE WORKSHOP 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Europe 0,50 0,40 0,43 0,36 Workshop 19 22 23 23 International 0,11 0,13 0,12 0,10 Supervisors 3 4 4 4 Americas 0,31 0,27 0,18 0,12 % people 50 % 50 % 67 % 67 % reintegrated in GROUP 0,35 0,28 0,28 0,22 a company The project «A safe arc together» has deployed its actions in 2012 and In 2012, the Briqueterie workshop saw its rate of release the objective of the frequency rate of accidents of 3 in 2016 came close. successfully remaining stable in 67%. 6 young people were able Whether the rate of frequency or severity rate, both improved and the to leave the workshop with a permanent employment. overall Group. EMPLOYMENT 2009 2010 2011 2012 OF SENIORS (AIF) Active employees 15 15 73 320 TRAINING 2009 2008 2010 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 over 55years of age INVESTMENT AIF Formation Training en % 3,47 4,89% 3,47% 3,71 3,41 3,71% 2,79 3,41% Percentage 0,21 % 0,23 % 1,21 % 5,46 % As a percentage of Legallégal Taux in France rate en France 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % 1,60 % payroll (AIF) In the senior agreement signed for 2010 to 2012, Arc In spite of a reduction in the training rate in 2012 this one remains International France pledges to double the employment rate for nevertheless important. 2,79 % against statutory 1,6 %. workers over 55 years. In 2012, the employment rate reaches 5,46%. Sustainable development report By investing in actions of solidarity and sharing, Arc International remains true to its values Based on its core values, Arc International is actively involved and highlights its uniqueness. in solidarity and community support initiatives in its home territory of Arques, as well as in Brazil and the United Arab Emirates. COMMUNITIES Local support for young people: On 20 March 2012, a partnership agreement between the «Ecole de la 2ème Chance» and Arc International France was signed. It is the result of numerous discussions aimed at the Ecole building a program whose sole purpose is to meet the school’s de la 2 chance ème requirements by providing young people with specific careeroriented support. As such, the company’s commitment will (the School for a second chance) involve preparing the students for job interviews, conducting company visits and organizing lunch discussions between students and professionals. This type of partnership is an extension of the company’s values and will help young people in the area in which Arc International is located. 44 45 chance ho ol for the 2nd the sc Visit of Signing of the partnership agreement Culinary workshops Arc International Brazil (AIB), a distribution subsidiary of the Group, is involved in the initiative launched by the «Chefs in Brazil Especiais» association, which supports children with Down syndrome (also known as trisomy 21), and whose goal is to help the children learn about cooking and the professional world. Many renowned chefs are part of the association and directly involved in giving cooking lessons to the children! AIB regularly provides tableware products for the cookery workshops. p worksho Culinary Sustainable development report On Saturday 13 October, the «Comité de Promotion Nord Support for the Gourm’Hand Pas de Calais» (Nord-Pas de Calais Promotion Committee), Ronald McDonald the Sainte-Marie de Bailleul Vocational College and QUANTA Foundation organized the 10th edition of «L’Assiette Gourm’Hand», a national gourmet cooking competition for disabled persons, with the support of the French National Cooking Academy. This competition is unique in France and has become a major success over the years. It aims to promote the work of mentallyhandicapped persons in the food services sector through regional gastronomy. It is organized under the Patronage of the French President. As every year, the event received the unwavering support of the entire profession. Among the many personalities present were 13 «Meilleurs Ouvriers de France» (best french workers) Arc International was happy and proud to be one of the event’s partners, providing glass products for the occasion. House of the parents Luminarc® brought a touch of color to the center for autistic « The Ronald McDonald Foundation was created in 1994 under the Cupcakes IN Dubai children in Dubai. In accordance with the company’s values, 46 aegis of the «Fondation de France», and works to improve the well47 the brand organized a special day to donate cupcakes to the being of sick children and their parents. Our action is built around the children and staff of the center. The team visited every room to management and development of family reception facilities, called Ronald McDonald Houses. These specially-designed centers are TESTIMONY give the children their favorite cakes. This initiative marked a adapted to the needs of families and enable them to maintain a certain Véronique Le Gac memorable and happy day for all. emotional balance, which is so important in the healing process. There Deputy Delegate As Afaf Haddad, an educational assistant at the center, are nine houses in France and, since their creation, we have welcome General, Ronald poignantly summed up: «The children need a lot of love, care McDonald Foundation and attention. Activities like this are an opportunity for them to 40,000 families for stays ranging from a few days to several months. interact with the outside world and society. At the same time, it Following an initial donation of glasses to the Ronald McDonald is an opportunity for companies to learn more about autism.» House in Villejuif in 2011, it was with great pleasure that we accepted Luminarc® gave 60 decorated, personalized plates to the Arc International’s donation of approximately 5,000 glasses for all our children. With their cheerful, unique design, these plates Houses in France. These cheerful and colorful glasses are perfectly brought a smile to the children’s faces, making it a truly suited to our environment, particularly since they come from the range wonderful, unforgettable moment. that was produced for the 2012 London Olympics and distributed in McDonald’s restaurants during the event. They brighten up the lives of the families and add more a little more warmth and fun to the mealtimes. It is thanks to the efforts of employees that the donation to the Ronald McDonald Parents’ Houses has been possible. We would like to thank the staff of Arc International who made this operation possible and we hope this will mark the start of a regular partnership. On behalf of the families, a big thank you to everyone for helping to organize this initiative..» Sustainable development report Empty As part of the «Empty your cupboards» («Videz vos placards») operation from 27 April to 19 May 2012, the Arc Décoration store offered its 5th French National From 16 to 20 May, the Saint-Omer region hosted the fifth French National Corporate Sports Games organized by the your cupboards! customers the opportunity to renew their tableware, while taking part in a Corporate Games French Corporate Sports Federation. The event brought national solidarity initiative. Customers were offered a purchase voucher together more than 3,700 athletes, volunteers, organizers and for every kilogram of old tableware they brought back to the store. partners. The competitions involved 37 sports disciplines. This was a first for Arc Décoration and the Red Cross, who were taking The premises of the ASCAI (Arc International Sports and part in the operation launched by the French National Committee for Cultural Association) hosted tennis, squash, football and Tableware. volleyball competitions involving some 350 athletes. The tableware collected was donated to the Red Cross to be sorted. A total of 58 employees defended the company’s colors in Items in good condition were subsequently given to families benefiting various disciplines such as athletics, orienteering, golf, sailing, from solidarity support from the local Red Cross branches or sold in the cross-country running and football. Many volunteers from the organization’s «Vesti-boutiques» (Clothes-shops) in the district of Saintcompany helped organize the games, and also participated as Omer. Any valuable tableware was sold through auction and the money athletes. collected donated to the Red Cross. After three weeks, 18 tons of tableware had been collected in the store and were sent to the Red Cross. The operation was a genuine success es and provided customers with a double satisfaction; that of renewing their AIF Employe tableware while helping the needies. 48 49 Tennis team Job creator The Award Ceremony for the Job Creator Competition in the «Audomarois» area (in the Pas de Calais region in Northern France) took place on 14 competition with March 2012. This competition was launched by the Group in partnership Créativallée with the «Créativallée» association as part of the 3rd business revitalization agreement. The goal was to encourage entrepreneurs with labor requirements to recruit before 30 June 2012. The contest awarded prizes for different categories, «Company creation-acquisition», «Business development», «Rural Enterprise» and the jury’s «Favorite». The seven winners shared €54,000 in prize money. Guillaume de Fougières and Chantal Manguin-Dufraisse, the Deputy Prefect of Saint Omer, underlined the philosophy behind this initiative, whose aim is to promote the role of entrepreneurship and business development in combating unemployment and contributing to the economic vitality of the region. Sustainable development report NOTES 50 51 AN 322/13 Adaptation et photos © TerCréa un service d’Arc International France Rédaction : C.Girardey et C. Barbier CONTACT Caroline BARBIER Corporate Sustainable Development Manager Arc International 104 avenue du Général de Gaulle Arques France Tél : +33 3 21 95 46 67 GSM : + 33 6 50 69 13 42 caroline.barbier@arc-intl.com Pyrex® is a trademark of Corning Incorporated, used by permission. 100% From wellmanaged forests Printed on 100% recycled paper
