Embedding sustainability Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Introduction Quick find We hope that this report provides an insight into the progress that the business is making and its performance against the sustainability targets and objectives that have been set across the strategic pillars. Our vision is to be a world-class Responsible Stewardship diversified resources company p22 providing superior returns to our shareholders. Delivering high-quality assets and low-cost operations, with sustainable development, underpins all our activities. Our Group values – centred on Entrepreneurship, Growth, Excellence, Trust and Sustainability – provide the foundations for our vision. Building Strong Relationships p56 This is our fifth Sustainable Development Report and coincides with the publication of our Annual Report. Combined, these two documents provide an overview of our approach and our achievements in 2012-13, outlining our actions over the past year to achieve our mission to be a world-class diversified natural resource company. In this year’s Sustainable Development Report, we have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and the GRI G3.1 supplement Adding and Sharing Value on Metal and Mining Industries and Oil & Gas. In addition, the report aligns with and responds p68 to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and Millennium Development Goals. We report to the highest A+ GRI application level. The detailed GRI G3.1 Content Index (including the Mining and Metal and the Oil & Gas Supplement) reference sheet and data sheet is available at www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com. All Vedanta Group subsidiary companies have been reported as though they were 100% wholly-owned as we recognise the level of control and sphere of influence the Group has over these operations. For the first time, the report includes data from Cairn India, which was acquired in the third quarter of the 2011-12 financial year. The Vedanta Sustainability Committee has appointed Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) as the assurance provider to independently assess this report, and site visits were made to BALCO, Hindustan Zinc Ltd, KCM, VAL-Lanjigarh, Sterlite, Sterlite Energy Ltd (SEL) and Cairn India’s corporate office. A full assurance statement is included in this report on page 110. Contents Overview About Vedanta 2 This year, we Chairman’s introduction Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10 8 have developed Management update Our approach and strategy 12 14 our approach Performance 20 to reporting further, including expanding the areas of materiality Responsible Our strategy and management Sustainable management in practice 24 28 Stewardship and stakeholder Health and safety Environment 30 39 engagement, to best reflect our thinking and the direction of the business Building Strong Stakeholder engagement 58 Human rights 62 Relationships Community consultation and resettlement 64 Adding and Adding value to our stakeholders 70 Our employees 73 Sharing Value Our communities 80 Our industry 86 Our host Governments 89 Civil society 91 Our shareholders and lenders 94 Assurance URS (Scott Wilson) Report 98 GRI Index 102 UNGC 107 MDGs 108 DNV assurance statement 110 Glossary 112 vedantaresources.com 1 Overview: About Vedanta Our footprint Vedanta is a FTSE 100 diversified natural resources group committed to sustainable development, supporting local communities and contributing to the economies of the areas where we operate. Key to operations Zinc/Lead/Silver Oil & Gas Iron Ore Copper Aluminium Power Captive power plant Projects under development Zinc/Lead/Silver Oil & Gas Iron Ore Description We are the world’s largest Cairn India is the fastest We are India’s largest integrated zinc-lead producer growing Asian E&P company privately-owned producer and one of the leading silver (winning the Platts Top 250 of iron ore. We are also producers globally. Energy Company Awards developing an Iron ore 2012) and ranks among the project in Liberia. top 20 independent E&P companies globally. Market share We are the leading supplier We contribute to over 25% of We were the largest iron ore of zinc in India, with an 80% India’s current domestic crude exporter in India in FY 2012. market share. We are also production. the country’s leading supplier of lead and silver. Location India, Ireland, Namibia, India, Sri Lanka, India, Liberia South Africa South Africa Revenue (US$ million) 3,061 3,223 442 EBITDA (US$ million) 1,460 2,440 84 Production volumes `` Zinc – 1,030kt 205 mboe 3.1MT `` Lead – 197kt `` Silver – 13.1moz Total no. of employees including 23,506 1,491 6,011 contract workforce* Total no. of fatalities 7 0 1 High category environmental 3 0 1 incidents 2 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Copper Aluminium Power Our Zambia operations We are the largest aluminium We are one of the largest Description have one of the highest-grade producer in India, with independent power producers large copper mines in the smelters, refinery, captive and one of the largest wind world. In India, we operate a power plants and mines. power producers in India. large custom copper smelter These are large high-quality considered to be one of the assets strategically located most efficient smelters in the in the midst of the coal and world. We also operate a bauxite belt, incorporating copper mine in Australia. the latest technology. We are the leading supplier We are the leading supplier Our generation capacity is 5% Market share of copper in India, with a 40% of aluminium in India, with of India’s generating capacity. market share. over 30% market share. Australia, India, Zambia India India Location 5,734 1,921 576 Revenue (US$ million) 476 214 215 EBITDA (US$ million) `` Copper (Integrated) – 186kt 774kt 8,888 million units sold Production volumes `` Copper (Custom) – 383kt 24,504 23,506 2,621 Total no. of employees including contract workforce* 3 7 2 Total no. of fatalities 1 0 1 High category environmental incidents * These figures are as at 31 March 2013 vedantaresources.com 3 Overview: About Vedanta continued Our operations in context Our strategy is to deliver growth, long-term Zambia. In 2012-13, we contributed a total We contributed a total of value and sustainable development through of US$5.3 billion across the world. a diversified portfolio of high-quality, long-life, Our operations also make a valuable US$ 5.3 billion low-cost natural resource assets. This portfolio across the world to the contribution to the social and economic exchequer is primarily in copper, zinc, lead, silver, development of the communities in which aluminium, iron ore and energy generation. we operate. This includes directly and indirectly Strong performance in In addition, we have added oil and gas assets employing close to 90,000 people and the current challenging through the acquisition of a controlling stake environment driven by further indirectly enabling employment for in Cairn India. a diversified portfolio an estimated 500,000 or more. We are also of world-class, low-cost, Our priorities include delivering industry-leading amongst the largest employers in several states long-life assets production growth across the portfolio, in India, the largest private sector employer in continuing to add reserves and resources Zambia, and provide community programmes Revenue up by 7% to to drive long-term value, and completing the simplification of our corporate structure. These that benefit approximately 3.7 million people. The scale of our operations also makes us US$ 15.0 billion priorities are framed within the context that the a major economic contributor through the Final dividend of business must be sustainable and, accordingly, flow-on effect of our activities. By sourcing we embed sustainable development into all aspects of what we do, on our journey of products and services locally, we generate 37US cents significant economic activity and promote the per share continuous improvement. development of local skills. This is particularly Our operations are located in the high-growth relevant as the majority of our operations are markets of India, Sri Lanka, Zambia, Namibia, in the developing world and we are committed South Africa and Liberia. While the majority of to enabling the sustainable development of the Group’s assets and operations are in India these societies. and Africa, we also have a presence in Ireland The Group’s sustainability policies and and Australia. standards in areas such as health and safety, Beyond our operations environmental management, community The extractive industry is one of the key relations and governance are consistently contributors to modern society as, without used across all our operations, regardless raw materials, the lifestyle that so many of of their geographic location. us enjoy today would not be possible. The Journey of continual growth resources we bring to market have a myriad Since listing in 2004, our EBITDA (earnings of uses, creating the basic building blocks of before interest, taxation, depreciation and society: iron ore is used in the construction of amortisation) experienced an almost 15-fold transport networks and building infrastructure; increase from US$323 million in FY 2004 copper is used to connect people through to US$4.9 billion in FY 2013. We have also telecommunications and in lifesaving medical successfully diversified from a base metals devices, and aluminium is used across a myriad company producing zinc, lead, aluminium of products, including protecting foodstuffs and copper in FY 2004, into now also working from spoiling, and helping to reduce fuel in bulks (iron ore), power and oil and gas. emissions as a lightweight material for Aligned with this growth, we are working automobiles. In addition, we generate systematically to develop and augment electricity that lights millions of people’s lives our sustainability practices – evolving from and our crude oil is an essential component adherence to local regulations and standards of thousands of secondary products. to embracing international best practice, Our presence facilitates, through the including the IFC Performance Standards, contributions we make to the exchequer, the ICMM Guidelines and the UN Global the vital role of governments to deliver Compact among others. Our business model appropriate infrastructure and valuable is based on growth, value creation and services to their societies. We are amongst continuous improvement, and we apply the largest contributors to the exchequer this model rigorously in the execution in India and are the largest contributor in of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. 4 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Continued growth and diversification Continued growth and diversification Simplifying Group structure In line with our stated strategy to unlock 2007 value for shareholders, in February 2012 we Aluminium 15% announced a consolidation and simplification Copper 31% of the Group structure. As part of this, Sesa Goa Zinc 54% and Sterlite will merge to form a new company to be called Sesa Sterlite Ltd. Additionally, Vedanta Resources’ stake in Vedanta Aluminium and Cairn India will move to Sesa Sterlite and MALCO will also merge into this entity. Sesa Sterlite will be one of the 2012 world’s largest diversified natural resources Aluminium 4% companies, with exposure to base metals, Copper 17% bulk commodities and oil and gas. We have Zinc 40% already received approval for completing Iron ore 18% the transaction from the High Court of Bombay Oil and gas* 18% (at Goa) and the order from the High Court Power 3% of Madras is now awaited. This consolidation will remove cross-holdings within the Group, create a more efficient 2013 capital structure by better aligning assets and Aluminium 4% liabilities, enhance visibility of earnings and cash Copper 10% flows, and generate capital, tax and operational Zinc 30% synergies. This has a direct bearing on our Iron ore 2% relationships with lenders and shareholders: Oil and gas* 50% as we mitigate financial risks we support Power 4% and strengthen our relationships with these key stakeholders. * Numbers post completion of Cairn acquisition on 8 December 2011 Group Structure Proposed Group Group structure Structure Vedanta Resources 79.4% 58.3% Divisions of Sesa Sterlite Iron ore (Sesa Goa) Konkola Sesa Copper smelting (Tuticorin) Copper Mines Sterlite Aluminium (VAL aluminium assets) Power (2,400MW Jharsuguda) 58.8% 64.9% 51.0% 51.0% 100% 100% 100% 100% Bharat Skorpion, Talwandi Val Power Australian Cairn Zinc-India Liberia Aluminium Lisheen & Sabo Power & MALCO Copper India (HZL) Iron Ore (Balco) 74% BMM (1,980mw) (1,405mw) Mines Options to Options to Options to Zinc increase stake increase stake increase stake International to 94.4% to 100% to 100% vedantaresources.com 5 Overview: About Vedanta continued invaluable understanding of how to make a positive contribution Working in India Working in Africa Founded in India, our business has grown Our Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) operations in parallel with India’s emergence as an in Zambia, BMM in South Africa, Skorpion economic superpower with a significant Zinc in Namibia and our recent acquisitions global presence. We are the market leader in Liberia are examples of the long-term in many key commodities in the country, commitment that we have to the region. Since and with economic growth forecast to 2005, we have invested over US$4 billion in our recover to 6% in 2013, Vedanta remains African operations, with our presence making uniquely positioned as a domestic supplier. a significant contribution to local and regional economies. By making long-term financial While we now work in many countries, investments supported by strong, collaborative by virtue of our long and extensive presence relationships, we ensure our presence for the in India our sustainable business practices have foreseeable future. This benefits both our been in place for many years, and we welcome business and our host communities while the Indian Government’s recently introduced also preserving and enhancing our social National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, licence to operate. Environmental & Economic Responsibilities of Business Principles. These include obligations In regions where there is emerging domestic on business to respect the environment, demand, we play a significant role in the promote the well-being of employees and development of internal markets, generating to respect the interests of all stakeholders, revenue through both contributing to their particularly the disadvantaged and vulnerable. exports earning foreign exchange and our The Guidelines complement the work we are contributions to the exchequer. In 2012-13, already undertaking across the Group. our exports from South Africa, Namibia and Zambia resulted in combined revenue Our contribution to India’s development payments of US$151.5 million for these has been significant – we produce more than Governments, as illustrated below: 25% of India’s domestic crude oil, and have therefore enhanced energy security through South Africa US$33.9 million reducing import dependency and saving India’s Namibia US$9.4 million foreign exchange. As a nation rich in mineral Zambia US$108.2 million wealth, we also play a major part in developing the opportunities inherent in India’s natural resources. In addition, the products and services we secure from contractors and suppliers help create vibrant, regional economies and our significant workforce requirement plays a role in nurturing the talent In addition to revenue generation, Vedanta that is available in such a diverse and large subsidiaries promote economic activity through population. Our community development direct and indirect employment, and we are programme takes our contribution from proud to be the largest private employer in our operations into the community and Zambia. We also make a broader contribution has a significant reach, contributing to the through developing and promoting effective socio-economic development of the nation. collaborations and programmes between Our operations in India have given us business, governments and civil society an invaluable understanding of how to organisations. These programmes are centred make a positive contribution to a developing on understanding and meeting the needs country. We are able to take this experience of local communities whilst also developing to our operations in other countries, local markets and the necessary structures particularly in Africa, the other major to enable this engagement and collaboration. region of our operations. For example, our partnership with the Zambia 6 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative (ZEITI) and the Government of Zambia continues to expand and enhance ZEITI’s capabilities in data management and IT By making long-term financial skills, bringing greater transparency and investments supported by strong accountability. We also partnered with the Government of Zambia to improve railway collaborative relationships, infrastructure, enabling a more effective transport network, assisting local people we ensure our presence for the and improving access to export markets. foreseeable future. This benefits Working in the rest of the world We have a limited, but important, presence both our business and our host in Australia and Ireland. These sites contribute communities while also preserving to the local communities in which they operate by providing employment, developing and enhancing our social licence infrastructure and engaging with local community groups and organisations. to operate Our operations are located in remote areas & developing countries – like the Black Mountain mine in the North Cape province of South Africa vedantaresources.com 7 Overview: Chairman’s introduction We manage our business responsibly in order to be sustainable Anil Agarwal Chairman Embedding our sustainability framework Sustainability is a core element of our I have consulted closely with our CEOs guiding strategy and supports our growth to ensure that the implementation of the as a diversified natural resources company. Vedanta Sustainability Framework is a core In this report, we discuss how we manage aspect of their business. Supported by the our business responsibly. This includes the business CEOs and the corporate team, activities we undertake across our operations the Sustainability Committee has worked to ensure the health and safety of our people, relentlessly to drive our sustainability agenda. how we make valuable economic and social contributions to the communities and regions Priority areas where we operate and how we manage our Three years ago I made a personal environmental footprint. commitment to five priority areas. They provide a clear path to successful and sustainable Our active engagement and deep growth and how we can add value to our understanding of the countries, communities shareholders and other stakeholders. Below, and environments where we operate, I have outlined the progress we have made combined with our Tier 1 assets, form the against each of these priorities over the foundation of our business strategy and past year: position our Group to create diverse value for our shareholders and other stakeholders. 1. Embed sustainable development into every aspect of what we do Embedding sustainability Significant progress has been made to As we grow our business, it is important embed sustainable development into our that we have a consistent and systematic business operations, including training 8,000 approach to running our operations. Last year employees on the Vedanta Sustainability we introduced our Vedanta Sustainability Framework. Particularly important has been Framework and this year we have focused the introduction of an assurance and site audit on embedding and implementing it. This process – the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance has meant working to train and develop Programme, or VSAP – which measures the our employees and contractors and to roll effectiveness of our Sustainability Framework out the framework’s supporting processes at the operational level. and standards. This report illustrates these 2. Improve our health and safety efforts, achievements against set targets performance for a safer, more secure and our future aspirations. We understand that and healthier environment our commitment to corporate sustainability The safety of all the people who work with requires constant monitoring and diligence Vedanta remains a major priority and I am and our framework also gives us the tools encouraged that our key safety metrics show to achieve this. 8 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 As we grow our business, it is important that we have a consistent and systematic approach to running our operations improvements. I do however regret to report success in meeting many of our past goals, we a number of fatalities this year, particularly as are now setting escalating benchmarks as we a result of one key incident that took the lives enter a new phase of our sustainability journey. of five of our colleagues. It is clear that much 5. Maintain an active dialogue with more needs to be done to achieve zero our stakeholders fatalities, and our entire company is committed Stakeholder engagement is an ongoing to reaching this target. process and; to add additional rigour, this year We are working to embed a zero tolerance we undertook a focused materiality assessment culture for health and safety breaches and to understand stakeholders’ expectations in the Responsible Stewardship section of of us as a global business. We describe the this report we detail a number of programmes activities we have undertaken to achieve this we have implemented to achieve this. in this section of the report and in Building Strong Relationships. 3. Make targeted contributions to local communities Moving forward We continued to partner with a large range of I am pleased that we have made considerable organisations to identify and meet community progress on meeting our stakeholders’ needs in the areas in which we operate. For expectations of us towards sustainability. example, in India we partner with the District I am confident that the right framework and Rural Development Agency to provide basic standards have been put in place to embed amenities and infrastructure, while in South and implement sustainability practices for the Africa we partnered with the Northern Cape long term, which enables us to operate to Department of Health to provide cataract international standards consistently across the screening and surgery. Group. We are committed to continuing to Contributing to communities remains a work with all our stakeholders on this journey, strategic priority and forms a central part ensuring we are a business that delivers value of gaining and maintaining the trust of all – both financial and non-financial – to all our those who host our operations. stakeholder groups. 4. Continue to manage and minimise our impact on air, water and land This year, we maintained our focus on how Anil Agarwal we manage our impact on air, water and land Chairman use and this has resulted in a decline in water resource usage. Although we have achieved vedantaresources.com 9 Overview: Chief Executive Officer’s statement Ensuring that our business produces resources responsibly is not only crucial for society, it is critical for sustaining the growth and development of our business. MS Mehta Chief Executive Officer Taking our responsibilities seriously As Chief Executive Officer and Chair of the ExCo Implementing our Sustainability Framework Sub-Committee on Sustainability I am pleased to take Over the past year, we have further embedded this opportunity to illustrate the seriousness with which we our Sustainability Framework and implemented its take our responsibility towards our stakeholders, to broader practices and standards. We are committed to ensuring society and to the planet. Leading a diversified natural that the Framework is followed and managed in all our resource company, whose business is locating and operations and new projects in order to continue our producing finite resources, makes me acutely aware sustainability journey. of our obligation to run a sustainable business. Our team, comprising over 600 key staff in health, safety, Ensuring that our business produces resources responsibly environmental management and community engagement is not only crucial for society, it is critical for sustaining around the world, is committed to support our vision and the growth and development of our business. All of us targets. These efforts are further supported and reinforced at Vedanta believe that we can strengthen our business by engaging external experts. and positively impact the world by managing all our This report is a reflection of how we have made progress business operations sustainably. By doing so, we maintain on the three strategic pillars of the Vedanta Sustainability constructive and mutually respectful relationships with all Framework: Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong our key stakeholders. Relationships and Adding and Sharing Value, and below Vedanta uses state-of-the-art technology and we are I highlight some of the key achievements from the year committed to embracing and developing new technologies which are detailed throughout this report. and innovations that add economic value, create efficiencies, and also make a significant contribution Responsible Stewardship to reducing the environmental footprint of our business. Responsible Stewardship encapsulates our approach For example, a few years ago we replaced our old copper to our employees, the environment and our business smelter at our KCM business with the latest technology processes. In 2012-13, my greatest concern has been the smelter. This has helped in improving our metal recovery 20 fatalities, and I am personally committed to driving this from 91% to 98.5% from copper concentrate, which in turn figure down to achieve our goal of zero fatalities. This goal has reduced our finite resource consumption per tonne of is supported by our leadership teams, across-operations metal. Similarly, learning from that experience, at our BALCO commitment to make our operations a safe place to work. business we have replaced our old aluminium smelter with We have undertaken a number of activities in support the latest technology, saving approximately 3,000 units of our Responsible Stewardship pillar over the past year: of power per tonne of aluminium. This has resulted in our reducing our carbon footprint per tonne of metal. ``Our Code of Conduct sets out our expected behaviours It is also important to recognise the role our products and is the first step in guiding and training our employees play in facilitating a more sustainable society: much green in managing their way of working. During the year, we technology is dependent upon the copper and aluminium conducted around 36,000 man hours of training on the we bring to market. Code of Conduct. 10 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 ``Post introduction of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework, in how human right issues are managed at each of our we have launched the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance operations. The objective of the review was to confirm that Programme (VSAP), to measure its implementation and we are meeting all applicable national and international effectiveness across our operations. legislation, guidelines and conventions on human rights ``Embedding the Framework is a long-term project and with special reference to the UN Universal Declaration each site has a well-defined action plan that provides both of human rights. This has helped us in strengthening our direction and targets for improvement. These plans are existing systems and delivering focused training for our staff. supplemented by appropriate guidance documents and training to ensure that the business units are supported Adding and Sharing Value appropriately in its effective execution. Vedanta’s activities add both financial and non-financial value. Our business generates significant revenues to ``We have taken a number of steps to enhance governments and local bodies. We also make a positive the way we manage the Group’s environmental impact by employing close to 90,000* people worldwide, impacts, particularly in the areas of biodiversity by developing infrastructure and through the engagement and waste management. of local and regional suppliers. In addition, we add value to ``All our new projects are aligned to our new our communities by partnering in initiatives with local NGOs Sustainability Framework. and host Governments for the upliftment of society. After a string of several successful years, we fell short We have a robust training programme for our employees of our targets on specific water and energy consumption, to facilitate their career development and to equip us with largely due to production interruptions at a few of our sites the skills we need for our growth plans. We are committed and slower progress than earlier planned. However, we to also ensuring and providing a motivated and happy remain committed to making progress this year, backed working environment for our workforce. Our Chairman by our conviction and action plans. conducts frequent workshops with aspiring leaders within Environmental incidents continue to be classified the Group, where employees have an opportunity to according to our internal rating system, based on their engage directly with the senior leadership. We feel this severity. Incident monitoring, reporting, investigation, direct engagement adds value to our employees as well and remediation and preventative action is practised with as our business. the aim of improving our overall performance. Our new Development of our host communities, a large part generation plants together with the commitment of of which are under-privileged, has always been important competent teams will remain the foundation to deliver to us, particularly in India and Africa. We continue to serve benchmark results. this cause through needs-based initiatives. During the year we spent US$42 million on the community programmes Building Strong Relationships that we delivered in collaboration with NGOs, local Maintaining and managing relationships is crucial to governments, academic institutions and private hospitals. ensuring that we continue to create value for all stakeholder groups and to this end we continue to enhance our We recognise that we also share value through stakeholder stakeholder engagement processes. The deeper and more relationships, such as those with shareholders, lenders sophisticated our relationships are with our stakeholders, and civil society groups. We continue to work to deepen the better we are equipped to understand the material our understanding of these groups’ expectations of the issues for our business. This allows us to respond to any business, with our stakeholder engagement process the challenges and maximise strategic opportunities. first step in enhancing our mutual understanding. Over the last year, a key achievement has been the All the actions we have taken in support of our Framework inclusion of stakeholders, both internal and external, in the and the targets we have set ourselves make Vedanta development of the business thinking on materiality and the a strong company which is able to make positive and subsequent deepening of our awareness and understanding meaningful long-term contributions to our stakeholders, of stakeholder priorities. This has been a real step forward in our host countries and the areas we work in. ensuring our Sustainability Framework comes to life and is meaningful for them. More detail on our materiality process is available in this section of the report. MS Mehta In addition, in order to effectively reach different Chief Executive Officer stakeholder groups, we have in place the dedicated sustainability@vedanta.co.in email facility in order to receive feedback directly. We remain focused on completing the upgrading and implementing of our existing stakeholder engagement standard to our Sustainability Framework. Our target is to have in place appropriate stakeholder engagement plans across all Vedanta’s businesses by 2014. As a proactive step, the Sustainability Committee commissioned an internal study to assess the robustness of our processes and identify any areas of improvement * Total employees and contractors as at 31 March 2013 vedantaresources.com 11 Overview: Management update Sterlite Industries India Limited – Tuticorin Sterlite Industries owns a 1,200 tpd copper smelter at Tuticorin in Tamil Nadu state, As a responsible business, we provide south-east India. The smelter was built in the regular and timely updates on significant 1995-96 with capacity increased twice, and initiatives and issues affecting our it now accounts for around half of all copper produced in India. In September 2010, the operations. Madras High Court ordered the closure of the smelter because of allegations of pollution. In Below, we present a summary of key current April 2013, the Supreme Court reversed that issues that have been highlighted publicly in the decision. A court-appointed independent last year. For more information, please see our investigation team – consisting of the National corporate website at: Environmental Engineering Research Institute www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com/home (NEERI), the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) and the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) – found that the business meets the required standards. The company has also implemented a number of improvement recommendations. Vedanta Aluminium Limited – Lanjigarh Vedanta Aluminium Ltd (VAL) constructed Separate from the earlier court decisions, a 1 million tpa alumina refinery at Lanjigarh, after allegations of excess SO2 emissions Kalahandi District, Odisha State, eastern India in March 2013, the TNPCB ordered the in 2007, with a Memorandum of Understanding closure of the smelter on 29 March 2013, signed with the Government of Odisha that without carrying out scientific analysis. Plant up to 150 million tonnes of bauxite for the parameters showed emissions remained plant would be supplied by the Odisha Mining within the permitted limits. Sterlite Industries Corporation (OMC), a Government of Odishacontinues to work with the TNPCB to enable owned enterprise. Although the bauxite mining the smelter to reopen, but has also filed an project was approved by the Supreme Court appeal with the National Green Tribunal (NGT). of India in 2008, OMC has not yet been able In the order dated 31 May 2013, NGT allowed to start the mining project, mainly due to the operations to start in the presence of a rejection of the final clearance by the Ministry committee set up by the tribunal. of Environment and Forest (MoEF). With OMC unable to supply the bauxite, the refinery was Sesa Goa Limited closed on 5 December 2012. Sesa Goa owns a 14 million tpa iron ore mining operation in Goa and a 2.29 million tpa iron ore On 18 April 2013, the Indian Supreme Court mining operation in Karnataka State, south-west directed the Government of Odisha to place India. It is India’s largest private sector producer issues concerning the individual, community, and exporter of iron ore. cultural and religious claims of local people before a local Gramsabha, which would In 2011, the Supreme Court of India suspended decide the issue within three months and all iron ore mining operations in Karnataka. communicate the outcome to the MoEF. This state-wide suspension of iron ore mining The court also confirmed that once the has affected Sesa Goa operations in Karnataka. Gramsabha has resolved all the claims, the In September 2012, the Government of Goa MoEF will make a final decision on project also suspended mining and ore transportation clearance within two months. in the state. Consequently, we have stopped ore extraction and transport in Goa. In VAL continues to work with the Odisha September 2012, the MoEF also suspended state authorities for the allocation of bauxite. all environmental clearances given to the Separately, we are working on obtaining bauxite mines until verification of compliance with the supplies for the refinery from other sources set conditions. In October 2012, the Indian to allow the refinery to resume operations. Supreme Court ruled that the ban on mining activities and transportation will continue in Goa and referred the matter to the Central Empowered Committee (CEC) to file a preliminary report in the Supreme Court. 12 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 For Karnataka, on 18 April 2013 the Indian Scott Wilson Review Supreme Court authorised the resumption Of the 29 recommendations made by the Scott of mining for category A and B mines, subject Wilson Review, 27 have now been completed to statutory clearances. Sesa Goa’s Karnataka and closed. mine, a category B mine, is securing the The two pending recommendations that are necessary clearances to resume mining and outstanding are as a result of the following: is expected to start up again shortly. For Goa, the MoEF has set up an expert committee ``Final sign-off audit to be carried out in the to investigate the compliance status of the second quarter of 2013-14 environmental clearance conditions granted ``A recommendation pertaining specifically to to the mines. Sesa Goa continues to work the VAL-Lanjigarh site expansion is awaiting a with the CEC and the MoEF to allow mining legal verdict from the Indian Supreme Court. operations to recommence, but has also filed an application with the Supreme Court We are committed to continuing the seeking a stay on the suspension of mining development of the Vedanta Sustainability and restrictions on ore transportation. Framework and to its implementation along the lines stipulated in the review, with systems now in place to deliver excellence across the Group. Full details of our progress can be found in the Assurance section of this report. Cairn India In December 2011, Vedanta Resources plc completed its acquisition of a controlling stake in Cairn India, India’s largest private crude oil producer. About Cairn India Relationships. Though the sustainability challenges Cairn India has been operating in India for more than faced by the extractive and oil and gas industry are 17 years and has played an active role in developing diverse, the synergies between Cairn India and Vedanta’s the country’s oil and gas resources. In 2007, Cairn India approach to sustainable development are clear: both Limited was listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange and businesses understand that the size, scale and nature of the National Stock Exchange of India, and was the fastest their operations mean they have a responsibility to treat growing upstream oil and gas company in Asia in 2011. the community and the environment with respect, whilst Cairn India has a portfolio of 10 oil and gas blocks – one recognising that the business and the products it enables in Rajasthan, two on the west coast and five on the east all contribute to society as a whole. coast of India, and one in each of Sri Lanka and South When developing sustainability initiatives, Cairn ensures Africa. It has produced over 100 million barrels of crude that the development of the communities in the areas from its prolific Rajasthan oil fields in just three years where it operates is paramount to ensure that the of production, and today produces over 200,000 bpd, business has a sustained positive impact in the area. accounting for over 25% of India’s domestic crude In pursuit of this goal, it works in partnership with oil production. Cairn India has opened three frontier government and local authorities to support government basins with over 40 discoveries, 25 of which are in the initiatives on local community development. Rajasthan block. Being part of the Vedanta Group Cairn India’s sustainability management Alignment between Cairn India and Vedanta’s approach Cairn India has in place a strong, experienced to managing business sustainably is currently being management team and a correspondingly robust explored, together with sharing sustainability learning. The approach to sustainability management. In order Vedanta Group approach to stakeholder engagement to ensure the delivery of sustainable and responsible and the global reach of its operations provide growth corporate practices, the business has policies and and strategic opportunities for Cairn India. Cairn India has standards in place including those on business ethics, HSE, developed several programmes and initiatives to manage local communities, supplier relations and human rights. road safety and journey management as this poses a Cairn India has long committed to being a responsible major risk for the business. Cairn’s approach to training its and sustainable business and reported its activities against people and the local community on road safety is being its 3R programme: Respect, Responsibility and adopted by Vedanta business units. vedantaresources.com 13 Overview: Our approach and strategy Our Sustainability Our strategy The Vedanta business model is focused on growth. The business strategy ensures that model this growth is both sustainable and responsible. Our Sustainability Framework provides Vedanta with a robust structure for driving our future growth, supporting our sustainability model of Responsible Stewardship, Building Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing Our Vision Value. Through the implementation of the Vedanta’s vision is to be a world-class diversified resources Framework, we can advance both our business company providing superior returns to our shareholders outcomes and those of the communities and with high-quality assets, low-cost operations and environment that surround us by offering sustainable development. significant benefits beyond our operations. Since introducing our sustainability model and Group Strategy supporting Sustainability Framework in 2011-12, To deliver growth, long-term value and sustainable we have acted to implement them across the development through our diversified portfolio of large, business. Each Group company has conducted long-life, low-cost assets. a gap analysis of our existing management systems (ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and some to SA 8000 certification) with respect to the 1. Responsible Stewardship Vedanta Sustainability Framework (VSF), and Responsible stewardship is the foundation on subsequently put in place action plans to enable compliance. Progress towards targets p24 which we build our business – the way in which is measured and monitored by teams in the we respond to, and manage, our business. This businesses, but we have also developed a includes: how we manage our employees and corporate central Sustainability Assurance their health and safety, the management of our Programme, supported by our external land and our environmental impact and our sustainability auditors. supporting business processes. 2. Building Strong Relationships We work hard to engage with our stakeholders p57 to understand their key concerns and expectations of our business and practices. Proactive engagement also enables us to identify opportunities and mitigate risks by understanding and responding to issues rather than reacting to them. 3. Adding and Sharing Value We seek to add and share value through p69 everything that we do. As a business we make a considerable economic impact: through employment, the payment of taxes, royalties and other contributions to local, state and national governments. We also build local infrastructure For our complete sustainability framework, that benefits local communities in the form visit our website. of roads, schools and healthcare centres. www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com/ our_approach/our_strategy 14 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Sustainability management Vedanta has a clear structure for managing Our governance structure and implementing the Vedanta Sustainability Framework from the Group to the operational Audit Remuneration Nominations business units. Committee Committee Committee Sustainability is driven through all levels of Sustainability Executive Group business, from Board endorsement at Committee Vedanta Board Committee committee level, through operational review and target setting by our ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability chaired by the CEO, to regular training and instruction conducted on-site. ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability We have a Board of Directors and Executive Committee in place which assume the role of giving strategic perspective and thus steering the organisation in line with the commitments made to various stakeholders. Group Sustainability Team Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) We have introduced clear lines of responsibility and management to ensure that business performance is vigorously reviewed on Assurance Health Safety Communities Environment Reporting a continuous basis, with mechanisms in place to promote shared learning across the Group subsidiaries, facilitating performance improvements. Every effort is being made to tighten the way that sustainable business practices are managed across the Group. Group sustainability policies and guidance documentation are made available to all Segment Business Committees Vedanta employees through the corporate `` Operational review/Business management group website, on individual company portals and `` HSE/CSR/Sustainability Committees through awareness training, which is attended `` HSE/CSR/Sustainability teams by all levels of the business from the CEO to the ‘shop floor’. This year, refresher training was provided by the Group Chief Sustainability Officer to Board members on the Vedanta Sustainability Framework and the International Financial Site Level Committees Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards `` HSE/CSR Committees and at the business level a continuous training `` HSE/CSR/Sustainability teams programme was rolled out by the certified trainers, with 8,000 employees participating Key this year. Review of assurance Reporting route Assurance process findings Sustainability Committee: Permanent invitation Permanent Members All business unit CEOs Independent Director (Chairperson), Group Sustainability Team: Group CEO, KCM CEO, Group CSO Permanent Members (Committee Secretary) Group CSO, Business HSE Permanent invitation and CSR personnel All business unit CEOs Segment Business Committees: ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability Permanent Members Permanent Members Business unit CEOs, COOs, Group CEO (Chairperson), Group different functional heads, Sustainability Team, Heads of relevant HSE and CSR teams departments: HR, HSE vedantaresources.com 15 Overview: Our approach and strategy continued Sustainability Committee Composition of governance bodies The Vedanta Board is responsible for all aspects of sustainability across the Group and acts through the Sustainability Committee. The 14 Committee is chaired by the Senior Independent 11 Director, Mr Naresh Chandra, and also comprises Mr MS Mehta, CEO Vedanta, and Mr J Janakaraj, CEO KCM. All subsidiary company CEOs have 7 7 a permanent invitation to attend and participate in the meetings. The Committee oversees and 3 reviews sustainability performance and the 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Committee Chairman regularly updates the Less Between Above Male Female Male Female Board on its progress. Instilling rigour in the than 30-50 50 years Group’s processes has been a particular focus, 30 years years for example, by introducing mechanisms Age group Employees from Employees from minority group non-minority group such as a monthly Sustainability Sub-Executive Board of Directors ExCo Committee meeting, where monthly data and statistics on performance are shared across the business units. The Sustainability Committee’s mandate The Committee also reviews progress includes: on actions to reduce accidents and injuries across the Group, on improving environmental ``Outlining initiatives required to institutionalise performance and the Health and Safety – a sustainability culture through involvement Elimination of Unsafe Conditions Programme. of employees at all levels of the business. In addition, it sets Group-wide targets on ``To review, and report upon to the Board, the sustainability performance, reviews sustainability performance of the Group and its companies assurance scores and approves business action with respect to the implementation plans. Performance updates against targets set of the Sustainability Framework, and that are expected to be given on a regular basis. sustainability and reputational risks are being assessed, controlled and managed effectively. Segment Business Committees ``To review targets for sustainability Individual business units have their own performance and report to the Board with corporate mechanisms such as health respect to their appropriateness, and assess and safety and social committees to deliver progress towards achieving those targets. on their targets and to drive sustainability ``To approve the Vedanta Sustainable across their operations. Performance indicators Development Report. are developed in accordance with the risks associated with their operations, and guidance ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability documents are provided by the Group to aid The Group CEO, Mr MS Mehta, chairs the business implementation plans. Committee. The Committee works at an operational level to embed and deliver the Site Level Committees sustainable vision of the business. All Group All sites have a designated health and CEOs have a permanent invitation to the safety committee which is comprised of meetings and it is attended by selected management, HSE personnel and union human resources, and health and safety representatives where appropriate, covering and environmental leads from across the the full workforce of the site. The committees Group subsidiaries, together with the Group meet quarterly to provide advice on Sustainability Team. This year, the Committee occupational health and safety improvements. has mainly concentrated its efforts on ensuring that there is appropriate CEO oversight of operational performance against the Sustainability Framework. 16 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 We believe with our thrust and focus on sustainability strategy we can advance both our business outcome and those of people, host communities and environment surrounding us. Naresh Chandra Senior Independent Director Building on the foundations of a committed business The role of the Sustainability Committee is to advise This has included the commissioning of research and the Board on how it can meet its growth objectives in the evaluation on human rights and on child labour to most sustainable way. The Sustainability Committee’s vision understand the risks posed by the countries and markets is to build on the foundations of a business committed in which Vedanta operates, including the socio-political to its cultural heritage to create a business that is a facilitator context of these operations. of shared value – both financial and non-financial. Other issues and matters dealt with by the The Sustainability Committee fully recognises the role that Committee included: Vedanta’s activities play in the world, particularly in developing ``Consideration of the Group’s stakeholder engagement economies where the business operates. Vedanta uses its with specific reference to the VAL-Lanjigarh mode of talents, expertise and entrepreneurialism to help build these engagement, and project initiatives with the Dongria societies – physically through the commodities that help Kondh and other tribal groups. build functioning and thriving communities, but also by utilising its knowledge to train local employees and work with host ``Safety Governments to improve their infrastructure. Our Group Discussion and review of: commitment to the long term – across the whole range >> Fatal incidents of significant mining sites and related infrastructure that we >> Review of the Elimination of Unsafe Conditions develop – means that we can add significant value to the Programme. countries where we operate and benefits for the people who live there. ``Environment Discussion and review of: We are also committed to reducing Vedanta’s footprint, acting responsibly and positioning ourselves as a partner >> Major environmental incidents of choice for key stakeholder groups – adding and sharing >> Specific water and energy consumption performance value in the broadest way. with respect to targets Delivering sustainably >> Fly ash management plan This year the Sustainability Committee held four meetings >> Waste management plan over the year and has continued its efforts to implement >> CDM programmes for the Group. the Vedanta Sustainability Framework across the Group. ``Health The internal Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme Discussion and review of: has been successfully completed at 13 Vedanta sites >> Occupational health data and plans for further implementation are in place, with information available in the Responsible Stewardship >> Group wellness programmes. section of this report. As well as overseeing processes and the delivery of technical standards, the Sustainability Committee is driving business Naresh Chandra thinking on its overall approach to sustainability issues. Sustainability Committee Chairman vedantaresources.com 17 Overview: Our approach and strategy continued Our Materiality process Materiality Findings from the consultation process were We believe that maintaining meaningful consolidated and presented to management, stakeholder engagement has multiple benefits giving clear indication of the priority topics for business, including allowing for future that were identified by each of the stakeholder planning, deepening understanding of political, groups. These are reflected in the table on social, economic and environmental contexts, page 58-59. and ultimately improving efficiencies and In order to ensure that the materiality process driving profitability. marked an evolution in the business approach, We consider material issues to be those that the findings were mapped against the three are deemed important to our stakeholders pillars of Responsible Stewardship, Building and to the sustainable operations of our Strong Relationships and Adding and Sharing business. These are also those significant risks Value, and the material areas outlined in last which could result in reputational damage, year’s Sustainable Development Report. litigation or statutory penalties (we discuss our approach to risk management in the Responsible Stewardship section of the report). Managing material issues appropriately is Managing material issues crucial to managing our business sustainably and meeting the business strategy to appropriately is crucial drive growth. Over the past year we have evolved our approach through developing to managing our business relationships with both our internal and external stakeholders. sustainably and meeting the We consult with our stakeholders in a number business strategy to drive growth of ways, on a wide variety of matters, and involve the relevant personnel. Understanding the areas that particularly interest stakeholders is important to ensure that the business Findings provides appropriate feedback on activities and All our stakeholders recognised that to meet the expectations of those interested in the expectations placed on multinational our business. More information on the business companies have evolved, and it was approach to stakeholder engagement and the considered that businesses should be aligning various channels that we use to communicate themselves with international standards, with the various groups can be found in demonstrating effective corporate governance the Building Strong Relationships section and ethical business practices. of this report. Although the motivations for the choices The materiality process varied, all stakeholders welcomed the process In 2012-13, we engaged both internal as a significant development for Vedanta. and external stakeholders through a formal The consultation provided a valuable insight consultation process conducted by an external into the areas that stakeholders are interested third party to ensure that the process was in. Most significantly, we found that although impartial and in line with best practice. the issues were largely similar to the themes identified in previous years, the way in which The consultation included interviews with stakeholders are grouping them has evolved representatives from shareholders, lenders over time, towards a deeper and more holistic and civil society organisations, surveys of approach to business management and a selection of community members and sustainability. Below, we have linked the key employees and one-to-one meetings with areas our stakeholders identified to the three key personnel from across the business pillars of our sustainability model and the who work with customers, suppliers and thematic areas. in government relations. 18 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Mapping our material issues The materiality process is an evolving one and we are committed to reporting against the areas identified here as material to the business and its sustainable success, in this and subsequent reporting. Responsible Stewardship Contractual integrity `` Timely payments `` Delivery/quantity/quality Sharing experiences and learning `` Other businesses Corporate Governance Promotion of international `` Supplier conduct standards `` Whistleblowing `` Bribery and corruption `` Environmental management `` Anti-competitive behaviour `` Health & safety `` Leadership commitment/Board `` New projects/ventures training `` Human rights `` Management systems and processes that drive sustainable innovations `` Taxation Industry leadership `` Biodiversity `` Water Occupational health `` Emissions, effluents, waste & safety `` Energy/climate change Environmental management Building Strong Relationships Adding and Sharing Value Diversity `` Gender balance – women-friendly policies Employee satisfaction Land management `` Demonstratable response for consistency to employees Attracting people and `` Defined career progression Land issues retaining skilled workforce `` Remuneration `` Resettlement and rehabilitation `` Site closure Community Impact/creation of public policy `` Health `` Education `` Infrastructure development Community Impact Human Rights `` Socio-economic development: employment `` Localisation Show interconnected nature of issues such as: Employment and training `` Indigenous rights of rural communities `` Collective bargaining/freedom of association `` Demonstrating consultative `` Employee relations approach to community Direct and indirect local `` Site closure planning relations employment vedantaresources.com 19 Overview: Performance Vedanta performance highlights Objectives and targets Status Performance FY 2012-13 Objectives and targets FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 Responsible Stewardship Health and safety  Improving our safety There have been 20 fatal accidents Zero fatal accidents performance with a core All incidents have been investigated. focus on fatality reduction Lessons learned are shared across Group companies to avoid recurrence  LTIFR to be less than 0.72: LTIFR rate reduced by 62% LTIFR to be less than or equal or equal to 0.80 over the last five years to 0.70  TRIFR to be less than 1.95 TRIFR to be less than or equal or equal to 1 to 1.7 95% reduction/removal of identified key physical hazards using the Elimination of Unsafe Conditions Programme Initiation of behaviour-based safety training module to be rolled out and piloted at one site Environment  Energy savings – 3.90 million Owing to no production at our Energy savings – 2.15 million gigajoules Sesa Goa and VAL-Lanjigarh business, gigajoules and a delay in the commencement  Water savings – 18.72 million of some scheduled initiatives due to Water savings – 6.12 million cubic metres of water a more lengthy development stage cubic metres than anticipated, the Group could not achieve the estimated environmental performance in water and energy savings. The absolute total water and energy saving for the Group was 5.53 million cubic metres and 0.35 million gigajoules respectively  Scope 3 emissions Plans and systems are being Report on Scope 3 emissions developed to start reporting disclosure by 2015-16 data by 2015-16 Total non-hazardous waste Non-hazardous waste recycling generation – 7.8 million tonnes to be 105% of the total tonnage Total recycling – 5.6 million tonnes of non-hazardous waste recycled. equal to a 71% rate of recycling FY 2012-13 as baseline  All sites to have biodiversity We have reviewed all our operations Initiation of high-risk BAPs across action plan (BAP) by 2015 to screen biodiversity risk using the all sites IBAT tool  New project development All new projects and site closures are Continue to monitor new and the implementation of being carried out as per the Vedanta projects and site closure as site closure process across Sustainability Framework which is per the Vedanta Sustainability the business aligned to international standards Framework  Exceeded target  On track to meet target  Target not met Blue text: New targets 20 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Objectives and targets Status Performance FY 2012-13 Objectives and targets FY 2013-14 FY 2012-13 Assurance  Implementation of annual Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Each site to be assessed internal sustainability audit Programme (VSAP) initiated to assess annually programme the effectiveness of implementation of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework across the Group  Closure of Scott Wilson 27 of 29 recommendations are Closure of all 29 recommendations now completed (final sign-off audit recommendations and a recommendation relating to the on-hold Lanjigarh expansion project remain) Building Strong Relationships Stakeholder engagement  Each business to have a All units have an SEP. However, All sites to upgrade their existing stakeholder engagement they are being upgraded as SEPs plan (SEP) per the Vedanta stakeholder engagement standard Human rights  Implementation of our Human rights policy rolled out. Human rights training to be human rights policy Continuous rolling out of Vedanta continued as part of the Vedanta Sustainability Framework training Sustainability Framework training at plants calendar Grievance management mechanisms  Roll out of grievance Grievance management system All sites to develop/upgrade management process across as per the Vedanta grievance grievance management systems all Group companies mechanism standard is in preparation. A number of sites have grievance management systems in place Adding and Sharing Value Employees  Continue rolling out training Over 36,000 man hours of training Continue improvement in rolling programme on Code of on the Code of Conduct was out of training programme on Conduct provided to our employees Code of Conduct (in terms of % coverage) We have identified 53 executives Identification and grooming from across groups for phase 1 of next-generation leaders leadership development cycle through integrated and intensive development exercises in order to encourage take up of more senior roles and responsibilities  25% female representation 25% female representation at the at the Vedanta Resources plc Vedanta Resources plc Board by Board level by 2015, although 2015, although all appointments all appointments will be made will be made on merit on merit vedantaresources.com 21 Responsible Stewardship the foundation on which we build our business Our VAL Lanjigarh operation has invested in the best technology and we see sustainable development in a natural way 22 Vedanta VedantaResources plcSustainable Resourcesplc SustainableDevelopment DevelopmentReport Report2012-13 2012-13 What does Responsible Stewardship mean to us? In order for us to meet our strategic objectives and to create and preserve value for all of our stakeholders, it is essential that at all levels we conduct our business in a sustainable manner. For Vedanta, this is governed by our values, and delivered in practice through our approach to managing risk, health, safety and environment, and ethical business practices. Our Code of Conduct provides a set of principles to guide our employees, and our Sustainability Framework outlines the best practice standards that will drive improvement across all of our operations going forward. In this section Our strategy and management 24 Sustainable management in practice 28 Health and safety 30 Environment 39 vedantaresources.com vedantaresources.com 23 Responsible Stewardship: Our strategy and management Activities driven by business values Responsible Stewardship is how we conduct our business in a sustainable manner and the measurement of our performance against both our own targets and international benchmarks. It is critical to defining how the business operates, and covers all aspects outlined in our Code of Conduct – our approach to risk management and ethics, whistleblowing and bribery and corruption. Responsible Stewardship covers our health, In line with the way we are structured, our safety and environmental management – subsidiaries have their own sustainability/HSE including the way we manage water and committees which provide more direct energy use, waste, our carbon footprint and guidance and also oversee the performance our approach to biodiversity management. of operational practices. The sustainability governance structure is outlined in the Our activities are driven by the business Overview section of this report. Vedanta values and the commitment of the Board-appointed committee memberships Group’s leadership to best practices are available in our Annual Report and across our operations. The standards Accounts and on our corporate website at: developed by organisations such as the www.vedantaresources.com. IFC guide the evolution of our sustainability practices. Training our employees on Risk management and internal control sustainability issues has been paramount Maintaining a robust risk management system in ensuring that these practices are is critical to the delivery of our objectives and understood and that international standards achievement of sustainable growth. Oversight are adhered to. of our multi-layered risk management sits with the Board, which is responsible for setting the During the reporting period we have been Group’s risk appetite and determining the implementing the Vedanta Sustainability nature and extent of the risks it is willing to Framework in order to further embed take to achieve its strategic objectives. The sustainable practices across the Group. Directors also have ultimate responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a robust Management system of internal control to provide them We have in place a set of management with reasonable assurance that all information structures and processes to ensure that our within the business and for external publication subsidiaries and operations embrace and is adequate. follow sustainable business practices as part of day-to-day activities. This starts with our The Group’s risk management framework Board, which is ultimately responsible for plays a key role in the identification, ensuring Vedanta is managed sustainably. analysis, mitigation and continual monitoring The Board has mandated the Sustainability of the various risks that could impact the Committee to institutionalise a sustainability delivery of the strategic objectives set by the Board. Authority for detailed monitoring culture at all levels of the business, which in of the internal control and risk management turn is supported by the operationally-focused framework is delegated to the Audit Committee, ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability. which reports to the Board regularly. Closer to operations our subsidiaries have over 600 personnel working in health, safety, The Audit Committee is supported by the environmental management and community Group Risk Management Committee (GRMC), engagement to manage the implementation comprising the Chief Executive Officer, the of the Sustainability Framework. Chief Financial Officer and the Director of 24 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Risk management and internal control changes to the nature and extent of the risks since the last assessment, while the Board Review and Oversight operational level specialists are brought in where appropriate to review working practices Executive Audit Committee Committee such as control measures, action plans and risk review ASSURANCE management tools, and recommendations are Board implemented with the purpose of creating safe working environments. Executive Risk Reporting The Management Assurance Services (MAS) function at Vedanta has arrangements with external strategic leading international accounting and audit t i f i c at i o N firms, excluding the Group’s external auditor, en for carrying out internal audit within the Group. Id Audit Committee Ev The Audit Committee assists the Board a lu in the discharge of its responsibility for maintaining and monitoring the integrity at i o n of the Group’s financial statements, assessing M o ni to the effectiveness of the Group’s system of risk management and internal controls and the independence and objectivity of the external auditor. To carry out its duties effectively, rin the Committee receives detailed information g from management and the internal and n external auditors regularly, which is reviewed, t io discussed and challenged by the Committee m itiga as required. financial operational The Audit Committee’s remit falls into four categories: financial reporting, risk and the internal control environment, and oversight of Management Assurance Services, which external and internal audit processes. The main reviews quarterly the changes in the nature mandate of the Audit Committee includes: and extent of major risks. The Company’s ``Monitoring the integrity of the financial Chief Risk Officer and risk officers at operating statements, including its annual and subsidiaries are responsible for creating half-year results; heightened awareness of the risk management ``Reviewing the Group’s internal controls framework both at Group level and at operating and risk management systems and consider subsidiary level. They play an important role the effectiveness of these systems; in ensuring that the organisation develops a risk management culture and ensure that the ``Monitoring anti-bribery and corruption Group’s risk management framework matures policies and procedures; and grows with the organisation. ``Reviewing the Group’s arrangements for its employees to raise concerns through A consistently applied methodology, the its whistleblowing policy; Turnbull matrix, is used to identify risks to operations and projects at the operating ``Reviewing reports from the audit committees subsidiary level. This includes financial, of the Group’s main subsidiary companies. operational and compliance control and risk The Committee’s responsibilities are set out management, to ensure shareholders’ interests in its terms of reference, which are available and the Company’s assets are safeguarded. on request from the Company Secretary. The process also covers significant risks that may arise from environmental, social and governance matters. The GRMC reviews the top 20 risks every quarter, particularly any vedantaresources.com 25 Responsible Stewardship: Our strategy and management continued Fraud and Bribery Act The Committee’s responsibilities are set out The Company is committed to the in its terms of reference, which are available elimination of fraud, with each suspected on request from the Company Secretary. case thoroughly investigated and concluded. In setting the policy for Executive Directors’ The Audit Committee reviews the actions remuneration, the Committee considers pay taken by management in the elimination of and employment conditions across the Group fraudulent practices and to promote ethical including annual base compensation increases working practices. across the general employee population, and the overall spend on annual bonuses. Whistleblowing procedure The Group’s Whistleblowing Policy is regularly The Committee gives full consideration reviewed by the Audit Committee. This to the Code and published guidelines standalone policy is summarised in the Code of regarding the remuneration of directors Business Conduct and Ethics and supports the of listed companies, including those Group’s aim of working to the highest ethical published by the Association of British standards. The Committee reviews any reports Insurers and the National Association of made under the Whistleblowing Policy and Pension Funds. The Committee is committed ensures that appropriate actions are then taken. to ensuring that the Group remuneration The email address whistleblower@vedanta.co.in policy reflects, to the extent practicable, is available for issues to be raised confidentially, global corporate governance guidance with those emails sent directly to the Head of on executive remuneration. the Management Assurance Services – MAS The ESOP (Employee Share Ownership Plan) (the internal audit function), who is independent was introduced in 2012 as a replacement of business management. Between January for the LTIP. Participation in the Plan includes and December 2012, there were 76 Executive Directors, senior management whistleblowing cases, of which 32 were upheld, and select wider management team, with resulting in appropriate disciplinary actions performance conditions comprising business including separation, warning, counselling performance parameters such as operational and transfer. deliverables including volume, cost of production, free cash flow and Health and Remuneration Committee Safety and enablers to enhance the high The Remuneration Committee ensures performance culture across the Group. that remuneration policies and practices are designed to attract, retain and motivate the ExCo Sub-Committee on Ethics Executive Directors and the senior management The ExCo Sub-Committee on Ethics’ Group, whilst focusing on the delivery of the mandate is to evolve and ensure that Group’s strategic business objectives. The across our operations we have a uniform Committee is also focused on aligning the and efficient process to deal with ethical interests of the Executive Directors and senior matters after investigations are concluded. management Group with those of shareholders, The committee has helped us in creating to build a sustainable performance culture. enhanced awareness in the Group of our The Remuneration Committee’s responsibilities resolve of zero tolerance of such matters. primarily include: The committee is chaired by a senior executive from our Group company and comprises ``Setting the Group’s overall policy on executive senior management representatives drawn and senior management remuneration; from different subsidiaries. ``Determining the remuneration packages for individual Executive Directors, including base compensation, performance-based shortand long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits; ``Approving the design and operation of the Company’s share incentive schemes; and ``Reviewing and determining the terms of the service agreements of the Executive Directors. 26 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Case Study: Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) Employees reviewing our procedures as part of the Vedanta Sustainability Assurance Process Following the launch of Vedanta’s management business units helped us to refine the model, prior and technical standards for sustainability in 2012, to its formal launch. To support the roll out of the we recognised a need to review the way in which assurance system, training sessions were conducted business units were implementing these and with all subsidiary CEOs, COOs and their respective measure the pace and depth of this implementation. sustainability teams. To bring a sense of uniformity and to make the The assurance system works on the premise of tracking assessment more objective, we launched the corrective and preventive action by the respective Sustainability Assurance model to assess and subsidiaries and periodic formal audit of the same improve practices across the Group. by the corporate sustainability team. In the reporting The assurance model has 16 modules, which year, all subsidiaries have completed a self-assessment cover environment, health, safety and community against the 16 modules and 13 subsidiaries have been elements. Among these are Compliance, Objectives through the VSAP process, with the remaining nine and Targets, Competency and Training, Waste to be audited before February 2014. The findings Management, Management Reviews, Accident of the assurance audits, including corrective actions, Investigation, Safety, Environment Management are reviewed by the ExCo Sub-Committee on and Social and Stakeholder Engagement. Sustainability and the results are reported to ExCo and the Sustainability Committee. The model components were discussed and reviewed with business CEOs, and pilots were Going forward, each major site will be audited conducted at select subsidiaries. Feedback from the annually under the assurance programme. vedantaresources.com 27 Responsible Stewardship: Sustainable management in practice Rolling out the sustainability framework The Vedanta Sustainability Framework includes a suite of technical and management standards, and a number To view our full sustainability framework of supporting guidance documents, to ensure that please visit our website. business units have the appropriate tools to embed more: sustainability. sustainable practices into their operations. vedantaresources.com/ our_approach/our_ strategy This ensures that there is a consistent and systematic approach across all operations that is underpinned by a foundation of common values. Driving the adoption and implementation of these standards across our subsidiaries has been a key focus over the past year. In order to roll out the Sustainability New projects Framework we have been delivering training In order to ensure that new projects are properly across the Group. This has included training derisked to obtain and sustain their licence to on specific topics such as health and safety operate, it is essential to have an appropriate management, environmental incidents, development stage evaluation. Accordingly international standards such as the GRI, and we carry out Environmental and Social Impact reporting best practice and assurance. Internal Assessments (ESIA) for all new projects in line management systems are also being updated with local and international standards. to reflect the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. The key standard that dictates new project Over 8,000 employees have been trained activities and behaviours is the Management in the Framework over the course of the Standard – New Projects Planning Processes reporting period to drive understanding and Site Closure. Requirements under the and its subsequent implementation. standard include that any new project complies Our commitment to the sustainable with our sustainability programmes and national, performance of the business is also achieved regional and local regulatory requirements. by using the latest technologies. This makes In addition, sustainability must be considered the Group more efficient and ensures it for the full lifecycle of the project, with design remains competitive. For example, we have decisions taken accordingly. Consultation made technological advancements in the and feedback must also be obtained from effective monitoring and management of stakeholders on how sustainability issues water through installing adiabatic cooling associated with the project are considered, towers and we have improved safety through prioritised and implemented. This ensures that monitoring site vehicle traffic with radar guns. effective implementation and due diligence Such initiatives drive performance as well as have been carried out. our sustainability agenda. The Vedanta leadership team recognises that To support the implementation of our the future of the Company is dependent upon Sustainability Framework, we have adopted a ensuring the right management systems are robust evaluation and assurance system, the in place from the outset. Vedanta Sustainable Assurance Process (VSAP). This process is overseen by the corporate Conducting ESIAs to international standards sustainability team and run with full support Conducting an ESIA for all new projects and from our subsidiary companies’ CEOs and their expansions enables the comprehensive senior management teams. This programme assessment of the environmental, social and has enhanced the understanding of our health impacts throughout the project lifecycle. operations team, which eventually will help For example, our new Gamsberg project in the to sustain superior performance. Currently, Namakwa District, South Africa, initiated an ESIA our operations are actively trying to bridge study in the second quarter of 2012. As part of identified areas of improvement. the process, the draft Scoping Report was 28 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 submitted to the public domain for 40 days for comments and after the incorporation of public comments, the final report was released for regulatory approval in January 2013. This was received from the Department of Environment and Nature Conservation, Government of South Africa in February 2013. The draft ESIA together with the non-technical summary was placed in the public domain for a consultation period of 30 days. The documents are made available at public places including the local library and municipal offices in order to reach community members effectively. To further promote public participation in the process, ‘open house’ Our Lisheen mine in Ireland is scheduled for closure by 2015 (general public/community) and focus group (NGOs and neighbouring farmers) meetings are Government, for the proposed new Gamsberg scheduled to understand views and concerns mine. These activities include extensive with regards to the project. Comments received consideration of the socio-economic and during the public consultation period together environmental implications of site closure, with the business responses will be provided which may occur in many decades’ time. with the final ESIA document for submission Factors such as the training of employees to the authorities. for alternative employment and infrastructure development are being considered. Site closure Our Lisheen mine in Ireland is currently in the In addition to the design and operation of final stages of closure planning, with the site our projects, appropriately preparing for and due to close in 2015. Work has been underway managing eventual site closure is part of an since 1995 to ensure that there are dedicated operation’s good practice. Site closure means resources to manage the process. Initiatives in the post-operational phase of a project, that support of this include the development of a typically includes decommissioning, closure comprehensive project execution plan for the and post-closure considerations. Key elements end of the mine’s life, transparent stakeholder are the removal of facilities, and rehabilitation engagement to establish buy-in for closure, and remediation of the site before returning restoration and after-care management plans, the land to the local community. and the establishment of success criteria with We start considering site closure at the project regulators. Monitoring data gathered in 2012-13 development stage and work to ensure that the demonstrates ongoing success in rehabilitation business has a sustainable legacy in terms of and remediation of key areas, with livestock environment and community management. farmed on these areas as part of the test As a part of statutory clearance, all our mines’ programme. All animal test results have been operations have a closure plan – a core step well within acceptable risk levels. in obtaining regulatory approval. These closure The mine is actively pursuing potential plans include details of specific activities, roles alternative industries and sustainable and responsibilities, closure criteria and options, development projects for the site, to ensure a timeframes and resource requirements. They positive legacy is left and the socio-economic are regularly reviewed and updated to meet aspects of mine closure are adequately changing circumstances and stakeholder addressed. A task force made up of local expectations. In addition, all our operations government representatives, Lisheen staff must ensure that adequate resources are and members of governmental industrial provided to implement the closure plans and, development agencies are already working nearer the time, this also includes preparing in partnership to manage the closure of staff for site closure. Plans for site closures the site. A sub-committee of the Community are also made public and used in stakeholder Engagement Forum has joined Lisheen staff to engagement activities where appropriate. form a closure committee, which meets on a Work is currently being carried out in quarterly basis. After-care at Lisheen will span close collaboration with the South African 30 years, with an 8 to 10-year monitoring period. vedantaresources.com 29 Responsible Stewardship: Health and safety Responding to the challenges of our industry Mining and resource production is an industry where the risks of accidents are higher than other sectors. This is exacerbated in developing countries, where attitudes to health and safety can differ markedly from standards in the developed world. Nevertheless, it is essential that we establish and cement a mindset of ‘zero harm’, with a corresponding improvement in workplace systems and behaviours. Health and safety management is a material We have launched and rolled out the Unsafe Safety Guidance issue for Vedanta and a systematic approach is Conditions Elimination Programme across the Notes – LOTO, Machine/ Conveyor guarding essential to ensure consistency across the Group. Progress on areas of focus has been rolled out business. We owe a duty of care to the many good, with no fatalities in the highest-risk people who work for and with us, and we take activities and hazards of conveyors, machine Rolling out that obligation seriously – the steps we have guarding, pressure vessels and welding of Management Safety taken to implement the Vedanta Sustainability machines demonstrating the successful Leadership Programme Framework are the foundation on which our bedding down of processes throughout approach is built. the Group. Initiation of Single Pointed A culture of health and safety compliance There has been an overall declining trend in Accountability programme starts with our training programmes, which the incident rates experienced by the Group, at Sterlite – Copper are as inclusive as possible. Our management with a lost time injury frequency (LTIF) rate in Health & Wellness standards emphasise the training of both the reporting period of 0.72 (a 27% decrease activities in progress employees and contractors based on role, risk compared to last year) accounting for and responsibilities, and use different learning 5,882 man-days lost. Regrettably however, methods to cater for differing needs – for we did experience 20 fatalities in 2012-13 example, videos and classroom training. (18 in India and 2 in Africa). During the year, 800,000 man-hours of training were recorded for employees and Our approach contract workers on health and safety topics. We are committed to using international These include behavioural safety, fire safety, standards on health and safety and to working at heights, critical job analysis, permit ensuring a ‘zero harm’ environment for our to work, ‘lockout-tagout’, first aid training, employees and contractors. We understand electrical safety and health workshops. the key health and safety challenges our business faces and respond accordingly. Activities include safety inductions before entry onto site, safety videos in local The business approach to safety is languages and site audits. Management tailored according to the challenges posed systems and incentives for management by the operations linked to extraction and personnel have also been developed to processing, and the geographies in which enhance their engagement in health and they are situated. For example, fleet safety due diligence. Data is captured monthly management is a major risk for our operations on incidents and injuries and this is reviewed above ground, whereas rock falls are a at the highest level of the business, including challenge for underground operations. ExCo and the ExCo Sub-Committee on All our subsidiaries run on-site training that Sustainability, as well as the monthly global is appropriate to that site’s operations and safety review meetings organised by the contextual needs, such as the linguistic and corporate sustainability team with subsidiary literacy skills of employees and contractors business HSE teams. in that area. Videos and infographics are used 30 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 across our sites to create and reinforce safety on HIV/AIDS in particular, whereas some of messages. We take the same approach when our Indian sites focus more on preventative managing the health of employees. Our health issues such as malaria prevention. operations in Africa have tailored programmes 62% reduction in LTIFR over 5 years 800,000 man-hours of health and safety training Signage helps employees keep safety procedures front of mind Several mechanisms are in place at the Business and site level Group, business and site level to manage ``Each individual business conducts health and safety issues, including: monthly operational and business management reviews, which include the Group level assessment of occupational health and ``Processes to engage management safety performance of the units, as well to deepen understanding of health as guiding the effective implementation and safety requirements. of safety practices. ``Monthly safety meetings are led by the ``The Management Safety Leadership Group Head of Safety and Assurance to programme carried out by our discuss performance across the Group, subsidiaries ensures senior management and share experiences and learning visibility through conducting periodic to facilitate development of processes workplace audits. and systems. ``The business-led Health and ``Safety alerts are issued to all CEOs, Safety Committee, which includes COOs and the respective HSE personnel representatives of employees, contract on every fatal and major incident, workforce and unionised workers as which are shared across all Group appropriate. The total workforce varies companies. This outlines the root causes significantly depending on the operations and the action plans needed to avoid and is generally specified in collective similar incidents. contractual agreements. These ``Guidance notes on identified safety committees meet on a regular basis to risks are released to ensure the effective advise on occupational health and safety. implementation of safety practices across ``Safety requirements are communicated the Group. through periodic safety meetings ``The Unsafe Conditions Elimination with contractor workers, suppliers Programme was launched to manage and vendors. significant occupational health and ``At business/site level periodic safety safety hazards across the Group, the training is conducted to enhance and progress of which is reviewed in the improve knowledge among employees monthly safety meetings. and contractors. vedantaresources.com 31 Responsible Stewardship: Health and safety continued Health and safety risk mitigation In order to manage health and safety risks appropriately, a clear process is required to identify hazards and to manage these appropriately. The table below shows the approach the Group has adopted to manage safety risks in each subsidiary, including the point in the operational process at which they exist and how the business is responding in order to manage and mitigate them. Sector risk Business response Aluminium – Fleet management training Fleet safety – Use of speed guns to monitor vehicle speed – Speed controls through barriers and check points Electrocution – Work permits are issued as accreditation for those using electrical equipment – LOTO implementation – Guidance notes released Fluorosis – Site exposure monitors – Use of appropriate PPE Copper – Vedanta uses the RAMP.K risk assessment management programme Fall of ground at the KCM business, which through the monitoring of practices and management tools ensures a systematic approach to work. Working from height – Single Point Accountability (SPA) programme is used at the Sterlite and risk of falling Copper business as a verification tool that examines processes, develops improvements to the infrastructure and drives both implementation and investigation on-site. Acid splash/exposure – Apart from risk control measures all operators are issued with the appropriate PPE made from Tyvek – a specialist barrier material – in order to mitigate exposure Iron Ore – Ensuring 100% compliance on machine and conveyor guarding Entangle with moving – Guidance notes released parts Fleet safety – Fleet management training – Speed controls through barriers and check points – Speed guns to monitor vehicle speed Zinc/Lead/Silver –P  ermits to work Exposure to gases – LOTO and hot material – Use of appropriate PPE Entangle with moving – Ensure 100% compliance on machine/conveyor guarding parts – Guidance notes released Oil and Gas – Asset Integrity and Process Safety Integration into Operation Operational safety Management System Material handling safety – Safety Awareness Campaign on ‘finger pinch’ injuries Power – Fleet management systems in place with regular checks Fleet safety – Online digital fire monitoring and management systems are in place Fire for an automated response to fire risk – Periodic training is delivered on fire controls 32 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Safety hazards, on-site emergencies, use of We place great importance on understanding personal protective equipment (PPE) and managing our safety performance across and incident reporting. the Group, with the safety of our employees, Creating a safe working environment contractors and others impacted by our Promoting a strong safety culture for all operations a core concern. We are committed employees and contractors is crucial for to the aim of zero harm for our employees, creating a zero harm environment. We seek with facilitated training across all sites. to achieve this through regular communication and training. As a Group, we encourage Safety management employees and contractors to report near Of our 48 sites, 40 are now OHSAS 18001 misses – with no fear of recrimination – in certified and, with the completion of the order to promote constant health and safety full suite of policies, management and monitoring and evaluation. technical standards, this year we have issued appropriate guidance notes in support of the A structured management leadership review implementation of our safety management is conducted on all sites across Vedanta. system. Guidance on LOTO (lockout-tagout) Senior management visit the workplace to and machine/conveyor guarding has focus staff attention on safety issues. They are been released to add rigour and adherence there to observe, talk to personnel, and report to processes. conditions they believe need addressing, whether immediately or as part of a structured To strengthen and improve Vedanta’s safety rectification programme. To further strengthen practices, we hold ExCo Sub-Committee health and safety practices, the 16-module on Sustainability meetings, where subsidiary VSAP is carried out. CEOs, COOs and HSE heads discuss progress on safety management, develop targets and Our operational sites are demonstrating real discuss areas of improvement. In the event progress on safety initiatives and are of a major incident or fatality, the respective responding positively to the action plans that businesses present a detailed finding report have been put in place. For example, as a result to the Sub-Committee on the causes, and the of these actions all sites now have earth leak preventative measures that have subsequently circuit breakers for welding machines and for been put in place. hand-held power tools. Also our Group company HZL stood first and completed a A particular focus over the past year has rigorous, Company-wide programme to ensure been improving our approach to contractor 100% machine-guarding for conveyors and safety. We are committed to ensuring that our rotating equipment was implemented to 58,000 contractors receive the same level of address the high risk of serious injury from health and safety training as employees. It is unguarded machinery. To ensure ongoing mandatory for subsidiaries to provide safety compliance across all operations, Hindustan induction training before a contractor can gain Zinc is conducting periodic audits to check entry to a plant. Training includes workplace that the guarding remains in place. Lost time injury frequency rates The Behaviour-Based Safety programme (BBS) launched at Sterlite Copper is an example of the steps we are taking to reinforce a safe behavioural culture across the Group. BBS 1.1 was put in place in six of nine operating 0.99 departments because analysis of three years of injury data showed that approximately 0.72 85% of incidents involved an unsafe behaviour immediately before the injury occurred. Key steps in the programme included establishing departmental BBS implementation teams and selecting and motivating observers. As a result, more than 100 barriers to safe behaviours were identified and eliminated. Our Hindustan Zinc 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 subsidiary also took further steps to reinforce vedantaresources.com 33 Responsible Stewardship: Health and safety continued safe behaviours this year. The human VAL-Jharsuguda also engaged the services of resources and safety teams implemented the Institute of Road & Traffic Education (IRTE) the “Safety Chaupal” concept, whereby senior to train employees and truck drivers. management and union leaders engage We have also taken action to improve our with workers on the shop floor to emphasise off-site traffic management, for example, the importance of a stringent safety culture. through our road safety training at the Cairn This is done through interactive discussions, India operations at Barmer. To deliver the demonstrations and information sharing, which defensive driving training, Cairn India engaged is reinforced with a written work safety test. IDTR (Institute of Driving and Traffic Research) Vedanta Fleet Safety Management – on-site and IRTE to provide training, which is and off-site conducted daily at the Enterprise Centre Due to the scale and diversity of our operations, at Barmer and periodically at other sites. and our reliance on vehicle transport for people More than 2,000 drivers have undertaken and materials, we recognise the risks posed by the training. As a result, road traffic accidents road transport and so have a rigorous approach have reduced significantly. The motor vehicle to fleet management – both on and off-site. At accident frequency rate (MVAFR) during the the VAL-Jharsuguda operation, we have a large reporting period was 0.49 per million km, fleet and accident data had revealed that 32% of which is well below the general incident rate. accidents on-site involved vehicles. In response, the company developed a site-specific road safety policy which was rolled out to promote behavioural change in all on-site road users. Single Point Accountability – SPA – at Sterlite Copper Launched two years ago, the SPA process continues to be a driving force in safety management at our Sterlite Copper business. The SPA process involves selecting priority safety protocols, nominating SPA Heads and Teams, undertaking gap analysis against self-auditing guidelines, and reducing safety risks to raise the self-audit score. This year, in consultation with the HSE department, senior management selected 12 high-priority accident prevention protocols, including machine safeguarding, fall prevention, electrical safety and fatality prevention. For each of the 12 protocols, the senior management formally nominated a Sterlite middle manager to serve as SPA Head, supported by a team of employees. In consultation with the safety consultant, each SPA team undertook a gap analysis of Sterlite Copper’s performance against the relevant self-audit guideline. Each SPA team planned corrective actions to improve performance and Employee receiving working at height training at Sterlite Copper raise their self-audit scores. Over the course of the year, significant improvements were made – at April 2012, the average score across the 12 safety protocols was 42%, whereas it had reached 69% by the end of the reporting period in March 2013. As a result of the SPA process, examples of implemented engineering controls included insulated covers on the raised bus bars in the Tuticorin refinery. In addition, simple field compliance checklists were developed and implemented for 11 safety protocols. 34 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Underground mine – safe operations Underground operations are always considered Case Study: Cairn Observation to be more risk prone. We always endeavour Programme (COP) to support the occupational health and safety of our employees working underground. As a safety initiative for underground mines, HZL have installed a refuge chamber (e.g. at SK mine and others) which provides a place of safe refuge (protection) and fresh air, in case of emergency situations like fire, rock fall and blockage of escape routes etc. Each refuge chamber can accommodate 20 persons and has a life support back up of 36 hours. Proper training is provided to all operators for its effective use in case of emergency. Employees at Cairn India The need Cairn India understands that its hydrocarbon operations are inherently dangerous, and require focused attention and effort to operate safely and deliver on its commitment of “No harm to the people and environment”. Cairn has a robust approach to enhancing the safety culture among all the people who are engaged in its operations. Cairn’s HSE performance is in the top quartile amongst the Oil and Gas Producers’ Association (OGPA) for the last two years, and its mission is to be amongst the top five in the world by 2020. Emergency refuge chamber at our HZL mines The solution Future programmes The Cairn Observation Programme (COP) focuses on Vedanta has a number of policies and systems behaviour-based safety practices in the organisation. The COP that guide our compliance with international educates employees and contractor workers to identify ‘unsafe standards on health and safety. The business acts and unsafe conditions’ which, if unattended, may cause an is, however, acutely aware that it is the attitudes accident. The programme focuses on the following: and behaviour of its employees and ``Cementing a zero harm culture that is practised and respected contractors that determine a safe working ``Creating an environment where safety rules are the norm environment. The focus for the forthcoming year is on behavioural change initiatives that ``Creating an environment that fosters caring behaviours encourage people to identify and report ``Transforming ‘hearts and minds’ to ensure people work in safety. unsafe conditions. This programme will utilise ‘Train the trainer’ programmes, including practical sessions, were the health and safety tools that have been organised at all sites, which then developed local teams. These developed by the Group, and make them trainers further cascaded the COP programme into the rank and applicable at the individual level and focused file of the workforce. At present, all sites are reporting COP and on preventative measures. We are committed the data is analysed to identify and prioritise safety hazards. to empowering our people to be responsible for themselves and for others by highlighting The outcome and reporting potentially hazardous situations. More than 24,000 COP cards were completed in the We are intending to roll out these behaviourcurrent financial year. The data is analysed on a monthly change initiatives across all sites by 2014-15. basis by each site. Various safety awareness campaigns, such as ‘Finger pinch injuries’ and ‘Safe handling of chemicals’ are launched to mitigate the high risks. This has helped to reduce major accidents and Cairn’s LTIFR is 0.10 per million man-hours worked for FY 2012-13. vedantaresources.com 35 Responsible Stewardship: Health and safety continued Health high prevalence of this disease in the region. Due to the nature of our operations, there can VAL-Lanjigarh has also developed health plans be associated health risks and we are committed to monitor the effects of exposure to noise to understanding, managing and mitigating and dust, whilst KCM in Zambia monitors the these. Risks can vary depending on the nature of effects of dust, noise and silicosis and records the operations at each site and can include the these systematically in order to improve its effects of exposure to noise, heat stress, heavy management programme appropriately. Group metals and the impacts of manual handling. subsidiaries also monitor and review industrial hygiene issues such as noise and lighting levels, Our occupational health standard commits heat stress, heavy metal exposure and manual us to minimising the adverse impact of our handling. This is supported by the mandated use operations on the health of our workforce. of appropriate personal protective equipment. All units maintain a health management system that minimises, as far as is reasonably In addition to being committed to meeting practical, the hazards and risks to employees the health needs of our workforce, we also and contract workers. Our Vedanta provide significant medical assistance to the Sustainability Assurance Programme (VSAP) communities which surround our operations. identifies opportunities to strengthen our Various programmes are driven across the approach to health management. Group by human resource and occupational health and safety departments for advice Health management and treatment for a variety of illnesses and From the beginning of an employee’s career conditions, educating employees, their families with the Group, we have processes in place and community members about potential to manage and monitor health risks. This high-risk diseases. Identification of such includes a pre-employment medical check programmes is based on the local community followed by periodical medical check-ups needs, WHO health surveys and employee with on-site medical professionals to monitor health indices. Community-specific awareness the occupational exposure limits. In 2012-13, programmes are organised on health and more than 124,000 medical examinations were nutrition, HIV/AIDS awareness, malaria, conducted across all sites. These included tuberculosis and cancer. blood lead and cadmium testing, chest X-rays, audiometry tests and sight tests. Future programmes Our employees and the communities All of our sites have appropriate health and which surround our operations will continue wellness facilities including to tackle diabetes, to benefit from our health and wellness high blood pressure and work-life balance. programmes, which we will evolve in Care is given to support colleagues and, as part conjunction with their needs. of our Group medical policy, all our full-time employees receive medical insurance, which also extends to dependants. All contract employees are able to access our medical facilities and are covered by the Employee State Insurance Act, Group insurance and In addition to being committed the Workman Compensation Act. to meeting the health needs Our operational sites also promote health and well-being through the provision of on-site of our workforce, we also provide fitness centres that provide a range of services including yoga, health and nutrition workshops significant medical assistance to and sports and recreational facilities. the communities which surround We invest in technologically advanced processes to enhance the health and safety our operations environment of our employees. For example, our hospital at VAL-Lanjigarh houses the only equipment for detecting sickle cell anaemia, which was identified as a priority due to the 36 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Case Study: KCM HIV/AIDS Programme The need Child Transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programme. HIV/AIDS remains one of Zambia’s major health This includes maternal and infant HIV testing and challenges with far-reaching economic and social prevention counselling. In the event of a positive HIV consequences. The country has over 13 million test, all KCM facilities have trained PMTCT counsellors inhabitants and although the nation’s 2013 national who administer the anti-retroviral drug Nevirapine health budget rose by over 40% to US$679 million and infant formula for babies whose mothers opt not from the previous year, the country is still to breastfeed, with all babies on the programme overwhelmed by health demands. Accordingly, followed-up at regular intervals by a paediatrician. private sector participation is an important component of the medical services and support KCM’s HIV/AIDS policy also encompasses voluntary offered to people with HIV/AIDS. and confidential HIV testing of all employees, with pre and post-test counselling available. Employees The solution and outcome of KCM who are found to have the HIV virus have Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) medical department access to continuing support and health services, operates two hospitals and eight satellite clinics on a including free anti-retroviral drugs. Spouses and US$12 million annual budget. Using these resources dependants of employees are eligible for the same and its medical personnel, KCM conducts an HIV/ health benefits as employees. AIDS prevention and mitigation programme. Between April and December 2012, 6,418 workplace Since 2002, KCM has worked in partnership with the tests were provided and 14,227 community members Zambian Government on a Prevention of Mother to were counselled and tested for HIV/AIDS. HIV/AIDS community awareness programme organized by KCM vedantaresources.com 37 Responsible Stewardship: Health and safety continued Case Study: Malaria training and treatment – VAL-Lanjigarh Malaria education and awareness programme organized by VAL-Lanjigarh The need Mosquito eradication Rural locations in India often suffer from vector-borne Larvicidal treatment is encouraged at all waterlogged diseases such as malaria, dengue, chikengunya and areas. The creation of larvicidal fish tanks is promoted, filariasis. These illnesses are preventable with access as fish can eat mosquito larvae, thereby helping to the right resources and expertise. Ensuring public to reduce the mosquito population. Issues such as awareness on both the medical conditions and their cleanliness to avoid water-logging inside the plant and prevention is critical to preventing unnecessary deaths. township are enforced. In addition, anti-larvae fogging is also undertaken at the township and 25 nearby The solution villages to target mosquito eradication. Education and awareness Screening, medication and treatment We raise awareness among our employees, contractors Mobile health units and Vedanta hospital staff educate and communities of the simple steps they can take to employees and people in surrounding communities on reduce the risk of infection. Repeated training sessions the need to report symptoms within the first 24 hours are conducted by VAL-Lanjigarh’s Mobile Health Unit of fever. Rapid diagnostic kits, slide and QBC tests are which teaches people about the use and benefit utilised for early detection of diseases at the Vedanta of long-lasting insecticide-treated mosquito nets. Hospital. Prophylactic drugs are supplied each week Pamphlets, banners and posters with targeted messages free of charge to all employees and contractors are also distributed on-site and in VAL-Lanjigarh’s through the Occupational Health Centre. surrounding communities and street plays and skits are conducted to deliver key messages as part of outreach Radical cure treatment is provided free of charge programmes. Schoolchildren are also involved in to all diagnosed cases at our Niyamgiri Vedanta spreading awareness through initiatives such as poster Nagar Dispensary, the Mobile Health Unit, our competitions which are used to stimulate discussion Occupational Health Centre and the Vedanta and understanding. Hospital referral service. In order to spread awareness on health issues and Twice a year, screening is undertaken of all 850 to create a pool of change agents who can influence students at our 33 supported child care centres, and the community, a two-day teachers’ workshop was 1,500 students in the 25 local government schools. This conducted at the VAL township for local teachers and is to ensure the early detection and treatment of cases their schools, in which 120 people participated. and to generate awareness of preventive measures. 38 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Responsible Stewardship: Environment Committed to minimising our footprint US$ 65 million environmental expenditure As a diversified natural resources company, we understand was incurred in the year, that the nature of our operations has implications for including waste and emissions management the environment in different ways – through the emission of particulates, wastes generated in mining, refining and smelting processes, water consumption and changes 13% in land use. We are committed to minimising our increase in use of environmental footprint from the start of operations renewable energy (with respect to to closure and beyond. FY 11-12), amounting to 8.0 million GJ We are committed to ensuring that we Environmental management 42/48 comply with international best practice, with Environmental management forms a key major plants are accredited to ISO 14001 our processes mapped against international component of the Vedanta Sustainability environmental standards such as the IFC’s Performance Framework and a complete set of supporting management standard Standards which are applied to the entire environmental policies, management and lifecycle of all our operations. technical standards finalised in 2012 and HZL – Dariba installed rolled out across the Group. We continue to Vedanta’s first adiabatic We disclose our environmental performance augment our processes through the ongoing cooling tower, resulting in to the Carbon Disclosure Project, with our development of guidance notes and the score improving to 76 in 2013 (63 in 2012), and seeing Vedanta ranked 8th among 38 FTSE implementation of an extensive supporting training programme. 0.18 million metal and mining companies. cubic metres of water To assess the effectiveness of the Framework’s saved in 2012-13 Environmental risk mitigation implementation, our VSAP and self-audit 61.60MCM In order to manage environmental impacts, programme was launched this year, with we have identified key areas where the 13 VSAP audits conducted to confirm biggest impact and risks are associated. the self-assessments. Action plans have of water was recycled in These are: water, biodiversity, energy subsequently been put in place to upgrade the reporting period – management, land management, air quality business management systems to reach the equivalent to filling over and waste. The Group and our subsidiaries standards set by the Framework and we will 24,000 Olympic swimming have developed a plan to effectively manage rigorously monitor our progress. pools each of these areas, as detailed on the As part of continual improvement, we plan to 64% next page. obtain ISO 14001 certification at all our units and as of now 42 units out of 48 units are ISO 14001 certified. The ISO 14001 accreditation of non-hazardous waste helps us to regularly review the Environmental (fly ash, red mud and slag) was recycled, amounting Management System, with programmes in to 5.63 million metric place to mitigate the identified environmental tonnes impacts of our products and services. vedantaresources.com 39 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Environmental risk management Sector Business response Aluminium – Workplace audits are conducted periodically Fugitive emission – Air pollution control equipment (conducting duct cleaning and duct balancing to reduce the fugitive emission) regularly maintained – Training and awareness programmes conducted for employees and contractors Waste management: – Standard operating procedures in place for SPL management. spent pot lining (SPL) – Regular training/awareness programmes conducted for waste handling contractors – SPL stored as hazardous waste within the plant premises – Exploring possibility of co-processing of SPL in cement kilns. Trials being conducted with different cement plants Dust emission during – Roads are concreted and black-topped to the maximum extent handling/transportation – Tarpaulin covers on bauxite trucks of bauxite – Water sprinkling from tankers – Vegetation planting undertaken on a regular basis Copper – Consideration of alternative water sources (setting up desalination plant) Water management: – Reducing freshwater usage through process innovations operating in water – Augmenting water resources through artificial recharge stressed regions with limited water availability Gaseous emissions – Installation and maintenance of appropriate emission control equipment – Training and awareness programmes conducted for employees and contractors on emissions management Waste management: – Tailing pipeline assessment programme in place including carrying out periodical non-destructive tests on tailings pipelines and regular patrols of the pipelines Iron Ore – Trucks covered with tarpaulin Dust generation due – Adopting wheel-washing and road washing to ore transportation – Vegetation planting undertaken on a regular basis Waste management: – Proper dump management – use of geotextile to stabilise the dump slopes, maintaining appropriate dump overburden slope and height, proper water channelling – Use of metal and underground pipes for water channelling, rock walls at the toe of dumps, series of settling ponds, check dams, filter beds at discharge point, regular water monitoring Zinc/Lead/Silver – Maximising water recycling Water management: – Reducing freshwater usage through process innovations operating in water – Reducing evaporation of water at local reservoirs by using evaporation-retarding chemicals stressed regions with limited water availability Waste management: – Overflow section provided in tailing dams to avoid overflow of excess rain water over the earthen embankment tailings – Regularly conducting stability analysis of tailing dams by external experts – Tailing pipeline assessment programme in place including regular pipeline inspection Waste management: – Explore opportunities being utilised in road construction and cement manufacturing jarosite disposal Oil and Gas –M  inimise excess gas flaring to minimum operational level requirement, by compressing the excess gas Excess gas flaring and sending via pipeline to the gas market in Gujarat H2S presence in –P  rovision of handheld detectors and breathing apparatus for operators; training imparted to personnel and well fluids bulletins issued; and shut-in wells if concentration greater than threshold values. Power – Periodic inspection of ash ponds and pipelines Waste management: – Dedicated team to address work related to ash handling within and outside the plant premises fly ash – Dyke stability study carried out by competent party for the stability of ash ponds – Fly ash utilisation – in low-lying area filling, road construction, cement and brick manufacturing 40 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Environmental risk management: Continuous ambient air quality monitoring at VAL-Lanjigarh Environmental incidents at a Group level on a monthly basis, in an We strive for zero environmental incidents environment meeting led by the Group and have a robust internal process, including Head of Environment. The higher category categorising incidents according to severity, incidents are again reviewed at both the for managing any incident that does occur. ExCo Sub-Committee on Sustainability Subsidiary businesses monitor, report and and the Sustainability Committee to ensure investigate all incidents with the aim of applying that management and mitigation plans lessons learned, to prevent the recurrence are put in place. of similar events, and share learning across In order to strengthen the management of the Group. environmental incidents, VAL-Jharsuguda has Environmental incident management introduced a new management programme. We continued to develop awareness across the Environmental notices are issued in different Group about the importance of environmental colours for different categories of incidents. The incident reporting to be classified according notice remains open until the incident is closed, to our internal categorisation, incident including the full application of lessons learned investigation and closure mechanisms. to prevent recurrence. This simple sign-posting The incident reporting system and closure ensures consistency of communications and mechanism is communicated widely across understanding across the site. the business. Environmental incident training is provided to key staff, with environmental managers leading any investigation and closure, in co-ordination Environmental incident training with the appropriate operations and maintenance personnel. Environmental is provided to key staff, with incidents are discussed at monthly operational reviews led by the company CEO. environmental managers leading Vedanta’s internal system for incidents any investigation and closure, categorises them according to their severity, with the Sustainability Committee reviewing in co-ordination with the Category 4 and Category 5 incidents (the highest categories) on a quarterly basis and appropriate operations and all incidents (Categories 1 to 5) are reviewed maintenance personnel vedantaresources.com 41 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued The following table reviews the most serious environmental incidents during the reporting period, detailing the action taken by the business to manage the situation: Brief Action taken Category 5: – SEL – The fly ash slurry was removed within 24 hours Date: 04/11/2012 – The damaged pipelines were isolated and repaired within 24 hours Due to damage in fly ash pipelines, fly ash – Pipeline inspection and monitoring was increased slurry was discharged into an adjacent area of an ash pond – non-agricultural land. The – 24-hour security was implemented incident occurred due to thieves attempting –A standard operating procedure and a standard maintenance procedure to cut into the pipelines. Three pipelines were developed to track the integrity of pipelines were damaged Category 4: Black Mountain Mine – Berm wall repaired and pipe unblocked Date: 20/04/2012 – The released waste water was removed within 24 hours After the failure of the reed berm wall for underground –P rocedures were improved to include inspection and tracking of pipeline waste water, waste water was condition released into neighbouring areas Category 4: Black Mountain Mine – Line drained and expansion joint replaced Date: 26/04/2012 – Pipeline inspection programme developed An expansion joint for the tailings pipeline from backfill to the tailings dam burst, releasing waste water Category 4: Black Mountain Mine – Pipeline fixed Date: 20/07/2012 –P ipeline inspection frequency increased from monthly to fortnightly Fresh water was lost when three pipelines broke inspections at different locations in the North Village – Air valves installed in pipeline Category 4: Sesa Goa (MET Coke division) –S esa Goa responded to the show cause notice issued, providing details of Date: 17/8/2012 the incident to GSPCD. In addition, incident details were communicated to Due to the misfiring of two high capacity diesel the Chief Inspector of Factories & Boilers (CIF&B), Navelim Panchayat and (HCD) burners during the pre-heating phase, North Goa Collector. Also, clarification was given in local newspapers emissions from stack 2A were released on 17 August. – Houses were cleaned employing a local contractor On 18 August, emissions from side of oven doors –T he activity of pre-heating was resumed only after permission from GSPCB were observed. Emissions lasted for some 20 minutes and CIF&B with implementation of the following measures: and 40 minutes respectively – Flue gases were diverted through the waste heat recovery boiler (WHRB). Black soot was released and spread across neighbouring areas – Mesh was provided on the stack top to trap fugitive soot particles The misfiring primarily occurred due –A n external filter was fitted in the diesel line as well as cleaning the internal to choking-off of the burner nozzles filter each shift The Goa State Pollution Control Board –B urners were operated at a controlled flow rate with close supervision by (GSPCB) inspected the area and a show senior staff cause was issued to the MET Coke Division –C ontinuous visual monitoring of the stack was implemented by installing of Sesa Goa. a closed circuit camera Category 4: Sterlite Tuticorin Plant –S terlite Copper responded to the show cause notice, explaining that Date: 23/3/2013 all emissions from the plant were well within the standards prescribed. Complaints received from the public about The plant continued to operate with all emissions within prescribed limits. eye irritation and suffocation in certain areas of However, the TNPCB was not satisfied with the reply filed by Sterlite Copper Keelashanmugapuram located 7.5km from the plant. and issued a closure order on 29/03/13 The regional Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board –S terlite Copper filed an appeal with the National Green Tribunal (NGT), (TNPCB) inspected the area and Tuticorin factory Southern Bench, against the closure order by TNPCB for the alleged gas premises and a show cause notice was emission and for interim relief to operate the plant. issued to Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin – In the order dated 31 May, 2013 NGI allowed operations to start in the presence of a committee set up by tribunal. 42 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Approach & performance in key environmental areas Water by the withdrawal. While some of our waterOur operations exist in areas of varying degrees dependent operations are located in of water stress. Consequently, we take our water environments where access to water can consumption and management extremely be a challenge, we have a consistent approach seriously. An effective approach helps us focus to water management across all Group on longer-term water access challenges as subsidiaries and a clearly stated water policy, water increasingly becomes a material issue available on our website at: for communities, regions and nations. www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com/ We also take very seriously the obligations responsible_stewardship/policies we have to the communities within which The policy commits us to recognising the our business operates, and it is essential social, economic and environmental value that they have access to clean drinking water. of water and the increasing global concern We accept that it is our role to manage our of water scarcity. We strive to minimise the water usage in a way that protects, and indeed amount of fresh water we consume by reusing where possible enhances, local health, as much water as possible in our processes. industry and the environment. Maintaining aquifer quality is the core aim driving During the reporting period, we withdrew more our water policies and standards – an inability than 340MCM from natural and artificial water to fulfil a local community’s water requirements, sources whereas more than 250MCM of water or causing permanent damage to an aquifer, is used in our operations. None of the natural would seriously restrict our ability to operate. water sources are being affected by our water In this regard, we have a governance framework withdrawal as water withdrawal in all of our to ensure that surface and ground water do not operations is less than 5% of capacity of the get contaminated by our operations. Our source. Also, none of the water sources is environmental policies and management designated as a protected area either nationally standards are mandatory across the Group or internationally. and address contaminated land management Due to the high water table in Zambia, concerns: the standards require operations our KCM subsidiary withdraws and dewaters to prevent contamination of land and water. (removes) a large quantity of water from its Through our materiality process we have underground mines. Approximately 60% of the identified the following environmental areas water withdrawal (128.24MCM in the reporting to be the most significant to our business period) is discharged into the nearby river, with operations, therefore these have been reported proper treatment ensuring that the waste water on within this report. For all environmental quality is within statutory prescribed norms. reporting visit our website. Water management ``Water We use water in mining, smelting, refining ``Raw material and power plant operations from sources like ``Consumption ground water, surface water, rainfall and the municipality. None of the water sources from ``Energy and climate change which we draw water is significantly affected ``Waste Engagement with WBCSD: Development of India Water Tool Vedanta is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and engages with the WBCSD and its members and contributes to the debate on climate change and environmental issues. During the year, together with other like-minded organisations, Vedanta worked with the WBCSD in the development of an “India water tool” with the objective of assessing and improving water use efficiencies. This helps organisations assess their own water use efficiencies and understand the risks related to water scarcity that may arise due to climate change. This is in addition to management of water savings targets set by individual units in order to ensure good practices. vedantaresources.com 43 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Initiatives on water management operational and domestic water needs, with Many of our operational processes have water required for injection into the reservoir to been designed to be ‘zero discharge’ facilities, maintain hydrocarbon reservoir pressure. In the where the generated waste water is treated and Rajasthan block, the Central Ground Water completely recycled back into process areas Authority (CGWA) has approved saline water such as slag granulation, lime preparation and abstraction. An extensive and ongoing ground gas cleaning plants. Many Group subsidiaries water monitoring programme is in place to also harvest rainwater, such as Sesa Goa which track the behaviour of the reservoir due to the is the Vedanta leader in rainwater harvesting. proposed abstraction. Cairn works closely with Rainwater harvested by Sesa Goa is nearly 79% the government and the regulators to ensure of their total water consumption, amounting to that data is transparently shared and that its 4.17MCM, while Sterlite Copper and Hindustan activities do not pose any risk to the fresh water Zinc are also efficiently capturing and using resource of the region, with the fresh water rainwater. In total, we harvested 4.34MCM requirements of the plant being met by the of rainwater. In addition to these initiatives, desalination of saline water. Importantly, early effluent and sewage treatment plants are in the project’s lifecycle the ‘first right’ of local installed at many locations for reusing water communities to fresh water was respected. at primary locations. During FY 2012-13, water conservation efforts Key water management initiatives executed successfully led to recycling 61.60MCM – during the reporting period include: equivalent to filling over 24,000 Olympic swimming pools. Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin installed a 10 million litres per day desalination plant to reduce the The waste water discharge complies with demand on fresh water sources and to ensure the applicable regulatory limits and, at all sites, a sustainable source of water to its operations. waste water is treated in effluent treatment plants. Metals are precipitated by addition Cairn India’s operations utilise the abundant of lime and flocculants with the use of supply of sub-surface saline water to meet its sediment ponds. Case Study: Water conservation – Installation of adiabatic cooling towers (ACTs) to minimise evaporation loss of evaporation, so Hindustan Zinc sought a different, more environmentally-friendly solution. The solution Hindustan Zinc installed its first adiabatic cooling towers (ACTs) to replace the conventional cooling towers. An adiabatic cooling tower operates as an air-cooled heat exchanger, rejecting heat from a process cooling medium to the surrounding atmosphere by means of either dry cooling (convective heat transfer) or wet cooling (a double convection Adiabatic cooling towers at HZL-Dariba cycle between water and air), in which water acts as the The issue cooling medium for wetting the air and the cool air in Hindustan Zinc uses cooling towers at its smelter turn cools the hot process water. ACTs reduce water to manage waste heat. Induced-draught cooling wastage by almost 80% by operating in a closed circuit. towers were in use to reduce the temperature of hot streams from the various operations in the The outcome plant with the evaporation of the water used to Results from the ACT installation have been remove process heat and to cool the working fluid. encouraging, with an 80-85% reduction in water loss This common process, seen at most power stations, through dry cooling, amounting to approximately resulted in significant water consumption in the form 0.18MCM of water savings. 44 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Total water withdrawal by source (MCM) Ground water Surface water Rainwater Water from utility Total Sector Unit name 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 (2012-2013) HZL 3.74 4.03 22.56 21.37 0.03 0.17 0.99 0.05 25.62 Skorpion Zinc – – – 2.83 – – 2.75 – 2.83 Zinc Lisheen Mine 28.08 27.27 – – – – – – 27.27 BMM 0.01 0.01 4.37 4.35 – – – – 4.36 CMT – 2.90 4.60 5.09 – – – – 7.99 Copper Sterlite Copper 0.01 0.01 3.29 2.16 0.06 – – 1.45 3.62 KCM 144.96 149.25 29.39 28.30 – – – – 177.55 BALCO 0.06 0.06 28.84 24.22 – – 4.88 – 24.28 Aluminium VAL-J – – 19.35 19.44 – – – – 19.44 VAL-L – – 4.04 3.17 – – – – 3.17 MALCO – – 3.01 3.85 – – – – 3.85 Power SEL – – 15.05 24.92 – – – – 24.92 Iron Sesa Goa 2.81 0.18 1.93 0.81 14.41 4.17 0.11 0.10 5.26 Oil & Gas Cairn India – 14.07 – – – – – 0.07 14.14 Total 179.68 197.79 136.43 140.50 14.50 4.34 8.72 1.68 344.31 Note: Cairn India withdrew nearly 14MCM of non-portable water – sourced from saline aquifers Our KCM and Lisheen mines have to withdraw high amounts of underground water because of the high water table in each region Water usage and recycled – percentage and total volume (MCM) 2011-12 2012-13 Water Water Sector Unit name used Water recycled Percentage (%) used Water recycled Percentage (%) HZL 36.72 9.97 27.15 34.22 10.03 29.31 Skorpion Zinc 3.34 0.54 16.23 3.17 0.24 7.51 Zinc Lisheen Mine 6.18 3.08 49.82 0.037 0.003 8.72 BMM 1.65 0.21 12.72 3.43 0.49 14.27 CMT 3.31 – – 4.43 – – Copper Sterlite Copper 3.46 0.49 14.13 3.51 0.46 13.06 KCM 85.18 23.75 27.88 93.75 30.73 32.77 BALCO 35.25 6.35 18.01 28.72 4.34 15.12 Aluminium VAL-J 19.95 0.60 3.00 20.77 1.50 7.25 VAL-L 5.73 1.68 29.41 4.05 1.32 32.54 MALCO 2.50 0.08 3.25 3.80 0.05 1.29 Power SEL 15.23 0.18 1.19 26.33 2.25 8.55 Iron Sesa Goa 27.34 8.78 32.12 8.03 2.27 28.31 Oil & Gas Cairn India – – – 22.08 7.91 – Total 245.86 55.72 22.66 256.33 61.60 24.03 Note: In FY 2011-12 SDR, water usage included only fresh water consumption whereas the revised water usage values for both FY 2011-12 and FY 2012-13 include fresh as well as recycled water vedantaresources.com 45 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Waste water discharged by quality and destination (MCM) Sector Unit name 2011-12 2012-13 Destination HZL Zero discharge Zero discharge NA Skorpion Zinc Zero discharge Zero discharge NA Zinc Lisheen Mine 25.73 29.21 River BMM Zero discharge Zero discharge NA CMT 26.78 22.74 River Copper Sterlite Copper Zero discharge Zero discharge NA KCM 137.28 128.24 Stream and river BALCO 3.84 Zero discharge NA Aluminium VAL-J 1.41 0.82 River VAL-L Zero discharge Zero discharge NA MALCO Zero discharge Zero discharge NA Power SEL Zero discharge Zero discharge NA Iron Sesa Goa Zero discharge Zero discharge NA Oil & Gas Cairn India NA 0.62 Sea Total 195.04 181.63 Note: In FY 11-12 SDR, there was a typographical error in the Lisheen waste water discharge. Our CMT operation discharges 22.74MCM comprising mine dewatering (2.9MCM), water used in the process (4.42MCM) and storm water discharge (15.42MCM). The discharged water complies with the applicable regulatory limits For our Cairn energy business, the total 2. At Suvali the produced water is treated to volume of produced water for the reporting meet the marine discharge standard and period is 0.6MCM. The produced water disposed into the sea through a sub-sea disposal at the three producing assets is diffuser system different and as follows: 3. At Rajasthan treated produced water is 1. A  t Ravva the produced water is treated and treated as commingled with injection water injected back into the sub-sea hydrocarbon and injected back into the sub-surface reservoir as injection water hydrocarbon reservoir to maintain reservoir pressure support Case Study: Upgrade of VAL-Jharsuguda Effluent Treatment Plant The situation reject and convert it into solids or slurry. VAL has VAL-Jharsuguda had set up a 300 m3/hr effluent introduced an improved solar pond where the treatment plant to treat effluent generated in its rate of evaporation is accelerated by increasing operations. This was operated by conventional fluoride the surface area of exposure with atomisers along removal technology. VAL sought further reductions the pond. This is further aided by blowing hot air to in fluoride and an improvement in the water quality. the reject which is channelled through solar panels, with the resulting concentrated sludge disposed The solution of in secured landfill. VAL selected a process-logical controller-based chemical dosing system for the existing treatment Outcome plant and upgraded this with ultrafiltration and reverse After the reverse osmosis process,the treated water osmosis systems. can be used in any industrial application and is The reverse osmosis system produces around 5 m3/hr completely recycled. The treated water quality is of of reject, which gets evaporated in solar evaporation a far superior standard to the stipulation for industrial ponds with aided evaporation systems. The objective treated water quality. of the solar evaporation pond is to concentrate the 46 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Raw material consumption During the reporting period, 30 million MT Raw materials consumed in our operations of raw material, 3.2 million MT of associate include bauxite (VAL-Lanjigarh), copper ore/ material, 16.88 million MT of semiconcentrate (KCM, CMT & Sterlite Copper), manufactured material were consumed. zinc ore, lead ore (HZL, ZI) and iron ore (Sesa Packaging material consumption is not Goa) besides associated mineral inputs, significant for our operations. semi-manufactured and packaging material. Consumption of raw, associated and semi-manufactured materials (MT) Raw material Semi-manufactured Asso material Packaging Sector Unit name (solid & liquid) (solid and liquid) (solid and liquid) material HZL 8,764,413 32,128 356,472 742 Skorpion Zinc 1,348,616 – 226,959 – Zinc Lisheen Mine 1,709,982 – 9,366 – BMM 1,521,812 – – – CMT – 135,779 121,797 370 Copper Sterlite Copper – 1,113,183 1,424,905 85 KCM 11,775,588 14,763,861 552,247 382 BALCO 2,412,169 98,826 6,499 – Aluminium VAL-J – 740,178 275,698 223 VAL-L 1,763,938 – 109,342 – MALCO – – – – Power SEL – – – – Iron Sesa Goa 746,964 – 116,750 – Oil & Gas Cairn India – – – – Total 30,043,481 16,883,955 3,200,035 1,801 Note: EN1 is not applicable to our Oil and Gas Sector as our Cairn business extracts crude oil from the ground directly. For our Power business – raw material like coal etc is already accounted for in EN-3 During the reporting period, BALCO unit recycled more than 2,500MT of rejected green anode from VAL Jharsuguda unit. Similarly, more than 400MT of rejected copper coil, copper cast bar, milling chips was recycled by the Sterlite Copper business. The aerial view of our VAL Jharsuguda plant demonstrates the scale of our operations vedantaresources.com 47 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Biodiversity the subsequent biodiversity management Mining operations can affect local ecology. processes. As biodiversity is a specialised Our biodiversity policy commits the Group discipline, we plan to review the risk to minimise and mitigate biodiversity risks assessment process including conducting pilot throughout our operations and we strive studies to validate the identified risks through to avoid adverse impacts on natural habitats. the IBAT. The intention is to have a full suite We plan the management of our land of appropriate biodiversity management plans use in a manner that allows biodiversity (BMPs) in place at all our sites by 2015. conservation to be integrated throughout the To assist each site and ensure consistency project’s lifecycle, including decommissioning, and rigour across the Group, we have issued closure and rehabilitation. a biodiversity guidance note for critical habitat determination for new projects. The guidance Biodiversity management note prescribes that the mandated ESIA In order to promote a best practice screening checklist must include a biodiversity management approach to biodiversity, we have risk assessment utilising IBAT for new projects. reviewed all operations to identify which of our The guidance note provides an overview of sites are operating within close proximity to biodiversity management processes including protected International Union for Conservation typical elements of a biodiversity management of Nature (IUCN) areas, important bird areas plan (BMP). Specifically, it provides guidance on: and key biodiversity hot spots. We have also mapped all our sites using the Integrated ``The approach to be used to conduct Biodiversity Assessment Tool (IBAT) mapping biodiversity risk assessment; tool (www.ibatforbusiness.org/). Using the ``Describing the level of biodiversity at the site; IBAT maps, we can determine if a site is located ``Outlining the risks to biodiversity resulting in or near an important biodiversity area, or a from site operations; potential critical habitat. Based on the results of the biodiversity risk screening, we assign ``Specifying the biodiversity management goals high/medium/low initial biodiversity risk ratings for the site; and to each site. The results of the biodiversity risk ``The actions and responsibilities for managing screening programme have led us to prioritise or offsetting impacts on biodiversity. Biodiversity Management Process Stage 1 Vedanta Biodiversity risk screening Corporate `` Initial biodiversity risk rating using IBAT Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Site Environmental Manager Biodiversity risk Develop BMP for risk Monitoring assessment management and reporting `` Desk-based research and `` Development of `` Monitoring biodiversity risk assessment a biodiversity impacts `` Validation of biodiversity management plan (BMP) `` Reporting against GRI risk rating `` Implementation of the biodiversity management plan (BMP) Knowledge and awareness 48 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Case Study: Skorpion Zinc artificial wetland for birds The issue and administration building and has limited human In 2006, the environment team at Skorpion Zinc noticed disturbance. Skorpion Zinc has also actively grown an increase in bird mortality around the refinery’s lined indigenous and rare plants around the pond area, evaporation and earthen ponds. The cause of the deaths and a specialist nursery to assist with this process was at that time unknown, although preliminary internal has also been developed. assessments suspected that birds were consuming The water source for the bird pond is the refinery process waste water. final-treated effluent from the site sewage plant. The water quality of the treated effluent is monitored The solution to ensure that the water complies with disposal Skorpion Zinc Management appointed an independent permit requirements. The ground water is monitored consultant, EcoMonitor, to carry out a detailed by sampling at a borehole. investigation on the cause of mortality in late 2006 and early 2007. The study revealed that bird The outcome mortality was due to acid burns (primary) and metal No further bird fatalities have been recorded since poisoning (secondary). the completion of the bird pond and it successfully Skorpion Zinc decided to construct an artificial wetland attracted birds from the refinery. The pond has since in 2009 near the facility, deliberately making it more become a habitat rich in a diverse range of bird attractive to birds to encourage them away from plant species and is now also a nesting ground. facilities. The bird pond is far from the refinery Enabling biodiversity at Skorpion Zinc artificial wetland vedantaresources.com 49 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Energy and climate change ISO 50001. Currently, the VAL-Lanjigarh Meeting growing energy demands while captive power plant is ISO 50001 certified, limiting carbon emissions is a global challenge. with this achievement being used as a We recognise that we have a social and model for other operations. The smelter economic responsibility both to take action plant and independent power plant (IPP) to reduce our footprint and to engage of Sterlite Energy at Jharsuguda have been constructively on climate change issues. recommended for ISO 50001 certification. By understanding the risks and opportunities of Key energy reduction and efficiency climate change, and how these affect the initiatives in 2012-13 organisation, we can reduce our own impact We have been working to develop our on the environment and also make a positive production of electricity from waste heat contribution to the debate. generation. In 2012 we increased our installed Our approach to energy and climate change capacity to 92.3MW, up from 60MW in 2011, As Vedanta is part of an energy intensive allowing for greater efficiency in our industry, our direct and indirect energy operational energy usage. consumption is in the order of 341 million GJ. A new energy-efficient copper scrap furnace It is important that we carefully consider our was commissioned at our Konkola Copper approach to energy use, including our use of Mine in December 2012 which reduced annual technology to maximise efficiencies. We have average GHG emission reductions by 15,213 completed a carbon footprint exercise across metric tonnes with a corresponding carbon all our manufacturing and mining locations. asset value of 15,213 CERs (certified emission The long-term strategy for addressing climate reductions). The new scrap melting furnace change issues consists of diversifying the uses lower HFO (heavy fuel oil) consumption energy portfolio and water sources of all our – HFO consumption for the old scrap furnaces companies and the Group is developing its was 182.5kg/metric tonne while the new scrap thinking around these issues and how best furnace is designed to use HFO at 80kg/metric to implement them. tonne of scrap. To reduce grid power Our Energy and Carbon Policy commits our consumption, Konkola has also installed a operations to adopt and maintain global best steam heater, replacing the 1.35MW electric practices in carbon and energy management heater at the oxygen plant at its Nchanga and to minimise greenhouse gas (GHG) smelter. The steam heater is scheduled to emissions. We are aware of the opportunities come on-stream mid-2013 and will result that energy management and climate change in estimated GHG emission reductions present and understand the business case for of 2,676 metric tonnes per year. these initiatives, which can include efficiency savings based on a combination of new technology and advancing our business processes. Naturally, we are also keen to maximise the revenue generation potential of GHG reduction initiatives through the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). During the reporting period, we identified CDM projects By understanding the risks with a CER potential of 1.5 million units. Out of these, projects with a potential 0.67 million and opportunities of climate units are already registered on UNFCCC while projects with 0.82 million units are at an active change, and how these affect the stage of implementation. In 2012-13, around 0.47 million units CER accrued and 0.21 million organisation, we can reduce our units of VER accrued while 0.32 million units own impact on the environment of CERs were sold, generating US$1.38 million. In order to give rigour to our energy and also make a positive programmes, plants are upgrading existing contribution to the debate business management systems to allow accreditation to the energy standard 50 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 VAL-Jharusguda has also introduced a range Cairn India’s current carbon emission intensity of energy and carbon emission reduction steps is estimated to be 95 metric tonnes of CO2E including the reduction of smelter-specific per thousand metric tonnes of hydrocarbons direct current energy consumption through produced. The GHG emission intensity the implementation of slotted anodes, resulting compares well with the industry sector in approximate energy savings of 43,000GJ, performance. Additionally, Cairn is partnering and the optimisation of compressed air with the Indian Government on ‘Green Cover’ consumption in the smelter, resulting in development projects – Carbon Footprint approximate energy savings of 0.28 million GJ. Offset initiatives. Auxiliary energy consumption was also Cairn seeks to use the associated natural reduced through the replacement of the power gas in oil production in its own operations or plant cooling tower GRP fan, together with a through commercial sale to prevent wastage reduction in primary air fan power consumption of a potential energy source through flare-off. and the enhancement of boiler efficiency by the replacement of air preheater seals with Two of our operations (KCM and CMT) have soft-touch seals. In total during the period, purchased electricity from renewable energy we saved more than 922,000GJ of energy due sources – hydro power stations. 2.34% of our to conservation and efficiency improvement total energy is from renewable energy portfolio. projects at VAL-J, KCM, HZL, Sterlite Copper, During the reporting period our Cairn India BALCO and other units. operation invested US$0.12 million in the field Operations at Cairn India recognise the of renewable energy and generated 198GJ need for energy conservation, and steps have of renewable energy. been taken to reduce energy consumption. Direct and indirect energy consumption (million GJ) Direct consumption Indirect consumption Sector Unit name 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 HZL 45.51 45.96 1.78 0.44 Skorpion Zinc 0.38 0.40 2.44 2.35 Zinc Lisheen Mine 0.06 0.08 0.48 0.50 BMM 0.22 0.11 0.49 0.42 CMT 0.12 0.16 0.37 0.41 Copper Sterlite Copper 1.96 1.85 0.51 0.60 KCM 1.57 1.53 6.62 7.57 BALCO 72.60 70.62 0.01 0.01 Aluminium VAL-J 79.11 90.78 0.31 – VAL-L 12.39 6.99 0.05 0.04 MALCO 9.11 10.94 – – Power SEL 65.99 85.13 0.14 0.04 Iron Sesa Goa 1.98 0.90 – 0.05 Oil & Gas Cairn India – 12.78 0.03 Total 291.00 328.24 13.15 12.47 Note: In FY 2011-12 SDR, we double-accounted the electricity purchased through our sister concern as well as from the State grid vedantaresources.com 51 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Air quality Significant emissions: Across the Group, we monitor air quality Emissions from stack (MT) and the effects and implications that this may have on employees, local communities and the environment. 45,846 Our approach to air quality management Vedanta has an environmental management standard which commits our operations to identify and manage emissions to air from point sources, fugitive sources, and mobile sources, as well as from process activities 19,380 7,593 associated with combustion and materials storage. We require all our operations to apply air quality prevention and mitigation measures. SOx emission NOx emission PM emission Air emissions monitoring includes both ambient air quality monitoring (AAQM) and Initiatives on air quality management stack emissions monitoring. In general, as Over the past year we have undertaken a part of ESIA studies, the baseline ambient air number of air quality initiatives. At Sesa Goa monitoring data is collected within a 10km a fine particulate emission control (bag filter) radius of the plant site. The monitoring system was installed at blast furnace No. 2. locations are selected based on considerations At Sterlite Copper, Tuticorin, to reduce fugitive including meteorological conditions on a emissions, a scrubber and a bag house in the synoptic basis, topography of the study area primary smelter and a bag house, upstream and the likely impact areas. of existing scrubbers, in the secondary smelter Suspended particulate matter (SPM), SO2 and were installed. Additionally, to reduce dust NOx are generally monitored as part of AAQM. emissions, 0.75km of closed conveyors The AAQM reports are regularly submitted to for gypsum transportation and permanent the regulatory authorities. In relation to stack water sprinklers at the gypsum pond area emissions of particulate matter, emissions are were also installed. legally regulated at most of our operations and At VAL-Lanjigarh, to reduce dust, all internal are monitored to ensure compliance. During roads have been concreted and external roads the year, we also monitored SO2 and NOx are sprayed with water to reduce dust from road and other relevant emissions including lead traffic. In addition, rail wagon tipping equipment emissions in our zinc operations, fluoride has been installed to handle bauxite within the emissions in our copper and aluminium plant premises, eliminating the road transport operations and poly aromatic hydrocarbons of bauxite from the railway siding to the plant (PAHs) in our aluminium operations. and so eliminating the dust that resulted from Our significant emissions (> 5,000MT during this means of transporting the material. the reporting period) include SOx, NOx, At Konkola Copper Mines a new scrap and PM and are summarised in the graph melting furnace equipped with filter bags above right. was commissioned in November 2012. This Other emissions include VOC emissions from replaced the use of one of the two old scrap our Cairn India operations (329MT), fluoride melting furnaces at Nkana Refinery used for emissions (120MT), lead emissions (43MT) heating the charged scrap in the furnace. At the and PAH emissions (2MT). new cobalt recovery furnace (CRF No. 1) filter bags were commissioned in April 2012 and The emission of ozone-depleting substances these have resulted in a significant reduction is not a material concern for Vedanta as in air emissions at the Nchanga smelter. Dust none is used in processes associated with and associated heavy metal emission discharge our operations. into the ambient air from the new CRF No. 1 is within statutory limits, with dust levels for the new plant below 50mg/Nm3 compared to 300mg/Nm3 for the old CRF No. 2. 52 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Implementation of other projects to achieve requirement have been introduced. These full compliance with statutory emissions include compressing the excess gas and standards is in progress and targeted to be sending it through the gas pipeline to market completed by December 2013. These include in Gujarat. For the reporting period, the volume the installation of an off-gas cleaning system of flared and vented hydrocarbon emissions at the anode furnaces, installation of a bag from Cairn operations were approximately house system after the gas cooler at the old 62.5 million m3 and 3.7 million m3. CRF No. 2 and the installation of a bag house and evaporative cooling system in the slag cleaning furnace gas cooler. Excess gas flaring – risk minimisation at Cairn India At our Cairn business, we currently use Vedanta has an environmental associated gas at Mangala Processing Terminal management standard which to generate power for our operational facilities. The excess associated gas is flared at the assets commits our operations to where gas sales infrastructure does not exist. Our aim has constantly been to reduce our identify and manage emissions excess gas flaring. In 2012-13 hydrocarbon production as compared to 2009-10 has to air from point sources, fugitive increased by about 67%, whereas the greenhouse gas (GHG) emission intensity has sources, and mobile sources, increased by only 4%. In addition, during the reporting period, we have reduced our excess as well as from process activities gas flaring intensity by 42% from April 2012 to associated with combustion and March 2013, our overall average flaring intensity being 4.5T/metric tonne of hydrocarbon materials storage produced. Initiatives to further minimise excess gas flaring to our minimum operational level Direct and indirect GHG emissions (tonnes of CO2 eq.) Sector Unit Name Scope I Emission Scope II Emission 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 HZL 4,619,113 4,743,627 180,160 94,327 Skorpion Zinc 28,044 29,591 649,823 627,844 Zinc Lisheen Mine 4,403 6,109 71,551 73,315 BMM 16,114 7,895 487,098 420,632 CMT 9,069 11,704 5,156 33,465 Copper Sterlite Copper 180,359 241,508 113,068 136,368 KCM 119,237 115,947 12,868 14,729 BALCO 7,622,035 7,340,560 1,462 1,694 Aluminum VAL – J 9,112,679 10,089,372 68,193 398 VAL – L 1,135,227 644,141 1,012 8,974 MALCO 875,470 1,051,398 – – Power SEL 6,325,020 8,172,378 – – Iron Sesa Goa 671,534 588,417 68,720 45,537 Oil & Gas Cairn India – 983,302 – 7,145 Total 30,718,303 34,025,949 1,659,110 1,464,428 vedantaresources.com 53 Responsible Stewardship: Environment continued Waste The key non-hazardous wastes we generate Mining and resource production results include fly ash (from captive and merchant in waste production – our hazardous power plants), red mud (aluminium refinery and non-hazardous waste generation is waste), jarosite/jarofix (one of the wastes of approximately 9.09 million tonnes, and refining and purifying zinc is jarosite, a basic how we manage and reduce our waste is hydrous sulphate of potassium and iron. an important measure of how successful When mixed with lime and cement using we are in managing our business sustainably. proprietary technology from the Canadian Electrolyte Zinc company, jarosite forms a We recognise that we have a social and hard, compact and inert substance called environmental responsibility both to manage ‘Jarofix’), slag, lime grit (process residues our waste and to constructively engage from smelters and alumina refineries) and in waste usage. By understanding the risks phosphor gypsum. We have processes in and opportunities around waste generation place to ensure the appropriate management and its management, we believe we can and disposal or recycling of these wastes. reduce our impact on the environment and make a positive contribution to managing Our hazardous waste generation includes this challenge. used/spent oil, waste refractories, spent pot lining and residual sludge from smelters. Waste management Hazardous wastes are stored in authorised, Vedanta has a resource use and waste licensed and secured landfills, while some management standard which commits our have value and are sold to authorised recyclers. operations to minimise resource use across In the reporting period around 178 million MT the lifecycle of each site, as well as requiring of overburden and 3.5 million MT of tailing sites to demonstrate a commitment to were produced. Much of our generated applying appropriate waste management overburden is used in secondary construction principles. The purpose of the standard work, for example, in raising tailing dam is to ensure that Vedanta optimises resource heights, back-filling mined out areas and consumption and manages the wastes it exhausted mine pits. produces in ways that minimise the negative impact on the environment and to human Waste (MT) health – supporting the Group’s policies in relation to sustainability and the protection 185,338,188 178,843,245 of the environment. The standard requires us to apply the principles of a waste hierarchy in the design and implementation of all of our operations. 35,949,242 35,332,762 Accordingly, priority is given to avoidance and minimisation of waste generation followed by recovery, reuse and recycling. The least preferred option is disposal (landfill or incineration). Opportunities to eliminate, reduce, reuse, recycle and recover waste, 2011-12 2012-13 wherever practicable, are identified and Overburden Tailings implemented. We pay particular attention to hazardous and high-volume wastes such as our process and mineral wastes, which For our Cairn operation, around 4,100MT are stored in secured landfill sites and, where of drill mud and cuttings were produced using appropriate, sold to recyclers. We also ensure non-aqueous drilling fluid, whereas around that non-hazardous waste is reused as much 1,200MT of same were disposed onshore as possible within our operations to mitigate and offshore. the amount sent to landfill. 54 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Performance In support of our aims to minimise waste we have introduced the following initiatives: ``1.5 million metric tonnes of slag were used in various useful applications rather than being deposited in landfill. This included use in road construction, land levelling and in the abrasive and cement industries. ``Nearly 4 million metric tonnes of fly ash from our power plants was sent to nearby cement and brick manufacturing units together with land levelling. Amounts of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated (MT) Hazardous waste Non-hazardous Sector Unit name 2011-12 2012-13 2011-12 2012-13 HZL 581,960 542,903 589,267 708,284 Skorpion Zinc 242 382 – 173 Zinc Lisheen Mine 28 29 – 696 BMM 107,502 70 965 543 CMT 88 185 133 466 Copper Sterlite Copper 46,219 48,386 1,425,232 1,318,562 KCM 937 5,751 404,767 483,577 BALCO 8,470 6,136 2,295,497 2,095,576 Aluminium VAL-J 26,056 24,299 1,195,420 10,340 VAL-L 8,074 41 1,736,323 1,071,663 MALCO 21 4 31,889 40,543 Power SEL 63 100 1,683,118 2,626,296 Iron Sesa Goa 311 152 8,910 5,972 Oil & Gas Cairn India NA 12,846 NA 256 Total 779,971 641,282 9,371,521 8,362,945 Note: In FY 2011-12 SDR, there was a typo in hazardous waste data for the iron sector (Sesa Goa) vedantaresources.com 55 Building Strong Relationships committed to strong relationships with our stakeholders Employees are integral to building strong relationships 56 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 What does Building Strong Relationships mean to us? Effective engagement with our stakeholders is crucial for us to build long-lasting and effective relationships. Our stakeholder consultation process has been vital for deepening our encounters with our stakeholders. In this section Stakeholder engagement 58 Human rights 62 Community consultation and resettlement 64 vedantaresources.com 57 Building Strong Relationships: Stakeholder engagement Understanding key stakeholder needs Stakeholder group Our stakeholders are Shareholders Lenders considered crucial to the way that the Significance `` Provide finance `` Provide finance business adds and to the business `` Provide a critical `` Ensure right shares value in the assessment of management systems management are followed broader sense – both competencies financially and in non-financial ways. Vedanta also engages with other stakeholders, including the media and the wider public. Our stakeholders therefore have an important role to play in influencing the strategic direction of the business. Nature of `` Regular updates and `` Meetings engagement investor meetings `` Presentations `` Presentations `` Site visits `` Site visits `` Annual AGM In order to engage effectively and `` Conferences understand the distinct requirements `` Dedicated of our various stakeholders, the business contact channel has identified seven key groups as having ir@vedanta.co.in significant interest in our operations: ``Employees ``Communities ``Shareholders ``Civil society ``Lenders ``Industry ``Host Governments We effectively engage with our stakeholders Who in `` Chairman `` CEO by understanding their key concerns and Vedanta leads `` Deputy Executive `` CFO Chairman `` Corporate Finance opinions and our materiality process has `` CEO `` CSO been an important aspect of our approach `` CFO to achieving this understanding. This year, we `` Investor Relations strengthened this process by commissioning `` CSO an external assessment which encompassed detailed consultations with a broad range of internal and external stakeholder representatives. This enabled us to confirm their key priorities, Identified `` Economic `` Economic informing the identification of our material issues. material aspects performance performance Here we outline the various ways we engage `` Corporate `` Promotion of governance international with our seven key stakeholder groups, their standards `` Human rights significance to the business, the nature of `` Human rights `` Occupational health engagement and the material aspects that and safety `` Occupational health they are interested in. This report, coupled with and safety our Annual Report, responds to these areas. 58 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Employees Communities Industry Governments Civil society `` Key assets `` Vital to the business’s `` Facilitators `` Provide the `` Provide a critical in delivering licence to operate for product regulatory eye to the business’s operational development framework operation capabilities `` Suppliers’ customers (taxation, licensing, `` Provide technical `` Deliver business are directly linked infrastructure, support to the goals and targets with the business’s economic playing learning and growth field for growth) development `` Vital for in which the of the business development of business exists regulations and `` Partner in standards, lobbying, infrastructure working processes development projects `` Various forums: `` Community group `` Customer `` Participation `` Partnerships with Chairman’s meetings satisfaction surveys in government and membership workshops `` Village council `` Supplier and vendor consultation of international `` CEO meetings and meetings meetings programmes organisations feedback sessions (panchayats) `` Membership of `` Engagement with `` Working relationship `` Performance `` Public hearings industry bodies national, state and with organisations management `` Grievance regional government on specific projects systems mechanisms bodies at business `` Engagement with `` Various committees operational level international, `` Cultural events at the plant level: national and local Mentor programme, NGOs Event Management committee and Welfare Committee, women’s clubs etc. `` Chairman `` Chairman `` Senior level meetings `` Senior level meetings `` Senior level meetings `` CEO `` CEO may include may include may include `` HR `` Community Liaison Chairman and CEO Chairman and CEO Chairman and CEO `` Senior Executives officer/ coordinators `` COO `` Senior Executives `` CSO `` Marketing team `` Government `` Public relations `` Commercial Relations Senior Executives management `` Public relations `` Senior Executives `` Economic `` Direct and indirect `` Contract integrity `` Economic `` Promotion performance local employment `` Corporate performance of international `` Occupational health `` Community governance `` Promotion of standards and safety development `` Product stewardship international `` Human rights `` Training and `` Environmental standards `` Occupational development management `` Direct and indirect health and safety `` Employee `` Land management local employment `` Community satisfaction `` Community development development vedantaresources.com 59 Building Strong Relationships: Stakeholder engagement continued Providing structure to engagement Stakeholder management In addition to emails received at this Our target is to upgrade An important part of the Vedanta Sustainability address, all matters pertaining to our our existing SEPs in line with our Vedanta Framework is the Group’s Social Policy and sustainable development initiatives received by stakeholder engagement the supporting technical standards, which departments such as the Vedanta Corporate standard by 2014 provide structure to the way we manage our Communications and Investor Relations stakeholder engagement. These standards teams are forwarded to the Chief Sustainability require all operations to identify stakeholders Officer or to sustainability@vedanta.co.in. and determine engagement plans, including All emails are reviewed and appropriately recording and responding to stakeholder responded to. The issues raised are also enquiries and grievances. Our stakeholder recorded and contribute to our continual engagement technical standard is aligned monitoring and understanding of with international best practice and equips stakeholders’ interests. our subsidiaries to have a consistent approach to the way they engage and communicate with their stakeholders. Communicating progress on the Gamsberg project All of our operations run their own stakeholder The Gamsberg project is one of the most strategic projects identification and analysis process. As part of of the Group’s Zinc International business and an integral plan this, they identify potential stakeholder to harness the potential of BMM assets and to sustain growth. representatives who act as a channel for the The project consists of an open-pit zinc mine, together with dissemination and receipt of information. processing facilities and associated infrastructure. The proposed In addition, our sites identify individuals and mine is located in the Northern Cape Province of South Africa, groups who may be additionally affected by 20km east of our existing Black Mountain Mine and the town operations due to their disadvantaged or of Aggeneys. otherwise vulnerable status. Ways in which stakeholders may be affected and the extent To ensure both transparency in the development of the of both actual and perceived impacts are project and that our stakeholders understand the project identified and recorded against each group. aims and the process of its development, updates to the Using the information gathered, our operations Gamsberg Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) can then determine, with the stakeholders are communicated by postings on the Company website themselves, the level of communication and www.vedanta-zincinternational.com. Interested stakeholders consultation that is appropriate. From this, are directed to the project website, which has up-to-date Stakeholder Engagement Plans (SEP) are information on the status of the ESIA. This site gets updated developed and continuously updated as regularly, particularly when critical milestones are completed. circumstances develop on-site. All documents including reports and details of community engagement can be found on the website. The draft ESIA report All our businesses have SEPs; however, has also been placed in public places including the local library some of these are yet to be upgraded to and municipality offices. Advertisements have also been placed in our stakeholder engagement standard. We four regional newspapers to create awareness of the publication have already upgraded plans for Lanjigarh and of the draft ESIA. BALCO and other business units have started A third open-house public meeting was scheduled to be documenting their stakeholder engagements in conducted in the first half of 2013 to disclose the findings of compliance with our stakeholder engagement the ESIA (prior to its final submission) in addition to focus group process. Our target is to have SEPs in place in meetings for relevant stakeholders including farmers, NGOs and line with our Vedanta Stakeholder Engagement the municipality. We intend to distribute a non-technical summary Standard by 2014. of the draft to all participants, in both English and Afrikaans. As part of our continual engagement with those interested in our business, we are committed to effectively responding to stakeholder feedback. Effort is made by the business to ensure that multiple channels are used to maintain contact, for example, a dedicated email address – sustainability@vedanta.co.in – is available and is displayed in the Contacts section of our website, and this is complemented by an Community consultation session for the Gamsberg Project, BMM online feedback form in the Sustainable Development section of our website. 60 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Broader stakeholder engagement understand the needs of their stakeholders Vedanta and our subsidiary companies have as they are in continuous and active proactive shareholder engagement programmes engagement with them. At the Group level, in the various geographies where we operate. we support them in this engagement. In the course of the year, we have proactively Our Group Chief Sustainability Officer and met with several stakeholder groups including his team are also responsible for responding civil society organisations, media and industry to stakeholder queries and requests for associations, to increase awareness about the information, including from analysts, NGOs, Group, explain our point of view and answer any banks and others interested in our sustainable “The Lanjigarh queries that they might have. We use numerous development story – development story. For example, Vedanta channels of communication which include Vedanta perspective” can is currently in dialogue with Amnesty one-on-one and large format meetings and be found online. International regarding concerns pertaining briefings, and online and print communications. more: sustainability. to the VAL-Lanjigarh site. Our full corporate vedantaresources.com/ We also invest considerable resources in response to the matters raised by Amnesty our_performance/report_ creating and publishing in-house journals such International is published in the report, archive as the Zinc News and Yagna, newsletters to “The Lanjigarh development story – Vedanta engage with employees, our wider industry perspective”, which can be found on our website. and communities and host governments. During the latter half of 2012, We also We also recognise the growing value of online received 2,497 letters from members of the and social media in engaging with various public asking questions about the project in stakeholders. We have an active presence Lanjigarh, following a campaign by Amnesty on various social media (YouTube, Facebook, International in Holland. Individual replies Twitter, Flicker, Pinterest, blogs) to increase were sent to 1,478 people where there awareness about our business and activities, was a readable correspondence address. share latest news and respond to any queries or Each response contained a copy of the comments that are posted on our social media report “The Lanjigarh development story – sites. We were pleased to be ranked 6th among Vedanta perspective”. FTSE 100 companies in a study conducted by In order to ensure transparency in our Sociability, UK and Public Relations Consultants operations, the Group’s responses to Association, UK. This independent study major incidents or events are posted on benchmarks corporate social media our corporate website and information is engagement using social media networks channelled by the Group Communications including YouTube, Twitter and Facebook. and Investor Relations teams as appropriate. Vedanta has also been ranked number one Our business subsidiaries also have a similar among all FTSE 100 companies on use of practice to communicate with their local YouTube to engage with its stakeholders. and specific stakeholder groups. Vedanta Khushi Launched in April 2012, Vedanta Khushi is Emails received by sustainability@vedanta.co.in a social media campaign and forum created to promote awareness of issues pertaining Number of emails received Reply send/action taken No reply needed/not relevant 466 171 295 to underprivileged children, with a focus on their nutrition, education, health and overall 196 development. The campaign uses the blog 173 http://khushi-creatinghappiness.blogspot.co.uk as a central resource for issues to be raised 136 and discussed and also as a means of sharing 118 102 102 relevant external reports by NGOs. To date, the blog has received over 55,000 page views and the Facebook page has over 28,000 members. 32 28 18 23 4 Responding to stakeholder concerns 0 We respond to stakeholders at the Group, Request for sustainability Employment seeking Marketing/offer of services business and operational levels as appropriate. information Our subsidiary companies and operations Others teams on the ground are well placed to vedantaresources.com 61 Building Strong Relationships: Human rights respecting human rights Over Our human rights policy provides our governance 36,000 man hours training framework and commits us to the principles of sustainable on Code of Conduct development including protecting human life, health and and human rights environment, promoting social well-being and adding Human rights and child value to the communities in which we operate. labour – risk assessment conducted Protecting and respecting human dignity is in the Vedanta Sustainability Framework, central to our everyday business operations. including our human rights policy. Training Moreover, as a global company working in in our Code of Conduct and SA 8000 a range of developing countries, we believe also includes components on human rights. we have an important contribution to make During the year, we conducted over through the example we set by our behaviours. 36,000 man hours of training on the Code of Conduct. Human rights is also a specific Human rights incorporates socio-political module of the VSAP. This therefore ensures and economic issues that have implications that we review our human rights management for the responsibilities of our business – as an systems at the business level. employer, as a global company with numerous suppliers and as a responsible corporate citizen We have a supplier and contractor sustainability working within communities. Over the past management policy and our contract terms year, we have strengthened our approach, and conditions insist on compliance with with our Sustainability Committee conducting respect to regulations on minimum wages, reviews to deepen our understanding of the contract labour, worker compensation and risks and opportunities associated with human other similar topics in the countries in which rights management. we operate. A number of our suppliers have endorsed our Code of Conduct, which Human rights management includes clauses on human rights. This is now Through our human rights policy – which has being introduced to all suppliers in a phased been implemented across all Group businesses manner. In addition, our Security Management – Vedanta is committed to ensuring that the Standard requires Vedanta to manage security processes that it has in place, and continues forces in line with IFC and ICMM guidelines. to develop, follow the UN Guiding Principles. Based on our curriculum and the module that is being followed by all our Vedanta units, we By conducting ESIAs in compliance have stressed the importance of human rights with applicable legal requirements and the and sustainable training of security personnel, Vedanta Sustainability Framework, human with all our security guards in India and Africa rights considerations are taken into account trained in human rights. for all new projects, including the obligation to undertake a human rights screening Led by the Sustainability Committee, process in all merger and acquisition activities. in 2012-13 we undertook internal reviews Last year no significant merger and acquisition related to human rights and risk assessment. activity was undertaken. Our Code of Conduct The human rights audit and risk assessment commits us to comply with all laws and review was commissioned to ensure that all regulations, including the protection of the our subsidiaries have a clear understanding of fundamental human rights of all our employees. the areas of possible risk pertaining to human rights. The objective of the review was to Our commitment to human rights is backed confirm that we are meeting all applicable through the practical application of our national and international legislation, guidelines standards. In order to deliver this, all Group and conventions on human rights with special subsidiary companies provide focused training reference to the UN Universal Declaration of 62 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 We have strengthened our approach, with our Sustainability Committee conducting reviews to deepen our understanding of the risks and opportunities associated with human rights management Human Rights. The assessment confirms Indigenous peoples and vulnerable that the human rights policy is being tribal groups implemented by all units. The review also We respect the rights of indigenous peoples helped us in strengthening our existing systems and vulnerable tribal groups. In support of this and delivering focused training for our staff. commitment we have developed a technical standard on indigenous peoples/vulnerable Child labour tribal groups which is being implemented We prohibit the use of child labour in all across the Group. It provides guidance for our our operations including activities that are subsidiaries when establishing new projects outsourced to contractors. Whilst we operate with regard to the Group’s duty of care and in countries where the risk of child labour may engagement with these groups. None of our be high, during the past year, no instances of operating mines are operating in or adjacent child labour in our operations came to the to indigenous people’s territory and hence no Group’s attention. To ensure compliance violations involving the rights of indigenous during the reporting period the Sustainability people or vulnerable groups were observed Committee reviewed child labour risks. during the reporting period. This was initiated to verify that Vedanta had sufficient control systems in place to ensure that the Code of Conduct with regard to underage labour is implemented across all operations. We prohibit the use of Through the review, we identified transport management as the critical area of risk for child child labour in all our operations labour. To ensure that as a Group we are best including activities that are equipped to mitigate risks it was recommended that, as a part of our continual improvement outsourced to contractors processes, periodic inspections be carried out. Forced labour Our Code of Conduct expressly prohibits the use of forced labour. This is upheld in all our dealings with contractors and vendors, with guidance provided to sites on working with contractors and suppliers in order to eliminate any breach. In the reporting period, there were no recorded incidents of forced labour across any of our operations. vedantaresources.com 63 Building Strong Relationships: Community consultation and resettlement in dialogue with our local communities Community consultation and community consultation standard. These Around Effective and appropriate community standards are used in conjunction with the consultation is critical to maintaining a positive and lasting relationship in our communities. ESIA process which has also been rolled out. Combined, these materials enable our 3,500 village meetings In our journey as a growing and expanding businesses to understand their responsibilities conducted business, it is important that we work to their host communities, and equally to, collaboratively with our host communities, ensure that these communities understand in order that they are engaged throughout the lifecycle of our projects, from initial our processes. These have been developed in line with the IFC Performance Standards. 372 planning, throughout the operations and NGO meetings conducted to site closure and beyond. Community consultation management We have a structured, two-tier approach We have a comprehensive approach to to community engagement: consultation managing our interactions with local and community investment programmes. communities and ensure that this is done in a culturally appropriate and sensitive manner. All of our businesses have implemented To deliver this, we have dedicated personnel – local community engagement and impact largely drawn from the local area – who manage assessment programmes. Through effective community relationships and act as our key consultation we engage in dialogue with the conduit between the business and community. communities surrounding our mines, facilities and proposed projects in order to ensure Our New Projects, Planning and Site Closure that they are effectively informed. We also standard stipulates that all companies within the work closely in collaboration to optimise Group will have in place effective consultation our community investment programmes programmes to obtain broad community to ensure that these respond to the needs support in relation to any new project. All our of the community and are an integral part operations are required to ensure stakeholders of the broader engagement we undertake understand the risks, impacts and opportunities at the local level. associated with proposed new projects so that they fully understand and appreciate our To provide a structured, consistent approach business intentions. across all our subsidiaries, we have a suite of technical standards. These include land In the reporting period, in support of these and resettlement management, grievance aims, we undertook around 3,200 village and mechanisms and stakeholder engagement community meetings and around 220 panchayat Our consultation approach: building community understanding Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Outcomes Development of community need and Preliminary Wider consultation Entry point activity development plan ensuring basic amenities dialogue with with the Project and livelihood opportunities are as per the the community Affected Families consultation process. Implementation of community Approaching Baseline study Public hearing development plan as per the local needs of the community & need assessment the area resulting in improved quality of life. Continuous feedback and feed forward Isolating issues Feedback system through community grievance redressal mechanism. Consensus If fractured consensus Addressing building 2nd public hearing different views 64 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 meetings (village self-governments) across our operations. The main agenda items for these meetings were: infrastructure/community We recognise that community asset creation, community development and the development of employment consultation is not just about opportunities. No significant disputes relating to land use, or customary rights of local engagement at the beginning communities and indigenous peoples were brought to our notice. or end of a project, but must Operating and ongoing projects be an ongoing, structured We recognise that community consultation relationship throughout the is not just about engagement at the beginning or end of a project, but must be an ongoing, life of the operation structured relationship throughout the life of the operation. Therefore, as both an active member of local communities and the deliverer of various community programmes, our community engagement is ongoing and interactive up to and beyond site closure. We continue to build and nurture meaningful relationships with communities near our operations. Importantly, we ensure that consultation occurs in a culturally-sensitive manner, in local languages when necessary and in a collaborative and open forum. To enable understanding, all community incidents and grievances are recorded and categorised as negligible (category 1), minor (2), moderate (3), serious (4) and disastrous (5) and captured on a monthly basis. None was recorded as lasting more than a week. A consultation session was undertaken at HZL to provide awareness in the local community and addressing their concerns How we resolve issues Issues identified Minutes of Issue Village meeting and discussed the meeting Internal review within the company Action plan Consensus building implemented and issue Selection of measure with the community resolved on the solution vedantaresources.com 65 Building Strong Relationships: Community consultation and resettlement continued Resettlement Resettlement gain the consent of local communities and The nature of our operations means that then focus on providing displaced people resettlement may have to occur in order for with the means to improve and enhance their resources to be accessed in a responsible former living standards and earning capacity and safe way. We make every effort to avoid through various sustainability interventions. the resettlement of community members As a Group, we aim to provide long-term where possible and, where it is unavoidable, rehabilitation assistance and support to help to minimise and mitigate the impacts. restore and build livelihoods. In the reporting period, no resettlements took With any of our resettlement programmes, place at or adjacent to any of our project sites we are committed to ensuring that housing and no cases of artisanal mining in or adjacent and access to infrastructure and amenities to our mine area were recorded. will be of an improved standard than before. Equally, these should be culturally appropriate Our Group technical standard on land and in suitable locations. resettlement management provides our businesses with the tools to manage resettlement programmes in a structured and appropriate way. All Vedanta operations are required to manage land purchase through negotiated settlement and land expropriation through government agencies is not considered acceptable. We have a set standard for implementing grievance The nature of our operations mechanisms to ensure that if they occur, complaints and grievances are heard, means that resettlement may have investigated and resolved in a timely manner. to occur in order for resources As resettlement can be a time of uncertainty for communities, we use an extensive programme to be accessed in a responsible of engagement with both individuals and and safe way community members. Through the community consultation process, we make every effort to If resettlement is necessary, we build communities that aim to provide better infrastructure than was available previously 66 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Our whole resettlement process aims to be conducted in an atmosphere of mutual Case Study: Sesa Goa Grievance Process consent. Resettlement Action Plans are used to ensure the disturbance to local people is minimal and that we make every effort to have in place the best package of valuation and compensation for land and other assets affected by the project. Grievance mechanisms We recognise that we have a duty to provide community members with the opportunity not only to voice their opinions, but also to have the appropriate channels to raise concerns and grievances. We have therefore developed a Group technical standard on grievance mechanisms. This was developed because as a Group we are aware that it is important to have robust and credible local mechanisms to systematically handle and resolve any complaints so they do not escalate and present a risk to our operations. In addition, an effective grievance Open forum for discussion of grievances at our Sonshi mine, Sesa Goa mechanism fosters a positive relationship and increased trust with local communities, The situation which is critical to the long-term success At Sesa Goa’s Sonshi Mine, the Honda Village required of our operations. The grievance redress cell resettlement and land due to operational requirements at the site. constituted at each location will resolve the This has necessitated a careful understanding of the community’s possible public grievances as per the process needs and concerns in order to maintain effective relationships and procedure laid down under the Vedanta with local people. “Public Grievance Redress” technical standard. The external grievances regarding Vedanta The solution and its subsidiaries can also be logged at As part of the grievance standard a grievance office was created sustainability@vedanta.co.in. In the reporting and operated to engage the local community, resolve issues and period, no grievances related to human grievances and to understand local challenges and needs. This rights were recorded whereas all other helped the business arrange resettlement effectively and with the grievances appropriately closed. consent and input of the project-affected people. All Group companies are implementing The office was open on weekdays and staffed by the Sesa Goa the grievance technical standard with all resettlement and rehabilitation project officer and his team and subsidiaries required to have the grievance provided a valuable central point for any person having an issue mechanism in place by 2014. or a grievance to come and register it. The grievance was assessed for appropriate action by management to create an amicable resolution. For transparency and to enable the most effective engagement, the process was conducted in the local Konkani language. The outcome The grievance office was helpful in establishing better and deeper connections with the community through effectively listening to their needs, issues or grievances while also providing a platform for resolution. A total of 59 grievances were lodged, with the majority focused on land compensation issues. All grievances were resolved to the satisfaction of both parties. vedantaresources.com 67 Adding and Sharing Value adding value to our stakeholders Our employees working to develop aluminium, a resource used widely in everyday products 68 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 What does Adding and Sharing Value mean to us? By engaging with our stakeholders and identifying their most material issues, we’re able to more strategically assess the value that we provide across society. This is represented not only through the commodities that we produce, but through the economic and social contributions we make across our global operations. Our global reach provides many opportunities to add value, particularly in helping the developing world on its journey of economic development. To see more GRI reports go to: www. sustainability.vedantaresources. com/our_performance/gri_docs_ archive In this section Adding value to our stakeholders 70 Our employees 73 Our communities 80 Our industry 86 Our host Governments 89 Civil society 91 Our shareholders and lenders 94 vedantaresources.com 69 Adding and Sharing Value: Adding value to our stakeholders working in partnerships with our sTAKEholders As a global company we have a broader role The commodities that we produce and the energy that we generate constitute the building blocks of the modern world. However, the value we create is not limited to these outputs but extends across society in a meaningful and effective manner. We understand that as a global company we have a broader role in society than merely bringing resources to market. This is particularly true when considered in the context of operating in the developing world: with operations predominantly in India and Africa, we believe that our Group can and should add and share value in order to facilitate the development of the economies and communities where we operate. Our stakeholders provide insights and make Ways in which Vedanta adds and shares value significant direct and indirect contributions Economic value generated and distributed to strengthen our business. For example, Our financial contributions have positive our communities and host Governments allow implications for all key stakeholder groups: us to access finite resources whereas our significant contributions are made directly employees help us in managing the resources in the form of taxes and community investment in a sustainable way. programmes. We also have a particularly positive economic impact through the As part of the dynamic and evolving role wages we pay to our 90,000 employees and of the resource sector and the developing contractors around the world. Over the past expectations of stakeholders, adding and sharing year we paid US$725.6 million in employee value is an important pillar of our Sustainability wages and benefits. In addition, since listing Framework. Accordingly, our framework in 2004 we have returned US$1.3 billion is providing the processes and standards in dividends to our shareholders and have to deepen our understanding of their needs. invested billions more in the development As we create financial and non-financial value of our businesses. within and beyond our business, ensuring our stakeholders understand and access this value is important to us as a Group. Economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) Unit FY 2010-11 FY 2011-12 FY 2012-13 Economic value generated US$ million 11,427 14,005 14,990 a) Revenues US$ million 11,427 14,005 14,990 Economic value distributed US$ million 9,523 12,921 13,478 b) Operating costs US$ million 8,388 10,983 11,599 c) Employee wages and benefits US$ million 505 543 726 d) Payments to providers of capital US$ million -19 879 960 – Net Finance Cost (including other gain/loss) US$ million -149 735 806 – Dividend paid US$ million 130 144 154 e) Payments to government – income tax US$ million 650 517 40 f) Community investments (including Donation) – already included in operating cost US$ million 40 38 42 Economic value retained (calculated as Economic value generated less economic value distributed) US$ million 1,904 1,085 1,512 70 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Through our partnering approach with local authorities, NGOs and government and digging over 60 wells and some 80km of drainage network across our areas of 89% agencies we have been successful in creating operation. In 2012/13, around US$3 million Youths linked with jobs several community welfare assets which was spent on infrastructure and development include building close to 100km of roads, 30 community centres and 45 classrooms, projects across the world. US$ 47 million Total community spend Case Study: Cairn India: Enterprise Centre The need Cairn India is committed to encouraging the economic growth and development of the communities in which it operates. This commitment is grounded in the knowledge that the business has a responsibility to ensure the sustainability of communities post-closure of a site, while also recognising that there may be a dependency on the business which can adversely affect the communities where it operates and therefore the business has a pragmatic approach to trying to manage and mitigate this. Our Rajasthan oil block (RJ-ON-90/1) is situated in the arid region of the Thar Desert. It predominantly lies in the Barmer district. Due to the remoteness of the region and the prevailing desert conditions, the region has seen very limited development and has very limited economic opportunities for the local community. Training session at Cairn Enterprise Centre The solution In 2007, Cairn India partnered with the International is placed on empowering women through these Finance Corporation (IFC) with support from the initiatives. The Enterprise Centre has been extensively Government of Rajasthan to develop the Enterprise used as a means to train more than 15,000 local and Centre near Barmer. The Enterprise Centre aims to other unskilled workers in construction safety skills. increase and improve the employability of local people through skills development and training – both through The outcome employment and local contracts related to Cairn India As a result of the work of the Enterprise Centre, many activities, and in the development of local businesses local young people have gained key vocational and and employment outside the influence of the company. business skills, facilitating better future earnings and livelihoods. More than 8,000 young people have been The Enterprise Centre’s objectives include developing trained in various skills including basic computing, trade skill exposure and enhanced employability spoken English, electrical repairing, home appliance for communities in the Barmer Development Area. repairing, welding, masonry, mobile phone repair, This is designed to encourage the development carpentry, and jewellery making. of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), to facilitate access to finance for MSMEs and micro Approximately 60% of the trainees have been linked entrepreneurs, to establish and expand businesses to livelihood options. In addition, the Enterprise Centre and to disseminate information on employment has played a role in developing small enterprises, opportunities, enterprise development, government including flour mills, carpentry workshops, mobile schemes and upcoming contracts and tenders. phone repair stores and grocery shops, which all Various vocational skills are also taught at the contribute to the socio-economic development Enterprise Centre and special emphasis of local areas and their economies. vedantaresources.com 71 Adding and Sharing Value: Adding value to our stakeholders continued Non-financial value generation At Vedanta, our focus is on creating financial All of our community activities stem from our Chairman’s passionate commitment to the 2.53 million value coupled with social benefits. We are also betterment of the communities where we training man hours fortunate to employ thousands of talented operate and our broader stakeholder base – for employees individuals across our business and we are our goal is to be a true partner by creating Developing local markets committed to using this expertise to facilitate positive value. In the context of our extensive value-creation for all our stakeholder groups. presence in India and Africa, skill development Robust financial result We do this in a variety of ways, including and the up-scaling of the employability of Structure community partnering with government-run programmes local people are of significant importance initiative programmes and community development in the areas to the socio-economic development of the in which we operate. Also, through our areas in which we work. By virtue of our membership of key international organisations, partnered initiatives, we play a significant role we strengthen our understanding of how in this area. business can contribute to society. CSR expenses (livelihood, infrastructure, Indirect economic value creation 2012-13 community, development, etc) 10,163 9,021 India US$15,016,881 Africa US$7,586,745 8,141 Rest of the World US$404,866 880 Youths Youths Youths engaged Total no. Spent on Company-run school provided with linked to job after under micro enterprise of youths including vocational training development for linked to training self-employment the job India US$2,508,790 Africa US$2,956,264 Spent on Company-run hospital India US$973,630 Africa US$12,677,092 Our Self Help Groups (SHG) programmes aim to achieve an increase in socio economic empowerment of women 72 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Adding and Sharing Value: Our employees building a business for the future Employees are our key asset Our employees are our key asset and our growth and success are attributable to them. Our people strategy is founded on this belief and is designed to recruit, develop and retain the talented workforce that run our businesses. We are committed to providing our employees with a safe and healthy work environment. Through a high degree of engagement and empowerment we enable them to realise their full potential, creating a high performance work culture. Human Resources – strategy, approach ``Engaging with employees to encourage and management feedback and address concerns; Our Human Resources function provides ``Continuously upgrading our IT a governance framework and promotes framework; and synergies across the Group through collaboration and the sharing of best practices. ``Generating local employment and Our Group Human Resource philosophy providing support and resources for encompasses an inclusive approach that long-term skill building. guides us in achieving our aim to be an industry-leading employer. The following are To take forward our philosophy, the table below summarises the key our guiding people philosophies, which apply priorities of the Group: across all of our Group companies: ``Ensuring a philosophy of meritocracy; Key priorities Action initiatives ``Commitment to ensuring that all our work Organisational – Ensuring right person in right place. places are free from all forms of discrimination Growth – both – Succession planning with a focus on critical positions. or any kind of harassment on the basis of age, people-related gender, caste or religion; and for economic ``Commitment to comply with all applicable performance laws of the land where our operations exist; Performance – Alignment of individual KRAs with business targets. ``Meeting all our responsibilities and HR Culture – Rewarding high performance. obligations as direct and indirect employer – Focus on Business Plan achievement, SHE performance and ensuring that there is no violation of and Assets Optimisation. human rights; – Improving workplace safety. ``Effective internal systems and processes Talent – Fostering excellence by building skills and capabilities. in place for talent management Management & – Identifying and developing leaders – making and engagement; Development future-ready organisation. ``Creating a high performance culture – – Encourage job rotation opportunities for talent. recognising and rewarding in a fair and equitable manner; HR Process and – Measurement and improvement – ‘HR Scorecard‘ Systems to drive process development. ``Striving to drive and achieve industry best Improvement practices in our social stewardship; Employee – Continuous improvement initiative through: TQM, TPM, ``Ensuring smooth integration in terms of Engagement and Six Sigma etc. mergers and acquisitions, upholding and – Providing accelerated opportunities for high potential honouring all ongoing commitments and employees. sharing the best practices – with an aim – Maintaining diversity and equal opportunity commitment. of achieving internal alignment of processes and systems; vedantaresources.com 73 Adding and Sharing Value: Our employees continued The ExCo Sub-Committee on Human Attracting talent Resource, comprised of CEOs and Business HR Our recruitment philosophy focuses on Heads, sets the strategic direction with a focus inducting the right person for the right job, on continuous improvement in managing our which has helped us to recruit the best people Group talent. regardless of gender, age, caste or religious beliefs. In our industry, securing this talent To promote consistency in our approach is a challenge because of high growth and and drive continuous improvements, competition for skilled personnel across the we have appropriate metrics and a Scorecard industry. It has also been a challenge to help in place which enable us to gain insights change the culture of thinking of mining and oil into key development areas as well as and gas industries as inherently male-dominated. measuring functional objectives against Our workforce comprised 11.5% female the business’ goals and objectives. These professionals in management grades in 2012 metrics are audited and reported through and we aim to increase this number by the Management Assurance process. providing equal opportunities for women, whilst always prioritising merit. Costs incurred during the year in respect of employees and Executive Directors We provide an array of benefits to our full-time (US$ million) employees which includes coverage under a stock options scheme for management grades, Defined contribution pension 26.2 insurance coverage and retirement benefits. scheme costs A high proportion of our workforce joins us Defined benefit pension 23.2 immediately after completing their education, scheme costs making us their first employer. Our Chairman Share-based payments charge 25.5 actively engages with the student community to inspire and instil entrepreneurial spirit amongst aspiring future business leaders. Employees across the Group He spends quality time with the students of reputed business schools and engineering colleges, enabling the students to experience Employees 29,559 the DNA of Vedanta – more specifically the Contract employees 58,100 ‘humility’ and ‘head on shoulders, feet on ground’ approach. To date, close to 5,000 students have been engaged. We also focus recruiting from the communities that surround our operations to encourage local employment generation. Over the reporting period, across our business, the total percentage of senior management who are locally hired is: India (96%), Australia (87%), Zambia (53%), Namibia (67%), Ireland (86%) and South Africa (86%). We continue to encourage local hires at a leadership level as these hires are well versed in the challenges and opportunities of working in the local context. 74 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Talent management – learning As a high proportion of our workforce join as opportunities, managing career aspirations new graduates, managing career progression Our Group recognises that in order to ensure and development is very important to the that the business is fit both to serve the markets business, particularly to ensure talent retention. in which we operate and to meet our growth To manage a new recruit’s transition from strategy, we must invest in the development “Campus to Corporate”, we have a structured and retention of our people to drive innovation orientation programme that includes: making and efficiencies within the business. In this new employees conversant with the Company regard, our attrition rate has remained stable values, business principles and Code of and this year was reported at less than 5%. Conduct; familiarisation with business scenarios and with Group policies, benefits Training and development remains a constant and systems. Support is also given through element of Vedanta’s commitment to its a mentoring programme initiative. employees and an annual training calendar of events and opportunities is developed across To inspire our employees, we conduct our businesses. Over the last year we have Chairman’s workshops, where talented delivered 2.53 million training hours for all employees attend round table discussions staff, averaging 35.3 man hours per employee. with our Chairman. These workshops aim to Training is carried out on-site by both internal inspire and energise colleagues to achieve the and external experts. Themes covered include business’ strategic aims and encourage them health and safety, behavioural training and to seek continuous development within the technical skills training. Group. The exposure to senior management and the Chairman also provides employees Training opportunities are not restricted to with the opportunity to ask questions and core roles – we provide a number of training engage with the leaders of the business, an programmes in areas beyond the remit of opportunity that may not normally be available, an individual’s role, to facilitate personal and particularly for junior colleagues. To date professional growth. To ensure a consistent 2,500 employees have attended the workshops. approach across the business, employees are also trained in Vedanta’s Code of Conduct, Our Group-led “Star of Business – Accelerated as we have discussed in the Responsible Competency Tracking and Up-Graduation Stewardship section of this report, and this (ACT-UP)” programme systematically identifies year we provided 36,636 hours of training. high potential talent at an early stage in It has been our endeavour to ensure career order to provide a fast growth track through advances for female employees across the business. To qualify for the programme, our corporate functions; for instance, individuals are assessed against Vedanta’s we incorporated planned rotations across competency model, which includes core corporate functions. attributes, behaviours and leadership style. Over the past year, the programme has been There are also structured programmes expanded to incorporate the development of conducted to assist employees in a smooth more employees in general management and transition from work to retirement. These technical sections of the business, and currently programmes include computer literacy, wealth we have 850 ‘stars of business’ – a potential management, tradesman skill building, certificates pool of future leaders for the Group. and diploma courses, retirement workshops and employee assistance programmes. Performance management Average hours of training All our employees participate in a reward-linked annual appraisal and review programme where performance is measured against a Full-time 44.3 employees predetermined five-point scale. Feedback and – male the identification of areas of improvement for further development are an integral part of the performance appraisal process. Full-time 26.4 employees To ensure that all employees are aligned to the – female overall business sustainability objectives, health vedantaresources.com 75 Adding and Sharing Value: Our employees continued Swift career development – Mr Murali Krishnan Mr Murali Krishnan, AGMHSE, has been with Sterlite for 12 years. He joined the business as a Chemical Engineer from Coimbatore Institute of Technology and progressed rapidly through a number of roles, including Scrubber In-charge in the Secondary Smelter department and then on to Head SAP in 2009. Improving his cross-functional knowledge and people handling skills, he was then made Associate General Manager of the Health, Safety and Environment Department, the position he holds today. Mr Murali was identified as a Star of Business and As per Mr Murali, “Along with additional responsibilities was picked as a High Potential Star. He has also at every step of the way, the organisation also provides been a recipient of several letters of appreciation appropriate developmental opportunities. I have attended for his contributions and innovative projects that numerous conferences and training programmes with have been instrumental in improving the efficiency renowned institutes not just in India but also around the of processes. world including Germany, USA and Australia.” and safety, environmental management and Workforce and diversity community investment indicators all feature as We aim to be an industry-leading employer vital components in the annual appraisal process with an inclusive approach that is designed to and are considered elements of the Key Results ensure a rich diversity in the employee base. Areas (KRA) that individuals are assessed against. Our recruitment, remuneration and promotion policies and standards are designed to avoid New graduate recruits undergo training, all forms of discrimination and ensure equal and probationary periods are upheld prior opportunity, regardless of race, nationality, to full employment contracts. Performance religion, gender, age, sexual orientation, is reviewed and feedback provided by line disability, political opinion, or any other managers throughout this period. They are also basis. In addition, we are fully compliant with encouraged to undertake special projects to regulatory requirements in the countries bring in fresh perspectives and to enhance their we work within to meet their diversity aims. learning during this time. Challenges to our diversity aims do remain, All non-supervisory staff are governed by particularly around the perception of many long-term agreements that require conducting that the sector is male-dominated, especially performance reviews. at site management level. In addition, we are conscious of the need for flexible working Coverage of defined benefit plan hours and shift work to cater for childcare. obligations (US$ million) We ensure that the ratio of entry level wages 2011-12 2012-13 meets or exceeds the legal requirements 542.7 725.6 and complies with all applicable laws. The ratio Includes salary and wages, defined contribution and with regards to gender is 1:1 and we don’t payment to pension scheme costs and share-based discriminate in any way in terms of standard payment changes. entry level wages. Women are also encouraged through our development programmes and supportive working practices and policies. In support of our approach to diversity and gender equality, we aim to have adequate representation to improve diversity in Board composition including representation of women professionals. 76 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Working environment Percentage of employees covered We aim to have constructive relations with by collective bargaining agreements (%) all employees and labour unions in the locations where we operate and ensure 57.7% that compensation for workers meets or exceeds the legal requirements. HZL 55.5% We do not believe that any country where we have operations represents a risk to 51.0% freedom of association and collective bargaining, and we uphold this right at all the SG 68.8% operations we manage. We understand that collective bargaining offers the opportunity to build a constructive relationship with unions 66.5% – management and union representatives BALCO negotiate agreements which include clauses 65.9% on productivity, health and safety, working conditions, remuneration, allowances, 87.4% incentives and bonuses. In addition, unions play KCM an active role in safety committees at many 89.1% sites and union representatives participate in various steering committees. 68.4% We have collective bargaining agreements VZI with our non-supervisory staff at the 66.8% following entities (see chart right): Employees covered under collective bargain 2012-13 Employees covered under collective bargain 2011-12 Case Study: BALCO Junior Executive Trainee (JET) Programme The situation With a plan to almost double its production capacity, BALCO identified the need for a restructuring programme that included the up-skilling of its existing workforce. The solution In the context of expanding production capacity and meeting the skills needs of the workforce, various workshops were conducted across all employee levels to understand the critical gaps and developmental needs. As a result of these workshops, BALCO developed the Junior Executive Trainee (JET) programme which was designed to enhance JET Programme in action at our BALCO unit employee skills and give them the opportunity for greater responsibility. The programme covered Outcomes 235 employees. The participants were supported Successful JET participants have received diplomas through targeted skill development programmes led and degrees and also addressed the need for a skilled by leading educational institutes including BITs Pilani, workforce. The success of the JET programme has PES Global , NPTI, Durgapur and coached by ‘Internal led to the development of additional training and Training Champions’. development initiatives across the business. vedantaresources.com 77 Adding and Sharing Value: Our employees continued We have a number of mechanisms in place Welfare to inform employees of any significant We take our obligations to the welfare operational change including restructuring, of our employees and contractors extremely mergers, acquisitions and expansions. Notice seriously. We have a comprehensive benefits periods regarding significant operational package for employees that is tailored by changes are also indicated in the collective our subsidiaries in order to be appropriate to bargaining agreements and certified standing their locations. The benefits package includes: orders at our respective businesses as performance-related compensation; maternity per regional notice period requirements. leave; medical insurance covering family and These vary from region to region as per dependents; transport facilities; subsidised local regulations. canteen facilities; and a share options programme for executive level employees. Employees are also encouraged to convey their views and opinions. For example, we As our operations tend to be located in remote have suggestion boxes and an “open-door” regions, access to health facilities is often policy at the senior management level. limited. In order to ensure that employees Committees are also in place to oversee and contractors are able to receive such issues including sexual harassment and services, we have on-site medical facilities, welfare as well as conducting ‘Employee local hospitals and supporting medical staff Speak’ Forums. Formal employee grievance available to our employees, contractors and mechanisms also exist to deal with local community members. In addition, and specific concerns. in order to encourage a healthy work-life balance around our sites, Vedanta businesses promote social gatherings organised by Case Study: Effective employee engagement through the “Zero Abnormality Movement Drive” at VAL-Lanjigarh The Zero Abnormality Movement (ZAM) is an initiative for creating a culture of zero defects, zero breakdowns, zero pollution, zero customer complaints and zero losses at VAL-Lanjigarh. ZAM’s objectives include the identification and rectification of abnormalities; the maintenance of a neat, clean and hazard-free work place; and the motivation of employees to assume ownership of their machines/workplace. ZAM commenced in December 2012 with VAL employees and associate partners forming 17 crossfunctional teams, each of which is responsible for the identification and rectification of abnormalities in an allocated section of the plant. The plant’s ZAM Employee working to eliminate abnormality at VAL-Lanjigarh status is reviewed every 10 days by the ZAM core committee. Shop floor audits by senior management, ZAM is a highly effective tool for employee including the COO, are also carried out at the engagement, empowering employees to take completion of various steps of its implementation. ownership of their working environment. Through Nearly 12,500 abnormalities have been identified by developing values, beliefs and attitudes which reject the cross-functional teams and approximately 90% abnormalities/deviations from world class standards, of the abnormalities have been eliminated, with the ZAM is building a culture of prevention which is remainder on track to be completed. self-driven by the individuals on the shop floor. 78 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 events committees. Employees are actively In addition to medical and recreational facilities, encouraged to include their families in these we provide fully furnished accommodation for events and also in the use of our provided employees at most locations and fully equipped recreational facilities. Further information on townships. This is an essential aspect of our our wellness programme is available in the people strategy, ensuring that our employees Health & Safety section of this report. are safe, healthy and comfortable. Total manpower (as on 31 March 2013) South Employment category Gender Australia Zambia Namibia Ireland Africa India Liberia Total Full-time employees Male 105 7,545 641 340 619 17,793 25 27,068 Female 10 748 113 42 92 1,485 1 2,491 Contract employees Male + Female 235 11,521 601 25 681 45,037 0 58,100 Total 350 19,814 1,355 407 1,392 64,315 26 87,659 Employee attrition % of Total full-time employees 2012-13 2011-12 2010-11 Employee turnover including retirements but excluding VRS 11.43% 10.70% 10.60% Total attrition 4.74% 5.50% 5.40% Note – employee-initiated separation is considered as attrition Region-wise breakdown (attrition) % of Total full-time employees Full-time employees (FY 12-13) Australia Zambia Namibia Ireland South Africa India Liberia Employee turnover including retirements but excluding VRS 0.01% 2.00% 0.20% 0.04% 0.27% 8.92% 0% Attrition 0.01% 0.31% 0.11% 0.01% 0.11% 4.19% 0% New hires joined and left in FY 2012-13 Gender-wise breakdown FY 12-13 Male Female Full-time employees 3.62% 1.01% New hires Full-time employees (FY 12-13) Australia Zambia Namibia Ireland South Africa India Liberia Total New hires joined 18 260 70 11 70 1149 7 1585 New hires left 0 88 1 2 2 104 0 197 Return to work and retention rate after parental leave Male Female No of employees who have taken parental leave FY 2012-13 132 72 No of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended and were still employed 12 months after their return to work 126 60 Retention % 95% 83% vedantaresources.com 79 Adding and Sharing Value: Our communities A need based approach to development 3.7 million We operate in countries that are developing and have unique people** benefited across requirements for community support. 2,240 villages Our approach to community development is holistic, long-term, integrated and sustainable. Our community reach is significant and extends to all our operations 8 around the world. centralised midday meal kitchens Significant global reach to communities The programmes we create and assist in 250,000 Running an effective community investment providing play an important role in increasing students benefited at programme is core to our business. We do this the empowerment of individuals and around 2,700 schools by helping communities identify their priorities communities and are specifically tailored, through participatory needs assessment taking into account cultural background and programmes and then work closely with them levels of need in the local areas. One of the key to design programmes that seek to make features of any project is that it can be handed progress towards an overall improvement over to the community; accordingly, projects in the quality of life of the local communities. are designed on a sustainable basis, informed This includes through enhanced incomes, by the principles of our sustainability strategy. better health and education facilities and better utilisation of available resources. During Our approach reporting period our businesses have invested Vedanta’s approach to community around US$42 million in community programmes is governed by two key programmes around the world, benefitting considerations: the needs of the local people 3.7 million people across 2,240 villages. and the development plan in line with the UN Millennium Development Goals (UNMDG). Our community activity is delivered at a local, regional and national level to ensure that In order to manage both our community businesses are able to effectively maximise relationships and community investment their impact in facilitating socio-economic programmes, Vedanta has a dedicated team development. Our collaborations and support of over 180 corporate social responsibility vary from work with international organisations personnel. These individuals are crucial to national and local institutions, including to driving and managing local engagement universities, local schools and hospitals. and act as a point of contact for community members. In order to maximise the outcomes and impacts that the business can have, we focus Our community engagement process, on seven key areas through our community together with baseline studies and needs investment activities. These have been chosen assessments, helps to develop 3-5 year initiative as a response to both local need and direction plan for local communities. In order to assess from international development frameworks their effectiveness, we use monitoring and such as the UN Millennium Development evaluation tools, with results reviewed at both Goals. Vedanta’s direct and indirect impacts the business unit and Group level. These results from our community activities include child in turn inform our approach in the future. care programmes and augmenting the skill The majority of our initiatives are carried capacity of local people by running various out in collaboration with community certified vocational training programmes for organisations and are developed in partnership youth and women. Our livelihood projects utilising a needs-based approach to community in the farm and non-farm sectors also provide investment, underpinned by the use of the sustainable livelihood opportunities. These ‘Public-Private-People-Partnership’ (4P’s) model. programmes are underpinned by the provision The level of our community engagement of health infrastructure and services, which is customised according to the business work to improve outcomes for all community ** Some of the cycle – commencing with the project and members. In addition, we work to create beneficiaries could progressing through the operation to a better environment through our be involved in more eventual closure. bio-investment initiatives. than one project 80 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Key focus areas in India has established rural health clinics Health, nutrition and sanitation to address general health problems in The context adjoining communities. Vedanta’s operations tend to be located Our health education programmes focus on in rural areas, where access to health, nutrition prevention and also form an important aspect and sanitation facilities is scarce and local of the services we offer. This includes running infrastructure and facilities are poor or nona variety of medical-issue-focused health existent. Local communities therefore frequently camps. Medical staff at Sesa Goa identified suffer from conditions such as malnutrition and anaemia as a potential problem for women preventable diseases such as malaria. around its location and, as a result, anaemia Activities detection camps were organised and Our activities include the delivery of medical diagnosed women were suitably treated. infrastructure such as the 36 hospitals we run In Zambia, we play a significant educative across the Group. role in HIV/AIDS prevention, particularly Our hospitals are supported by medical in our engagement with pregnant women outreach services, which include mobile in the community which surrounds our KCM health vans and medical outposts to enable operations. At a broader level, we provide isolated rural communities’ access to location-specific disease counselling across medical services. Our Sterlite Copper business all our operations, which covers issues of both prevention and treatment. Case Study: Cataract Surgery Project at Black Mountain Mine – South Africa The solution BMM’s engagement with the Northern Cape Department of Health considered various methodologies, including the possibility of utilising Indian ophthalmic surgeons who are experienced in conducting high-volume, high-quality cataract surgery. The suitability of State facilities in the Namakwa and Siyanda districts was assessed and formal proposals submitted to meet the objectives. In consultation with the Department of Health it was agreed to run a first phase intervention as a pilot project and to host this at BMM’s Aggeneys Health Centre. Screening took place first at local clinics and then by the Bureau of the Prevention of Blindness Team in Nababeep after which patients were referred for assessment in Aggeneys, prior to surgery. The outcome Fifty-eight patients were assessed by the ophthalmologist Pilot programme participant undergoing assessment at BMM and 47 underwent cataract surgery in Aggeneys in December 2012. The need Resource constraints in the Northern Cape have Following the success of the pilot programme, plans resulted in the provincial Department of Health are underway to grow the programme in collaboration reporting a significant backlog in cataract surgery. Black with strategic partners so that the objective of zero Mountain Mining (BMM) set out to support the Northern cataract blindness in the Northern Cape can be Cape Department of Health in addressing this backlog. achieved in a reasonable timeframe. vedantaresources.com 81 Adding and Sharing Value: Our communities continued Our businesses also promote broader As well as supporting health and education, health issues such as sanitation through we understand the importance of enabling the construction of household toilets and skills development, particularly in rural and improved nutrition through programmes with isolated communities. This year, the total preschools. In order to provide basic sanitation training hours we generated for rural youth facilities, MOUs have been signed with district and women members exceeded 2.9 million. administrations for the construction of more At Hindustan Zinc limited, we have sponsored than 20,000 household toilets in the coming talented girls from surrounding villages with two years. limited financial means to enable them to attend the Vedanta PG Girls College, Ringus. Education The context Education is indispensable for the development and sustainability of a society. Vedanta’s operations exist in rural poor locations where KCM – Child Aid and Village access to education is limited. Uplift Programme We work to enhance the quality of education received by pre-school children through our Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi (VBCA) – Integrated Child Development Scheme, our mid-day meal programme and targeted youth and women skills development. Activities Our work with children’s education is targeted at the pre-school level, particularly through our VBCA Project – Integrated Child Development Scheme (ICDS). ICDS is a centrally sponsored scheme of the Government of India aimed at providing services to pre-school children in rural, tribal and slum areas in an integrated manner so as to ensure their proper growth and development. Currently being implemented by BALCO, HZL and VALChild benefitting from a KCM education programme Lanjigarh, VBCA collectively reaches out to more than 125,000 children across over In 2009, KCM collaborated with the NGO, Development Aid for 4,600 centres. People to People (DAPP), implement child education and development and village uplift projects in the Chingola and In addition to pre-school support, we also Nampundwe districts. The project targeted 10,000 households support a mid-day meal programme through over four years. eight centralised kitchens, aimed at improving the health status of children from Class I to VIII To date 6,000 households have been supported through a range in Government-aided schools as well as of initiatives including improved health through good hygiene encouraging regular attendance at school. It is practices and access to water and sanitation facilities, improved run in partnership with the state Government food security and income generation and contribution to and reaches out to more than 250,000 students community development including education programmes. at 2,710 schools on a daily basis. Benefits have included lower incidences of water-borne diseases due to increased access to safe sanitation and water facilities. The projects’ key focuses are the retention of More families have been able to meet their basic needs through children at pre-school, improvement in health the various entrepreneurship activities that have been supported outcomes and cognitive development. The by a micro-credit loan facility. Farmers have also been provided projects are managed by a project head with with seed loans for legumes and vegetables. Initiatives have a team of chief co-ordinators who are improved the welfare of the families and created alternative responsible for each district. Dedicated project sustainable sources of income away from mining. staff workers, helpers and ancillary health workers have been trained. 82 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Sustainable livelihoods livelihood initiatives. In addition, we assisted The context over 1,300 families through animal husbandry Opportunities for developing a sustainable projects including mini-dairy and poultry. livelihood (where an individual or community is able, through their own resources and skill, Women’s empowerment to earn a living and provide for themselves The context for the long term) are often non-existent in Rural women play a key role in supporting their rural developing communities, restricting households, in achieving food and nutrition self-dependency and sufficiency. security, generating incomes and improving livelihoods and overall well-being of the Activities communities they live in. Having operations in Given our locations, we have a particular focus under-developed economies and communities, on assisting our surrounding communities in we are able to assist in creating sustainable developing sustainable livelihoods based on development through supporting initiatives that agricultural commodities and livestock. These have women’s empowerment at their heart. are traditional resources and, accordingly, local people are capable of maintaining livelihoods Activities beyond the presence of our own operations. Our key activity in working to empower women is through our work with over Education about yield improvements and 1,100 women’s Self Help Groups (SHG) moving production into cash crops has comprising over 14,800 members. been a particular focus to assist farmers in maximising their returns. For example, we have The Vedanta Integrated Jan Jivika Yojana assisted farmers in gaining access to high-yield (VIJJY) plan developed in partnership with the seeds and fertilisers, soil testing, watershed NGO ACCESS. VIJJY is focused on improving management and cultivation. In particular, income generating opportunities in nine we conducted a successful pilot project villages around our VAL-Jharsuguda plant of growing strawberries as a cash crop at and currently comprises 140 groups, over Lanjigarh and at Sesa Goa meaning we are 1,500 members in trades including leaf plate assisting surrounding farmers in obtaining making, poultry, floriculture, fishery and organic certification for their rice, which could mushroom cultivation. result in a tripling of its sales value. To increase their effectiveness, the SHGs As well as working with communities (in Jharsuguda) have federated into the to increase the financial value of their “Subhalaxmi Mahila Samabaya Ltd” co-operative. production, we have undertaken education The co-operative is the core body for loans programmes around innovative technology, and marketing the products of the SHGs and which offer multiple benefits. For example, SHG members receive financial help and at BALCO we have worked with cattle owners support as part of their membership. As an to establish bio-gas units. These units both example of a co-op supported project, produce clean gas for household use as well siali leaves – which are available in districts as reducing the need to fell trees for fuel. In surrounding Jharsuguda – are pressed into addition, through coupling the bio-gas slurry plates, which are in demand as they are hygienic with a vermi-composter, natural fertiliser can and environmentally friendly. A common space be efficiently produced. Through our on-the-ground community development teams, we have also assisted in income generation with animal husbandry, I always wanted to be an including goat rearing and chicken production, in the communities surrounding our KCM entrepreneur. Now I am the busiest operations in Zambia. woman in my village, running my In total, over 44,000 farmers are assisted by our Agriculture Initiatives, including watershed own poultry farm thanks to VIJJY management, wadi project horticulture, Sabita Mirig from Banjari Village vegetables and floriculture, while over 9,400 farmers benefited through other vedantaresources.com 83 Adding and Sharing Value: Our communities continued Women Self Help Group (SHG) membership No. of SHGs 1,184 Women members in SHGs 14,879 SHGs engaged in income-generation activities 295 Women members engaged in SHG income-generation activities 4,454 No. of women establishing microenterprises 1,194 has been identified by the Co-operative for Bio-investment production, storage and training. Individual The context families sew the plates in their homes and come Restoring and improving natural systems is key to the centre for pressing and packaging. As a to our bio-investment programme. They help result of the success of the project, and how not only to improve the biological balance well it has been received by its members, there of the locality but also to reduce rural poverty. are plans to expand the initiative further. Activities As part of our bio-investment initiatives, Community asset creation the following programmes are underway: The context Areas where we are located often lack basic ``Afforestation: to date, the Group has planted amenities and infrastructure. Our engagement in more than 18 million saplings. infrastructure development programmes helps ``Bio-waste management: organic waste in connecting people and enabling prosperity converter plant MDM kitchen: leftover food through access to markets and information. waste is being converted into organic manure. Activities Other initiatives that we have been involved Rural infrastructure is a key driver of our in include: watershed management, social community development programmes. forestry, cattle breed improvement and cash In India, we partner with the District Rural crop farming. Development Agency under various Government schemes. For example, in the Integrated village development Basantpada village in Odisha, Meena Ka Jhopra The context and Godwa villages in Rajasthan, we have Rural villages often lack basic amenities collaborated with government bodies for the including education, sanitation, healthcare electrification of the areas. Similar projects have and infrastructure facilities. been carried out across the Group creating Our objective is to facilitate the development several community welfare assets, which of long-term change that allows benefits to include building close to 100km of roads, local rural communities based on their needs 30 community centres, over 60 wells, and to develop Vedanta’s own relationship with 45 classrooms and some 80km of drainage the community through our Integrated Village network across the areas of operation. Development Programme (IVDP). This includes Tubombeshe Women’s Club of Shimulala Community, Chingola The Tubombeshe Women’s club is located in generate income and have since paid back the cash Shimulala farming block some 10km from the loans into the revolving loan fund. Through the funds Nchanga mine in Zambia. It was formed in 2010 by raised from the sale of vegetables from their group 20 women from various community action groups in garden, they have been able to sponsor two members the local farming block. The club equipped them with to undertake training in tailoring so that they can training in good hygiene practices, family planning, diversify their income-generating activities and procure entrepreneurship and loan management. The group farming implements. The group has also identified benefited from the vegetable and legume seed loans vulnerable children and the aged in the community which enabled the creation of a community garden. who they assist with food and toiletries. (Figures in Ten women also received cash loans, and five received the case studies have been provided by the Concern livestock loans. The members are able to regularly Group company). 84 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Case Study: Using Environment Friendly Solutions to Improve Livelihoods – Sesa Goa, Chitradurga, India The need Increasing the yield and therefore income for farmers is a means of developing livelihoods and the socio-economic progression of local communities. The solution It was believed that something could be done to transform the waste material farmers already collect (plant waste, such as branches, leaves and straw) into something productive. In order to find an appropriate solution, our Sesa Goa team partnered with the University of Agricultural Sciences (Dharwad) Local women managing worm composting pit near Sesa Goa to develop a way for the waste to be turned into a rich fertiliser for plants and crops. Training was then As these worms multiply rapidly, the programme provided by the University in order to ensure that was able to scale up the number of farmers engaged, farmers understood the process and how the fertiliser assuring the sustainability of the initiative. would be able to assist in improving their agricultural yields. The outcome A total of 85 composting units have been built in three Compost pits were provided by the company villages surrounding our Sesa Goa operations. These (approximately 2 feet high) and filled with mud and have been successful in generating rich fertiliser and the plant waste. Once the matter started to decompose, impact on yield and income generation has been felt by the University provided worms, who feast on the plant the farmers. matter, to assist the process. The worms’ faecal matter is rich in nutrients and is a very effective fertiliser for There is also scope for the farmers to sell any excess the crops. fertiliser, thereby providing a further source of revenue. pooling available government resources The plan usually results in the development of through various schemes in the project villages. infrastructure, including health and education support, together with environmental planning Activities and the implementation of sustainable The IVDP core objective is to enable the holistic development of villages surrounding livelihoods programmes. our operations. Under the IVDP, villages are From commencement of the IVDP to identified for assistance by a number of handover, the process takes between three indicators including limited infrastructure, low and five years. literacy rates, the level of government services available and the availability of healthcare and All activities are designed to enable eventual education services. When a village is identified, handover of the village as self-sustaining with we work with NGOs and government significant improvements in baseline livelihood authorities, in collaboration with the village, to indicators and infrastructure. For example, prepare an integrated development plan. This we worked in collaboration with the Mineral includes analysis, identification and prioritisation Foundation of Goa and local village councils of needs together with an independent survey to enable local communities to participate in and inventory by an external agency to create the collective management of their resources a joint action plan for village development. combined with support for site-specific A partnership strategy is drawn up to enable the infrastructure development including health, implementation and periodic meetings with education and energy and livelihood support. the local government and the community In total, we have utilised our IVDP process are conducted to track progress and as a major intervention in 153 villages across implementation in a collaborative manner. communities around our operations. vedantaresources.com 85 Adding and Sharing Value: Our industry supporting the market development Our operations make a significant contribution to the industry Across our Group, we extract and process aluminium, copper, zinc, lead, silver, iron ore and oil and gas in Australia, India, Ireland, Namibia, South Africa and Zambia. Through our operations, we make a significant contribution to the development and maturity of these markets and directly and indirectly contribute to the development of these nations’ industrial output. Developing local markets where we operate is often low, our sites Vedanta is the largest iron ore exporter in make a major contribution in creating the private sector in the India and the largest employment opportunities – directly in producer of aluminium, copper and zinc-lead in operational roles or as service providers in areas India – and through the acquisition of Cairn India, such as maintenance and catering. In addition, we are also now the biggest private producer of we strive to work with local suppliers wherever crude oil in the Indian market. Due to the scale possible, contributing to local market of our operations, we generate opportunities for development. Importantly, this relationship the downstream industries and support services extends to non-financial benefits such as such as transportation. This has led to the growth skills development and training in areas such of other industries which are capitalising on the as health and safety as well as making increased availability of domestic raw materials. improvements to local infrastructure. Sourcing locally not only benefits local Vedanta’s subsidiaries also contribute to economies and government but also contributes creating new industries and skills to support our to reducing the carbon footprint. operations. For example, in Zambia, KCM has At a local level, because pre-existing led the market’s copper production from employment in some of the remote areas 200 ktpa production in 2012 to a targeted Commodity output Commodity Positioning Meeting expectations Aluminium Largest producer in India 48% primary aluminium consumption in India Largest producer in India 46% primary copper consumption in India Copper Largest private employer in Zambia and largest contributor to the nation’s exchequer Iron Ore Largest private sector producer Largest private sector exporter in India in India Oil & Gas Largest private sector producer Produce more than 25% of India’s in India domestic crude production Largest integrated zinc-lead 80% of India’s zinc consumption Zinc/Lead producer in India Largest producer in Africa Silver Largest primary producer in India Record production of silver in India (13.1moz) in the reporting period Sources – Aluminium Association of India, International Copper Promotion Council India (ICPCI), Indian Zinc-Lead Development Association 86 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 production of over 400ktpa through and whistleblowing that contribute brownfield expansion. As a result of this to building and maintaining customer development in production, the team at KCM trust in our operations. is working with the Zambian authorities and In order to measure the success of our transportation companies to ensure that the customer relations, customer satisfaction nation’s infrastructure is able to cope with the surveys are conducted periodically by external growing need for logistics that can manage third parties. The accumulated feedback the transportation of the material for export is shared in management review meetings purposes. This will ensure the sustained and appropriate corrective actions taken development of the country in order to meet to address particular customer requirements. the growing development of the copper This is supported by senior executives making market as well as other industries as a result frequent visits to customers to get direct of the better infrastructure. feedback on our products and services and other related issues. Customers Our growth and success are directly linked with/to and co-dependent on the success of our customers, who are predominantly large To implement a consistent approach to our engagement with industrial downstream producers with whom our customers and suppliers, all our sites have in place contract we deal directly. We understand that meeting terms and conditions which insist on compliance with standards customer expectations is crucial to the growth related to payment of minimum wages, contract labour and other of our business, particularly when we have relevant acts in the countries in which we operate. The majority such a significant presence in the market. We of our sites have started rolling out outlines of our sustainability are therefore committed to ensuring that our requirements, particularly our supplier and contractor raw materials meet the required London Metal sustainability management policy. A number of suppliers have Exchange (LME) standards for entering the now also endorsed our Code of Conduct, which includes clauses commodity market. on human rights. The Code is being introduced to all suppliers in a phased manner. As we continue to evolve our business, we are Customer relations committed to developing a comprehensive approach to supply Our subsidiaries have defined systems and chain management across the whole Group. practices in place to understand and meet customer expectations. We constantly engage with customers through our marketing and customer service personnel. All our activities Suppliers are focused on ensuring our customers’ needs Our suppliers are an integral part of our are met in an appropriate and timely manner. business and include government utility companies, international manufacturers and Honouring our contract obligations on price, local service providers. We aspire to use local quality and quantity is crucial to building the suppliers where appropriate, for both service business’ credibility with customers. We sell and supply purposes. our commodities on price circulars that are linked to the commodity index, ensuring a clear Supplier relations and transparent process. Alongside the timely To facilitate positive relations with suppliers, delivery of our products, their quality must we partner with organisations to enable be assured and in compliance with agreed effective and mutually beneficial relationships. technical standards, with the certification For example, our KCM business runs frequent of all deliveries vital for ensuring that customers meetings with the Mine Supplier Association trust the product and that its quality has & Chamber of Commerce in Zambia. been verified. Assistance is also provided to At Vedanta, we believe in continuous and customers both by our internal experts and progressive adoption of IT and automation by international consultant visits, together with to improve our operating efficiencies. Recently, workshops and seminars on technical issues the Group has launched the SAP – Supplier and product development for first use. Relationship Management (SRM) module, which Our corporate governance mechanisms includes an SAP supplier portal which is an ensure that we have robust management easy-to-use, highly efficient and secure method in areas such as bribery and corruption of communication between purchasing vedantaresources.com 87 Adding and Sharing Value: Our industry continued organisation and vendors. Requests for Our operations involve mining, processing, quotations, vendor bidding and auctions are smelting and refining of various minerals carried out online to ensure transparency, and power generation using well-established with easy access to the status of offers, processes/technologies. Our products material dispatched and payments, ensuring are commodities, which are sold through transparency within the business and added commodity markets and used in a large value to our suppliers. number of industries. Our final products are refined metals and meet the required Product stewardship international standards (such as LME) for As primary producers, we have limited entering the commodity market. To ensure control of the full lifecycle and the way in the safe handling of our products, we use which products are produced and disposed. a Material Safety Data Sheet which includes However, the business is committed to ensure information on physical data, health effects, that the beginning of the lifecycle adheres to storage and disposal. We also use a Technical appropriate international commodity trading Services Resource for quality assurance. standards. To support this, 40 of our 48 plants Together with scorecards, all this information are certified to OHSAS 18001, ISO 9001 is available to support our customers, allowing and ISO 14001 – this covers the entire them to have a full, detailed understanding of manufacturing lifecycle assessment. Ensuring our products and their composition. We seek that the extraction, processing and refining of to comply with all prevailing standards and our natural resources is done in a responsible laws related to marketing communications, and sustainable way is core to our product including advertising, promotion, and stewardship commitment and a critical part sponsorship of the country where we operate. of delivering quality to our customers. Over the reporting period, no cases of noncompliance with relevant regulations and A key aspect of our product stewardship is voluntary codes concerning the health and our commitment to the highest technological safety impacts of our products and services standards and processes. Of particular were observed or reported. Similarly, no importance is that we upgrade our technology significant fines for non-compliance with laws to maximise recovery and to minimise waste. and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services were reported. Case Study: Supplier Relations The need handling and security of KCM metals in transit to its Strong supplier relations are crucial for Vedanta global markets. 120 delegates attended from haulage Group companies to meet contractual obligations firms and logistic agents from South Africa, Tanzania and customer expectations. We fully understand the and Zambia. The forum was a way for the business virtuous circle that is supplier, business and customer to engage and partner with logistic agents so that success. To ensure the Group’s sustainable success, ultimately it is able to meet customer expectations our business and its operations place great importance through minimising transportation risks. on the management of effective supplier relations. The outcome The solution The result of such interventions by Group Vedanta businesses run different forums of engagement; businesses means a more collaborative approach for example, our Sterlite Copper business ran a vendor to supplier relationship management. Consultation conference in 2012 where suppliers were given a tour with suppliers ensures that the business has an of the site, shared know-how and developed ways of understanding of their drivers and challenges working more efficiently with the business as well as and is able to work with them to achieve the best providing feedback. The event was attended by possible result: that our businesses are able to meet approximately 200 vendors. their contractual obligations to customers without Our KCM business ran its first logistics conference compromising on the quality, quantity or cost in 2012 where delegates discussed strategies for the of their natural resources. 88 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Adding and Sharing Value: Our host Governments facilitating infrastructure development Working within the jurisdictions of developing countries necessitates an understanding of the socio-economic, political and cultural contexts of these nations, which are often distinct to those of developed economies. Making a valuable contribution Vedanta’s economic contribution We believe that, as a Group, we make a significant, valuable contribution by ensuring that both the financial and non-financial returns Direct tax (income tax, that the business can deliver are realised. FBT, WT&TDS/TCS) 18.6% For example, where infrastructure including Royalty 23.3% roads, housing, sanitation and healthcare Customs duty 8.8% facilities do not exist we can partner with host Profit sharing – petroleum 25% Governments to sustainably develop these Cess & NCCD – 14.2% areas for future generations. At a broader level, we are committed to contributing to the Other – 10.2% development of democracy and democratic processes in the countries where we operate. Delivering value We do this in a number of ways, including Vedanta offers an attractive value proposition through membership of industry organisations for our host Governments, both because and international bodies. of the positive economic contribution we can make to national and state budgets Government relations through the taxes and royalties we pay, and Understanding the expectations of host also through the broader contribution we Governments – including adherence to make in developing infrastructure, skills and international standards – is key to ensuring employment opportunities. This is particularly that we are operating in a sustainable way. true due to the significance of our presence across a number of commodities, including Through our stakeholder engagement copper, aluminium and iron ore. programme, we have identified a range of areas that national, state and local governments In the last year, our Group contributed are primarily interested in when considering the US$5.3 billion to host Governments by way role of business in their societies. These include of taxes and royalties. Importantly, we have a the economic performance of the company transparent approach to disclosing the tax we and socio-economic development through pay and recognise that, for developing countries, investment in employment of local people, the revenue received facilitates the sustainable and secondary/indirect employment through development of host communities. We have not supporting industries. Community investment received any direct financial assistance from programmes that centre on infrastructure governments, although as a part of various development in areas such as education, health direct tax holidays and similar exemptions and sanitation are also regarded as important Vedanta did benefit by US$960 million during because of the contribution they make to the 2012-13. No significant legal fine was levied sustainable development of local communities. against the Company or its subsidiaries for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Our businesses provide a range of important commodities, which are the building blocks of any society, including iron ore, zinc, copper, lead and silver – we provide close to 50% of India’s aluminium and copper and produce more than 25% of its oil. We also provide vedantaresources.com 89 Adding and Sharing Value: Our host Governments continued some 90,000 direct and indirect employment For example, in 2012 BALCO Coal Block opportunities and many times that through project deposited INR 310 million to the secondary, supporting industries the estimates Chhattisgarh State Forest Department. go to 500,000. This has a direct positive For its Wildlife Conservation Plan INR 25 million impact on overall livelihoods and domestic was deposited with the Chief Conservator of consumption, contributing to economic Forests (CCF), Chhattisgarh State Government, growth locally and nationally and the towards compensatory afforestation and development of local markets. This is biodiversity management. underpinned by the broad range of health and education services and infrastructure that we provide, either independently or in constructive partnerships, benefitting close KCM partners with the Zambian Government to 3.7 million people. to revamp national railways It is Board policy, as per the UK Bribery Act, that neither Vedanta nor Group subsidiaries will make donations or contributions to political parties within the United Kingdom or European Union. In India, political donations or contributions made within the context of legitimate business operations are only made with the approval of the Board. As well as having internal systems that adhere to international standards, as we have highlighted in the Environment section of this report, Vedanta works within parameters First railway wagon reaching our KCM operation stipulated by the Government of India. Transportation of copper to overseas markets from the Biodiversity management – partnering with Copperbelt mining hub in Zambia has mainly been by truck the the Indian government due to the deteriorating railway infrastructure. The use of trucks A key challenge for the Group is balancing is an inefficient form of transport with significant environmental and managing guidance from international effects and a major cause of congestion and fatalities. standards on biodiversity management in conjunction with guidance from, for example, To address the issue, our Konkola Copper Mines (KCM) business the Equator Principles which stipulate has become the first company to resume regular copper exports adherence to local jurisdiction. using trains – on 6 February 2013 the first 26 wagons loaded with over 1,000 metric tonnes of copper left the KCM’s Nkana Refinery In India, biodiversity management is in Kitwe, Zambia’s second largest city. The copper haulage implemented by the Government and not partnership comprises KCM and Zambia Railways, which will be by individual companies, with biodiversity carrying copper from KCM to Chozi on the border with Tanzania, classified under two categories: where Tanzania Zambia Railways (Tazara) will pick up the ``Compensatory afforestation (which applies in commodity for onward transport to Dar-es-Salaam. circumstances of forest land change of use) The KCM partnership’s assistance in revitalising the Zambia ``Wildlife management (which applies if Railways operations will also boost the Government’s plans to proposed operations impact on wildlife). sustain jobs and grow economic activity. It also bodes well for A company must prepare a biodiversity long-term plans to upgrade the railway network into a major plan which the State Government reviews gateway to ports in Namibia, South Africa and Tanzania, not only and approves. Once the State Government for copper exports, but for other goods as well. In addition, using has approved the plan, the company has to the railways will provide an alternative and competitive mode of deposit the full amount budgeted in the plan transporting goods for KCM as it will help to reduce freight costs, to the State Government, which manages improve transit and cycle time by eliminating double-handling its implementation. To date, Vedanta has and other related costs. In addition, every 26-wagon train deposited US$8 million with the Indian removes the equivalent of 40 trucks from Zambia’s roads, Government for biodiversity management making a significant contribution to the environment and at seven sites in India. the quality of life of Zambia’s people by reducing congestion. 90 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Adding and Sharing Value: Civil society effective partner in change Our opportunity to facilitate sustainable development As a Group, we are conscious of the pressing issues that the world faces, including climate change, poverty, the growth of megacities and the depletion of finite natural resources. Though mitigating these challenges may not be fully possible, we appreciate that through our presence in local communities and our global reach we have the opportunity to facilitate sustainable development. This is assisted by our engagement and partnerships with civil society – encompassing a wide range of non-governmental and not-for-profit organisations – to meet global and local challenges in the most effective and appropriate way. Assisted by our materiality process, we In order that we maximise the effectiveness understand expectations that civil society of these relationships, our approach is organisations have of business, particularly determined by the types of organisations with reference to human rights, occupational we partner with: those that provide technical health and safety and the management of all support to the learning and development new projects and ventures. We understand of the business and those that challenge the that as a global business there is an way in which our business operates, such expectation not only to manage and monitor as campaigning organisations which the socio-economic implications of our can facilitate learning. operations for local communities but also to make a positive contribution for the betterment of society. Delivering value We engage and partner with a wide range of civil society organisations at an international, national and local level depending on the nature of the programme. These relationships are managed at the appropriate level within the Group; at the Group corporate level, at our subsidiary companies and at the local level, utilising our CSR, investor relations, It is undeniable that Vedanta sustainability and other functional teams. We have, for example, partnered with leading has had a positive impact on environmental organisations to mitigate biodiversity impacts, engaged with numerous the economic situation of the non-profit organisations to deliver a wide range of health and education programmes local community in rural communities and worked with Vedanta civil society stakeholder government bodies to improve employee and community health and safety outcomes. vedantaresources.com 91 Adding and Sharing Value: Civil society continued Vedanta currently plays no direct role in ``Irish Business and Employers’ Confederation developing public policy; however, we are ``The Energy Resources Institute, India a member of the UNGC and World Business Council for Sustainable Development, We are committed to engage in an open who are working on various sustainable and transparent way with our stakeholders. development programmes. Some of our In response to concerns raised by social groups subsidiary companies are also members on our VAL-Lanjigarh project in Odisha we have of the following trade and industry bodies, produced the detailed report “The Lanjigarh and actively participate in their forums: development story: Vedanta’s perspective”. ``Federation of Indian Mining Industries This report seeks to present our perspective with a broad overview of the Vedanta Group ``Confederation of Indian Industries and detailed information about the operations ``India Lead-Zinc Development Association at the Lanjigarh Alumina Refinery in response ``Indian Institute of Metal to each of the concerns raised by Amnesty ``Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce International. The report is available publicly & Industry on our corporate website at: www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com/ ``Zambia Extractive Industries Transparency our_performance/report_archive Initiative Tasmanian Devil Conservation – Copper Mines of Tasmania Our CMT operation helping in protecting Tasmanian Devil The Tasmanian devil is a marsupial the size of a small conservation threat and forms part of a comprehensive dog and it is only found in the Australian state of array of strategies to protect the species. Tasmania. Since the 1990s, devil facial tumour disease STDP initially approached CMT to purchase used has drastically reduced the population, threatening its conveyor belts to line the animal enclosures with rubber survival and making it an endangered species. The “Save for barrier-proofing. CMT management donated 17 tons the Tasmanian Devil Programme” (STDP) has a number of used conveyor belts and CMT contractors and staff of captive breeding centres and free range enclosures cut the rubber down into two to three metre sections keeping devils as part of an insurance population, which from lengths of over 1,000 metres – a task done by hand also includes animals held in mainland wildlife parks. The over several days. The rubber was used to line the base insurance population is designed to provide a source of of each fence line, blocking access to gaps that had genetically diverse devils for future conservation of the formed beneath due to soil erosion. As a result, housing species. This is a fundamental strategy in protecting the pens were greatly improved – decreasing the chance of devil from extinction. The programme is the State and devil injury or escape for this valuable population of Commonwealth governments’ response to this healthy devils. 92 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 In addition to engaging and partnering with Vedanta Resources plc The Lanjigarh development story: Vedanta’s perspective international organisations, we also partner The Lanjigarh development story: Vedanta’s perspective with national institutions such as universities for research & development and talent recruitment and local community organisations which target delivery of services to meet local community needs such as schools and hospitals. Worldwide, we partner with close to 250 organisations such as IL & FS Skill Development Corporation Ltd, “The Lanjigarh (Naandia) Foundation, Development Aid development story – From People to People (DAPP), Council Vedanta’s Perspective” of Churches in Zambia, National Bank for can be found online Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), More: sustainability. Ministry of Education (Chingola), Department vedantaresources.com/ of Community Development (Kitwe and resources/36/VED009_ Chingola), The University of Zambia, Amnesty_Report.pdf DAV (Dayanand Anglo Vedic, Lanjigarh) and many others. International Union for Conservation of Nature – Black Mountain Mine Collaboration on a Sustainable Biodiversity Management System The key objective of this collaboration is to support BMM with credible independent scientific advice on the establishment of a sustainable biodiversity management system and efforts to enhance and diversify rural livelihoods within the Gamsberg ecosystem and surrounding regions (Namakwaland). As part of the collaboration, IUCN has agreed to establish an Independent Review Panel (IRP) on programmes to avoid, mitigate or offset biodiversity impacts and mine closure and rehabilitation planning and implementation at Gamsberg, and to review and provide technical advice on BMM’s biodiversity management system. The IRP will also assist BMM in ensuring the adequacy of its due diligence and adherence to national and international quality standards. In addition, they will also establish a Biodiversity and Livelihoods Coordination Committee (BLCC) to oversee, advise on and monitor grant-making for biodiversity conservation and sustainable solutions as part of BMM’s sustainable development programmes. * IUCN is the world’s oldest and largest global environmental organisation, with more than 1,200 government and NGO members and almost 11,000 volunteer experts in some 160 countries An example of the biodiversity in the Gamsberg (BMM) Area vedantaresources.com 93 Adding and Sharing Value: Our shareholders and lenders delivering a strong financial result Our focus continues to be on generating shareholder returns through measured capital allocation with Committed to deliver progressive returns focus on low-risk, phased projects with high returns We are committed to deliver progressive returns for our finance providers – our shareholders and lenders – and this remains core to the business growth strategy. + 15% dividend CAGR since IPO We have periodic dialogue with shareholders Delivering returns US$ 1.5 billion reduction in net debt and lenders in a targeted and timely way Our strong relationships with our shareholders and as part of this year’s materiality process and lenders ensure that we are able to, we consulted with representatives of our through the access to finance, expand and grow our business in a sustainable way, US$ 3.5 billion shareholders and lender institutions. We free cash flow recognise the importance of our shareholders thereby facilitating the adding and sharing and have a number of ways, including the of value with our broader stakeholder Annual General Meeting, in which we engage groups as outlined in this report. By meeting with shareholders and receive feedback the financial return expectations of our from them. Members of the senior shareholders and lenders we create a positive management also engage with shareholders feedback loop where we are able to meet on a periodic basis. our finance providers’ expectation that we manage our business sustainably. The majority of Vedanta’s lenders are aligned to the Equator Principles and IFC standards In order to meet the economic commitments and our business relationship with them is that the business has with its finance providers, more than purely financial. Lender interest in Vedanta invests in projects and businesses that sustainability has developed over recent years, drive the development of the Group asset base with specialist teams driving socially responsible and increase production, and therefore sales. investments. We engage with these technical Additional financial and business development experts on a regular basis through site visits, highlights over the past year include: responding to requests for information in a timely way and providing regular presentations Consistent returns to shareholders and meetings. Accordingly, we have a clear Since our IPO in 2004, we have maintained understanding of their expectations, which a progressive dividend policy, increasing includes adherence to best-practice health, dividends in every year except one when safety and environmental management and dividends were held constant. US$1.3billion broader issues of human rights and community has been returned to shareholders during and stakeholder engagement. this period. This year, our final dividend was 37 US cents per share, up 6%. We work towards sustaining and improving our Corporate Governance systems and processes to mitigate risk, and this is enabled by transparent and ethical practices driven from the top. Our Board remains committed to the We work towards sustaining embedding of sustainable practices to ensure the long-term viability of the business, and in and improving our Corporate recent years we have rolled out a new Group sustainability strategy and framework. Governance systems and processes to mitigate risk, and this is enabled by transparent and ethical practices driven from the top 94 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Our employees are experts in the resources we extract Track record of delivering EBITDA growth In the financial year, our merger of Sesa Over the last nine years, the Group EBITDA has Sterlite to streamline the Vedanta Group increased almost 15 times, from US$323 million structure has been a particularly important following flotation to US$[4.9] billion in step in securing equity and minimising FY 2012-13. This reflects strong growth in the Group’s long-term financial risk. This production complemented by a successful consolidation removes cross-holdings to programme of acquisitions. Our industrycreate a more efficient capital structure leading investment programme has expanded through better alignment of assets and capacity and improved efficiency, leading to liabilities while also generating capital, tax and the delivery of consistent profit margins. We operational synergies. This Group simplification have a strong balance sheet with cash and received approval from the High Court of liquid investments of US$8 billion. Net debt Bombay at Goa, with approval by the Madras also reduced by US$1.5 billion and our gearing High Court awaited. ratio reduced to 31% from 35%. Significant growth in mineral assets – reserves and resources Asset values have grown substantially during the year, driven by an exceptional As shareholders we have performance by Cairn India in the first year since its acquisition, combined with strong a duty to our own investors production growth across the portfolio including record production of mined to ensure that we work with zinc-lead and silver at Zinc India. This is underpinned by a proven track record the companies that we invest of consistently growing our reserves and resources organically. This year this resulted in on their behalf to develop in successful discoveries in Rajasthan and mine life extensions in our copper, zinc their sustainability performance and iron mines. Vedanta shareholder vedantaresources.com 95 Assurance verifying our approach The BALCO plant is one of our key aluminum assets in India 96 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 What does assurance mean to us? Our commitment to be a world-class diversified natural resources company means that we are equally committed to aligning our approach to international principles and developing initiatives that drive our sustainable journey. Verification of our progress is essential to this. To see the Scott Wilson Report for previous years please go to our website: www.sustainability.vedantaresources. com/our_performance/scott_wilson_ docs_archive In this section URS (Scott Wilson) Report 98 GRI Index 102 UNGC 107 MDGs 108 DNV assurance statement 110 Glossary 112 vedantaresources.com 97 Assurance: URS (Scott Wilson) Report review of progress URS (Scott Wilson) Report To see the URS (Scott Wilson) We are committed to achieving the highest operating standards and we respect Report for previous years please go to our website: the environment and communities in which we operate. In support of this www.sustainability. commitment, we have developed the Vedanta Sustainability Framework. vedantaresources.com/ our_performance/scott_ wilson_docs_archive Scott Wilson, now URS (URS acquired Scott Wilson in 2010), overall… we consider that sufficient progress has been on behalf of certain financial institutions, conducted an demonstrated on each of the other Recommendations at each independent and comprehensive review of our sustainable level to conclude that Vedanta can undergo the final close-out development policies and procedures in line with international audit in June 2013...” standards and best practices in November 2010. The review The current situation in regard to the URS Scott Wilson covered our sustainability practices including health, safety and recommendations after their November 2012 and March 2013 environment (HSE), our social policies and our business Code reports is briefly summarised below: of Conduct. It made recommendations towards further aligning Vedanta’s policies and practices to the IFC Performance Corporate level: Standards and IFC EHS Guidelines, including those specifically ``Last year (FY 2011-12), six recommendations were closed out related to mining and thermal power. A summary of the review, and a further five recommendations were on track for closure. including findings and recommended actions, is available via the link http://sustainability.vedantaresources.com/our_ ``During the reporting period, ten out of eleven performance/scott_wilson_docs_archive recommendations were closed. ``One external audit recommendation is considered on track In line with our commitment to sustainable development and for closure in June 2013. the implementation of the Scott Wilson recommendations, in July 2012 and January 2013 we produced our third and fourth Company level: six-monthly progress reports. The January 2013 report details ``Last year (FY 2011-12), three recommendations were the actions we had taken up to 31 December 2012. closed out and a further four recommendations were A team from URS visited our Skorpion Zinc Mine and Konkola on track for closure. Copper Mines operations in October 2012 and VAL-Lanjigarh ``During the reporting period, all recommendations in March 2013 to undertake their review of our progress against were closed. their original recommendations. During the March 2013 review the team also had a review with our Vedanta Sustainable Lanjigarh: Development staff at our corporate office in Delhi. ``Last year (FY 2011-12), one recommendation was closed out and a further nine recommendations were on track for The URS March 2013 full report (and other reports) is available at closure. One recommendation regarding Lanjigarh expansion http://sustainability.vedantaresources.com/our_performance/ was on hold as the matter was sub judice. scott_wilson_docs_archive and in summary it said: ``During the reporting period, 10 out of 11 recommendations “The range of policies, management and technical standards were closed. that form the new Sustainability Framework is now complete ``One recommendation regarding Lanjigarh expansion is still with the issue of the delayed Technical Standard on Indigenous on hold as the matter is sub judice. Peoples/Vulnerable Tribal Groups and work continues developing the supporting Guidance Notes. An extensive Overall, 27 of 29 recommendations are now completed training programme has been rolled out across the Group to (the Final Sign-Off Audit and a recommendation relating support the implementation of the Sustainability Framework, to the on hold Lanjigarh expansion project remains). which is also subject to a combination of self-assessment/ internal audit and assurance process and extensive action plans to drive consistent and correct application… The outstanding Recommendation dealing with the Lanjigarh Expansion Project is still ‘pending’ and cannot be tested until the situation there is resolved… Although the implementation process is incomplete and somewhat patchy in places (some elements are still to be fully completed while others require minor adjustments), 98 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Corporate Level Recommendations URS – SW comments URS – SW November URS – SW March and observations/ Recommendation 2012 status 2013 status March 2013 2.5.2 The preamble to the Code, “How We Do Business”, should Code updated and still include reference to local communities as a key element available online affecting Vedanta’s reputation together with customers, shareholders, competitors and suppliers. 2.5.3 Adopt internal procedures to ensure that all requests for Details of requests information from stakeholders (including investors, NGOs, for information verified – international organisations and the press) are dealt with in a improvements needed timely manner. We see this as an important part of a wider in stakeholder programme to inform and communicate with all stakeholders. communications at the local level To assist with transparency Vedanta should maintain a register of enquiries and responses and provide a summary in their Annual Sustainability Report/website. 2.5.4 Revise the wording of the Value Statement on Sustainability Value statement updated to state: “We aim to contribute to the social and economic and still available online welfare of the communities where we work and to protect and conserve the environment.” 2.5.6 Develop a series of policies to realise the aims stated for each All core policies, of the four sustainability areas (environmental stewardship, management and technical nurturing people, health and safety and empowering standards now completed communities). The policy statements should be succinct, – work continues on the should reflect best international practice and reflect a Guidance Notes. commitment to continuous improvement. Annual targets for progress and reporting should be considered wherever possible. Noise should be included as a policy issue. 2.5.7 The title of the HSE Committee should be changed No post-reorganisation to the Sustainable Development Committee and its terms changes affecting of reference expanded to reflect the breadth of its role covering all membership; meetings aspects of the environmental and social sustainability of the Group. continue 2.5.8 ‘The Corporate Sustainability Development Committee’ However, EXCO should continue to ensure that subsidiary companies take Committee still needs a consistent approach to promoting sustainable development to drive improvements at in accordance with international best practice by monitoring sites with ‘Unacceptable’ performance, lesson learning and dissemination of self-asessment/assurance best practice. scores Appoint an appropriately qualified Chief Sustainability Officer Incumbent CSO leaving with international experience to direct and coordinate the HSE, Vedanta, no confirmation CSR and related functions. The CSO will act through single yet regarding replacement; points of contact in each subsidiary company. lack of social expert in central team? 2.5.9 Keep under review the full range of HSE and CSR competencies Training is ongoing and required across the business and consider the need for additional significant progress made training, as appropriate, in relation to the IFC Performance at all subsidiary companies Standards and Guidelines, human rights, vulnerable groups and the GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. 2.5.13 Report, where possible, on Group environmental and social performance as a whole and seek to benchmark performance against industry best practice and seek assurance from appropriate bodies with industry and sustainability expertise. 2.5.16 Adopt a specific human rights policy demonstrating its commitment to the UN Declaration of Human Rights and procedures to ensure its implementation. This should be communicated to all stakeholders via its website. 2.5.24 Undertake an audit of Group and Company environmental and social performance against international standards (IFC, ICMM, OECED) after 12 months of implementing the recommendations in this report (i.e. January 2012). Recommendations which are not implemented will be included in a Remedial Action Plan and their compliance with them reviewed every six months. ecommendation R I n progress/  Not yet due/dependent upon complete/closed on track external factors vedantaresources.com 99 Assurance: URS (Scott Wilson) Report continued Company Level Recommendations URS – SW comments URS – SW November URS – SW March and observations/ Recommendation 2012 status 2013 status March 2013 2.5.11 Develop a policy and implementation practices to more Documentation improved, proactively manage land in their ownership in order to although some minor maximise environmental gains and promote biodiversity. amendments to be actioned This would include the development of environmental management plans for all non-operational land and the carrying out of habitat surveys for all new sites prior to development. 2.5.12 Communicate environmental monitoring regimes at plants Adequate evidence of and regularly report to stakeholders, including local communications and communities, on their environmental performance, stakeholder reports to benchmarking this against international standards (e.g. IFC facilitate closure at the Guidelines) and reporting in their 2012 Sustainability Report. current time, although some sites still need to fully address requirements for disclosures to affected communities 2.5.15 Produce and test EIAs and EMPs against the IFC Performance EXCO Committee to drive Standards and ICMM best practice and define clear links improvements in selfbetween the EIAs, EMPs and Environmental Management assessment/assurance Systems. Specifically EIAs should be expanded in relation to scores relating to ESIA biodiversity and habitat identification, the identification of implementation cultural heritage (scheduled and non-scheduled sites) and social and human rights impacts. Vedanta should commission independent reviews of one or more major EIAs each year in order to ensure compliance with IFC Standards. 2.5.17 Develop a standardised approach to community consultation for new developments which responds to IFC guidance and communicate this to all stakeholders via its website. 2.5.20 Adopt a specific policy in relation to engagement with and Indigenous Peoples TS assistance to social groups that may be vulnerable to change issued, but Guidance Notes and communicate this to all stakeholders on its website. should be considered. Delay to documentation may affect availability of evidence of implementation for the final audit 2.5.22 In developing new sites adopt a standardised approach to the identification of sites of cultural heritage value involving formal documentary sources, site surveys and community consultation. 2.5.23 Maintain a register of major social and labour incidents URS still monitoring incident at their plants and report to VRL registers for the lenders. A single workplace fatality in Q3 100 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Lanjigarh Level Recommendations URS – SW comments URS – SW November URS – SW March and observations/ Recommendation 2012 status 2013 status March 2013 3.3.20 Undertake a systematic gap analysis of the EMS against the New documentation Industry Best practice criteria and update it accordingly. is broadly acceptable; some amendments needed to plans dealing with social issues 3.3.3 Notwithstanding the current problems arising from equipment storage, VAL seek to improve site housekeeping with particular regard to ensuring the correct segregation, collection and disposal of waste materials and the fitness for purpose of the refinery’s storm water drainage systems. 3.3.32 Develop suitable and sufficient retrenchment plans to mitigate the adverse impacts of future suspension or closure of the refinery on both direct and indirect employees. 3.3.48 Undertake a gap analysis for contractors’ labour accommodation against IFC/EBRD guidance and address any serious deficiencies. VAL should therefore amend its contractual documentation to specify minimum expectations for contractors in regard to labour accommodation, and then enforce contractors’ adherence to its specified requirements. 3.3.63 Undertake a gap analysis against the occupational and As per 3.3.20 above community health and safety requirements set out in the lenders’ Industry Best Practice criteria (specifically the IFC’s general and applicable sector EHS Guidelines) and take appropriate measures to address any outstanding gaps. 3.3.79 Review the draft Disaster Management Plan against recognised industry guidance (such as the ICMM/UNEP publication “Good practice in emergency preparedness and response”, 2005) and upgrade its emergency prevention and response arrangements including improved drill and simulation exercises. 3.4.3 If the expansion of the refinery is to proceed, a supplementary Awaiting Supreme report should be prepared to augment and update the existing Court decision EIA, thus meeting international best practice. This report would be used to guide further development and would be made available to key stakeholders. 4.5.5 Review the issue of sporadic dust nuisance, seek to reduce Health Impact Assessment such pollution and monitor both dust emissions and incidence update to be checked in of respiratory infections in the immediate locality of the refinery. final audit 4.5.8 Establish and strengthen a simple and accessible grievance Grievance mechanism mechanism by which villagers can identify any concerns about functioning and well the operation of the refinery by using the village co-ordinators monitored, although could already deployed by VAL. be improved through introduction of a ‘Pending’ classification, and more systematic analysis of root causes 4.6.8 Give further consideration to accelerating livelihood training programmes for villagers via self-help and business start-up support, especially in those villages close to the refinery, and monitor local employment creation in these villages and the Lanjigarh block. 4.6.12 Work together with local government to develop and publicise an integrated rural development strategy for the area. ecommendation R I n progress/  Not yet due/dependent upon complete/closed on track external factors vedantaresources.com 101 Assurance: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index We have again developed our Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 guidelines. To see the GRI report from previous years go to: This year, following consultation with our stakeholders, we have structured the report www.sustainability. around our key material issues and the GRI G3.1 standard and core performance vedantaresources.com/ indicators, including both the mining & metal supplements. our_performance/gri_ docs_archive A comprehensive GRI G3.1 Content Index, together with all core and additional indicators including both mining and metal sector and oil and gas supplement performance, is available on the Vedanta Resources corporate website at: www.sustainability.vedantaresources.com/our_performance/gri_docs_archive. Standard Disclosures Part I: Profile Disclosures Profile Cross-reference/ disclosure Disclosure Reported Direct answer 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation. Fully SDR Page 8-9, 10-11 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully SDR Page 4-7, 10-18 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully SDR Front Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully SDR Page 2-5 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating Fully SDR Page 2-5 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. Fully SDR Internal Back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with Fully SDR Page 2-3, 6-7 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully SDR Internal Front cover 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully SDR Page 2-3, 86-87 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. Fully SDR Internal Front cover 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully SDR Internal Front cover, Page 4 -5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Website 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully SDR Front Cover 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully Website 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully SDR Internal Front cover 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully SDR Back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully SDR Page 14-19 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Fully SDR Internal Front cover, 2-3, 4-5 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness Fully SDR Internal Front cover principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Fully SDR Internal Front cover operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Fully Mention within the sections and in DNV techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and Assurance Statement other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, Fully Mention along with the indicators and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully SDR Internal Front cover measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully SDR GRI Mapping Page 102-106 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully SDR Internal Front cover, Page 15-16, DNV Assurance Statement Page 110-111 102 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Profile Cross-reference/ disclosure Disclosure Reported Direct answer 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest Fully SDR Page 15-16 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully AR Page 80 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of Fully AR Page 72-75 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction Fully AR Page 85, 86 to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Fully SDR Page 26& AR Page 100-102 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully AR Page 81 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members Fully AR Page 77 of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully SDR Page 14, AR Page 83 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation's Fully SDR Page 15, 17 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly Fully SDR Page 10, 17, 21 & AR Page 83 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed Fully AR Page 34-39 by the organisation. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Fully SDR Internal Front cover, Page 43, 97-109 initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Fully SDR Page 98-101 international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. Fully SDR Page 18-19 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully SDR Page 18-19 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Fully SDR Page 18-19, 58-59 and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and Fully SDR Page 18-19, 58-59 how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Profile Cross-reference/ disclosure Disclosure Reported Direct answer DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Aspects Economic performance Fully SDR Page 4-7, 70 -71 Market presence Fully SDR Page 2-3, 86-87 Indirect economic impacts Fully SDR Page 70 -71 DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Aspects Materials Fully SDR Page 47 Energy Fully SDR Page 50 Water Fully SDR Page 43-46 Biodiversity Fully SDR Page 48, 90, 91, 93, 100 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully SDR Page 46, 50-55 Products and services Fully SDR Page 39 Compliance Fully SDR Page 41-42 Transport Fully SDR Page 42, 52 Overall Fully SDR Page 39 vedantaresources.com 103 Assurance: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index continued Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) continued Performance Cross-reference/ Indicator Description Reported Direct answer Aspects Employment Fully SDR Page 73-79 Labour/management relations Fully SDR Page 63, 73-79 Occupational health and safety Fully SDR Page 30-33, 36 Training and education Fully SDR Page 75 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully SDR Page 76 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully SDR Page 84 DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully SDR Page 62 Non-discrimination Fully SDR Page 73 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully SDR Page 77 Child labour Fully SDR Page 63 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour Fully SDR Page 63 Security practices Fully SDR Page 62 Indigenous rights Fully SDR Page 62 Assessment Fully SDR Page 19, 62 Remediation Fully SDR Page 67 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Aspects Local communities Fully SDR Page 64-65 Artisanal and small-scale mining Fully SDR Page 66 Resettlement Fully SDR Page 66 Closure planning Fully SDR Page 29, 66 Grievance mechanisms and procedures Fully SDR Page 72 Emergency Preparedness Fully SDR Page 29, 66 Corruption Fully SDR Page 26-27 Public policy Fully SDR Page 89, 91 Anti-competitive behavior Fully SDR Page 89 Compliance Fully SDR Page 89 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Aspects Materials stewardship Fully SDR Page 88-89 Customer health and safety Fully SDR Page 88-89 Product and service labelling Fully SDR Page 88-89 Marketing communications Fully SDR Page 88-89 Customer privacy Fully SDR Page 88-89 Compliance Fully SDR Page 88-89 Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators Economic Performance Cross-reference/ Indicator Disclosure Reported Direct answer EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Fully SDR Page 70 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation's activities Fully SDR Page 50 due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations. Fully SDR Page 76 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully SDR Page 89 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Partially SDR Page 86 locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management and workforce hired Fully SDR Page 74 from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Fully SDR Page 72,84 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 104 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators continued Performance Cross-reference/ Indicator Description Reported Direct answer Environmental EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully SDR Page 47 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Fully SDR Page 47 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully SDR Page 51 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully SDR Page 51 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully SDR Page 44-45 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Partially SDR Page 48, 90, 91, 93, 100 and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Partially SDR Page 48, 90, 91, 93, 100 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive Partially SDR Page 48, 90, 91, 93, 100 use) disturbed or rehabilitated. MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity Partially SDR Page 48, 90, 91, 93, 100 management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully SDR Page 53 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Fully SDR Page 52 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Fully SDR Page 52 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully SDR Page 46 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully SDR Page 54-55 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. Fully SDR Page 54 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully SDR Page 41-42 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of Fully SDR Page 39 impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Fully GRI Web Table EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully SDR Page 41-42 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully SD Report – Page number 40 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. Fully SD Report – Page number 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully SD Report – Page numbers 42-43 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent Fully SD Report – Page number 16 of impact mitigation. EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fully SD Report – Page number 36 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Social: Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down Partially SDR Page 79 by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Fully SDR Page 79 gender, and region. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Fully SDR Page 79 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully SDR Page 77 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether Fully SDR Page 77 it is specified in collective agreements. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by country. Fully SDR Page 65 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of Fully SDR Page 20, 30 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programmes in place to assist Fully SDR Page 36 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Fully SDR Page 75 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Fully SDR Page 15 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. vedantaresources.com 105 Assurance: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index continued Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators continued Performance Cross-reference/ Indicator Description Reported Direct answer LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, Fully SDR Page 76 by significant locations of operation. Social: Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that Fully SDR Page 62 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have Partially SDR Page 62 undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Fully SDR Page 26 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Fully SDR Page 77 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Fully SDR Page 63 child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Fully SDR Page 63 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' territories, Fully SDR Page 62 and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Fully SDR Page 62 and/or impact assessments. HR11 “Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through Fully SDR Page 67 formal grievance mechanisms.” Social: Society SO1 (MMSS) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programmes and practices that assess and manage Fully SDR Page 64 the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO1 (G3.1) Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Fully SDR Page 64 assessments, and development programmes. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of Fully SDR Page 65 local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land Fully SDR Page 65 use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale Fully SDR Page 66 mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and Fully SDR Page 66 how their livelihoods were affected in the process. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. Fully SDR Page 29 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Fully SDR Page 66 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Fully SDR Page 66 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Fully SDR Page 24-25 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation's anti-corruption policies and procedures. Fully SDR Page 10, 62 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully SDR Page 24-25 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Fully SDR Page 89 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully SDR Page 88-89 non-compliance with laws and regulations. MM11 Programmes and progress relating to materials stewardship. Fully SDR Page 88-89 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Fully SDR Page 88-89 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Fully SDR Page 88-89 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Fully SDR Page 88-89 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully SDR Page 88-89 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 106 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Assurance: UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress We are committed to upholding the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and are supportive of the UN Millenium Development Goals. Our Sustainable Development Report communicates our progress in implementing the 10 principles, and below we have mapped out where information about our progress can be found throughout the report. Issue area UNGC principle Reference Page number Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Building strong relationships – Human rights 62-63 protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are Building strong relationships – Human rights 62-63 not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Adding and sharing values – Our employees 77 of association and the effective negotiation of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination Building strong relationships – Human rights 62-63 of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition Sustainability Committee Chairman’s Statement 17 of child labour. Building strong relationships – Human rights 62-63 Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of Adding and sharing value – Our employees 73-76 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary About Vedanta 6 approach to environmental challenges. Chairman’s introduction 8 Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10-11 Our approach and Strategy 16 Responsible stewardship: Our strategy and management 24-27 Responsible stewardship: Sustainable management in practice 28-29 Responsible stewardship – Environment 39-55 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10-11 to promote greater environmental responsibility. Sustainability Committee Chairman’s statement 17 Responsible stewardship – Environment 39-55 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development Chief Executive Officer’s statement 10-11 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Responsible stewardship – Environment 39-55 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Responsible stewardship – Our strategy and in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Management 24-27 Adding and sharing value – Our industry 87 Adding and sharing value – Our host governments 90 vedantaresources.com 107 Assurance: Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) UN Millennium Development Goals We are committed to ensuring that our operations contribute to meeting the sustainable development needs of the communities and host Governments where we operate. Below we outline how our activities align to the broad aims of the UN Millennium Development Goals and the contribution that our activities make. More information to support our approach to community investment is outlined in the Adding and Sharing Value section of this report. Number Description Progress MDG#1 Eradicating extreme All our programmes seek to ensure the socio-economic development of the communities in which we operate poverty and hunger which then have implications to helping people out of extreme poverty and associated hunger. Our sustainable livelihoods programmes seek to improve the overall annual income of families through agriculture and animal husbandry programmes. Programmes include education about yield improvements and moving production into cash crops which have enabled farmers to learn about the use of high-yield seeds, fertilisers, soil testing and watershed management and cultivation. At our site at Sesa Goa we are working with local farmers to achieve organic certification for their rice crops, which has the potential to triple the sales value and therefore significantly contribute to the movement from extreme poverty. Our Mid-day meal programme supports eight centralised kitchens and aims to improve the health and nourishment status (and by default, hunger) of children from class 1-8. For many children, this provides not only a nourishing meal, but also has the dual role of providing incentives to attend school. 205,710 children are reached through this initiative. MDG#2 Achieving universal Our education programme seeks to support both formal and non-formal education systems. primary education The Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi (VBCA) programme targets pre-school level education through the Integrated Child Development Scheme which is run in partnership with the Indian Government. It aims to provide services to pre-school children in rural, tribal and slum areas in an integrated manner so as to ensure their growth and development. Through Vedanta’s operations, the Group collectively reaches more than 125,000 children at 4,600 centres. Our community asset creation programme facilitates the building and development of infrastructure projects in partnership with national and local governments. Amongst other initiatives, this also includes the building of schools in rural and remote locations. Operations in Zambia have worked with the NGO Development Aid for People to People (DAPP) to create pre-schools for children in the Chingola and Nampundwe townships. Working together with the local communities and including parents, KCM has supplemented the initiative with teaching staff, operating materials and school uniforms in order to ensure that access to education remains universal at the school. MDG#3 Promoting Vedanta recognises that gender equality starts with the actions of the business itself. The Group has a strongly gender enforced equal opportunities policy and ensures that remuneration packages are the same irrespective of gender equality and differences. The business is also developing women-friendly policies such as providing crèche facilities at sites empowering women where appropriate. At the community level, women are considered to be crucial to the sustainable development of rural and poor communities and therefore one of our community investment streams focuses on women’s empowerment specifically. Through our work with c.1,100 Self Help Groups we reach over 14,800 members. The groups promote collaboration and learning amongst women including promotion and support in creating sustainable businesses. Such was the case in Jharsuguda where a cooperative was created to provide loans and support the development of small enterprises. More than 330 (overall) women received financial help and support in getting their businesses started. Such initiatives seek to empower women by building a sense of community and collective action through sustainable solutions. 108 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Number Description Progress MDG#4 Reducing child The Group’s health programmes seek to both raise awareness of health related issues and provide much needed mortality rates provision of services to the communities in which we operate, where often comprehensive medical facilities have not previously been available. The Group site at MALCO has run a successful programme: The Institutional Delivery Promoting Scheme (IDPS), which seeks to encourage local community mothers-to-be to have their birth delivery at the local public health centre. Each woman is presented with a gift basket of useful items which presents an incentive to others to have their children at the facilities and has led to a rise in institutional deliveries, thereby impacting mortality rates. Women are educated as a part of the Women’s Self Help Groups in areas such as nutrition and family planning, all contributing to improving child mortality, coupled with child welfare specific initiatives at the pre-school level as indicated above. MDG#5 Improving maternal health Maternal health features as a component of Vedanta’s overall community health programme. Specific and targeted programmes include that at BALCO where the business has been active in an awareness-raising programme that seeks to raise awareness that certain cultural practices such as women fasting after delivery and not breastfeeding new-born infants has a significant negative impact on the health of mother and child. Infant and maternal mortality rates have declined as a result of the business intervention from 115 to 85 and from 60 to 40 respectively. MDG#6 Combating HIV/ The Group is committed to supporting employees and the community in combating preventable diseases AIDS, malaria, and such as HIV/AIDS through targeted programmes. Since 2002, KCM has worked in partnership with the Zambian other diseases Government on a Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission of HIV (PMTCT) programme. This includes maternal and infant HIV testing and prevention counselling. In the event of a positive HIV test. All KCM facilities have trained PMTCT counsellors who administer the anti-retroviral drug Nevirapine and infant formula for babies whose mothers opt not to breastfeed, with all babies on the programme followed-up at regular intervals by a paediatrician. KCM’s HIV/AIDS policy also encompasses voluntary and confidential HIV testing of all employees, with pre and post-test counselling available to all. Employees of KCM who are found with the HIV virus have access to continuing support and health services, including free anti-retroviral drugs. Spouses and dependants of employees are eligible for the same health benefits as employees. At VAL-Lanjigarh the business has been active in targeting vector-borne diseases such as malaria, dengue, chickungunya and filaria through education and behaviour based initiatives. Training sessions run by the business’ Mobile Health Unit include outlining the benefits of long-lasting insecticidetreated mosquito nets, coupled with communications campaigns including on-site posters/banners and community outreach work in the form of plays and skits in local languages. Training of local teachers has also been underway in order to ensure message penetration into the community and making headway in combating preventable diseases in the areas where the business operates. 120 teachers participated in this programme. MDG#7 Ensuring environmental Vedanta is committed to managing all of the Group’s operations in the most environmentally responsible way sustainability and in line with international best practice standards as governed by the Group business Sustainability Framework and implemented through the internal sustainability assurance programme. In order to ensure that best practice standards are adhered to, Vedanta partners with international organisations such as the World Business Council on Sustainable Development in areas such as water management issues, including the development and implementation of a water toolkit. Measures are taken to manage the areas of: waste, water, energy and climate change, biodiversity and air, with progress and performance rigorously monitored on a monthly basis across all Group operations. The operations are complemented by the use of efficient technology to reduce the business environmental impact and mitigate the occurrence of environmental incidents. The business’ efforts are complemented by initiatives in the community that centre on bio-investment in the areas of water conservation and forestry programmes. The Group’s forestry regeneration programme has seen the planting of more than 18 million saplings to date. MDG#8 Developing a global Vedanta recognises that in order to achieve the full potential of the business – both financially and non-financially partnership for – effective partnerships and effective stakeholder engagement are critical to the business operations. In order to development implement the Adding and Sharing Value pillar of the Group business Sustainability Framework the business uses the Public-Private-People-Partnership (4P’s) model to drive effective, needs-based development programmes. Our relationships with our key stakeholder groups complement this approach and drive the business growth, therefore playing the instrumental role the Group can have in facilitating sustainable development – through the jobs that we create, taxes that we pay and the contribution that we can make to community investment endeavours. By the very nature of partnerships with host Governments, civil society groups and local suppliers, Vedanta is able to contribute effectively to both the thinking on sustainable development and also the practical implementation of programmes that drive socio-economic growth for host nations and their communities. During the reporting period, Vedanta partnered with 116 NGOs, contributed US$42 million in community investment activity, and reached 3.7 million people through development initiatives. vedantaresources.com 109 Assurance: DNV assurance statement Introduction ``Review of the Report against the Reliability, Responsiveness and Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been requirements of VeriSustain with Stakeholder inclusiveness, commissioned by the management of moderate level of assurance; ``The principles and requirements of the Vedanta Resources plc (‘Vedanta’ or the ``Verification of the reliability of GRI G3.1 GRI G3.1 for an application level A+ ‘Company’), to carry out an independent performance indicators and including the sector supplement on Metal assurance engagement (Moderate level) performance information specifically and Mining Industries and Oil & Gas. on the Company’s Sustainable related to Green House Gas Emissions Development Report 2012-13 (‘the Report’) As part of the engagement, DNV has (EN16) and Health & Safety (LA7). in its printed format. The engagement was verified the statements and claims ``Confirmation of the Vedanta’s declared made in the Report and assessed the carried out against the DNV Protocol for Application level i.e. A+. robustness of the underlying data Verification of Sustainability Reporting (‘VeriSustain’ – www.dnv.com/cr; available The reporting boundary is as set out in the management system, information flow on request) including verification of Report covering sustainability performance and controls. In doing so, we have: application level and adherence to of Vedanta Resources plc. As part of our ``Reviewed the company’s approach principles of the Global Reporting Initiative verification we visited the following to stakeholder engagement and its (GRI) 2011, Sustainability Reporting operations in addition to the Vedanta materiality determination process; Guidelines Version 3.1 (GRI G3.1). Corporate office at New Delhi, India, ``Verified the sustainability-related The intended users of this assurance ``Vedanta Aluminum Ltd, Jharsuguda and statements and claims made in the statement are the management of the Lanjigarh, India, Report and assessed the robustness of Company and readers of this Report. The ``Hindustan Zinc Ltd, (Dariba Mines & the data management system, management of Vedanta is responsible Smelter),Rajasthan, India, information flow and controls; for all information provided in the Report ``Examined and reviewed documents, ``Bharat Aluminum Company Ltd, as well as the processes for collecting, data and other information made BALCO Nagar & Kawarda Mines, analyzing and reporting that information. available by the Vedanta plc; including Chattisgarh, India, DNV’s responsibility in performing this the performance indicators related to work is regarding the verification of the ``Konkola Copper Mines plc, (Head office health and safety data to ICMM Report only, in accordance with the & Operations), Chingola, Zambia, definitions and GHG emissions (tCO2e) agreed scope of work. The assurance ``Sterlite Industries India Ltd, Silvassa, to WBCSD/WRI. engagement is based on the assumption India, ``Conducted interviews with key that the data and information provided to ``Sterlite Energy Limited, Jharsuguda, representatives including data owners us is complete, sufficient and authentic. India and and decision-makers from different DNV expressly disclaims any liability or ``Cairn Energy, (Corporate office), levels and functions of the Company; co-responsibility for any decision a Gurgaon, India. ``Performed sample-based reviews of the person or entity would make based on this Assurance Statement. Our assurance Our engagement did not include mechanisms for implementing the engagement was planned and carried assessment of the adequacy or company’s sustainability related policies, out in March 2013 to June 2013. effectiveness of Vedanta Strategy or as described in the Report; management of sustainability related ``Performed sample-based checks of Scope, boundary and limitations issues. The review of sustainability the processes for generating, gathering of Assurance performance of Cairn Energy was limited and managing the quantitative data The scope of the assurance as agreed to desktop review and meetings at their and qualitative information included upon with Vedanta included the corporate office at Gurgaon; site level in the Report. verification of the content of the Report. verification was not done at any of the In particular the assurance engagement blocks or fields as stated in the report. Conclusions included: In DNV’s opinion, based on the scope of Verification Methodology this assurance engagement the Report ``Verification of the application of report This assurance engagement was planned provides a fair representation of the content principles set out in GRI G3.1 and carried out in accordance with the Company’s sustainability performance. and quality of information presented in DNV Protocol for Verification of The Report, along with the referenced the report over the reporting period Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain). The information in the website and annual 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013; Report has been evaluated against the report along with the commitments with ``Review of the policies, initiatives, following criteria: timelines to report the partially reported practices and performance described core indicators, generally meets the in the Report; ``Adherence to the principles of requirements for GRI application level A+. Materiality, Completeness, Neutrality, 110 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 We have evaluated the Report’s Reliability: ``The GHG emissions may be evaluated adherence to the following principles The majority of data and information against WBCSD/WRI protocols and on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and verified at head office and site were internally verified for its accuracy and ‘Needs Improvement’: found to be accurate. Some of the data reliability wrt emission factors, inaccuracies identified during the assumptions and documented in the Stakeholder Inclusiveness: verification process were found to be form of Standard Operating Procedure The Company has documented its attributable to transcription, interpretation (SOP), to ensure consistent approach stakeholder engagement process and and aggregation errors related to GHG in managing reporting and verification demonstrates engagement with key emissions and reporting. Hence in of GHG data. stakeholders through different channels accordance with the DNV VeriSustain both at corporate level and operational DNV’s Competence and protocol for a moderate level assurance site level. The issues emerging from the Independence engagement, we conclude that the stakeholder engagement are analyzed, DNV is a global provider of sustainability specified sustainability data and prioritized and addressed through services, with qualified environmental information presented in the Report are appropriate sustainability strategies and social assurance specialists working generally reliable and “Acceptable”. through Stakeholder Engagement plan. in over 100 countries. The DNV In our view, the level at which the Report Neutrality: assurance team were not involved in the adheres to the principle of inclusivity The Company has reported its preparation of any statements or data is “Acceptable”. sustainability issues and performance in included in the Report except for this terms of content and presentation in a Assurance Statement. DNV maintains Materiality: neutral tone. In our view, the level at complete impartiality towards any people The Company has reported its material which the Report adheres to the principle interviewed. DNV expressly disclaims any issues based on internal and external of Neutrality is “Good”. liability or co-responsibility for any stakeholder perspective i.e. through a formal consultation process at the macro decision a person or entity would make Opportunities for Improvement based on this Assurance Statement. level, and has not missed out any known The following is an excerpt from the material issues, however the existing observations and further opportunities materiality determination process needs for improvement reported to the to bring out all material aspects related to management of Vedanta Resources plc individual operational sites and aggregated and are not considered for drawing our at corporate level. In our view, the level at conclusion on the report; however, they which the Report adheres to the principles are generally consistent with the of Materiality is “Acceptable”. Management’s objectives: Responsiveness: ``Improve the quality and reliability of Ramesh Rajamani We consider that the Company’s response sustainability-related data by providing Project Manager, to key stakeholder concerns, through its internal guidance for data-owners on Det Norske Veritas AS, India. policies and management systems frequency of data collection and including governance are fairly reflected in reporting to internal and external the Report. In our view, the level at which stakeholders and strengthen internal the Report adheres to the principle of mechanisms for quality control checks Responsiveness is “Acceptable”. through implementing an internal audit Completeness: process; The Report has fairly attempted to report ``Strengthen the process of material or to respond the sustainability strategy, Antonio Astone determination to capture all issues management approach and sustainability Assurance Reviewer related to operational sites (mining, performances against the GRI G3.1 core Det Norske Veritas AS,Italy metal and oil and gas) at various indicators including the Mining and Metal geographies and evolve sector specific 12th June’ 2013, New Delhi, India. Supplement and Oil and Gas Supplement. sustainability strategy to drive growth The Report explains with omissions or and address short, medium and long commitments to future reporting that are term sustainability impacts; material within the Company’s reporting ``Implement recommendations from boundary for application level A+; In our stakeholder concerns to improve view, the level at which the Report sustainability performance and adheres to the Principle of Completeness mitigate associated risks at all levels is “Acceptable”. of the business; vedantaresources.com 111 Assurance: Glossary A. Narraine Sesa Goa mine in Karnataka, India GRI/G3 Global Reporting Initiative MW Megawatt AAQM Ambient Air Quality Monitoring GRMC Group Risk Management NABARD National Bank for Agricultural and Committee Rural Development ACTs Adiabatic Cooling Towers GSPCB Goa State Pollution Control Board NEERI National Environment Engineering AGM Annual General Meeting Research Institute HCD High Capacity Diesel AR Annual Report NGO Non-Governmental Organisation HIV/AIDS Human Immunodeficiency Virus/ BALCO Bharat Aluminium Company Limited, Acquired Immuno OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety a company incorporated in India Assessment Series (standards for Deficiency Syndrome 18001 BAP Biodiversity Action Plan HR Human Resources occupational health and safety management systems) BBS Behaviours-Based Strategy HSE Health, Safety and Environment OMC Odisha Mining Company Bicholim A mine of Sesa Goa IBAT Integrated Biodiversity Assessment PAH Poly aromatic hydrocarbons Black Zinc asset (mine) in South Africa Tool Mountain ICDS Integrated Child Development PPE Personal Protective Equipment BLCC Biodiversity and Livelihoods Scheme: Anganwadi catering to PPPP, or 4P’s Public-Private-People-Partnership Coordination Committee health and educational needs of children in the age group 0–6 years RMC Risk Management Committee BMPs Biodiversity Management Plans SDR Sustainable Development Report ICMM International Council of Metal C C India Ltd., a company and Mining SEL Sterlite Energy Ltd., a company incorporated in India incorporated in India IFC International Finance Corporation CCF Chief Conservator of Forests SEP Stakeholder Engagement Plan IPP Independent Power Plant CDM Clean Development Mechanism Sesa Goa Sesa Goa Limited and its IRP Independent Review Panel subsidiaries CEC Central Empowered Committee IRTE Institute of Road & Traffic Education SHG Self Help Groups CEO Chief Executive Officer ISO 9001 International Organisation for Skorpion Zinc asset (mine) in Namibia CER Certified Emission Reduction Standardisation (standards for quality management system) Zinc CFO Chief Financial Officer ISO 14001 International Organisation for SPA Single Point Accountability CGWA Central Ground Water Authority Standardisation (standards for SPL Spent Pot Lining Chanderiya One of the smelter units of HZL environmental management systems) SPM Suspended particulate matter CIF&B Chief Inspector of Factories & Boilers ISO 50001 International Organisation for Standardisation (standards for SRM Supplier Relationship Management CMT Copper Mines of Tasmania Pty Limited, a company incorporated in Australia energy management system) STDP Save the Tasmanian Devil IUCN International Union for Programme COO Chief Operating Officer Conservation of Nature TNPCB Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board COP Cairn Observation Programme IVDP Integrated Village Development TPM Total Product Management CPCB Central Pollution Control Board Programme TQM Total Quality Management CRF Cobalt Recovery Furnance JET Junior Executive Training TRIFR Total Recordable Injury CSO Committee Secretary KCM Konkola Copper Mines PLC, Frequency Rate a company incorporated in Zambia CSR Corporate Social Responsibility UNFCCC United Nations Framework KRA Key Result Area Convention on Climate Change DAPP Development Aid from People to People Lisheen Zinc asset (mine) in Ireland UNGC United Nations Global Compact DNV Det Norske Veritas AS LME London Metal Exchange UNMDG UN Millenium Development Goals EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, LOTO Lockout-Tagout VAL Vedanta Aluminium Ltd, a company depreciation and amortisation incorporated in India LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate: the EHS Environment, Health and Safety number of lost time injuries per million VAL-J VAL-Jharsuguda man-hours worked by employees EIA Environment Impact Assessment VAL-L VAL-Lanjigarh and contractors in our operations EITI Extractive Industries Transparency VBCA Vedanta Bal Chetna Anganwadi Initiative m 3 Cubic metres Centres ESIA Environmental and Social MALCO The Madras Aluminium Company Limited, a company incorporated VER Voluntary Emission Reduction Impact Assessments in India VIJJY Vedanta Integrated Jan Jivika ESOP Employee Share Ownership Plan Yojana MAS Management Assurance Services EVG&D Economic Value Generated and VRS Voluntary Retirement Scheme Distributed Mboe Millions of Barrels of Oil Equivalent MCM Million Cubic Metres VSAP Vedanta Sustainability Assurance ExCo Executive Committee Programme Fatality The death of an employee, contract MDG Millenium Development Goals VSF Vedanta Sustainability Framework employee, business associate or visitor MHU Mobile Health Unit at our operations and project sites WBCSD World Business Council for MOEF Ministry of Environment and Forests Sustainable Development FTSE Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange Moz Million Ounces Zinc Zinc assets in Black Mountain, FY Financial Year MT Metric tonnes International Namibia and Ireland MVAFR Motor Vehicle Accident Frequency (ZI) GHG Greenhouse Gas Rate GJ Gigajoules 112 Vedanta Resources plc Sustainable Development Report 2012-13 Further Information We value your feedback and welcome comments on this report or any aspect of our approach to Sustainability Reporting. Please email us at: sustainability@vedanta.co.in Please write to us at: Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ For more information visit www.vedantaresources.com More online View our Sustainability website sustainability.vedantaresources.com/home View our online Annual Report 2013 www.vedantaresources.com Vedanta Resources plc 5th Floor, 16 Berkeley Street London W1J 3DZ Tel: +44 (0)20 7499 5900 Fax: +44 (0)20 7491 8440 Design and production by Black Sun Plc (London) www.blacksunplc.com vedantaresources.com +44 (0) 20 7736 0011
