2012 Communication on Progress Caja de Ahorros y Pensiones de Barcelona, “la Caixa” 1 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Caja de Ahorros y Pensiones de Barcelona, “la Caixa” Registered office: Avda. Diagonal, 621 08028 Barcelona (Spain) Tax ID No.: G-58899998 Telephone: (+34) 934 046 000 Website: www.lacaixa.com 2 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Caja de Ahorros y Pensiones de Barcelona, “la Caixa” (hereinafter “la Caixa”) is a private-law, nonprofit financial institution providing beneficent welfare services, and is separate from any other company or entity. Its purpose is to encourage savings, carry out social and beneficial projects, and invest its funds in secure profitable assets in the general interest. As a credit institution, subject to the rules and regulations issued by the Spanish and European Union economic and monetary authorities, “la Caixa” conducts universal banking activities, and provides substantial retail banking services. “la Caixa” is one of the founding entities of the Spanish sec tion of the United Nations Global Compact and has been a member since 2005, renewing its commitment year after year. “la Caixa” has a dual dimension, economic and social. First, it carries out its banking business indirectly through Caixabank, S.A. a listed bank and parent of a leading financial group in the Spanish market and featured in the main sustainability indices worldwide (DJSI, FTSE4Good, ASPI). In order to diversify revenues and to participate in the development of companies providing basic services to society, la Caixa” is implementing, through Criteria CaixaHolding, a strategy of acquiring stakes in various industrial and services sectors. The dividends from financial and investment activity allow “la Caixa” to maintain the Group's ultimate objective: the social commitment through “la Caixa” Welfare Projects, managed by “la Caixa” Foundation, the largest foundation in Spain. 3 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Principle 1 Businesses must support and observe the protection of internationally acknowledged fundamental human rights in their area of influence. The General Assembly is the supreme body of government and decision of la Caixa and it represents the entity's depositors (as the bank through which “la Caixa” carries out its financial activity), the founding entities of la Caixa and other entities of social interest, the local corporations in whose municipal districts CaixaBank runs a branch office and the representatives of the entity's own employees and those of CaixaBank: Number of Group to which they belong % of total general directors Municipal corporations 31 19,872 Depositors 64 41,026 Employees 20 12,821 Founding entities and entities of social interest 41 26,282 TOTAL 156 100,000 Further information on corporate governance of “la Caixa” Since 1998, the activity of the entity and the conduct of its employees, directors and members of the Board of Directors have been governed by a Code of Professional Ethics and General Action Principles (hereinafter, the “Code of Ethics”) that encompasses the values and principles that inform and inspire it, and the basic rules of conduct applied to it. “la Caixa” fully endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 and the covenants deriving thereof, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950. We also honor the Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and the Social Policy of the International Labor Organization, as well as the principle of labor union representation among our employees. The Code of Ethics of “la Caixa” is available on the entity's intranet. Although it was updated in late 2008, the entity's intention is to maintain it consistent and aligned with the necessities of the time. Hence, it expects to approve a new Code of Ethics in 2013 based on the previous one, restating its content in order to adjust it even more closely to the present. 4 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 The entity also works to extend its commitment to its stakeholders. Accordingly, since it opened for business, la Caixa has been characterized by a firm social commitment and a vocation to working for the general interest. This can be seen in its financial business and its Welfare Projects, which finances and maintains activities in the interest of society, education, culture and science. The la Caixa Foundation is now more alive than ever and maintains its commitment to underprivileged members of society and collectives, a commitment that inspired the birth of the entity more than one century ago. Fostering the well-being of individuals, avoiding social and encouraging the development of areas in which it carries out its financial activities are still the basic pillars on which the la Caixa Foundation works. In 2012, it maintained its budget allocation of €500 million for the fifth year running. This figure makes it the leading private foundation in Spain and one of the most important in the world in terms of budget. Throughout 2012, the la Caixa Foundation has prioritized programs designed to eliminate child poverty social exclusion in Spain (CaixaProinfancia), foster employment among collectives with difficulties (Integration into Work) and provide access to a home for young people, the elderly and families experiencing financial difficulties (Vivienda Asequible, Affordable Housing). It also promotes active ageing and the full integration of the elderly in society (Gente 3.0). The “Vivienda Asequible” program, launched in 2004, had 4,000 properties at year-end 2012 for young people, the elderly and families with incomes below the limit to be eligible for subsidized housing. 4,000 other apartments throughout Spain have also been made available under the “Alquiler Solidario” (Solidarity Rental), to individuals with incomes below €18,600 per annum for a monthly rent of between €85 and €150. 5 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 In addition, “la Caixa” Foundation continued efforts on child vaccination in developing nations (2 million children vaccinated since launch), on sustainable economic development through 71 ongoing projects in 26 countries and, especially, on assistance to address hunger in the Sahel region of Africa. In 2012, the entity signed two new strategic partnerships with the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) to promote sustainable projects in Latin America and, with the FAO, to help reduce hunger in the world. Further information on the activities of “la Caixa” Foundation All workers at the “la Caixa” Group can take part in the community activities that are coordinated through the Corporate Volunteers program, which provides a variety of services: care, leisure and sports; educational services that focus on integration to help immigrants overcome cultural barriers; environmental services; Christmas campaigns and international volunteer services. The program includes 40 volunteer associations, coordinated by the Federación de Asociaciones de Voluntarios ”la Caixa”, Federation of “la Caixa” Volunteer Associations (FASVOL), and committed to meeting the needs of a number of regions in different Spanish provinces, with more than 4,500 volunteers. Further information on the Corporate Volunteer program Principle 2 Businesses must make sure that they are not accomplices to the violation of human rights. One of the aims of the corporate responsibility policy of “la Caixa” is to apply the principles and responsible practices to the individuals and collectives with which it collaborates in order to progress hand-in-hand in issues that affect the economy, society and the environment. The entity's presence in Spain and abroad (through CaixaBank), the number of initiatives put in place through its community program and its employees' commitment take it to a good position for putting into practice and transmitting its values and commitment to corporate responsibility and human rights to its stakeholders. 6 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 CaixaBank, the entity through which “la Caixa” indirectly carries on its financial business, has a Code of Ethics and Action Principles, a document that governs the actions taken by all the employees, managers and members of its Board of Directors. Access to the Code of Ethics and Action Principles In order to ensure observance of the Code of Ethics, the Telematic Code and of the financial and accounting reporting system, “la Caixa” has a Confidential Channel for processing queries or reports on violations available to its employees through the entity's intranet. Said channel can also be used to send any doubts that arise on the interpretation of the code or infractions or violations of the same (including a specific procedure for financial and accounting information). All the queries or reports sent by employees in relation to the code will be forwarded to the Legal Compliance Division. They will be received, analyzed and resolved and the confidentiality of the sender will be maintained at all times. In 2012, the Management Committees of “la Caixa” and CaixaBank resolved to increase the visibility of the Ethics Channel on the corporate intranet and extend its use by employees through a variety of promotional initiatives. In addition, the procedure for receiving and studying notifications was modified to provide more details on the type of notifications received. Notifications from CaixaBank customers will continue to be handled through the normal customer service channels established by CaixaBank. “la Caixa” and CaixaBank have the obligation to protect the personal and private information of their employees as far as possible, and of their customers, in the case of CaixaBank. Data protection and the right to privacy are given consideration across all the both entities' areas of management and there are strict internal rules in place. Both entities also register all the personal data files it controls with the General Data Protection Registry and all its employees have access to a security document that provides the measures required to guarantee the security of personal data files and processing centers, etc Furthermore, employees' and customers' data cannot be queried in either entity unless it is strictly necessary for work purposes. Unnecessary access is penalized, where possible, even when its significance is exclusively internal. Staff are also given specific training courses. One of CaixaBank's priorities is customer satisfaction through service excellence. To achieve this, it maintains a high level of demand based on trust, proximity, efficiency and continuous improvement. 7 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Every year, CaixaBank conducts 20,000 monthly surveys with retail customers and 3,900 yearly surveys with companies in order to learn customers' opinions. It also provides all its customers with the various communication channels operated by the Customer Service Office: letters to the General Director; customer service free phone on 900 323 232; and a form on the corporate website. All the communications that are received are analyzed and dealt with by the persons responsible on the territorial network, at central services or in “la Caixa” Group subsidiari es. In 2012, the Customer Service Office received a total of 25,927 complaints and claims. It is a priority for CaixaBank to minimize the number of complaints and claims it receives, offer personalized responses to customers who lodge them, and address said issues in a timely fashion with solutions that are satisfactory to both parties. To this end, priority areas of action for 2013 include encouraging corrective measures to reduce the number of customer complaints. Accordingly, the complaint resolution process is being revamped to improve communication, response time and customer satisfaction with the solutions provided. CaixaBank also has a Commercial Communication Policy in place, based on legal requirements and respect for society, customers and the Bank's corporate values. In keeping with this policy, during 2012 CaixaBank put a total of 1,563 prior consultations before the Spanish Association for Advertising SelfRegulation (Autocontrol): an entity authorized by the Bank of Spain to monitor the advertising of financial products and services. All these submissions obtained a positive report from Autocontrol. In similar fashion, no legal action for misleading advertising was brought in 2012. “la Caixa” and CaixaBank seek to extend this commitment to their suppliers. Within the framework of observance of the prevailing law, clauses have been added to contracts on observance and compliance with the principles of the Global Compact by both parties and observance of the Code of Ethics. Further, another way of achieving this is by analyzing the criteria and procedures established in the purchasing process, with a view to ensuring transparency and rigor in contracting throughout “la Caixa” Group. In 2012, a Suppliers' Portal was established. Suppliers can register to offer their products and services, and the portal includes social and environmental criteria in the required documentation. At the end of the year, the portal was being piloted. The portal is to be rolled out in all la Caixa Group companies as from 2013. Access to Portal 8 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Principle 3 Companies must support freedom of association and the effective acknowledgement of the right to collective bargaining. In accordance with the powers awarded by law and the Articles of Association, the government, regime, administration, representation and control of la Caixa” correspond to the General Assembly, the Board of Directors and the Control Committee. Employees are represented on the bodies of government, together with depositors, founding entities, entities of social interest and local corporations. There are also various internal communication channels, such as the corporate intranet, and regular meetings with trade union representatives. In addition to the Collective Bargaining Agreement for the Sector of Savings Banks and Financial Entities, “la Caixa” includes the internal agreements signed by and between management and trade unions. The result is an improvement to workers' conditions. The entity also has a number of joint committees, such as the Mixed Career and Salaries Committee, the Pension Scheme Control Committee, the Single Occupational Health and Safety Committee and the Training Committee, among others. Principle 4 Companies must support the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. “la Caixa” complies with current legislation and pays a starting salary that is higher than the legal minimum. It also complies with the Collective Bargaining Agreement for Savings Banks and Financial Entities. Compatibility between personal, family life and professional development is key to the well -being of “la Caixa” employees. Consequently, it focuses many of its initiatives on the work -life balance. In 2010 and in recognition of its policies and initiatives for the work -life balance and the commitment to equal opportunities for its workers, the Másfamilia Foundation awarded la Caixa the EfR certificate, which certifies the entity as a Family-Responsible Business. The certificate was renewed in 2012. 9 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Principle 5 Companies must support the eradication of child labor. “la Caixa carries on its business mainly in Spain and, in accordance with current legislation, the risk of child labor is non-existent. With regard to its supply chain, the entity is working towards responsible management of its value chain, ensuring transparency and rigor in its dealings with suppliers. All “la Caixa” Group companies include a clause in their contracts by which suppliers are under the obligation to be aware of and observe the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In 2012, PromoCaixa, a subsidiary of CaixaBank that manages promotional material, conducted five audits of suppliers who manufacture exclusive products for CaixaBank and which are based in China. Anomalies not related to child labor were found in four of these suppliers, and these were corrected a posteriori. Furthermore, the la Caixa Foundation, through its CaixaProinfancia program, fosters the social and educational development of children who are in a situation of poverty through integral care for the entire family. In 2012, CaixaProinfancia made an investment of €46 million. Since 2007, nearly €295 million have been allocated to the program, with 204,000 beneficiary children and their families in the ten most highly populated cities of Spain and their metropolitan areas. It is also firmly committed to education and access to knowledge by people of all ages and academic levels. Proof of this is provided by promotion of excellence in research and support for university training for young people. In the sphere of education, eduCaixa highlights the Institution's clear support for training of students between 3 and 18 years of age, teachers and parents associations. Over one million students participated in educational programs run by “la Caixa” Foundation last year in 3,985 schools across Spain. Efforts to encourage entrepreneurialism in schools during 2012 formed the backbone of this commitment. 10 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Principle 6 Companies must support the abolition of discriminatory practices in employment and occupation. All the companies in the la Caixa Group have a human resources policy that requires respect for diversity, equal opportunities and non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, age, disability or any other condition. It also ensures transparency in its professional selection processes. Furthermore, the remuneration paid to workers at “la Caixa” and its subsidiaries is set according to professional level and performance, regardless of gender. “la Caixa” considers that to achieve the physical, mental and emotional well-being of its employees the work-life balance is of key importance. To achieve this goal, the entity applies policies that facilitate and favor the work-life balance and gender equality. Since 2011, the entity has had an Equality Plan, applicable in both “la Caixa” and CaixaBank, geared towards increasing the number of women in positions of responsibility by applying a strict equal opportunities policy and identifying and developing personal talent. By year-end 20% of female employees had been promoted internally. Also in 2012, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality recognized the bank's application of equal opportunity and non-discrimination policies, and awarded it an Equality Seal. There is also a Protocol for Equality and the Work-Life Balance, as well as a Protocol for the Prevention, Treatment and Elimination of Sexual and Labor Harassment, in place since 2010, for which a free telephone service and e-mail account have been set up. These channels are managed primarily by two external mediators: a psychologist/family therapist and a lawyer, who offer guidance for each case. One of the strategic priorities of the la Caixa” Foundation is the promotion of labor integration. Through the Integration into Work program, it works by directly encouraging the capacity for incorporation of the social institutions involved in the program. It also contributes to awareness and the search for opportunities for incorporating people at risk from social exclusion, such as the long-term unemployed, disabled people, immigrants, young people who encounter difficulties for finding their first job and victims of domestic violence. 11 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 CaixaBank collaborates actively with the la Caixa Foundation in the diffusion of Integration into Work through its network of branch offices and business managers, who inform companies about the program. In 2012, the program facilitated 10,504 insertions, amounting to a total of 53,133 insertions since the launch of the project in 2006. Further information on the Integration into Work program Principle 7 Companies must maintain a focus of prevention with regard to the environment. “la Caixa” is committed to respect for the environment and its commitment is passed onto its stakeholders through an integrated environmental management process that takes in all its projects, services and products, as well as the programs of the ”la Caixa” Foundation; this commitment also extends to CaixaBank and Criteria CaixaHolding. This commitment goes beyond the requirements of legislation. The environmental policy of la Caixa is based on the requirements of European and international law, which guarantee a policy for quality environmental management. The ISO 14001 standard and European Regulations 761/2001 EMAS are the two certificates that have guaranteed the environmental compliance of the Central Services of la Caixa , CaixaBank and Criteria CaixaHolding since 2003. Furthermore, since 2006 CaixaBank's branches in Catalonia (25% of the total) have displayed the Environmental Guarantee sign issued by the regional government of Catalonia, the Generalitat; this was renewed until 2015 in 2012. Furthermore, in the documentation that is necessary for taking part in tenders, suppliers are required to indicate whether or not they have an environmental certificate. Accordingly, the entity has a database of suppliers with said certificate for annual turnovers of more than €200,000. Furthermore, we use questionnaires from the Green Purchasing Manual for all our suppliers in general, with a specific questionnaire for ink (cartridges and similar items). CaixaBank has saved the entity 15.8 million KWh in energy consumption (8.2% less than the previous year, not including Banca Cívica) and 382.77t CO 2 emitted during give major corporate conventions have been compensated. 12 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Furthermore, Gas Natural Fenosa, the energy supplier of “la Caixa”, has undertaken to certify that 100% of the energy it supplied to “la Caixa” and CaixaBank in 2012, and 99% of their t otal electricity consumption, came from renewable sources or cogeneration. With the integration of Banca Cívica, 87.4% of the group's total electricity consumption comes from green energy. “la Caixa” Foundation also works for environmental conservation and awareness-raising on the need for sustainable practices, underscoring its commitment to ensuring a high quality of life for everyone in the future. In 2005, “la Caixa” Foundation launched a program for the Conservation of Natural Spaces and Social Reinsertion that fosters the labor integration of people at risk of social exclusion through an activity of improving and protecting natural areas, with the added value of including prevention of forest fires. All these actions are carried out in natural areas and seek to recover or preserve part of the agricultural or livestock activity in the area, one of the best preventive actions to prevent neglect of the environment from increasing the potential risk of fires. In 2012, “la Caixa” Foundation carried out a total of 271 projects, providing labor reinsertion to 1,600 people throughout Spain. Since 2005, 2,946 projects have been carried out in Spain, providing work to 9,761 people. Further information on sustainability and “la Caixa” Foundation Principle 8 Companies must foster initiatives that promote greater environmental responsibility. In keeping with its corporate values, the entity works to foster its stakeholders' respect for the environment. The people who work at “la Caixa” share this commitment and the entire entity works to minimize its environmental impact through various initiatives designed to reduce the consumption of electricity, water, paper and other materials and to promote the collection and recycling of waste. The use of videoconferencing is also encouraged to reduce emissions caused by corporate travel. The corporate intranet has a specific area on the environment , containing all the information about related good practices and current legislation. Furthermore, Virtaula, the entity's virtual training space, provides access to the environmental awareness course on the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. 13 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Criteria CaixaHolding also has a section on the environment on its corporate website, and it is committed to promoting a responsible attitude towards the environment among its investees. Access to environment section on website of Criteria CaixaHolding As part of the strategic partnership with the High Council for Scientific Research (CSIC), “la Caixa” Foundation launched an online educational platform called “El mar a fondo”, with the collaboration of the Institut de Ciències del Mar (ICM-CSIC). Knowledge of the marine world is included in the curriculum of elementary and secondary schools, with learning approached from a practical perspective and an emphasis on fostering careers in science. The ClimaDat project launched by “la Caixa” Foundation and the Catalan Institute Foundation of Climate Science (IC3) involves the start-up of eight measurement stations to be positioned in eight natural systems in Spain. The stations will gather data to measure the evolution and impact of climate change. The information will be processed at a local, regional and global level, and it will be combined with information from the research by international teams on the evolution of the climate. The data will be freely accessible, and they will allow for preparing an overview of greenhouse gas at a regional level. They will be integrated in international reference databases for use in climate research. Further information on Environment programs of the “la Caixa” Foundation CaixaBank shares this commitment with la Caixa and also works to foster more sustainable practices in society. Accordingly, its website offers the ecoCaixa space, where it provides the general public with related advice and information on some of the entity's environmental initiatives. Access to ecoCaixa Since 2012, MicroBank, the social bank of CaixaBank, has been working with the W orld Wildlife Fund (WWF) on environmental conservation and sustainable development through its financial contributions and those of its customers to WWF projects. With the Cuenta Verde (Green Account), for example, we are helping reforest the Doñana National Park, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Over 2,600 of these Cuenta Verde accounts had been opened by the end of the year. Lastly, since 2011 CaixaBank has required all the printers that take part in the preparation of its paper advertising to obtain the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certificate. The FSC label ensures that all 14 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 forest products used are from responsibly harvested and verified sources, and ensures that both the paper manufacturing and printing process are sustainable and environmentally friendly. Further information on the environment in CaixaBank Principle 9 Companies must foster the development and diffusion of environment-friendly technologies. Ensuring that technology, innovation and progress walk hand in hand with efficiency, savings and sustainability is one of the objectives of the platform www.ecotendenciasCosmoCaixa.org launched by “la Caixa” Foundation. This online space for fosters debate on environmental issues and their social, economic and political implications. In 2012, the debates were Moving in flight, which addresses challenges facing the future of aviation; Moving information on the use of the Internet to reduce environmental impacts by reducing the mobility of people and things and The city of the future, the first eco-trend of the 2012-2103 academic year, relating to the urban challenges of the future in a world where cities contain the bulk of the population and the majority demands electricity. Further information on eco-trends For its part, CaixaBank considers that one of the ways of achieving greater environmental sustainability in the long term is by financing environment-friendly projects and those that foster the development of renewable energies. CaixaBank was took part in seven renewable-energy projects in 2012, totaling €611.3 million, either on its own account or in conjunction with other entities. These projects generated 378 MWh. In addition, CaixaBank also financed the leasing of solar photovoltaic plants through two transactions with a value of over €230,000, seven transactions registered under the Institut Català de l’Enèrgia (Energy Institute of Catalonia) project-financing agreement amounting to €95,230. CaixaBank also expanded its commercial offering with a specific ecoLoans product and ecomicrocredits through its MicroBank to foster sustainable investment that improves resource efficiency and reduces environmental impact. In the first year, more than 510 ecoLoans were financed, amounting to more than two million euros. Ecomicrocredits for business finance investment and working capital for the selfemployed and micro-enterprises that produce, sell or distribute ecological products and services, such 15 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 as ecotourism, sustainable products, recycling and waste-processing services, etc. We also finance investment in production processes or new products or services that entail a more efficient use of resources or a reduction in environmental impacts. These include insulation, systems to reduce paper and energy usage, and waste-processing systems. In 2012, we approved 460 ecomicrocredits for families and businesses, with a value in excess of €1.35 million. Further information on the environment in CaixaBank In addition, through the EmprendedorXXI initiative, various programs have been up and running since 2010 for the creation and consolidation of innovative businesses in areas that include clean technologies (EcoEmprendedorXXI), life sciences (BioEmprendedorXXI) and, since 2011, digital technologies (EmprendedorXXIDigital). Further information on ecoEmprendedorXXI Principle 10 Companies must work against all kinds of corruption, including extortion and bribery. At la Caixa , good corporate governance practices are based on the responsible, transparent and independent exercise of their obligations by the entity's governing bodies. Further information on corporate governance of “la Caixa” Since 1998, the activity of the entity and the conduct of its employees, directors and members of the Board of Directors have been governed by a Code of Professional Ethics and General Action Principles (hereinafter, the “Code of Ethics”) that encompasses the values and principles that inform and inspire it, and the basic rules of conduct applied to it. “la Caixa” fully endorses the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 and the covenants deriving thereof, namely the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights of 1966 and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of 1950. We also honor the Tripartite Declaration of Principles Concerning Multinational Enterprises and the Social Policy of the International Labor Organization, as well as the principle of labor union representation among our employees. The Code of Ethics of “la Caixa” is available on the entity's intranet. 16 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Although the Code of Ethics was updated in late 2008, the entity's intention is to maintain it consistent and aligned with the necessities of the time. Hence, it expects to approve a new Code of Ethics in 2013 based on the previous one, restating its content in order to adjust it even more closely to the present. For CaixaBank and its instrumental bank, CaixaBank, the fight against money -laundering is not only a legal obligation, but also a priority for all its employees, managers and directors in keeping with its corporate values and Code of Ethics. The subject is controlled by the Internal Money -Laundering Prevention Committee of “la Caixa” Group. The Money-Laundering Prevention Unit in the Legal Compliance Division is dedicated exclusively to overseeing compliance in the “la Caixa” Group with money laundering prevention obligations imposed by law on credit institutions. In 2012, CaixaBank implemented a training plan on the amendments to legislation on this subject, with more than 11,000 hours of training and more than 5,700 persons trained. The course was given to all branch employees and focused on activities posing the greatest risk of money laundering. In addition, special training was provided to Banca Cívica employees. Throughout 2012, 73.4% of the workforce was trained in CaixaBank's anti-corruption policies and procedures. In addition, furthering its commitment to transparency, ethics and good governance, CaixaBank will publish its anti-corruption policy in 2013. This policy will provide information in a single document on all the Institution’s anti-corruption actions that are governed by internal documents. Once approved by the Board of Directors, the Policy will be binding for all employees, managers and directors of the Institution. The anti-corruption will set forth the position of CaixaBank in its relations with public administrations, political parties, authorities and civil servants, and guidelines for the acceptance and giving of gifts, sponsorship and donations to non-governmental organizations, among other subjects. CaixaBank also has an Internal Customer Admission Policy. In line with this policy, legal entities or other instruments of high-risk jurisdictions, such as tax havens, or other non-cooperative territories or countries may be rejected without any further action required. In exceptional cases where rejection is not considered applicable, admission requires authorization from a superior level. Further information on prevention of money laundering in “la Caixa” Group 17 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013 Further information at: “la Caixa” 2012 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report CaixaBank 2012 Integrated Corporate Report “la Caixa” Foundation 2012 Annual Report 18 © Caja de Ahor ros y Pensiones de Bar celona, Barc elona, 2013
