CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INITIATIVE COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Corporate Profile 2. President’s Statement of Continued Support 3. Brief Support Statement 4. Communication on Progress report 2012 5. CCC’s Bulletin CSR News Section CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 CORPORATE PROFILE Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a contracting company formed in 1952 and incorporated under the laws of Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. CCC is by far the largest Engineering, Procurement and Construction Company in the Middle East and is rated by the ENR magazine as #17 among International Construction Companies. CCC currently operates in 40 countries across 5 continents and employs over 110,000 employees from over 85 nationalities, building some of the most challenging and complex facilities. Drawing on its long and successful experience, CCC provides a full range of projects services, from Project Development, through detailed Engineering, Procurement and Construction, to Start-Up, Operation and Maintenance pertaining to the following:  Buildings and Civil Engineering Works  Oil & Gas, and Water Pipelines  Oil & Gas, Petrochemical Plants and Refineries  Power Plants  Marine Works  Offshore Installations  Maintenance of Mechanical Installations and Underwater Structures CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 WE SUPPORT The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Brief Support Statement As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact’s Initiative, submission of an annual Communication on Progress report is needed to be lodged. CCC has approached this response in relation to the following four key areas – Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. CCC’s ongoing commitments showcase constant focus on core values and principles such as the development and growth of staff on all levels, the sense of belonging and harmony for its manpower, continuous propagation of innovation, sustainable commitments to the environment and anti-corruption ideals as well as the utmost respect of cultural identities on company projects. This report was created and developed by a select taskforce composed of staff stemming from diverse departments including Corporate Social Responsibility, Human Resources, and Renewable Energy & Special Assignments. The objective of this taskforce is to examine and assess the sustainability impact of the company across all facets of its operations. Meetings are held every month in order to conduct discussions and assessments of various parameters in order to constantly filter information that will eventually be utilized to compile the report using the contribution and input of all members of this taskforce. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 2012 Report Human Rights and Labor Employee Training and Development  Training and development of staff is one element of paramount importance to CCC. The company bolsters its growth and success on both general and focused training and aims to continuously expand this training for its staff on all levels.  Extensive training workshops are held annually mostly in house by qualified and certified CCC instructors and experts (in Technical, Project Management, Leadership, IT, Health, Safety and Environment, Quality topics, etc.). CCC experts and external speakers also participate in these training workshops to enrich them further.  In numerous cases, our staff is offered training by external providers for a higher level of specialization whenever a need arises.  CCC is certified by the Project Management Institute (PMI) where the Technical and Project Management courses are accredited by the Institute. Company staff passing the PMP exam can benefit from additional and various CCC courses and experience, in order to maintain their certification.  In 2012, in house training has been calculated to equal to 1 training day per employee. We usually offer training to employees in Abu Dhabi due to of its accessibility. However, the Training Department will aim to accommodate CCC staff in different geographical locations by offering training in diversified geographical areas by 5% of its total training schemes. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Equal Opportunity and Transparency  All employees adhere to the proper codes of conduct that are stated on employment agreements signed between staff and the company.  Segregation, discrimination and racism are notions that are not allowed in our company’s environment and if such instances occur, they are dealt with swiftness and justice to all concerned.  Behavior that is unbecoming is not tolerated; preventative steps are taken to resolve conflicts and issues that may arise without their escalation.  If there are instances of discrimination, CCC management swiftly takes action to deal with them. If they exist, we aspire to reduce these incidents to zero. Remuneration  We are committed to always offer standard entry level packages that are comparatively higher than most locations’ minimum wages. Hiring of Local Manpower  We encourage the hiring of locally based staff at all projects and sites (64 % of staff hired in 2011 for many locations were local staff). There are recruitment campaigns carried out on a yearly basis which aim to hire graduates from the countries where the core areas of operations of CCC are.  It is general practice of the company to hire locally based trained and qualified subcontractors to assist each country’s project manpower.  CCC aims to propagate both practices for newly awarded projects. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Employee Turnover  CCC’s continuous commitment to its workforce highlights that all staff are treated with dignity, respect and transparency. International implementation of human rights, ideals and notions are constantly revised and communicated to all staff on all levels.  These policies lead to high employee commitment and low employee turnover. Our staff enjoys security and long-term benefits at CCC which leads to them staying longer in the company.  CCC also has the policy of not releasing project staff in between projects as a commitment by the company to its employees until they find other employment opportunities. Rates of Injury, Occupational Diseases, Lost Days, Absenteeism, Work-related Fatalities  We record all of the above rates and we aim to reduce fatalities to zero. As for absenteeism, committees are formed to reduce it in cases where there is any observation that it has increased. Demographics Diversification  We are committed to equal opportunity and treatment in employment and occupation regardless of demographics such as gender, race, color, religion, etc.  Distinctions are made stringently only on the bases of fundamental requirements of each particular employment position i.e. qualifications, skills acquired, relevant work experience, etc.  CCC encourages: o The hiring of university graduates to promote and develop their careers CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 o Diversified manpower; employees come from 40 countries, composing a total of 110,000 strong workforce  In countries where social circumstances allow (for example, the UK, Greece and Lebanon), the male/female ratio reaches an average of 35/65%.  As for the diversity of CCC, it boasts staff from more than 85 nationalities working at different locations and projects which showcases the company’s equal opportunity policies. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Environment CCC Group Sustainability Report – Year 2012  Since the very beginning, CCC has been committed to carry out its activities in an environmentally friendly manner by reducing environmental burden and improving efficiency wherever possible. Nevertheless, 2012 has been a landmark year for us, firstly because the CCC Sustainability Mission Statement was forged: “Our mission is to be a leader in sustainable construction. We build on our heritage of family values and thorough construction record to continue to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders, clients, employees, communities and for future generations.”  Secondly, because CCC is accumulating all necessary data and input from all the Business Areas globally to prepare our first Sustainability Report covering 2012. The report currently in preparation is being put together in line with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines.  In addition to all these, we have intensified environmental training (internal and external) provided to select CCC staff (mainly Control Managers and Engineers). We also constantly encourage all stakeholders such as clients, subcontractors, contractors, partners and all our peers to implement sustainability themes.  We pledge that in 2013 we will continue to form and expand our Sustainability Management Systems and grow into a truly global powerhouse that is fully committed to carrying out its environmental and social responsibilities. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Addressing Climate Change  CCC identifies that climate change embodies new opportunities for businesses capable to mitigate and adapt to climate impact, but at the same time, it also entails new risks and costs, which ought to be examined. For the company the key point of managing climate-related risks and opportunities is to engage and directly communicate with all our business areas, enabling each and every one of them to verify the ideal pattern of dealing with the various risks and opportunities.  The risks below deriving from climate change are taken into consideration by CCC: o Regulatory risk relates to national and international policies and regulations aiming to reduce greenhouse gases and waste disposal. Staying true to the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development is among the top priorities of CCC. (see below for specific details on reducing carbon emissions). o Physical risk derives from climate change as a physical phenomenon e.g. constantly rising temperatures, change in water cycle, etc. This aspect is examined specifically for each business area. A specific example is the following: in order to address the limited water supply in the Middle East, CCC makes use of wastewater plant and desalination technologies that help adapt to climate change via water reuse and recycling. o Reputational risk stems from the opinion of diverse stakeholders with regard to the company’s action or inaction on climate change. On this matter, we make a point to include our environmental approach in our internal and external communications (internal quarterly bulletin, corporate brochures, website etc.)  Finally, as part of the preparation of our first Sustainability Report covering 2012, we have been developing a number of solutions and measures to actively tackle environmental challenges. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Reducing Greenhouse Gas Emissions  It is established that buildings consume some 40% of global energy. CCC recognizes the importance of reducing this share for the future and therefore it has incorporated an energy efficient perspective within its corporate goals.  We constantly strive to minimize carbon emissions of our buildings, project sites and transport fleets. We are also trying to moderate the carbon embodied in the materials we use by exploring recycling and reusing options of construction materials.  At the moment, we are in the process of establishing our global baseline of the company’s carbon emissions (currently accumulating measurements for 2012 from all business areas). Once this step is completed we will be setting our goals for 2013. In order to maximize environmental friendliness of our goals, we intend to reduce carbon emissions approximately by 10% with respect to 2012.  As part of our first Sustainability Report covering 2012, we aspire to obtain an overall perspective over our produced emissions; therefore we have been meticulously measuring direct greenhouse gases emissions (CO2 equivalent) as well as indirect emissions, from general electricity use.  In addition to this, CCC is concentrating its efforts on developing a program of sustainable construction and green building. As a construction company, apart from minimizing our own energy use and carbon emissions, we see enormous market opportunities and potential in assisting our clients to decrease their carbon footprints by starting to develop new, low carbon infrastructure and protect existing infrastructure from the impacts of climate change.  During 2012, by practicing innovative energy management and business models that even made use of renewable energy resources (for example, photovoltaic installations), we have managed to decrease greenhouse gas emissions and cutback project running costs. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Protecting Biodiversity  CCC recognizes that maintaining biodiversity is vital to all human welfare including businesses, and the loss or degradation of biodiversity can have irreversible economic, environmental, and social consequences. In order for businesses to flourish they require the stable operation of ecosystems and for this reason we strive to use sustainable natural resources in a responsible manner.  For CCC protecting the natural resources is not just about the environment but it also ensures the fluid operation of our industrial activities.  As early as the planning phase of construction projects, we promote the preservation of biodiversity in the areas surrounding our projects. CCC develops customized environmental strategies aiming to minimize the impact of our projects on the local nature. In addition to this, as a responsible corporate citizen, CCC restores the affected environment in many sites, thereby protecting the local flora and fauna. Reduce – Reuse – Recycle  CCC is committed to the constant carrying out of its activities in an environmentally friendly manner, by reducing its burden and improving efficiency wherever possible. The 3R’s initiative is governed by CCC’s sustainability pillars; Economy, Society and the Environment, and aims to accomplish efficient use of resources as well as zero waste.  The implementation strategy for achieving the 3R’s initiative goals are set based on the following particulars: o Given the significance and value of water and energy resources, the main area of improvement should concentrate on implementing reduction procedures o Given that waste minimization can be achieved by focusing primarily on the first of the 3R, “reduce”, subsequently followed by “reuse”, then “recycle”. The initial target should be to use resources efficiently CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012  Awareness of the 3R’s initiative is catching up around the different areas, departments and disciplines within the company, launching different ideas that are being introduced, aiming to be implemented wherever applicable. Water Use Reduction Actions  Replacing the restroom/kitchen faucets with reduced flow faucets  Installing of water meters to measure water consumption per building  Scheduling regular maintenance checks for detection of leaks  Organizing water saving awareness campaigns Paper Use Reduction Actions  Replacing paper magazines with electronic subscriptions  Submitting majority of bidding proposals electronically  Converting our main archives from paper to electronic/digital records  Two sided printing as default setting on office printer networks Recycling Actions  Distribution of recycling bins for paper, plastic/aluminum/glass, CDs, batteries  Introduction of recycling scheme for neon lighting, fluorescent rods, energy saving light bulbs  Introduction of personal paper recycling boxes  Disposal of materials such as old carpeting, glass/metal partitions, foam insulation for efficient breaking down and recycling CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Reusing Actions  Promoting the reusing of single sided printed paper, as scrap paper  Distributing of 3R’s tips through informative periodic email campaigns  Encouraging the staff to bring their own coffee/tea mugs to use rather than constantly use disposable cups  Using of recycled paper towels/napkins  Refilling of printer cartridges and toners Environmental awareness within our company  We recognize the importance of continuously promoting the general notion of sustainability between all employees. For this reason, the company regularly organizes internal awareness campaigns such as the installation of “Save Water” banners, the “Think before you print” reminder emails as well as pertinent educational activities such as reforestation and beach cleanings.  CCC makes it a policy to buy furniture, carpeting and paints that are free of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and continue to reuse these wherever possible.  We make mass orders of consumable products in order to save on postage and unnecessary journeys of numerous deliveries and we aim to purchase items with excess packaging that can be reused or recycled.  The company uses bio degradable cleaning products that include less harmful ingredients, whenever possible. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Anti-Corruption Commitment  CCC is committed to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption as well as to the World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) Principles.  CCC supports the Partnering Against Corruption – Principles for Countering bribery (“Principles”), derived from Transparency International’s Business principles for Countering Bribery. These principles call for a commitment on two fundamental actions: o A zero tolerance policy towards bribery, and; o Development of a practical and effective implementation program Systems  CCC’s Core Values, Guiding Principles and Code of Practice which include our anticorruption commitment are adopted in all company offices and projects. We have internal and external auditing systems in place and management monitoring procedures to ensure the prevention of bribery and corruption.  CCC has developed its “Ethics & Anti-Corruption Program” (EACP) which covers all aspects related to the subject including commitments, declarations and whistle blowing procedures and tools.  Implementation of the EACP is mandatory across the Group and is monitored and controlled by senior management. Statements on corruption and penalties, as well as periodic bulletins on anti-corruption and legal consequences are issued to all employees. In addition, training sessions are conducted to increase awareness of the staff on the importance of fighting corruption. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 Actions  Internal controls have been strengthened to ensure transparent policies and systems. The company is set up in such a way that every department has a system and standard procedures to follow, hence making it harder for corruption activities to exist.  Internal memos clearly defining the legal consequences for corruption and formal meetings on the subject are conveyed to relevant employees.  Employees suspected of being involved in corruption are investigated by a set up taskforce which gathers information from all parties concerned, studies the case and takes action when needed. When found guilty, legal actions are taken against the violators including dismissal from their post. If evidence is not sufficient for legal action, employees are put under probation and surveillance until light can be shed on the incident. CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 CCC’s BULLETIN Corporate Social Responsibility News Section January till December 2012 Bulletin April / 2012 Issue No. 101 Celebrating 25 Years of Success CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS COMPANY Corporate Social Responsibility CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative of specific necessities including food stuffs, medicines, CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with ideas and acclothing, blankets and other related items have been tivities related to CCC’s CSR Initiatives including Going identified and actions were taken towards the following: Green and community involvement events. Please send Food Drive Campaign your ideas, initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email address csr@ccc.gr Earth Hour A van full of dry and canned food was delivered to the KLIMAKA NGO a shelter for the homeless based in Athens that is active in feeding the increasing number of homeless people in the area. The donation which was made by CSR on behalf of CCC employees was greatly Saturday, 31 March 2012 was the fourth consecutive appreciated by the officials of the organization. year for all CCC areas and projects to recognize and participate in the Global Earth Hour Campaign by switching off their lights between 8:30 and 9:30 pm local times. A few areas and projects which reported their participation included Nigeria, ACWA UK, ACWA UAE, Kazakhstan, UAE, Guinea, Tanzania. Upgrading of Household Appliances A new heavy duty kitchen stove was donated to replace the existing old damaged one to Pamakaristos FoundaGreece Contribution to the Communities in Greece In continuation of the CSR Initiatives, CSR Committee in Athens is extending a supporting arm towards specific communities that have been badly affected by the prevailing financial crisis in Greece. Organizations, Before After institutions and other parties which are badly in need Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 32 Corporate Social Responsibility ...CSR News Report tion, a non-profit charity organization which provides a Kazakhstan variety of services regarding education, social welfare and Nauruz Holiday vocational training courses to children and adolescents with autism spectrum disorders, mental retardation and various learning and attention disabilities. On the occasion of the Nauruz Holiday (21 March), KaA washing machine, a freezer and a vacuum cleaner zakhstan CSR team organized a concert at the Atyrau were donated to the Adult Guest House of the MuniciArts and Music Academy with the Lebanese singer Yehia pality of Vouliagmeni in Athens, an establishment which Abu Saada and musician Mazen Abu Saif participating. offers a shelter and feeds over 40 adults who are unable to The songs and dances played by the academy’s students, remain in their own homes for any given reason.Since its the CCC dabke group, Yehia and Mazen demonstrated foundation, the guest house has hosted more than 2,000 how music is the language of all cultures. people and among the challenges its residents have faced are homelessness, unemployment, drug addiction, cancer, and spousal battery. 3R’s Personal Paper Recycling Box One of the targets handled by CSR “3R’s Sub-Committee” is to minimize wastage of paper at MOA. Personal Paper Recycling Boxes were distributed to all MOA offices for depositing the unwanted documents rather than disposing them in dustbins. Tony Awad Group Corporate Social Responsibility Officer Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 33 Corporate Social Responsibility CCC Egypt’s First Tennis Tournament Dany Chouaib being presented with the winner’s trophy by Ziad Raleb As a part of our commitment to the health and wellbeing We believe that this event was a very successful one, of our staff, we decided to organize and hold the 1st Tenwhich helped build our CCC Egyptian family team spirit nis Tournament for CCC Egypt staff in Cairo. This fun and which came amid severe political tensions and assistevent took during the period 16-23 January 2012 (despite ed in creating hope for a better future. the current unstable situation). Sixteen players from different projects and office locations competed in a friendMohab Kassem ly and cheerful atmosphere which ended with the results Senior Accountant & Sports Events Coordinator as shown in the table. Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 34 Corporate Social Responsibility Public School Library Development Emirates Foundation, Abu Dhabi Sustenance of the universe and prosperity of the human Though we lagged behind in the volume of funding comrace are built on the strengths of pillars of knowledge and pared to other private sector sponsors, our approach tothe process of building the pillars is through READING: wards this noble cause, participation in selection process reading to learn and learning to understand. As part of its and our general attitude from the beginning, and so on CSR programmes, CCC UAE Area has sponsored a pubwere highly appreciated by the Emirates Foundation, the lic Library Development Project implemented by EmirMinistry of Education and of course the beneficiaries (the ates Foundation. Emirates Foundation is a unique notlocal community). for-profit UAE institution which has always undertaken The developed public libraries have a great source for long-term initiatives that address important social, culturexpanding the knowledge base of girl students and female al, educational and environmental issues of UAE citizens, community as the library atmosphere provides all protecbeyond the regular ambit of government and commerce. tions deemed necessary for them to sit relaxed in a culDeveloping reading habits among the young generaturally conducive atmosphere and open up themselves to tions of the UAE population has been recognized as an a world of knowledge which was otherwise not accessible important area to foster public/private cooperation by the for them. The picture shows the female community’s parEmirates Foundation. Major private sector companies ticipation in the libraries. have joined together to promote various projects selected Female Reading Area by them and our decision to sponsor and financially support development of public libraries in various regions of To ameliorate relationships in regions where we are UAE and also be part of the developing process was well building structures that last for generations is a pragmatic received and heartily welcomed by the UAE authorities. approach of the company and it is well within our defined CSR programmes. By doing so, we shall be able to leave Our commitment to support the endeavors of the local behind a permanent footprint of the Company’s generoscommunity to groom a knowledgeable young generation ity and social commitment towards the local community. who are capable of meeting the country’s underlying requirements and future challenges was met with applauds By becoming fully familiar and comfortable with utilizfrom all corners. The future of any country is in the hands ing library resources, young Emiratis will be able to inof the young generation and public libraries contribute a crease their academic achievement and have tools to upgreat share of enlarging the knowledge base of the young grade their knowledge and skills throughout their lives, as well as the grownups. Our efforts to become part of this contributing to their personal and professional accomnoble venture were well appreciated. We can be proud of plishments and that of their nation. And we are proud to our dedication to mould a knowledgeable young generbe a part of this achievement. ation who can face future developmental needs of their country and also contributing to global knowledge deIf books are the medium for young aspiring minds to visvelopment that can support the human race is a well deualize their dreams then a library can give life to realize signed CSR programme. their dreams. Library Development Project V. Mamunni Senior Administrator/Lead CSR Coordinator, UAE Encouraging young students to read and use their school libraries will add to the enhancement of quality of UAE education as well as preserving the cultural heritage of the country. The photograph reveals the utilization of the libraries to expand the cultural spirit of the children from an early age. Cultural Activity Room The region selected for development of this project was the Western Region of the UAE as major CCC projects are located in this region. We are giving more importance to regions where we are operating our projects when the subject is community development. We have been part of the selection and screening committee entrusted with the responsibility of identifying eligible schools, reviewing the aide applications, vetting and subsequent approval by the Ministry of Education. We were cited in all external communications relating to the project and the criteria selected for funding eligibility was based on schools that demonstrate committed leadership, high quality feasibility plans and the engagement of teachers, administrators and community. Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Qatar National Sports Day Qatar kicked off its first ever Qatar National Sports Day on 14 February 2012. As part of the government’s agenda in connection with the upcoming 2022 World Cup and the bid to host the 2020 Summer Olympics, this celebration was initiated to further enhance and develop the sports culture within the state. This in turn creates awareness and promotes sports and its benefits, physical education and a healthy community among its citizens, residents and immigrants working in the state. The National Sports Day (NSD) will be held annually every second Tuesday of February. And since the celebration was declared a national holiday, all levels of society of different ages can participate. CCIC/TCC, as one of leading construction firms in Qatar, joined in the celebration where the sports enthusiasts’ employees of the company actively participated in various sports events such as basketball, volleyball, cricket, table tennis, marathons, and so on. Winners and champions in different categories were awarded with trophies and some gifts were offered as a token of their involvement. Aside from the positive benefits of sports to physical and mental health, it also encourages socialization where employees get to meet other groups. The festival served the employees a worthy cause of their time where all had fun and enjoyment including the families of the senior staff who were also invited to join. Due to the overwhelming success of the event, the government of Qatar granted special authority to CCIC/TCC to continuously hold the annual celebration within CCIC/TCC projects in Qatar which will surely be an event for its employees to look forward to. Through the coordination of CCC area management and all project management along with the local authorities and support from various government departments, the sports fest, as conducted for the first time, turned out to be well-organized and successful thus making an historical addition to Qatar’s record of leading and positive initiatives in the region and across the globe. Adel Abdul Al Manager, Area Personnel and Administration Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 36 Corporate Social Responsibility CCC Oman Lifts Basketball Title This tournament is a yearly activity organized by the Oman Chamber of Commerce & Industry and the Oman Basketball Association. Our basketball team was one of the twelve teams (representing various public and private sector firms and ministries) that participated in this year’s event. The tournament took place between December 2011 and March 2012. In the final game, CCC defeated Oman Cement Company by 63 45. Johny Bandak Materials Engineer (Estimation) Bulletin Issue 101 / April 2012 37 bulletin July 2012 Issue 102 Consolidated Contractors Company MOROCCO Arab Western Frontier Tony Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with to all MOA kitchenettes for depositing plastics, ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR metal and glass disposable material. initiatives including Going Green and community involvement events. Please send your ideas, initiatives and achievements to CSR-CCC email Turkmenistan address csr@ccc.gr On the occasion of the Turkmenistan President’s birthday on 29 June, CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility Turkmenistan Branch sponsored the annual Greece Greco-Roman and Freestyle Wrestling How to Improve Your Personal Security Competitions.CCC presented the competitors with their prizes consisting of 16 TV sets, 28 The MOA CSR Committee organized 2-hourly DVD players and 14 vacuum cleaners. There presentation sessions that focused on awareness and advice related to improving personal security. The presentations were conducted by a retired security expert who served in the Greek Police Force for 30 years including Police Chief positions in different Greek Municipalities. The sessions were interactive, personal security cases were presented and discussed followed by advice and awareness tips on “How to Improve Your Personal Security” by minimizing the risks towards house burglaries, car thefts, armed robberies, bag snatching, ATM transactions, and exposure during holidays. Six successful sessions were held and based on the interest of the participants, more sessions are planned for next September. Greek and Arabic Language Classes Continuing the MOA CSR Committee’s efforts to promote inter-cultural relations between the communities, Greek and Arabic language were ninety participants who represented classes were organized for CCC employees the six provinces of Mary, Balkanabat, Lebap, and members of their families. Due to the Dashoguz, Ahal and Ashgabat. At the end of overwhelming interest in participating, four the competition the company was presented Greek Classes (two beginners with letters of acknowledgment for our and two intermediates: a total assistance and support. of 60 participants), and three Arabic Classes (two beginners and one intermediate: a total of 30 participants), were organized. The duration of each class was 48 hours and based on the success of these sessions, participants are asking for the continuation of the programme in addition to many new requests from interested participants. New classes are planned for next September. 3R’s Garbage Recycling Bins A second activity handled by CSR “3R’s Sub-Committee” targeted the recycling of garbage. Blue Garbage Recycling Bins were distributed C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 Contribution to CSR Initiative CSR News Report Kazakhstan Lebanon Corporate Social Responsibility Paryz 2011 AUB Corporate Social Responsibility Conference The Suliman S. Olayan School of Business at the American University of Beirut hosted its first CSR Practitioners Conference on 4-5 May 2012.Over two days, six panels, 35 international and regional speakers from top performing CSR institutions presented and engaged in debates to emphasize the practical applications and implications of CSR for business practice in the MENA region. Attendees consisted of an audience of business executives and CSR professionals, who shared their experiences and provided opportunities to exchange best practices. CCC Lebanon was a contributor to the activity and was represented by members of the Beirut Office Staff. A ceremony was held on 4 May at Atyrau Akimat to congratulate KMG, Chevron, CCC & ESS for their participation in the President’s contest “Paryz 2011” for the best CSR programme. The event was covered by the media. An appreciation certificate signed by the Kazakhstan Minister of Labour and Social Protection was awarded. Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 29 Filippos Sotiropoulos CCC’s 36 Year Presence in Greece CCC was born 60 years ago a vision which career odyssey, with many being sent to work on originated amidst the violence and turbulence projects abroad. which pervaded the founders’ homeland An interesting fact is that over the years several Palestine. Fuelled by a desire for peace, proposals have been made to the company tranquility and independence, a budding empire by other countries regarding the setting up of took root and grew, firmly established on hard their coordination office in those countries, with work, dedication and vision. The company in Corporate Social Responsibility very attractive benefits being offered, such as due time found itself in Lebanon, where it additional tax benefits. This is not surprising, flourished and grew rapidly, having as its main as which country would not want to host projectory the love, devotion and hard work of its such a global business giant like CCC the employees. The last 36 years of its triumphant benefits are mutual. CCC however has rejected history has been written in Athens, Greece. every proposal, remaining true to its original With the outbreak of the civil war in Lebanon, choice, precepts and ethics, which have deeply CCC moved the Coordination Office of one of its embedded roots in the ‘CCC DNA’. corporate entities to Athens where it has stayed CCC’s connection with Greece can be traced to to the present day. CCC was classified under the an ancient belief that some Greek Philistines legal framework of Law N.89/67, which regulated who came from Crete, went and settled in the tax status of offshore companies not Palestine. This connection with the past in this operating in the domestic market. Later on, this legal framework was amended and took on its present form as Law N. 3427/2005. CCC business activities are spread out over five continents and are coordinated by Athens. By focusing on its employees as a human factor, not considering race, sex, origin or religious persuasion, and in promoting loyalty, hard work and a family spirit, CCC continues its ascending story into the future. It currently employs 140,000 people worldwide and is considered one of the 20 largest construction companies in the world. Without a doubt it is endowed with expertise and specializes in a wide range of construction projects including refineries, petroleum plants, natural gas, oil and marine installations, major infrastructure and network projects. Also power plants, desalination units, wastewater treatment plants, airports, ports, roads etc the list is never-ending. In Athens the number of employees is approaching 800; about 350 of them are expatriates and live here with their families. With the passing years, they have adapted to the Greek way of life and have been successfully integrated into Greek society and actively participate in the social and economic life of this country. The rest of the “CCC family employees” are Greeks which proves that the main concern and manpower philosophies of the company are to honour the host country, and what better way to do this than by offering employment to Greek individuals. For many Greeks this becomes a lifetime C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 CCC’s 36 Year Presence in Greece rapidly changing world, economically, socially mediates in the Arab world to open up Corporate Social Responsibility and culturally, represents admirable principles investment pathways for Greece. They promote and values that the founders and owners of and advertise Greece to their contacts and this company considered, and held dear, in their business associates all over the world and choice of a ‘new home’. we are talking here about at least 1,500,000 entrepreneurs worldwide, contributing to After 36 years of living in Greece, it has become the positive image of the country and in a second homeland for the families. They enjoy strengthening relations between Greece and the a normal way of life here with all what entails markets they operate in. They try to drum-up while being a part of the Greek culture and way interest in investment in Greece either personally of life. They have made CCC a living and breathing or by attracting international company entity, sharing experiences, anxieties, thoughts executives, who frequently participate in and concerns together. They are indeed ‘one of meetings and events that they organize towards us’ (flesh from our flesh) and it is no exaggeration this end. that they offer a lot more than they receive. The technology and expertise practiced by CCC works tirelessly both here and abroad. CCC, along with its long enduring experience, The company gives employment to locals, means that it is often called upon for advice and thus offering tax revenues and encouraging guidance, by individuals, companies, entities. consumption. The management personally There have been quite a few times when the company has responded with great effort to requests for its assistance in various matters. From its first inception into Greek life, CCC has been supportive of the Greek economy, without benefiting from the Greek market, and that is why the company gained the trust of Greek society almost immediately. They came to Greece not looking for opportunities, but rather by offering opportunities. As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), CCC has managed to accomplish several things. By undertaking this task with humility, discretion and respect toward people, and being governed by the principle ‘we received from society thus we should return to society’, the leadership of CCC has been involved deeply with socially associated matters, pertaining to the Greek society. To name but a few CCC has made many donations to causes, needy institutions have received sponsorships, help has been given in building projects such as a nursery school for instance, and their presence has been felt in responding to needs associated with natural disasters, as well as with issues connected with environmental protection. CCC is indeed a treasure house of great value. Its primary driving force is the human factor. The company is a close knit family, which radiates compassion, brotherhood, loyalty, sensitivity and possesses and gives charity. Its closely guarded secret is a secret no more CCC has a soul. Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 31 CSR Country Activities Egypt Cancer Awareness Campaign The health and welfare of employees is one of should they be requested by the respective the main objectives of CSR. Nowadays, almost CSR teams in those areas. every one of us has been affected by cancer Ahmad Abdul Rahman / Ahmed El Nouri whether directly or indirectly through family Corporate Social Responsibility or friends. Accordingly, the CSR Egypt Team started a new campaign to promote cancer CSR Team Egypt awareness among employees. In collaboration Reduce Reuse Recycle with CANSURVIVE, an Egyptian association for cancer patients and survivors, several presentations will take place throughout the year. “Change Your Life Style” was the name of the first presentation which took place in May, 2012. The presentation showed good habits to avoid colon cancer as well as the recommended checkups and their frequencies. The session was attended by 20 employees from CCCEgypt Area office. The attendees acknowledged the beneficial information they received from the presentation and valued the understandable language it was presented in. The presentation materials and handouts were then distributed to all CCC Egypt employees. Being a widely spread issue in Egypt, the coming session will be about breast cancer awareness. The CSR Team will plan with CANSURVIVE to conduct those sessions on the project sites in addition to the main office Further to a corporate request to all CSR teams, to highlight one of CSR objectives towards the environment, the CSR Egypt team launched initiative No. 36 “ReduceReuse-Recycle (3Rs)” in the Area Office. The initiative aimed to promote environmental best practices among employees in an office environment. For the Reduce-Reuse, we have posted flyers across the building with simple tips for energy, materials and water savings. For example, we have posted a flyer inside the toilet rooms to remind users to push the half flush button instead of the full flush button according to the use. This simply will save on average 45,000 gallons of water per year! For Recycling, we have distributed three different coloured trash boxes in each department to segregate three types of waste and to tailor the presentations to be easily materials: aluminum, foam and plastics. The understood by the work force. Soft copies of types of waste to recycle we chose based on the materials will also be distributed among the observation of the main types of waste CCC employees in Egypt projects. This material generated from the building. In addition, we can also be made available to other CCC areas applied the personal folder recycle box idea C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 CSR Country Activities which was posted earlier on Fanous in each ‣‣ Estia Constantinoupoleos Old Age Home in Corporate Social Responsibility work station to encourage paper recycling. Palea Fokea houses Constantinopolitans and other seniors from Asia Minor who had It may look simple, but our main objective is been left isolated and socio-economically to encourage employees to get used to the deprived. Donation: medicine and dry culture of thinking towards the environment foodstuffs. which in time could be applied later in their homes and could really have greater impact on ‣‣ Chatzikiriakio Childcare Institution in our society. Piraeus takes care of orphaned and homeless girls from the age of six coming Ahmed El Nouri from families with serious social and financial problems. Donation: summer Greece shoes, beach sandals and swimsuits for 80 Humanitarian Activities girls. In continuation of CCC’s CSR commitment ‣‣ Amimoni Organization in Vouliagmeni towards the support of the local communities houses and takes care of children with in Greece especially during the prevailing visual and multiple disabilities. Donation: economic crisis, MOA CSR Committee along sanitary appliances. with staff volunteers have been dedicating ‣‣ O.K.DI.A.A.P. NGO for helping poor families time and effort during the past few months suffering from unemployment and economic towards the achievement of this humanitarian problems. Donation: Dry foodstuffs for cause. The following list brings you up-to-date families in Corinth. with the donation and contribution activities made by CSR during this period: ‣‣ PC Donations: 30 PC’s were donated to 12 needy organizations including schools, ‣‣ Medecins Du Monde / Doctors of the World institutes, orphanages and others. provide emergency medical aid to victims of natural disasters, wars and conflicts. In I would like to thank members of the MOA CSR Greece they have Open Polyclinics, Refugee Committee, who are all VOLUNTEERS, and the Shelters and many others. Donation: other staff volunteers who participated with us hematology analyzer. during this period, for their dedication and hard work in achieving the above initiatives. ‣‣ SOS Children’s Village in Vari houses and helps children who are in need of care Tony Awad because they lost their parents or are homeless for other reasons. Donation: Beach Cleaning various items of clothing for 50 boys and Once again this year, our motivated volunteers, girls. made up of our CCC staff and their families, met for our annual beach cleaning on one of Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 33 CSR Country Activities the most beautiful beaches on the eastern The occasion commenced at 9.30 am with the Corporate Social Responsibility coast of Athens. On 10 June over 30 members arrival of the MCJV project team that was of all ages worked together on a Sunday warmly welcomed by an enthusiastic crowd morning to clean the beach of Schinias of school children who decorated each of the ridding it of the litter polluting its grounds. guests with a bouquet of flowers worn around Among those present, were members of the our necks. Without any further waste of time Marathonas Municipality, who were extremely the project delegates under the leadership of touched by our corporate social responsibility. the project director Samer Haddad engaged When we were asked why we were cleaning in a tree planting exercise during which he the beach, we simply answered that we feel personally planted the first tree. This was a it is our duty to care for the community and remarkable show of commitment from the lead the environment. We send out a big thank you of MCJV demonstrating that it does not only to all the volunteers for helping us make this endeavour to reduce the project’s footprint initiative a success and we hope to see you all but also to increase its handprint. The project again next year. director came out himself not only to plant a Mazen Stefanou / Noor Al Ghafari Papua New Guinea World Environment Day As part of its social corporate responsibility, MCJV commemorated the World Environment Day (WED) in a socially inclusive approach with St. Paul’s Primary School in Komo. The decision to celebrate with children was deliberate as they represent the future generation and should be groomed to take over management of the environment. MCJV is constructing an airport in the very remote and culturally challenging village of Komo in the Southern Highlands of PNG and was committed from inception to mitigating its environmental impact by putting in place an environmental department. Despite the enormous difficulties, progress has been very systematic and cooperation with the local communities has grown from strength to strength and this is not only beneficial to permit ongoing construction activities but also paramount for future operations of the PNG LNG project. On the occasion of this 40th WED, MCJV demonstrated one such commitment as the project director accompanied by a host of other project dignitaries and of course the environmental team alongside the Company (EHL) Environmental Advisor took time from their very busy schedule to celebrate this day with the pupils of St. Paul’s Primary School in Komo. C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 CSR Country Activities Corporate Social Responsibility tree but also to teach these young pupils how The occasion was crowned by another and why it is important to plant trees. This cooperate gesture from the project director commendable gesture was highly appreciated on behalf of MCJV and Exxon, this time the by the school management and the community handing over of a plan for the construction at large. of a church with support from Exxon. The atmosphere was again filled with excitement The celebration proceeded with a series upon the reception of this good news which of short speeches from each of the project again demonstrated the project’s social delegates with interludes of music, ballet responsibility towards the local community. dances and sketches by the school children. Everyone then came together for a family The speakers highlighted the theme of the picture before moving on to the final phase of 2012 World Environment Day as “Green the celebration, the sharing of cupcakes and Economy: Does it include you” and went ahead drinks donated by the project. to elucidate this to the children, encouraging them to preserve their pristine habitat with its The ceremony rounded up at 12.30 pm with pure air and fresh water that is so cherished total satisfaction on the faces of every pupil by but lacking in most industrialized nations and the teachers alike. The MCJV team of the world today. The short speeches were was equally very satisfied for the quality all aimed to empower the children as future time well spent with the children. And so ambassadors to champion the environmental that is how MCJV is committed to ensuring course as they represent the future generation. sustainable development and equitable In return, the children’s sketches and songs growth in Komo both in the present through were pregnant with meaning carrying the efforts of its environmental team and in messages on the effects of climate change, the future by investing in the school pupils. impacts of industrialization and sound The excellent and admirable relations with environmental practices at ecosystem, habitat the local community as experienced on and species levels. Besides the valuable and World Environment Day will go a long way to scholarly environmental information sharing guaranteeing the smooth functioning of the the songs and sketches were profoundly PNG LNG project during the operations phase. entertaining. Taku Awa Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 35 CSR Country Activities Corporate Social Responsibility Tanzania employees appreciated the efforts that went into organising this activity which boosted Soccer Tournament morale on the site. We arranged a soccer tournament at TIRP Tanzania with the participation of our Playground Equipment engineers and consultant. It was a nice The project donated children’s playground gesture on the part of the TIRP Management equipment to the local school (see pictures). to motivate the people and keep in touch with them. We had an enjoyable time and our Abdulla Abu Murshid C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 CSR Country Activities attended the function. The event Corporate Social Responsibility generated appreciable interest among various segments of the society which was visible from the large number of people who attended the function. As a special gesture from the part of the organizers, we were allowed to occupy four tables in the Gala Dinner function. However, we occupied only one table and released the other three tables to occupy contributing participants of the event, thus further emphasizing our support and contribution to the noble cause. The monetary contributions from the gala dinner exceeded the expectations of the organizers. Ramzi Tarabishi, the Commercial Manager of CCC, UAE, and the British Ambassador to UAE were United Arab Emirates present at the cheque handing over ceremony Support To Autism Children with Special Needs held at FCSN premises. Lending a helping hand to those who aspire Institutions like FCSN, dedicated to education to change the lives of Children with Special and rehabilitation of children with special Needs is a duty and social responsibility on needs deserve wholehearted support.The the society. As part of our CSR outreach glorious initiative of RMD in this regard is programme dedicated to the cause of laudable and it is reflective of UAE Area community development and philanthropy, CCC Management’s solicitude to integrate socially UAE Area was fortunate to be associated with responsible investments. We are proud of our Future Centre for Special Needs (FCSN) an endeavour and feel proud to be part of this Abu Dhabi based nonprofit driven organization, noble cause. specializing in the education and rehabilitation V. Mamunni, Lead CSR Coordinator, UAE of children with special needs. FCSN approached the RMD, UAE & Palestine, to sponsor a gala dinner event organized by them and thereby contribute towards the maintenance and operation of their Centre for Children with Special Needs. Acceding to the need of the hour and significance of the event, RMD was benign to extend his support under UAE Area CSR activities and gracefully accepted to become the Platinum sponsor of the event. The event was jointly substantiated by Abu Dhabi Council for Economic Development and National Media Council. The British Embassy in UAE also extended their support by offering their premises to conduct the event. His Excellency Sheikh Nahyan Bin Mubarak, the Minister of Higher Education & Scientific Research and many other prominent personalities Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 37 Abdelhamid Abdelhamid / Jubran Bishouti CSR Career Days Corporate Social Responsibility Carrier Day at Indianapolis University Athens 2012 Greece Saudi Arabia CCC-HR participated in a Career Day which was In line with its CSR commitments and held at the University of Indianapolis, Athens on Saudization plan to employ fresh Saudi national the 4 May 2012 and which was highly attended. graduates, CCC-KSA participated in the Career Days at the following universities and colleges The event targeted fresh graduates as well during the first quarter of the year 2012: as alumni of the University who would like to join CCC. There were over 30 participants from • Jubail Industrial College, 18 March 2012. different countries such as Greece, UK, USA, • SciTech, for employing Special Needs Russia, Palestine, Albania and Venezuela. persons (Handicapped 4 April 2012. This activity comes in line with the CCC CSR • King Saud University (Riyadh) 14 April 2012. principles where the company aims to improve (HRH Prince Abdelrahman Bin Talal attended the welfare of the community by opening up the event and received the participation opportunities for its members. certificate on behalf of CCC. • King Abdelaziz University (Jeddah) 24 April 2012. • King Fahd University for Petroleum and Minerals (Dhahran) 6 May 2012. • Technical and Vocational Training Centre (Khobar) 20 May 2012. During the events CV’s were collected and a number of students interviewed by CCC team members. A number of graduates have been employed and a number of students will have their summer training at CCC offices and projects in KSA. C C C Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 CSR Career Days Corporate Social Responsibility Prince Abdelrahman Bin Talal (right) and Bader Al Mandeel, CCC Administration & Government Relations Manager Bulletin Issue 102 | July 2012 C C C 39 bulletin October 2012 Issue 103 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company All About Airports Tony Awad CSR News Report Contribution to the CSR Initiative last August. The donation was a full truck CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with load of dry food consisting of various items ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR pasta, rice, oil, sugar, milk and others. It was Initiatives including Going Green and community presented to the Municipality by members of involvement events. Please send your ideas, the Committee and volunteers on behalf of the initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email Company. address csr@ccc.gr. Corporate Social Responsibility The donation was greatly appreciated and according to their estimation, the donation will cover the needs of a thousand persons for CSR 2012 First Six Months Progress Report CCC’s CSR Network links all areas, projects, subsidiaries and branches through Lead Country CSR Coordinators who were nominated by their respective senior management to coordinate and follow up CSR initiatives in their domains. Progress reports covering their CSR activities during the first six months of 2012 were submitted and compiled in a CD that was circulated to area senior managements, project managers, lead country CSR coordinators and other parties involved in supporting the initiative. All parties were requested to review and share the information with their subordinates for spreading CSR awareness across members of the Group. duration of two months. Greece Race for the Cure KYADA Donation For the fourth year CCC was one of the main sponsors of the event Race for the Cure 2012 which took place in Athens on 30 September 2012. CCC was the company with the third largest number of participants and we want to thank all those who came to support this symbolic cause. The race was organized by Alma Zois, the Greek Association for Women with Breast Cancer in cooperation with the American association, Susan G. Komen. More than 8,000 women, men and children of all ages took part in the symbolic race. The purpose of this race is to make people more aware of this illness and of the methods of early diagnosis which nowadays can save many lives. EPSO 3Rs Initiative In continuation of CSR initiatives towards the help of the Greek Community, the MOAAwareness of the 3Rs initiatives “Reduce CSR Committee along with staff volunteers Reuse Recycle” is catching up around the has organized a dry food donation to the different areas, departments and disciplines Municipality of Athens which was delivered within the Group. Following the formation of the 3Rs Subcommittee at MOA, EPSO in UAE C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 CSR News Report have formed their own 3Rs Subcommittee On Saturday, 11 August, the Kazakhstan Corporate Social Responsibility and are active in launching different ideas that CSR Team distributed food rations to 50 are being introduced with the target of being Kurmangazi families in Western Kazakhstan, implemented wherever applicable. 250 kms from the centre of Atyrau (near the Russian border). The programme started with a visit to the Akim of Kurmangazi region in his office, followed by the distribution of food Kazakhstan rations to the needy families and ended with an interview with Kazakhstan TV, Atyrau. Donation of PCs Palestine Distribution of Food Packages During the holy month of Ramadan, CSR Palestine contributed food packages (consisting of rice, vegetable oil, sugar, halva, jam, lentils, olive oil and tomato sauce) to 100 poor families. Saudi Arabia Iftar Party, CCC Al-Khobar In continuation of CCC’s CSR commitment towards the support of the local community in Kazakhstan, eleven PCs were donated to humanitarian organizations in the Atyrau region including an AIDS centre, a home for the elderly, a home for handicapped people and a local orphanage. Distribution of Food Parcels in Kurmangazi, West Kazakhstan As part of its CSR activities, CCC-KSA Area Management invited on Friday, 10 August 2012 all employees located at the Area Offices in Khobar and Rashid building, White camp, PMV offices and a number of senior staff from the Area office in Riyadh and projects in KSA for Iftar. During the event all the attendees had an excellent time and expressed their appreciation to the owners and management. Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 C C C 39 Tony Awad Habshan 5 Going Green In 2001 CCC was one of the first companies to support the UN Global Compact in response to an invitation received from Kofi Annan, United Nations Secretary General at the time. Currently, with over 8,700 Corporate Social Responsibility corporate participants and other stakeholders from over 130 countries, the UN Global Compact is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative in the world. Every year, the Global Compact publishes its International Yearbook in which are included around 40 best practice examples from different companies which illustrate how to implement the ten Global Compact principles in daily business and projects. This year, CCC was chosen for its best practice achievement towards the environment in the Habshan 5 Going Green Initiative. We would like to thank the UN Global Compact for permission to reproduce the article below: Over the years, the Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) has participated in and contributed to the countries and communities in which it has operated. Contributions have come in the form of monetary and in-kind donations. The “Habshan 5” project is an example of CCC’s sustainable engagement. Integrated Gas Development, also known as Habshan 5, is a project run by Abu Dhabi Gas Industries to improve the production of natural gas liquids in the region and is aimed at significantly boosting the Emirate’s offshore gas production. The reason for doing so is the permanent demand for energy all over the world. According to the UN, the world population is rapidly expanding. The world population had reached 1 billion people by 1800; 2 billion by The world has a fixed amount 1922; and over 6 billion by 2000. It is estimated of natural resources some of which that the population will swell to more than 9 are already depleted. As population growth billion by 2050. That means that if the world’s strains our finite resources, fewer resources are natural resources were evenly distributed, in available. As a consequence, there is a need for a 2050 people will only have 25 percent of the more sophisticated use of the resources at hand resources per capita that people had back in as well as a need for more responsible methods 1950. of extraction. C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 Habshan 5 Going Green Corporate Social Responsibility CCC’s commitment to growth is firmly linked to the continuous development of its employees and its ability to provide them with rewarding careers. The company is devoted to its employees’ safety and health, job security, and welfare. Its strength emanates from its distinct One of the partners of the Habshan culture; the strong and close relationships 5 project is the Consolidated Contractors with its clients; its employees’ competence Company, which is aware of its social and and loyalty; its entrepreneurial and flexible environmental responsibilities. In six decades management; and its focus on quality, safety, of operation, CCC has grown to become one and commercial acumen. of the leading contractors in the international construction field, with more than 110,000 CCC has been a participant of the United Nations employees comprised from more than 80 Global Compact since 2001. Corporate social nationalities. responsibility is always a project in progress, like the rest of CCC’s business. Every CCC activity CCC is committed to providing reliable, amicable, and practice is meant to make a lasting impact, and professional service to its clients; being economically, socially, and environmentally. supportive of local business and communities; CCC’s Habshan 5 team started their green and being protective of the environments within campaign to preserve the standard of living for which it operates. future generations. They began to develop a green strategy to, among other things: Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 C C C 41 Habshan 5 Going Green 1. Save energy: green, and sustainable environment to coming Corporate Social Responsibility generations. After all, our future lies in our own In Habshan, electricity is provided from hands, and going green is the right solution for diesel generators. Efforts made to manage everyone on the planet. consumption include: • Energy-saving lamps used throughout the camp and offices. CORPORATE PROFILE • Solar power supply for all security lights. Consolidated Contractors Company (CCC) is a contracting company formed in 1952 and • High masts for camp lighting. incorporated in Lebanon. The managing office is presently located in Athens, Greece. CCC is • Timers for users’ consumption. by far the largest engineering, procurement, • Fully synchronized powerhouse to ensure and construction company in the Middle East optimal operation. and is ranked #18 by ENR magazine among all international construction companies. • Newly installed units and offices with high CCC currently operates in 40 countries on 5 density insulation, improving cooling by 43 continents. It employs more than 110,000 percent. employees comprising more than 80 nationalities 2. Save water: and is responsible for building some of the most challenging and complex facilities in the world. In Habshan, water is being trucked from filling Drawing on its long and successful experience, stations connected to desalination plants. CCC can provide a full range of project services EffortS made to optimize the consumption project development; detailed engineering, include: procurement, and construction; start-up • Spring taps. operation; and maintenance as pertains to the following: • Gravity water supply (10 m elevated tanks) to control the pressure and reduce • Buildings and civil engineering works. consumption. • Oil and gas, and water pipelines. • Treated water for flushing and irrigation • Oil and gas, and petrochemical plants and network (50 % reduction in supply). refineries. • Meters used throughout the camp to identify • Power plants. leaks and misuse. • Marine works. • Flow regulators added on all showers. • Offshore installations. 3. Less Fuel / Gas = Saving (and better health!): • Maintenance of mechanical installations and Personal car travel produces CO2 gas emissions underwater structures. and it contributes to local air pollution and congestion. On average, for each liter of fuel burnt in a car, more than 2.5 kg of CO2 is released. Efforts made to manage consumption include: • Diesel cars (all 4 x 4). • Low-consumption engines. • Proper planning for extended-hours requirements and night loads. • 1,000 trees planted in Habshan this will remove up to 50 tons of CO2. CCC proved to lead by example in promoting the green campaign in Habshan. A brief presentation titled “Habshan 5: The GREEN Journey” was introduced to the project sponsors on February 23, 2011. The CCC Habshan 5 project team is fully committed to making a difference. It is important that we leave a legacy of a clean, C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 Adrian Crowley Sharm El Sheikh Project Staff Clean up Beach near Project Site As part of CCC Egypt’s continued support to Corporate Social Responsibility, in particular environmental conservation and protection adjacent to our project locations, the Sharm El Sheikh CCC project team on Corporate Social Responsibility 19 July 2012 one afternoon (after work) cleaned up a beach reserve. The beach reserve (which looks onto the world famous Gulf of Aqaba on the Red Sea and Tiran Island) is located adjacent to the project. It goes without saying that the Red Sea is famous for its maritime and sub-aqua environment. The CCC project team decided to clean this beach up as a CSR activity, thus providing a clean beach for local residents and tourists, but more importantly to raise the awareness among project staff in areas such as sustainability and environmental protection. The project is by the Red Sea and is located east of Sharm El Sheikh International Airport, with South Plot of approximately associated utility service buildings connecting 113,205 m2 with total coastal frontage of the state compound to the access of the project. approximately 700m. Phase 1 of the project The task involved staff collecting washed up includes a state villas compound comprising debris on the shore line. This included plastic early works, a main state villa; two guest villas; bottles, plastic, broken glass, tin cans, bottles, staff housing; three security buildings; MEP barbed wire, old containers, shoes, bits of metal, and communications buildings; all associated and so on, all of which was disposed safely infrastructure works, hard and soft landscaping afterwards. The team cleaned 700 metres of works; boundary wall and all road works and beachfront. Project Manager Omar El Kadi commended the project staff team and encouraged them to make environmental conservation a part of their daily work routine but also a part of their lives in the respective communities in which CCC works and operates. Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 C C C 43 Elisabetta Mastellaro Sicon Oil and Gas Contribution ... ... to the Victims of Earthquake in Emilia Romagna In May 2012, a magnitude 6 earthquake hit the Emilia Romagna, North Italy, leaving thousands homeless and historical buildings in ruins. It was the worst earthquake to strike the region in more than 700 years. The earthquake also made enormous impact on Corporate Social Responsibility the most famous Italian Parmigiano Reggiano and Grana Padano cheese, with production losses of up to 10% (thousands of Parmesan cheese wheels being damaged). Lots of cheese factories started a “Parmesan Campaign” selling pieces of Parmesan at lowest prices to collect money and support the economy of those areas that were registering the highest loss. Sicon Oil and Gas Management decided to support Emilia Romagna in the above campaign. All employees participated in the initiative and in about two weeks we collected an amount of money that covered an order of 500 kg of Parmesan. Pieces were collected by Sicon’s drivers directly at the factories and then distributed to all employees. Some other pieces were offered to a non-profit association (Pane Quotidiano) as requested by some contributors. We would like to thank again all the people who participated in this initiative with a very strong sense of responsibility. C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 Hassan Moghrabi Target Shooting Championship Overseeing the occasion, the General Secretary of the Mauritanian Ministry of Culture, Youth and Sports, Dane Ould Soueid’ahmed, stressed the importance of this discipline in the preservation of national identity. His successor, Ould Khattry Die, President Corporate Social Responsibility of the Mauritanian Association for Target Shooting, said that this competition aims to promote this kind of sport in Mauritania. In a green oasis of date palms, the commune of Boulenoir attracts thousands of tourists every year. They come to eat the fresh dates, to walk on the golden sand dunes and sleep under the stars to banish the stress of the city since it is only 70km from the beautiful beach of Nouadhibou. A team of 18 CCC Tasiast employees participated in the festival. The participation of our company was much With the participation of 15 teams from all appreciated by the mayor and the regions of Mauritania, a target shooting public authorities. championship began on Wednesday, 29 August. For our first participation, we took third place, This event took place in Boulenoir town, 170km received a silver medal and a certificate of north of Tasiast. appreciation. We intend to participate in other For three consecutive days, this event attracted social events in the future and to assist in a large audience, including regional authorities developing sports in Mauritania. and fans of this popular traditional discipline in Mauritania. Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 C C C 45 Roula Badawi EPSO-CED 3R’s Initiative “The world is Going Green”; “Energy and Water figure 1 Efficiency”; “Recycle”; “Reduce”; “Reuse “ and “Ecofriendly” are some common terms that we hear nowadays which were not that common a few years ago and that’s why we are all wondering where these came from, what they mean and why now. Corporate Social Responsibility As we all know, earth has a limited amount of natural resources such as water and fossil fuels which are considered as the core elements of technology, growth and community wellbeing. Due to the advancement of modern civilization and population growth, the last decade had witnessed an enormous demand for natural resources which has led to resources depletion. According to the Go Green Initiative “people in 2050 will only have 25 percent of the resources per capita that people in 1950 had”. By using products made from recycled materials and by reducing our natural resources demand, we can help ensure that future generations will have the same resources we enjoy today. ‣‣ Conducting a feasibility study on replacing These facts forced the “3R’s” initiative to come fluorescent lamps with more energy to light. The 3R’s Initiative aims to “promote efficient LED lamps. the 3R’s (reduce, reuse and recycle) globally so as to build a sound-material-cycle society ‣‣ Installing meters to measure energy through the effective use of resources and consumption per building. materials” as stated the Japanese Ministry of ‣‣ Reducing lamps per luminaire in certain the Environment. areas (i.e. corridors) while maintaining the In line with the world and CCC’s belief and required illumination levels. commitment to natural resources conservation, ‣‣ Placing Stickers around light switches to EPSO-CED 3R’s initiative was started. The 3R’s promote efficient use of lights (Fig.1). initiative is governed by CCC’s sustainability pillars; Economy, Society and the Environment and aims to accomplish efficient use of resources and zero waste. The implementation strategy for achieving the 3R’s initiative goals was set based on the following particulars: Given that waste minimization can be achieved in an efficient way by focusing primarily on the first of the 3Rs, “reduce” followed by “reuse” and then “recycle” more attention should be paid to the practices and actions that would lead to efficient use of resources and waste reduction. Given the significance and value of water and energy resources, the main area of improvement should concentrate on water and energy use reduction. The initial phase of CED 3R’s implementation strategy was started a few months ago and the following are some of the actions that have already been taken or are currently in progress: A. Energy Use Reduction Actions ‣‣ Installing occupancy sensors that are suitable for an office application. figure 2 C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 EPSO-CED 3R’s Initiative figure 3 C. Paper Use Reduction Actions Corporate Social Responsibility ‣‣ Commencing new DCG and IT procedures that reduce the amount of hard copies. (Fig.4) ‣‣ Applying for electronic subscriptions to technical magazines to replace paper magazines. D. Recycling Actions ‣‣ Installing recycling bins for paper, plastic items and CDs. (Fig.5) E. Reusing Actions ‣‣ Promoting the reuse of resources such as printed paper. ‣‣ Endorsing reusable storage media such as flash desk, external hard disks and rewritable CDs. In order to ensure our success in achieving CED 3R’s initiative goals, it was imperative to consider B. Water Use Reduction Actions another major factor, which is the personal ‣‣ Replacing old single flush toilet tanks with behaviour toward waste reduction. Thus, it more efficient dual flush toilet tanks (Fig.2) was necessary to spread the sustainability awareness of CED 3R’s strategy through some of ‣‣ Replacing the toilets/Kitchens faucets with the following; low flow faucets (Fig.3). • Distributing 3R’s tips through periodic ‣‣ Installing water meters to measure water emails. consumption per building. • Making it a policy to bring reusable dishes, ‣‣ Conducting a study on the suitable silverware and glasses. advanced irrigation system. • Before recycling, trying to give away your ‣‣ Scheduling regular maintenance to detect used CDs or selling them to interested leaks. buyers at the local music store or on Web sites such as eBay. • Making it a habit to print on both sides or to use the back of old documents for faxes, scrap paper or drafts. • Conducting sustainability awareness seminars. When it comes to creating a sustainable future, no one can go it alone and we all have to work together to meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. We believe that CED’s success would lead to spreading the 3R’s practices in EPSO and ultimately within CCC all around the world. figure 4 figure 5 Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 C C C 47 Hassan Moghrabi Careers Day This was the first job fair in Mauritania that took place over two days in the Congress Palace in Nouakchott during the first half of 2012 and was visited by the President of the Republic. This exhibition was organized by the Federation of Services and Professions (FSPL) in Corporate Social Responsibility collaboration with the Ministry of National Education’s Delegate for Employment, Vocational Training and New Technologies. The theme was ‘partnership between the public and private sectors for a better match between training and employment’. It was an opportunity for job-seeking graduates to meet, via the exhibition stands, with potential employers. CCC participated in this job fair, sharing a stand with the Kinross Corporation and presenting the current project and other projects as per company profile. CCC posters and brochures were distributed and our site management was represented by Mohamed Badawi, Project Control Manager, who was available to provide information on the project’s construction. C C C Bulletin Issue 103 | October 2012 bulletin December 2012 Issue 104 Quarterly Magazine of Consolidated Contractors Company CCC in the Commonwealth of Independent States Fadi Mustafa Corporate Social Responsibility in Kazakhstan Volunteer Activities with Local Waste Recycling & Segregation Initiative Communities January 2012: the CSR team launched the waste recycling & segregation initiative in all Kazakhstan projects and camps. Feature On the occasion of Naurouz holiday, our CSR team visited the Atyrau orphanage to congratulate the children and hand out gifts to them. Social Activities Naurouz Festival On the occasion of the Naurouz holiday, the CCC Going Green Campaign Kazakhstan CSR team organized a concert on 21 March at the Atyrau Arts & Music Academy, In April 2012 the CSR team launched the Going with the participation of the Lebanese singer Green Campaign with the planting of 250 trees Yehia Abu Saada and musician Mazen Abu Saif. around the camp and office territories. Also in The songs and dances were performed by the April, the team planted fifty trees at the Atyrau academy’s students, the CCC dabke group. Yehia Kindergarten. and Mazen demonstrated that music is the language of all cultures. Again to celebrate the occasion of the Naurouz holiday, the CSR team organized a full day activities at the camp. Save Energy The CCC Kazakhstan CSR team continued its awareness campaign to save water and energy. C C C Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility in Kazakhstan Contributions and Donations Sponsorships Feature January 2012: Kazakhstan CSR team launched The CCC Kazakhstan CSR team continued its a donation campaign to support needy students sponsorship of the Organization for the Blind In and children in Lebanon. Atyrau by purchasing linen ($180,000 since 2008). Employees’ Wellness Programme Health awareness emails are fully distributed regularly. Here are some of the subjects covered: • How Flossing Is Linked to Overall Health. • 2 Ways Exercise Helps You Stay Young. • 7 Tips to Get the Most Accurate Blood Pressure Readings. • 5 Foods and Vitamins to Sharpen Your Memory and Prevent Alzheimer’s Disease. • 5 Ways to Prevent Macular Degeneration and Blurred Vision. Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 C C C 25 Tony Awad CSR News Report Contribution to CSR Initiative Volunteering CCC Staff are encouraged to come up with Every Friday midday, two or three staff ideas and activities related to CCC’s CSR volunteers from different departments go to the Initiatives including Going Green and community Caritas facility and spend two hours to help in involvement events. Please send your ideas, the preparation of the food portions, distribution initiatives and achievements to “CSR-CCC” email of the cooked meals and to assist in washing the address csr@ccc.gr dishes. Corporate Social Responsibility Gallini (Serenity) Greece is a foundation located in the heart of Athens (at Kerameikos) that provides 250 meals per day to Donations to the Greek Community families with children, seniors and the homeless, In continuation of CCC’s CSR commitment accommodated in four houses provided by towards the support of the local communities Gallini in the region. The contribution this time in Greece, MOA CSR Committee along with staff was in kitchen equipment: repair of all chairs volunteers have been dedicating time and effort in the mess hall, a complete renewal of the during the past couple of months towards this foundation’s cutlery and cooking equipment and humanitarian cause. The following donations and a new heavy duty dishwasher. contribution activities were made by CSR during this period: The Caritas Athens Refugee Programme in central Athens offers daily cooked meals to around 350 persons. Our donation consisted of dry food of various items pasta, rice, oil, sugar, milk and others enough to feed the 350 persons for a period of one month. Italy Sicon’s 2013 Diary Sicon Oil & Gas are proud to advise that their 2013 Diary was entirely made out of recycled materials. This statement is printed at the back of the diary: C C C Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 CSR News Report Even a small gesture can improve the future of our Their full participation in training to conduct Corporate Social Responsibility planet. Sicon Oil & Gas continues to commit itself recycling and support with recycling recyclable in this direction. The 2013 diary we are proposing materials made a great contribution to the is made of 100% recycled material, for a more environment. sustainable future. Papua New Guinea Kuwait The PNG Team organized various CSR activities Recycling Initiative aimed at their local communities and made substantial donations to good causes. Details CCC Kuwait staff were recognized for their great will be published in the next issue of the Bulletin. dedication, tremendous efforts and continuous support for recycling since August 2009. UAE Employee Volunteer Programme Demand for employee volunteering is on the rise in the UAE as local authorities and state institutions involved in community development are keen to promote private partnership in this area. CCC is partnering with local administration and state sponsored institutions in volunteering activities and is also in partnership with NGO’s. Programmes in progress are (a) employee fundraising for local and international humanitarian support (b) leadership and governance (c) mentoring (d) skills based volunteering (e) youth development and (f) team projects. Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 C C C 39 Ahmed Refai Zewail City for Science & Technology Egypt In the current difficult times that Egypt is witnessing, it is CCC staff’s duty to help in rebuilding our country and participating in its future renaissance. After 25 January 2011, there have Corporate Social Responsibility been many promising plans for national projects, one of which is the initiation and building of Zewail City for Science & Technology (www.zewailcity.edu.eg) Zewail City for Science & Technology is a non-profit organization designed to bring building the future for Egypt, especially in the about modern education of science and context of R&D, science and technology. technology that enables state-of-the-art The campaign was very successful and we research and innovation, which in turn increases managed to collect an approximate amount national productivity at the international level. of $23,000 in total of which $20,000 was a In line with CCC’s and CSR’S principles and contribution from CCC Egypt to the project. objectives to support local communities, the Everyone was very positive regarding the CSR Egypt team launched a donation campaign campaign and many employees expressed their among all employees in Egypt to support interest in donating on a monthly basis when the this vital national project. The campaign was project kicks off officially. addressed to everyone in CCC Egypt; Egyptians, Professor Ahmed Zewail sent a thank you non-Egyptians, managers, employees, daily letter to the CSR team and to the company staff and every Arab citizen, where we believed and expressed his gratitude to everyone who that we need to have faith in restoring the has faith in this national project and in the renaissance of our nation and participate in regeneration of our nation. Serene El Kreidli Healthy Living Initiative Egypt One of Egypt CSR’s initiatives this year was ‘healthy living’, aiming to promote awareness of the health benefits that can be obtained through fruits. The team agreed to promote the selected fruit by giving staff sample fruit with a briefing about its nutrient benefits. This initiative was circulated twice during 2012. The first round was during January with the fruit of the season being oranges. CSR members volunteered to clean and package around 1,200 fruits for distribution to all projects and offices in Cairo. The second round was during Ramadan with 2,500 individual boxes containing five dates were distributed to staff and labourers. This initiative was well received by all, leaving everyone guessing what the following round would bring! C C C Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 Tony Awad Road Safety as Experienced By the Children of CCC Greece During previous years, the events organized by the CCC’s Corporate Social Responsibility Committee for the Children of CCC focused on environmental issues such as protecting the ecosystem and recycling. This year a different event was arranged, aiming to introduce children to the concept of road Corporate Social Responsibility safety. Roads and vehicles are a basic part of life for all of us. Whether we are the driver, the passenger, or the pedestrian, we all negotiate the road traffic environment on a daily basis. It is common knowledge that children learn primarily by experience, so a genuine “learn through play” activity was organized at the Jumicar Road Safety Park in Nea Makri on 7 October 2012. The 96 children (aged 4-14) that participated had the opportunity to drive real, environmentally friendly junior-sized cars, motorized by real engines, as the grown-ups do on the roads. After a brief theoretical tutorial on the road signs, the children were eager to operate the steering wheel, accelerator and brakes. Through the course, they learned how to identify and react to traffic lights and zebra crossings, got to know the various road signs and gained a feeling for the flow of road traffic. More importantly they realized how to recognize the dangers, to show consideration towards others and understood better how a traffic situation appears to a driver, which ultimately improves their safety awareness as pedestrians or cyclists. It would be helpful to remember that children learn good habits by modeling behaviour from adults. The CSR 2013 calendar accumulates the photographs from that day titled “Road Safety as Experienced by Children of CCC”. Bulletin Issue 104 | December 2012 C C C 41
