Sustainability Report 2012 AXIS in Axis is the market leader in network video and a driver of the shift from analog to digital video surveillance – thereby 1 minute paving the way to a smarter, safer, more secure world. Axis offers network video solutions for professional installations featuring products and solutions that are based on innovative and open technology platforms. 1,403 Number of employees in the Axis group 41 Number of countries with Axis employees 179 Number of countries with partners #1 Market leader in network video and video surveillance End customers 55,000 Resellers System integrators 4,184 Distributors Axis partners SEK million in sales Axis as a workplace 22 7 Sustainability goal fulfillment 2012 World-leading products 10 Contents This report is intended to cover the most important sustainability issues for Axis based on their influence on business success and their importance for sustainable development. Axis in 1 minute 2 President’s comments 4 Governance 6 Sustainability goal fulfillment 7 Axis’ products 10 Customer segments 16 Axis and society 17 Case stories 20 Axis as a workplace 22 Axis and its operations 25 Reporting 28 20 Case stories GRI references 29 Axis’ Sustainability Report 2012 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. Further information may also be found in Axis’ Annual Report 2012 and Corporate Governance Report 2012, both of which are published in Swedish and English. These reports and additional information are available at www.axis.com 4 President’s comments Taking a long-term responsibility by thinking big Axis is a growing company for which sustainability is a natural and long-term responsibility. With the ambition of being a leading and innovative driving force within our industry, we operate from a strong position that makes it possible to create real impact when it comes to sustainability. We believe that by accomplishing sustainability in environmental, business conduct and social issues, we will also create long-term sustainable business opportunities. Axis is leading the way to a smarter, safer, more secure and therefore Another challenge posed by the rapid expansion of our company is includmore sustainable world through our surveillance products in themselves. ing all employees in our strong corporate culture. The spirit of openness But we also take a broader responsibility when it comes to sustainability. and transparency has been a part of Axis’ corporate culture from the All our actions in relation to customers, partners and suppliers are built beginning, and it is reflected in our core values “Act as one”, “Think big” on the long-term commitment of ensuring ethical business conduct and “Always open”. We believe this to be one of the key factors behind and a sustainable way of supplying our products and solutions. We act our success. To ensure that we keep spreading the corporate culture, responsibly in relation to the environment and society in general, and a relaunch of our core values will take place during the coming year. always leave a positive contribution to the many communities with which we interact. Technical innovation We also continue our technical innovation, where environmental Anti-corruption initiative and technical concerns go hand in hand. Not only will a less energyBeing the market leader, we strive to be a driving force both in technical consuming camera save energy, it will also provide images of higher innovation and in developing sustainable business conduct. We have quality due to less interference. This way, Axis never has to compromise over 55,000 partners worldwide and constantly work on how we can on quality or environmental concerns. spread our company’s view on sustainability in the entire value chain. To take this one step further, we are now introducing an anti-corruption We received several awards for our innovative Lightfinder technology initiative. during 2012, one of which was the prestigious Wall Street Journal Technical Innovation Award in the category Physical Security. Through The initiative is an adaptation to the UK and US anti-bribery and antia unique combination of the right sensor and lens, and Axis’ in-house corruption legislation. By applying high standards in business ethics chip development and knowledge of image processing, Lightfinder and urging our partners to be part of sustainable and safe business technology enables our cameras to “see” in poor lighting conditions. development, we also lead the way for our competitors to do the same. Since the technology requires very little external light, it requires less energy and decreases light pollution. Rapid expansion The global market is still affected by the economically uncertain times. Shifting mode of transportation Despite this, we have continued our economic growth during 2012, How we transport our products is a factor where our choices have a especially in emerging markets. great impact on the environment. During 2012, we have shifted transports by air to land and sea. We will continue to minimize transportation I am happy to welcome the nearly 300 new employees that have joined and logistics costs by being close to our markets. We have taken one step the company during the year. Axis is a driving force in the field of netin this direction by initiating a cooperation with a supplier in Mexico, work surveillance products, and is set to maintain the position as market which is close to our biggest market in the United States. leader. We are also set to uphold our standards as an employer that attracts talented people, and in order to do so the organization must These efforts and others are described here in Axis’ third sustainability keep developing. Knowledge sharing and the opportunity for employees report according to the UN Global Compact initiative. Sustainability to develop within the organization are vital to finding a sustainable way will continue to be a central focal point and a long-term responsibility for the company to continue expansion. for Axis during the year to follow. President’s message 5 “We strive to be a driving force, both in technical innovation and in developing sustainable business conduct.” 6 Governance Axis’ corporate sustainability Axis sees sustainability as a long-term responsibility for the company and we are committed to continuous improvements. Since the founding of Axis, questions relating to sustainability have been a natural part of the company’s operations, within corporate governance, social responsibility and environment. Axis is a global company with its own employees in almost 40 countries We regard sustainability as an integrated part of our business strategy and with partners in over 179 countries. Axis thereby influences the lives and our operations. In order to support continuous improvements at of many people – including customers, employees, suppliers and others in all levels, we have created the following organizational framework for society. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholders and to build relacorporate sustainability efforts: tions and take responsibility in social and environment-related matters. >> The Sustainability Council has the overall responsibility for sustainCode of Conduct ability matters. Responsibilities include the implementation of Axis’ Code of Conduct sets out the approach, values and Axis’ Code of Conduct and related policies as well as guidelines that the company and its personnel shall LONG-TER M R ESP follow-up of company activities. The council is ES ON apply in matters of business principles, business TAK SIB mainly composed of representatives of the relations, human rights, workplace practices S Corporate Management. and environmental principles. The Code XI I L A s Dist ITY of Conduct is based on the following loyee ri par buti >> The Sustainability Project international principles: p tn Group comprises representatives Em iness conduc & bus t on rs from the Corporate functions for ble e >> UN’s Universal Declaration of Res po Human Resources, Global Sales, nmental resp ni Our values: viro Human Rights Quality & Environment and ComAct as one. on >> UN’s Global Compact initiative munications. The group is responEn Always open. m ers S u p p li si >> The ILO Declaration on Fundasible for the development of the lity Think big. mental Principles and Rights at ibi sustainability efforts in different ns sto Work. ers Social ity areas and for extending the reres bil Cu po porting to cover additional areas Axis became a member of the UN within the framework of the UN Global Compact initiative in 2007 and S o ciety Global Compact initiative. has adopted its ten principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment >> The Environmental Council is composed and anti-corruption. We always strive to of representatives from R&D, Product Mancontinuously improve our efforts within agement, Communications and Operations the sustainability field. This report follows Sustainability is based on the values of Axis and is an integrated part as well as from the Management team. The the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines of Axis’ business. Business conduct, social responsibility and the enCouncil works with general environmental level C. vironment are the three focus areas for the different target groups. issues and initiates projects aimed at minimizing Axis’ environmental impact. Policies and organization In addition to the Code of Conduct, Axis has formulated a set of poli>> The Ethical Council is composed of representatives from the Mancies for sustainability work. As a company listed on the NASDAQ OMX agement team. The Council works on ethical issues and also conNordic stock exchange, Axis also applies the Swedish Code of Corporate sults, discusses and decides on matters relating to Axis’ business Governance. conduct. 7 Sustainability goal fulfillment 2012 Sustainability is a long-term strategy for Axis and an integrated part of our business. Acting responsibly as a company throughout the life cycle of our products and solutions is very important for us. Axis is a global company and thereby influences the lives of many people – including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and others in society. Axis intends to create value for its stakeholders and to build relations and take responsibility in social and environment-related matters. Axis takes long-term responsibility in the entire value chain, for our acWe conduct our work within three areas: tions in relation to customers, partners and suppliers and also in relation >> Business Conduct to the environment and society as a whole. We act responsibly in our >> Social Responsibility business conduct and when supplying our products and solutions. We >> Environmental Responsibility also take active social and environmental responsibility. Our overall objective is to take sustainability into consideration in all When it comes to managing business conduct as well as our enviour business processes throughout the entire value chain. We shall ronmental and social footprint, Thinking Big means thinking globally, strive to minimize environmental impact, promote a healthy working looking beyond immediate impacts and taking long-term responsibility. environment and also fight corruption and violations of human rights. Business conduct To govern our business and our relationships in a responsible, transparent, trustworthy and consistent way. Goal Goal fulfillment 2012 Sustainability shall be taken into consideration During 2012, Axis initiated extensive work on anti-corruption. The work involved drawthroughout the entire business process and in ing up a new policy, and implementing it in relation to both employees and distributors. efforts to fight corruption. Axis’ partners shall have knowledge about and At partner conferences – approximately 20 events with an average of 80 participants understand Axis’ approach to long-term responat each one – partners were informed about Axis’ sustainability work. Sustainability sibility and the responsibilities that come with it. has also been a part of the newsletter that is sent to Axis’ partner network. Axis shall contribute to the local community as Over the years, different activities have been carried out in the sales companies as well as society globally in order to act sustainwell as at the headquarters in Lund. Examples of such activities include sponsorship ably. of charity races and gifts to charitable organizations. Axis’ products shall contribute to a safer and Axis’ products have been installed in many different customer segments during the more secure world. year and have contributed in various ways to safer cities and a more secure world. 8 Sustainability goal fulfillment Social Concern for Axis’ stakeholders and consideration on the part of our own employees responsibility for the many communities with whom we interact, and always ensuring we make a positive contribution. Goal Goal fulfillment 2012 Axis’ suppliers, subcontractors and contract Axis has performed audits of 65 % of the company’s stramanufacturers shall act in line with Axis’ Supplitegic suppliers. Other suppliers are often large, well-known er Code of Conduct and other relevant policies. multinational companies. All employees shall act in accordance with the New employees based in Lund receive a one-day introducCode of Conduct and shall be trained to undertory course, and employees based in other countries come stand Axis long-term responsibility. to our headquarters in Lund for a three-day introduction program. During the year, 276 employees were hired. In 2012, more than 100 employees attended an environmental training course. Axis shall encourage an attractive and stimuOf the employees, 73 (74) percent are men and 27 (26) lating working environment and shall promote percent are women. The average age of the company’s diversity in the expansion of the company employees is 38. At Axis, approximately 50 different nationalities are represented. Axis shall strive to increase positive sustainabiliAxis’ sustainability work has been presented at different ty impacts by motivating employee involvement. employee meetings on a local, regional and global level and has been presented on the Intranet. Sustainability goal fulfillment 9 Environmental Minimizing our direct and in­direct environmental impacts and engaging in responsibility partnerships that protect and promote the health of the ecosystem, both locally and globally. Goal Goal fulfillment 2012 Axis’ network video products shall have low Cameras featuring infrared (IR) illumination use the most energy consumption during operation. modern and most efficient light-emitting diodes (LEDs), which are more energy-efficient than older light bulbs. Some of the network cameras released during the year were equipped with this technology. Improve the environmental performance of netDuring 2012, Axis conducted a thorough investigation work video products. An identified part of the of where PVC is found in our products and during the product portfolio shall be PVC-free from 2013. coming year we will focus on finding replacements for these components. Axis shall reduce negative environmental imDuring 2012, CO2 emissions per ton-km decreased by 16 pacts during transportation of products. CO2 percent. This is due to Axis now having more control over emissions per ton-km from freight transport shall the transportation process, and the fact that Axis has be reduced by 20 % in 2016 compared to 2010. initiated a commercial relationship with a manufacturing site closer to the United States – one of our biggest markets. In 2012, carbon emissions were reduced from 337* gCO2/ton-km to 284 gCO2/ton-km. Environmental impact of Axis’ products shall be An environmental scorecard was introduced in the taken into consideration already in the developmechanical design process. ment phase. Axis shall encourage customers to switch to more The Axis Lightfinder technology was introduced in 2011. energy-efficient and environmentally friendly It demonstrates one environmental benefit of a network products through raising awareness about Axis’ camera – the camera can operate in the dark without solutions in the market. requiring any external light. The technology received four awards during 2012. Remote monitoring has decreased the carbon footprint of end users, since the user can access the material from any computer. 10 Axis’ products World-leading products Axis products are used for many different purposes, such as security surveillance, optimization of business processes and remote monitoring all over the world. The company is the market leader in network video and offers high quality, innovative products. Axis sells network video products, including surveillance cameras, to Control of material and substances distributors, that in turn sell these products to system integrators and Axis aims to use materials and components that can be recycled to a resellers. This means that in many transactions, we do not meet the end large extent, such as aluminum, zinc and plastics. user. The legal responsibility for how systems and video material are used and stored is based on each country’s laws and regulations; therefore, The main materials (weight-based) used in Axis products are: aluminum, this responsibility lies primarily with the user – that is, the end user. zinc, steel, stainless steel, PC/ABS (polycarbonate and acrylonitrile butadiene styrene polymer), PC (polycarbonate), PA (polyamide polymer), Customers and markets PMMA, polyurethane, silicone, thermoplastic elastomers and rubber. The market is being driven by a technology shift from analog to digital surveillance, increased prosperity and urbanization as well as a genAxis does not have complete information regarding the proportion of eral trend toward greater emphasis on public security. The customers recycled material included in our products, but knows that all plastic are mainly found within the security sector, but also in other sectors materials are made from primary material. Some, but far from all, where a need exists for remote monitoring and optimization of busimetal materials consist of recycled material, and the exact figure is ness processes. Examples of such fields of application for network unknown today. An objective to be taken into account in development video are inventory management and measurement of future products is to increase the proportion of of customer behavior in retail stores and remote Axis’ ambition is recycled material. monitoring within health care. that environmental Since 2009, Axis has worked consistently to phase Environmental impact of Axis’ products consideration shall out the use of PVC (polyvinyl chloride) in our prodAxis’ ambition is that environmental consideration ucts. Concerns regarding PVC have been growing shall be applied in the entire value chain, from the be applied in the due to possible release of toxic substances, PVC’s selection of materials and suppliers to the use of the final product and its recycling. In order to develop a entire value chain. non-biodegradable status and growing toxic waste created by the production process. PVC applications clear understanding of the environmental impact of our products during contain a range of phthalates, few of which are restricted by legislative their entire life cycles, Axis conducts Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) of both regulations. During 2012, Axis made a thorough investigation of where existing and new products on a regular basis. in our products PVC is found and during the following year we will focus on finding replacements for these components. LCA shows that as for most electronic products, a considerable part of the environmental impact during the life cycle of our products is All electronic products have one or more PCBAs (printed circuit board related to their energy consumption during use by end customers. This assemblies), consisting of a board featuring several electronic commay result in an overriding focus on addressing energy concerns while ponents. The board itself can be made of various materials such as downplaying the importance of addressing toxicity, design for disaslaminates of phenolic plastic/paper, bakelite or fiberglass/epoxy. Printed sembly, and design for recyclability. circuit boards also contain smaller amounts of raw materials such as copper, gold, nickel, zinc, beryllium, tantalum, coltan and other metals. Axis, however, believes that all stages in a life cycle are worth addressing. To further reduce the environmental impact of our products, a Ethical questions regarding mining of some specific minerals used in group of mechanical engineers have formed the Green Product design electronics (tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold) have been raised during group, which develops new tools aimed at making product design as the past years, due to the exploitation of these minerals in the armed environmentally friendly as possible. conflict regions of the Congo Basin. 11 Green product design Axis constantly develops its products with environmental consideration. The choices we make in designing surveillance cameras ultimately has an impact on the environment, be it the number of components used, size, weight, material chemistry or the origin of the raw material. A number of mechanical engineers at the Research & Development department have formed a group dedicated to developing new tools in the product development process, aimed at helping make conscious decisions to decrease the environmental impact of products. Already today, all Axis products are designed to follow strict environmental standards and regulations. The Green Product design group started as a focus group in 2011. During the past year a master’s thesis was completed, investigating feasible tools and methods that can ultimately make our cameras even more environmentally friendly. Furthermore, the group has developed a guideline and a product scorecard. The possibility to use environmentally friendly plastics is one of the focus areas. Different plastic materials contain various types of chemicals such as flame retardants. One goal is to have a preferred materials list that will help the engineers make the more environmentally friendly choice in every step of the design process. Using fewer components and thinking modular are other ways of reducing the cameras’ environmental impact. In addition – and in contrast to analog video – a network video camera can be upgraded with certain new functionality during its lifetime, without the user having to replace the entire camera. The new scorecard and guidelines will be evaluated and launched during 2013. 12 Axis’ products To ensure that no so-called conflict minerals are used in Axis prodPackaging ucts, all suppliers have been requested to fill in a questionnaire where Axis’ packaging is mainly manufactured from recycled material (althey identify products and smelters in their supply chain that supply though for technical reasons, certain parts of carton boxes, such as the tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Furthermore, the Supplier Code of outer linings, are made from new fiber). Four types of package fittings Conduct has been amended during 2012. In this amendment, suppliers are used: PET plastic, PE foam, plastic well and Stratocell foam. All must comply with the US Financial Reform Law stating that the supplier PET fittings are made from recycled PET, whereas the PE foam and the uses no minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo or Stratocell foam are usually made from new materials. Stratocell foam, its neighboring countries. which is non-recyclable, is being phased out and replaced by a more environmentally adapted type of plastic well. Axis collaborates with its component suppliers to ensure that all existing and future products meet the requirements for elimination of Optimizing the size of the packaging of our products is part of the environmentally hazardous components and substances. The EU RoHS package design process and subject to continuous improvement. For directive on restriction of certain hazardous substances in electrical example, by replacing the A5-sized manual with an A6-sized manual, and electronic equipment has been updated during 2012, resulting in a smaller carton box can now be used for smaller camera modules. The Axis implementing a documented process and distinct guidelines for ongoing process of optimizing the packaging of Axis’ products continurisk assessment of materials. ously reduces packaging volume and thus leads to more environmentally sound transport. Axis also meets the requirements of the EU REACH directive on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The During 2012, CO2e emissions per ton-km unit decreased by 16 percent. company is constantly and proactively working to ensure that the This is due to Axis now having more control over the transportation substances found in our products comply with the current directive process, and the fact that Axis has initiated business with a manuand future changes. facturing site closer to one of our biggest markets, the United States. In addition to the legal requirements, Axis has its own list of banned Products in use and restricted substances in order to further eliminate the number of Reducing the energy consumption of our products is continually in focus dangerous and undesired substances in the products. Axis requests – not only from an environmental perspective but from a performance information about the contents of all products/materials to verify perspective, since heat generated when energy consumption is high compliance with applicable legislation and the above-mentioned list. may have an adverse impact on image quality. CE marking and product non-compliance Depending on the type of camera, 60–80 percent of the products’ Axis products are CE marked. As of January 2, 2013, CE marking also environmental impact is associated with energy consumption of the verifies that products meet the requirements of the EU RoHS directive. product when used by the end customer. Using an effective power supply is one key factor in reducing energy costs for Axis’ products. No instances of non-compliance with regulations for products and serDeveloping the software used in Axis’ cameras is another factor that is vice information have been recorded during 2012. Axis has not received looked at by our engineers. any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Nor have any incidents of Cameras with infrared (IR) illumination use the most modern and most non-compliance related to health and safety impacts of products and efficient light-emitting diodes (LEDs), which are more energy efficient service occurred. than older types. Axis’ products 13 Lightfinder is a unique technology that allows network cameras to “see” and show color images even when it is dark. Surveillance using Lightfinder technology – more sustainable and lowers costs Despite the night darkness, surveillance cameras using Lightfinder technology can see if someone is trying to break into your office or some other place with poor external lighting. Lightfinder is a unique technology that allows network cameras to “see” and show color images, even when it is dark. Better image quality in difficult lighting conditions is just one of the advantages of Lightfinder; the technology is also excellent from a sustainability perspective. Lighting is one of the single most expensive costs of camera surveillance, and producing electricity for lighting is what generates the most CO2 emissions. With Lightfinder, such costs are eliminated, thus reducing the total expense of camera surveillance while also making it more environmentally friendly. One simple calculation shows that an installation of 10 systems with 12 cameras each saves about SEK 570,000 in overhead costs over the course of five years, if you use Lightfinder technology, and compared to a standard network camera (based on the electricity needed for a camera that runs 16 hours per day). If electricity is measured only in terms of CO2 emissions, a system using standard network cameras emits about 30 times as much CO2 compared to the same types of systems using Lightfinder technology, which corresponds to about 700,000 kWh or 700 tons of CO2 emissions. 14 Axis’ products End of life Axis products are covered by the EU’s WEEE directive (Waste Electrical Decommissioning refers to the end-of-life treatment and disposal of the and Electronic Equipment), which among other things means that the cameras. Approximately 95 percent of the material in an Axis camera manufacturer/importer of electronics has a responsibility for ensurcan be recycled or combusted, thus only 5 percent needs to be sent to ing that waste can be collected separately. As a manufacturer, Axis landfill (according to Swedish standards). is responsible for marking its products with a symbol that collection shall take place. In the end-of-life stage, the camera is disassembled automatically (through grinding) and manually. In the first step, parts containing Non-compliance hazardous waste, such as PCBAs (printed circuit board assemblies), are No incidents of non-compliance related to health and safety impacts of separated by hand for special treatment. The more bulky components products and services occurred in 2012. Two cases of non-compliance of the PCBAs are then removed, the board is melted down and precious with regulations for product and service information have been recorded metals such as gold are recycled. The grinder separates parts by using during 2012; one case was in Italy, where the authorities found two magnetism and density. Aluminum, zinc, copper, steel and stainless wireless products that had minor errors in the carton labels. The claim steel are melted down to be reused as raw material. Plastics are either resulted in a fine of EUR 2,000. The error was solved by immediately recycled to be reused in plastic products or are used to produce energy. correcting carton labels. The second case was of similar character – Norwegian authorities found an error in a carton label. No fine was In order to facilitate recycling, sufficiently large components have a levied and the error was correctly immediately. marking indicating their materials content. In general, because they have been designed designed to facilitate repairs, Axis products are easy to disassemble. Remote access Remote access is one of the advantages of installing and operatRemote access also facilitates the maintenance of the surveillance ing network video. Remote access means that you don’t need to system. Camera maintenance is necessary during upgrades, diagnosphysically handle the camera to investigate an incident. Instead, tics/troubleshooting, image problems, and retrieving image material. you can see and analyze the material from a distance using a comA camera with remote access reduces the number of maintenance puter, and then take appropriate action. This means that the alarm visits by about 50 percent. A reduction in both CO2 emissions and operator significantly reduces the number of emergency call-outs. costs quickly becomes evident as a result of less driving time, less One study shows that as much as 90 percent (!) of all call-outs are fuel, lower vehicle costs and less time spent on performing camera false alarms. Every call-out adds considerable costs in terms of maintenance. For example, a one-hour reduction in driving time for transportation time, gas and vehicle maintenance, and generates maintaining 10 locations with systems of 12 cameras each, results unnecessary CO2 emissions. in savings of about SEK 2 million over a five-year period, which also translates into 4,000 liters of fuel. Monitored area Central storage Remote monitoring AVHS server software Internet Alarm central Residential Small & medium businesses AVHS portal login Gateway/router Gateway/router End user PC or handheld device 15 Green Surveillance Axis’ aim is to be a driving force in developing new, A group of engineers is now working on a number of solusmarter and greener technology when it comes to surtions for how the software in our cameras can be used to veillance cameras. In an ongoing project, engineers in reduce energy costs. One example is that all functions in Lund are currently looking at how Axis’ products can the camera do not have to be switched on all the time. At use less energy. night certain functions could be turned off automatically, or when idle the camera could switch automatically to High energy costs and environmental concerns make filming in lower resolution that requires less energy. PTZ Green Surveillance one of the current trends in our busiand audio chips are other functions that may not have to ness. The more advanced products get, with powerful be in use all the time. Cameras could also be bundled with processors at their core, the more energy that is needed other technology, like IR detectors, which could switch to run them. on cameras when something is happening. Digital video surveillance is in itself greener than analog Within the project, different scenarios are tried to optitechnology. No tapes are needed, and good remote mize the cameras from an environmental point of view. surveillance saves traveling time and reduces carbon The ambition is a product that gives the user a greater foot print. choice when it comes to how much energy is needed to use an Axis camera. Depending on the type of camera, 60–80 percent of the product’s environmental impact is associated with The project in Lund originated with the engineers themenergy consumption of the product when used by the selves at a workshop where Axis’ environmental policy end customer. Therefore, even a small reduction in energy was the topic. The management fully supports the project. needed to use an Axis product can make a large positive Apart from being a project that will bring added value impact on the environment. to our customers, this is a good example of how our corporate culture allows ideas and initiatives to flourish and grow within Axis. 16 Customer segments $ $ RETAIL Industry Interest in network video is increasing rapidly in the retail segDigital solutions are used to monitor assets and streamline proment. By using remote monitoring, the manager can see the store cesses in factories, warehouses and on building sites. Strict deor storage areas without traveling to the actual store, which is mands are imposed so that systems can cope with tough external beneficial from a carbon footprint perspective. Intelligent applicaconditions, large surveillance areas and poor lighting conditions. tions in Axis’ network cameras are contributing to systems that By using network cameras in some installations, customers can are improving security in stores. see how the recently purchased product was produced and ensure that no illegal measures were involved. $ Transport $ The need to counter vandalism, theft and threats is increasing in EDUCATION public transport systems throughout the world. Network camera A safe and secure school environment should be something natural. installations contribute to a safer environment on trains, buses, Axis’ network solutions enable simple installations and scalable traffic routes and in airports. surveillance systems in schools, universities and other educational organizations. The surveillance cameras contribute to reduced vandalism, less theft and the creation $ of a safer environment for teachers and students. $ Banks Axis’ solutions provide security for customers and employees in banks and exchange offices. Very small network cameras with HDTV quality, which are adapted for surveillance in automatic HEALTHCARE teller machines and other concealed areas, enable identification Axis’ network cameras improve security for personnel and patients. in the event of a crime and create a safer working environment. The possibility of remote monitoring of patients by surveillance cameras streamlines $ day-to-day processes and reduces travel, which has a positive impact on the carbon footprint. $ CITY SURVEILLANCE The global urbanization trend is creating a greater need for safe and secure urban environments for millions of people. Today, Critical infrastructure Axis’ network solutions are found in more than 500 cities. These Digital video surveillance is a cost-effective way to boost the level solutions contain products that withstand vandalism and tough of security for operators of critical infrastructure. The buildings weather conditions. or solar plants can be observed by remote monitoring and travel needs decrease. Axis’ network cameras are also used on highways; by using video, traffic can be redirected when traffic jams occur. Axis and society 17 Taking a broader responsibility Axis’ prominent position brings with it an obligation to conduct business in a responsible and ethical way. Axis takes this responsibility by creating long-term relationships throughout the entire value chain. Axis has adopted a business ethics policy for the purpose of conducting Axis’ network video products are based on an open-standard platform, business operations in a responsible manner. Among other things, this enabling others to participate in the development of new products, policy states that Axis shall not pursue business practices that are not solutions and application areas for Axis’ technology. in accordance with applicable laws and regulations or conduct business related to the use of products in the weapon systems, the sex industry Suppliers or in the promotion of drugs. All manufacturing of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacturers. Axis designs and develops the products; selects, contracts Society at large and certifies component suppliers; supports the contract manufacturAxis’ foremost contribution to society is that our products promote ers in establishing efficient production processes; and monitors the safety and security for people all over the world. We base this statement performance of suppliers. The supplier model is based on close and on surveys* which show that surveillance cameras contribute to crime long-term relationships, which also allows for good insight into the prevention and to solving criminal cases, and also on the fact that a supplier companies and full transparency regarding where and how our majority of the public is positive to surveillance cameras. products are manufactured. However, in line with the increasing number of surveillance cameras Axis can directly influence the subcontractors through a careful supplier in society, a discussion has arisen regarding how surveillance systems selection process and supplier contracts. Earlier in the supplier chain affect personal integrity. Axis’ view on the matter – at the supply of bulk components – it becomes is that a surveillance system in itself cannot violate We extend our amincreasingly difficult to exercise control apart from personal integrity and that the issue is rather about component specifications. how systems are used and how data is protected bition to fight corand stored. In some countries there is a lack of adequate legislaruption by including tion in the areas of the environment, chemicals, labor Nevertheless, as with all kinds of equipment, such the next step of the rights, child labor etc. In other cases there are laws, systems can be misused. Axis therefore places but enforcement and control are insufficient. Axis great emphasis on the selection of partners and value chain. has therefore adopted its own policy and requireresellers in order to ensure that our products are ments covering these critical areas – Axis Suppliers’ not misused. Other measures to avoid misuse include technological inCode of Conduct – which all suppliers are required to sign and follow. We novation, compliance with international guidelines and best practices. continuously monitor suppliers to ensure that they comply with these requirements. We also perform supply audits that include inspections at Strong sales model the factory as well as interviews with management and workers. Axis has a long-term partnership model that includes distributors, resellers and other partners. To date we have 55,000 authorized partners Anti-corruption initiative worldwide. Axis strives to build a consistent relationship with our partThe company’s business model means that most of the responsibility for ners, based on trust and loyalty. We support our partners by informing production, distribution and installation of Axis’ products lies with our them about sustainability issues as well as Axis’ Code of Conduct and partners. That is why we inform our suppliers, distributors, resellers and other relevant policies. system integrators about the company’s view on sustainability practice. * Report 2007:29 Camera Surveillance and crime prevention, The National Council for Crime Prevention in Sweden. 18 Axis and society Resellers Sub-suppliers General manufacturers CLCs Axis Distributors End users System integrators During 2012, Axis has further focused this work by taking a new Investors initiative against corruption. The initiative is part of Axis’ long-term Axis shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic, Mid Cap segment and strategy and will ensure that the company can continue its expansion the number of shareholders at year-end was 17,680 (16,597). on emerging markets. The initiative was raised by the sales organisation in markets where corruption can be an issue in daily business. As a listed company, Axis also applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. It is the company’s ambition to continually provide the Taking a broad responsibility financial market, owners and other stakeholders with correct, consistent The anti-corruption initiative has two parts. Firstly, all employees will and relevant information with the aim of increasing understanding of the take an educational program during 2013. All employees will also sign company and to comply with the regulations for listed companies. Informaa document that obligates them to follow Axis anti-corruption policy. tion about sustainability issues is part of these communication activities. This will be repeated every year, which ensures that all new employees participate in the education and sign the anti-corruption policy. Local commitment Axis is present in 41 countries. The company has a clear strategy to The second part of this extensive process includes an amendment to the employ local personnel in each of our markets. Currently we have staff Standard Distribution Agreement that Axis signs with all the company’s originating from over 50 countries. Our ambition is to educate them distributors. By doing so, all distributors undertake to follow applicable in business knowledge and business conduct. Axis is a value-based anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations. By not keeping the initiacompany and all Axis employees follow our Core Values and our Code tive only within Axis, we extend our ambition to fight corruption by of Conduct. including the next step of the value chain. In addition, Axis intends to inform our other partners about anti-corruption to ensure that the We also engage in local initiatives outside of Axis. This includes sponpractice is spread beyond our company’s borders. soring of local health initiatives, The Hunger Project and Charity Day. Each Christmas the employees based in Lund vote to decide which Export Control Policy organization should receive a gift from Axis. In 2012, the staff chose Axis has direct control over approximately 50 percent of where the the Swedish Cancer Society. network cameras are used by end customers. Sharing our knowledge and our views on technology and innovation is Our Export Control Policy ensures that export control rules and regulaanother important way for Axis to contribute to the local society. Our tions are dealt with in a consistent way. Every deal with countries that engineers in Lund therefore lecture in local schools on these subjects. are subject to export restrictions is assessed individually and stopped in We also have close cooperation with Lund University and other acacases where it obviously does not comply with the rules in force. This is demic institutions. handled within the Axis organization. In doubtful cases the company’s Management team and the Ethical Council determine the matter. Axis and society 19 Auditing suppliers Axis audits its suppliers on a regular basis to ensure that they folcontrolling occupational health hazards such as poor indoor air low the Supplier Code of Conduct. Audits are performed in all new quality, high noise levels, unsafe work methods, fire safety etc. suppliers’ factories, and regular follow-up visits are made to ensure Test samples of workers’ documents are controlled, to ensure that that any shortcomings are adjusted. salaries, working hours and age are in compliance with laws and regulations. Audits are performed by Axis’ quality and environmental engineers. During their visit to a supplier’s factory, they verify that the supplier In case dormitories are provided by the company, these are also is complying with applicable legislation and permissions and that visited and checked with regards to fire safety and decent form the supplier is continually reducing environmental impact. They of accommodation. also check whether chemicals are stored in a secure manner, and that any hazardous waste is taken care of properly. If non-conformities are found, an action plan containing corrective measures, responsible person, time frame etc. is required and Working conditions for the employees are also a part of the audit, a follow-up audit is mandatory. 20 Case stories Network cameras protect important infrastructure Axis’ products are used all over the globe to make the world a safer place by protecting important infrastructure and property from intruders and sabotage. In several cases, our cameras in themselves also contribute in protecting and even enhancing environmentally important projects. One such example is how Axis’ thermal network cameras provide security for the Solesa solar field in Poirino, Italy. The Solesa photovoltaic field needs surveillance 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The challenge was to find a surveillance solution that could cover the morphologically difficult area without artificial lighting, since the light pollution would affect the performance of the solar panels. The solution was AXIS Q1921-E Thermal Network Camera. Thermal cameras were originally designed for military purposes and can “see” in the dark without using an external light source. The camera does this by using temperature and not light to detect an intruder. With its IR technology, the camera can detect the heat released by all kinds of objects, people or animals. In case the alarm is activated, another camera with an external light source is activated and security is notified so they can verify the source of the alarm. With these cameras installed along the perimeter, Solesa can protect the solar field from acts of vandalism or attempted theft, even in complete darkness or difficult weather conditions. In Doñana National Park in Huelva, Spain, solar panels are used to power the AXIS 233D Network Camera. The area is home to several protected animal species and has a biodiversity that cannot be found anywhere else in Europe. The researchers stationed in the park needed a suitable way to monitor the wildlife and the surroundings, and Axis became part of the solution. Axis’ cameras are part of a WiMAX network, also containing sensors that can collect meteorological, atmospheric and biological data. Altogether, this complex technological framework makes it possible to observe and analyze many aspects of animal life. In St. Cloud, Florida, USA, the city had constructed a new water treatment plant protected by analog cameras. By switching to digital surveillance using Axis’ cameras, the town officials could eliminate costly infrastructure and get a more robust system. AXIS 233D Network Dome Cameras and AXIS 221 Network Cameras, connected to an Omnicast video management system that is easy to operate, provide a future-proof and cost-effective solution for the citizens of St. Cloud. Case stories 21 22 Axis as a workplace A growing family Axis is a rapidly growing company with local presence in 41 countries worldwide, and partners in 179 countries. With nearly 300 new employees joining the company during 2012, it is important for Axis to sustain and preserve one of the key factors behind our success: the strong corporate culture. 2012 has been a year of preparation for a number of steps that will ensure further spreading of the Axis spirit of openness and transparency. The number of employees increased from 1,127 to 1,403 during 2012, tion. During the first half of 2013, all Axis employees will learn more representing a growth of 24.5 percent (23.3 percent). Of the employees, about the anti-corruption policy and sign a document which obligates 73 (74) percent are men and 27 (26) percent are women. The average age them to follow the policy. This will be repeated every year, which also is 38 years. The employee turnover has decreased, and was 5.5 percent ensures that all new employees participate in the education and sign (7.2). The board is comprised of five men and one woman. the anti-corruption policy. The corporate culture at Axis is well captured by our three core values, Training future leaders that guide decision-making and behavior throughout the whole comOther training includes the IPNL program (Internal Program for New pany: “act as one”, “always open” and “think big”. These core values Leaders), in which talented and emerging leaders from R&D, sales and intend to keep employees focused on reaching goals and on building operations have participated during 2012. The program is a 13-month an organization to be proud of. At Axis, we cooperate and share our course for new leaders in Axis with no more than three years of leaderknowledge. Ensuring that we sustain this open-minded, transparent, ship experience. curious and in some ways informal culture is Training in work environment policy is conof great importance for Axis to continue our tinuously provided for all leaders at Axis in successful global expansion. At Axis, we cooperate Sweden who feel the need to further deepen Relaunch of core values and share our knowledge. their knowledge in this area. Therefore, the development of an extensive plan During 2012, employees in Lund particito relaunch the company’s core values has been in focus during the past pated in training for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). 55 persons year. We believe this to be a key factor for Axis’ ability to continue to participated. attract talented and skilled employees. Code of Conduct Much effort has been put into developing educational material that will Axis’ operations are divided into nine different sales regions and the be used during workshops taking place the coming year. All employees company’s headquarters, R&D and all support functions are situated will participate in the educational program. The base is a board game in Lund, Sweden. Thus, the majority of Axis’ employees are based in that is played in a group of no more than four employees at a time, and Sweden: 62 percent (64). which raises different questions related to Axis, our core values and our company culture. The questions pave the way for discussions and Axis has a Code of Conduct that applies to all our employees. It states encourage sharing of personal experiences related to the workplace. that all employees are to be treated with respect and dignity. The comThe workshops will take place during the first part of 2013. pany shall promote diversity and not engage in or support discrimination in matters of hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, Anti-corruption policy or termination based on ethnic or national origin, caste, religion, sex, Since Axis is operating worldwide and in many emerging markets, the age, sexual orientation, physical disability, union affiliation or political need to establish an anti-corruption policy has been expressed by opinion. representatives in the sales organization. This extensive process also includes an amendment to the Standard Distribution Agreement that There are also policies regarding the use of drugs and alcohol in the Axis signs with all our direct customers. workplace, harassment and working environment. Although corporate policies apply to Axis as a whole, specific practices may vary Also in this matter, focus during 2012 has been on laying the groundwork between different countries due to national legislation and other for an educational program that will be launched in the entire organizalocal conditions. Axis as a workplace 23 All questions regarding injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenment to get to know new employees and collect feedback on how the teeism and the number of deceased are handled locally in accordance company is perceived. It also establishes an important platform for with local regulations. In Sweden, the rate of absence due to illness Axis’ way of building a flat organization with an open environment, was 2 percent during 2012. promoting creativity. Sharing knowledge Employee benefits In order to continue growing and attracting new talented employees, Axis aims to offer a compensation package that is competitive in the the organization must keep developing. During 2013 a project called local market, enabling employees to feel motivated. Terms and condiIP@Axis (Internal Projects at Axis) will be launched. Trough IP@Axis, tions are generally handled on an individual basis. Axis has an annual employees can network and share knowledge within the global orgabonus program that yielded 8.2 percent in 2012. nization. Employees can apply for projects published on the intranet and suggested by the different departments to fill their need. Projects All employees in Sweden are covered by a collective agreement (Teknik­ can be set anywhere in the organization and must be performed in 30 avtalet or IF Metall) setting the central standards, while at the global days. This is one example of how Axis continuously strives to develop level 69 percent (65) of the total workforce is covered by such agreeand retain employees. ments. Axis of course strives to provide sound working conditions for all of our employees, regardless of whether they are covered by an Ensuring that every new employee who joins Axis is properly introduced agreement. The Code of Conduct states that a safe and healthy working to the company and our corporate culture is a constantly ongoing environment shall be provided for all employees, in compliance with process that we believe maintains our success. New employees based international and national laws. in Lund receive a one-day introductory course, and employees based in other countries come to our headquarters in Lund for three days All employees are to participate in yearly performance reviews with of introduction. During the introduction program, management and the manager of their team. In 2012, 95 percent (90) participated in employees meet and interact. This is a good way for the managesuch reviews. 24 Axis as a workplace “We act as one” Yohei Nagata is one of the almost 300 new employees that joined Axis in 2012. During his first year, Yohei has gotten to know a company culture that practices its core values in everyday working life. Axis is a rapidly growing global company, and ensuring that our employees quickly become part of the company culture is one of the key factors behind our success. 31-year-old Yohei Nagata is a Sales Engineer Consultant at Axis’ Tokyo “The most effective core value is “Act as one”. Thanks to this we can office. He joined Axis in March 2012. easily communicate and share information within the company. I feel that people at Axis respect each other. The managers are open to and “Axis has great network video products that are number one on the listen to all employees.” market,” says Yohei. “I wanted to work at Axis because it is a company that produces good quality products. Each employee is expected to take Like all new Axis employees, Yohei has attended the three-day introducresponsibility and we cooperate to meet our goals for both the team tory program at Axis’ headquarters in Lund. During the introductory and the whole company.” program, the CEO and other key persons participate to explain how the company is organized, how the business process Axis corporate culture is characterized by our “The core values are works and how the core values are implemented core values: “Act as one”, “Think big” and “Always at Axis. open”. Yohei says he has come to realize that the where we get our core values really are the foundation of everyday work at Axis. energy to always be “Meeting the management and hearing from them about the company made the core values even one step ahead.” more real to me,” says Yohei. “The core values are where we get our energy to always be one step ahead. The core values vouch for company stability Yohei sees plenty of career opportunities within Axis. and the continuous improvements we make,” he says. “I have already seen fellow colleagues advance in their careers, and I This differs from his previous work experience with Japanese companies, am sure that in the near future, I can deepen my technical skills and which Yohei often found to be more conservative. At Axis, emphasis is continue to broaden the range of my knowledge and experience as a put on teamwork and a flat organization. Sales Engineer,” says Yohei. KEY FACTS Mr Yohei Nagata Age: 31 Position: Sales Engineer Location: Tokyo, Japan Axis and its operations 25 Reducing Axis’ carbon footprint All activities associated with Axis’ operations, such as transportation, waste handling and energy consumption, have an impact on the environment. Therefore, Axis aims to take responsibility in these areas as well as in the manufacturing and design of our products. Part of this work involves reducing the company’s overall carbon footprint and ensuring that our suppliers meet our stringent requirements. A few years ago, Axis began conducting carbon footprint assessments. a big impact on total carbon footprint. Another contributing factor is The main purpose of the reports has been to identify Axis’ emissions the availability of more accurate data. Furthermore, Axis has grown as of greenhouse gases from our business activities and areas, and to a company, including considerable increases in product sales, number provide better understanding of where we should focus our reduction of employees and expansion of facilities. However, total emissions per efforts. Other factors, such as Axis’ influence and impact in relation to employee have increased only slightly, from 9.4 tons CO2e to 9.5 tons Sweden’s Environmental Quality Objectives, have also been analyzed CO2e (CO2e incl. third-party deliveries). Emissions generated by our and evaluated. employees, for activities such as energy use and business travel, have also increased slightly, from 2.8 kg CO2e to 3.4 kg CO2e. Axis’ carbon footprint Axis third Carbon Footprint Report was finalized in February 2013. The During 2012, approximately 65 percent of the greenhouse gas emissions 2012 Carbon Footprint Report focuses on emissions related to transwere caused by freight transports; thus, this sector is the main contribuports, energy consumption of premises, company cars, business travel tor to Axis carbon emissions. In this area great effort has been made to and paper consumption. The report is based on data from 2012, collected reduce environmental impact. For more detailed information, see the Lofrom the corporate headquarters, the Configuration and Logistics Center gistics and transportation section. Business travel is the second-largest (CLC) in Lund and Axis’ largest regional offices. The report also includes contributor, representing 23 percent of emissions. Although personal emissions from all outbound and inbound shipments controlled by Axis. meetings constitute an important business activity at Axis, substantial efforts have been made to limit travel by using webinars, online training The standard used for calculating Axis’ carbon footprint is the Greenand seminars for our employees, partners and customers. During 2012, house Gas Protocol, an international standard developed by the World Axis offered courses in various online formats for more than 14,000 Resources Institute and the World Business Council for Sustainable participants all over the world, thus eliminating a substantial number Development. of business trips on behalf of both Axis and its partners. According to the GHG Protocol, a company accounts for emissions Although Axis has increased the reporting scope, the key performance resulting from operations over which it has control. Control can be indicators (KPI) from 2012 clearly show a negative trend with regard to defined in either financial or operational terms. The choice of system boundaries affects the results of the analysis, and tons CO2e per sales tons CO2e per employee this needs to be considered when comparing Axis’ results with those (excl third-party deliveries) found in other carbon footprint reports. 30 5 tons CO2e per employee tons CO2e per USD 100 M During 2012, Axis continued to work with actions to reduce the 25 26 4.4 company’s greenhouse gas emissions. In the case of outbound freight 4 transports – the largest source of emissions and environmental impact 23 20 – a measurable target and action plan to reduce CO2 emissions has 20 3 3.4 been in place since 2009. During 2012, Axis’ carbon footprint increased 2.8 15 from 10,914 to 14,072 CO2e*, an increase of 29 percent. The increase 2 can be explained by an increase of reporting scope; the number of 10 Axis-controlled outbound and inbound shipments has increased, and the number of reporting regional offices has increased as well; this has 1 5 0 0 * An error was found in the calculation for 2011 and the figure has been corrected from 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 10,946 CO2e to 10,914 CO2e. 26 Axis and its operations in Mexico will also bring us closer to the US market and we expect a Environmental education further reduction of CO2 emissions once this site is up and running to full capacity. During 2012, over 100 employees attended a course in environmental education. The course focused on the environmental impact Some of Axis’ transport partners offer carbon-neutral transports and in of Axis’ operations and products, and what Axis employees can 2012 we had a carbon offset of 500 tons CO2. Axis works continually to do to contribute to an environmentally sound working life and minimize emissions from transportation and optimize the logistics flow. sustainable design process. The purpose of the course is to raise environmental awareness among Axis employees and to encourage Energy consumption Lund them to apply this in their daily work. More employees will attend The facilities of Axis Communications in Lund, where 64 percent of all the course during the coming year. employees are located, are supplied by electricity from external companies; the energy mix varies depending on the location: Emdalavägen, Scheelevägen or Maskinvägen. The energy consumption of the facilities carbon emissions. The results will be evaluated and investigated during in Lund is included in the Carbon Footprint Report. 2013 and measures will be taken to reverse this trend. The total energy consumption has increased from 2011 to 2012, as a Logistics and transportation consequence of an increase in the number of employees. Products are sold through an indirect distribution model, in which Axis’ sales take place in the first stage, to distributors. They stock the Because Axis rents its premises, major investments to reduce energy products and supply them to system integrators and resellers who are consumption can only take place at the initiative of the landlord. Howthe partners that meet the end customers. All in all, Axis has some ever, during 2012 a cooling system was replaced. The new system will 55,000 partners worldwide. give energy savings of 45,552 kWh annually. Axis has also continued investing in replacing traditional lighting with LED lighting. Axis has four Configuration and Logistics Centers (CLC), one each in Hungary, the US, Sweden and the Czech Republic. During 2012, the CLC Materials in Thailand was closed. Axis manages the Swedish center, and the others The environmental impact and consumption of materials by Axis’ own are operated by other companies. High volumes of products are bulk operations are mainly related to the use of office supplies. A target for packed and shipped from contract manufacturers to Axis CLCs, where reducing the use of copying paper per employee in Lund has been set. In software and accessories are added before the products are individually 2012, each employee used 5.7 kg/year (8.1). The reduction is the result packed and shipped to our customers. of increased environmental awareness and double-sided printing being implemented as a default setting on all printers. The mode of transport is largely determined by the requirement for short lead times for deliveries. Axis has an overall transportation goal Manufacturing of reducing CO2 emissions per ton-km. In 2012 carbon emissions were Axis currently collaborates with six contract manufacturers and apreduced from 337* gCO2/ton-km to 284 gCO2/ton-km, a great achieveproximately 100 strategic component suppliers. Contract manufacturment which brings us closer to the overall goal of a 20 percent reduction ers operating in Thailand, Poland, Slovakia, China, South Korea and by the end of 2016. Emissions per shipped outbound unit amounted to 5.8 Mexico are responsible for production of Axis’ PCBA (printed circuit (9.3) kg per shipped unit – also a reduction. The reduction of emissions board assemblies) and the assembly of complete products. The strategic per ton-km and shipped units can be explained by the fact that Axis has component suppliers are located all over the world. increased its control over transportations in Europe, and now controls not only air freight, but also shipments by truck. Another improvement Manufacturing processes like die casting, plastic injection molding is that shipments to Russia are consolidated in a hub in Central Europe and surface treatment require use of energy, water and chemicals, and for onward shipment in one full truck. generate emissions to air and water. Therefore there is a risk of pollution and waste of resources where production occurs, as well as workplace By changing our logistics setup and increasing the volume of product environment risks for handling hazardous chemicals. units at CLC4 in the United States, we have been able to ship products in bulk by boat instead of air. The United States is Axis’ biggest market, Axis therefore requires suppliers to control emissions, energy use, and by increasing product volume at CLC4, we are moving closer to the handling of chemicals and waste, and to have necessary water and market and the customer. This enables a change to more environmentally air purification systems in place. When inspecting suppliers’ facilities, friendly transport and reduces transportation distance, thus contributwe check compliance with these requirements. Axis requires that all ing to the decrease of carbon emissions. suppliers have knowledge of environmental issues, have identified their environmental impact and work to reduce the impact in relation to meaDuring 2012, Axis started a cooperation with two new contractual surable and realistic targets. Through Axis’ list of banned and restricted manufacturers: one in China and one in Mexico. The establishment substances, we also prohibit our suppliers from using harmful chemicals. * An error was found in the calculation for 2011 and the figure has been corrected from 343 gCO2/ton-km to 337 gCO2/ton-km. Axis and its operations 27 Water consumption per employee Toxic waste NON-Toxic waste m3/employee tons tons 15 20 200 17 178,3 174,5 175,9 12 12.7 15 16 150 155,7 11.4 11.6 10.9 14 9 9.7 9.4 10 100 6 5 50 3 5 CLC 0 HQ 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water The amount of non-toxic waste has increased from 156 tons in 2011 Data is collected from Axis’ facilities in Lund where most of the emto 176 tons in 2012 as a result of company growth. Of the 176 tons ployees are located. The facilities use municipal water supplied by non-toxic waste, 56 (36) percent was recycled. Forty-three percent was Lund Municipality. The water withdrawal sources are not designated incinerated and 1 percent was used for landfill. The increase of recycled as protected areas (nationally or internationally) and have no specific waste is due to improved waste separation and higher awareness. biodiversity value. Axis uses no process water, only water for housekeeping, drinking, toilets etc. Consequently, no water recycling takes The non-toxic waste at Axis’ mainly consists of household waste. Nonplace. The amount of water used has increased from 2011 to 2012. toxic waste at the CLC mainly consists of corrugated paper, which Consumption per employee has also slightly increased. The reason for explains the difference between the amount of recycled waste at the this increase is not yet known. CLC and at headquarters. Biodiversity Toxic waste consists of office electronics, batteries and light bulbs. Toxic Axis does not own, rent or manage land. Nor does the company have waste decreased during 2012 to 5 tons from 14. any activities in places identified as protected areas of high biodiversity value or nearby protected areas. Axis is a growing company and needs to continually work on reducing the amount of waste by increasing the awareness of our employees and Chemicals and waste improving management of resources. Waste from Axis’ facilities in Lund is collected by Lund’s sanitation department, which is responsible for waste management in Lund Non-compliance Municipality. All waste management is executed in compliance with Axis has not received any significant fines or non-monetary sanctions national legislation. for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Sustainable commuting in Lund A study of the commuting habits of Axis’ employees shows that many employees still use the car to go to work. The first study was conducted during 2011 in cooperation with Skånetrafiken and Lund Municipality. It showed that to a large extent, employees living close to Axis headquarters in Lund already use a sustainable way of commuting. However, employees living further away use a car more often to get to work. During 2012, an action plan was put in place, where employees were offered discounted bus and train fares during summer. A follow-up study shows that despite this, many employees still use their car as the preferred mode of transportation. Axis will continue to focus on mobility issues and to encourage employees to use sustainable modes of commuting. 28 Reporting Axis AB, company registration number 556241-1065, is a Swedish company and parent company of Axis Communications AB. The headquarters is in Lund, Sweden. This sustainability report is focused on sustainability efforts at Axis Historical data is not available for all Key Performance Indicators. UnCommunications and is mainly based on the guidelines issued by the less otherwise stated, the data refers to the 2012 calendar year with Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. The reporting follows the Global Recomparative figures for previous years. porting Initiative guidelines level C. The report covers 2012 and has not been audited. All currency figures are in SEK unless otherwise stated. Scope Corporate governance This report aims to present an accurate picture of the group’s perforAs a company listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic stock exchange, mance in areas relating to sustainability, safety, health and environment Axis follows the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act as well as as well as business ethics. This is Axis’ third report and our ambition is the stock exchange rules for listed companies in Sweden. Axis applies to report annually. the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. A separate corporate governance report for 2012 has been published in connection with Boundaries the Annual Report. Axis’ own operations mainly consist of functions such as development, purchasing, marketing, service and technical support as well as adminPlease visit www.axis.com for more information. istration. Axis also works with product configuration and handles shipping at four Configuration & Logistics Centers (CLC), of which only the Swedish center is operated by Axis. Other units are operated by other companies and all office premises are rented. All production of Axis’ products is carried out by contract manufacturers and the products are sold through an indirect distribution model, in which Axis’ sales take place in the first stage to distributors. As a consequence of this business model, a great deal of the responsibility for production, distribution and specific installation of Axis’ products rests with the company’s business partners. However, Axis works closely with its partners to ensure that its Code of Conduct is understood and followed. Reporting standards and KPIs The report conforms to the internationally recognized GRI (Global ReContact for the report: porting Initiative). Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) used by Axis are Margareta Lantz selected from version G3 of the GRI standards. The report is self-declared Corporate Communications Manager and complies with application level C under the GRI standards. KPIs were Phone: +46 46 272 18 92 not subject to third-party checks. E-mail: margareta.lantz@axis.com 29 GRI references Axis’ Sustainability Report 2011 follows the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines level C. The following index shows where in the report and in the Annual Report 2012 (AR) – Corporate Governance Report – the information can be found. Only the GRI core indicators, and the additional indicators Axis has opted to report, are listed. GRI requirement Page GRI requirement Page PROFILE 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own per6 1. Strategy & analysis formance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental 1.1 Statement from President and CEO Ray Mauritsson. 4 and social performance. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 6 2. Organizational profile principle is addressed by the organization. 2.1 Name of the organization. 28 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social char6 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2 ters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 18 subscribes or endorses. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 28 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 28 2.7 Markets served. 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 7 Indicator Description UNGC Page 3. Report scope and boundary Economic performance 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 28 Core EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 28 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 28 Market presence 3.3 Reporting cycle. 28 CORE EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 6 22 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 28 management hired from the local community. 3.5 Process for defining report content, including 28 Environmental performance indicators 3.6 Boundary of the report. 28 CORE EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 10 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 28 CORE EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 25 report. CORE EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 27 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comNA CORE EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency im8–9 25 parability from period to period and/or between organizations. provements. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. NA ADD EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 8–9 25 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information. NA energy based products and services, and reductions in 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, NA energy requirements. boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. ADD EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and 8–9 27 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 29–30 reductions achieved. report. CORE EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 8 27 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assur28 ADD EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal 8 27 ance for the report. of water. 4. Governance, commitments and engagement ADD EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 27 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. AR reused. 4.2 Chairman’s position. AR Core EN11 Land owned, leased, managed in protected areas and 27 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that are inAR areas of high biodiversity value. dependent and/or non-executive members. ADD EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 27 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomAR CORE EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 25 mendations or direction to the highest governance body. CORE EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. 8 25 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest govAR ADD EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. 7–9 25 ernance body, senior managers, and executives, and the organiCORE EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 25 zation’s performance. CORE EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 8 25 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 6 CORE EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 27 conflicts of interest are avoided. ADD EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated 25 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the 6 waste deemed hazardous. members of the highest governance body. CORE EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of prod7–9 26 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 6 ucts and services. conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and CORE EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 25 social performance and the status of their implementation. of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing sus6 environmental laws and regulations. tainability performance. ADD EN29 Environmental impact of transports. 8 26 30 GRI references Indicator Description UNGC Page Labor practices and decent work performance indicators CORE LA1 Total workforce. 22 CORE LA2 Employee turnover. 22 CORE LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational 17 changes. CORE LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee. 17 ADD LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning. 22 CORE LA13 Composition of the Board, management and employ1, 6 AR ees per category (gender, age group, minority group). Human rights performance indicators CORE HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for in1, 2, 5 6 cidents of child labor. CORE HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for in1, 3, 4 6 cidents of forced or compulsory labor. Society performance indicators CORE SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s 10 22 anti-corruption policies and procedures. CORE SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 NA ADD SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public pol1–10 NA icy development and lobbying. ADD SO6 Financial and in-kind contributions to political par10 NA ties, politicians, and related institutions. ADD SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive beNA havior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. Product responsibility performance indicators CORE PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts 1 10 of products and services are assessed. CORE PR3 Type of product and service information required by 10 procedures. ADD PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction. 17 CORE PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and vol28 untary codes related to marketing communications. ADD PR7 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulaNA tions and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. UNGC: United Nations Global Compact principle C ECOL A R DI NO BE ©2013 Axis Communications AB. AXIS COMMUNICATIONS, AXIS, Advisors: Grayling L ETRAX, ARTPEC and VAPIX are registered trademarks or trademark Graphic design: Lönegård & Co applications of Axis AB in various jurisdictions. All other company names and products are trademarks or registered trademarks of Photos: Lars Owesson, Kennet Ruona, Axis their respective companies. We reserve the right to introduce modiPrinting: Tryckfolket, 2013 341 425 fications without notice. About Axis Communications Axis is the market leader in network video and a driver of the shift from analog to digital video surveillance – thereby paving the way to a smarter, safer, more secure world. Axis offers network video solutions for professional installations featuring products and solutions that are based on innovative and open technology platforms. Axis has more than 1,400 dedicated employees in 40 locations around the world and cooperates with partners covering 179 countries. Founded in 1984, Axis is a Swedish-based IT company listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm under the ticker AXIS. For more information about Axis, please visit www.axis.com Corporate identity number 556241-1065 Axis AB Emdalavägen 14 SE-223 69 Lund www.axis.com
