2 12 Sustainability Rep rt Full 2012 Sustainability Report is available online. Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Table of Contents CEO Introduction 3 Innovation Driven Sustainability 4 Strategy 4 Stakeholder Engagement 5 Governance & Remuneration 6 Customers & Solutions 7 Ambitions and Strategy 7 Policy and Targets 7 Performance and Impact 7 Resource Management 10 Ambitions and Strategy 10 Policy and Targets 10 Performance and Impact 11 Community Involvement 15 Ambitions and Strategy 15 Policy and Targets 15 Performance and Impact 16 Employee Engagement 18 Ambitions and Strategy 18 Policy and Targets 18 Performance and Impact 19 Company Profile 22 Awards & Honors 26 Membership in (Trade) Organizations 28 About This Report 30 Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table 31 Global Reporting Initiative 31 Global Compact 35 Contact & Report Information 38 This PDF version is provided for users of the online 2012 Sustainability Report (available through www.wolterskluwer.com) that prefer reading in print. The report is only provided as a download and not available in printed format from the company. 2 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report CEO Introduction At Wolters Kluwer sustainability is an integral part of our More than ever before, this report provides a complete growth strategy. Research shows that companies investing in account of how we tackle actual problems throughout sustainability have higher return on investment, higher levels the world with innovative, sustainable solutions that help of innovation and return more value to stakeholders. Wolters our customers and the communities in which we operate. Kluwer is aware of the value of sustainable innovation. We Examples include Corsearch which lowered its carbon invest in sustainable solutions that result in a more efficient footprint by planting a tree for every report delivered use of resources while creating a higher quality of work and electronically to clients, and has already planted over life for our customers. 15,000 trees. Employees of Wolters Kluwer Financial Services developed new printing process guidelines to reduce paper We integrate sustainability into our business to mitigate waste. Lippincott Williams & Wilkins’PrepU™ solution future risks, to become more resource efficient, to improve has helped hundreds of nursing students to become more our contribution to society and our employees and to competent practicing nurses. FRS Global helped Indian increase profitable growth. Banks to comply with their national regulatory reporting and compliance requirements, making these banks more We continue to build our sustainability strategy with our robust and risk resilient. After the devastation from super four major building blocks: storm Sandy in the U.S., our employees donated to a special website of the American Red Cross to raise funds for their 1 Customers & Solutions: We develop high-quality disaster relief efforts. These donations were matched by solutions for our customers that enhance the effectiveness Wolters Kluwer. of their work as well as long-term value for society. 2 Resource Management: We aim to minimize the I am proud of what we have accomplished in 2012, and I am environmental impact of our operations, and those of our confident that in 2013 we will continue to develop ever suppliers and customers. These efforts reflect our current more innovative and sustainable solutions, benefiting our transformation from a paper-based to an innovative digital customers, our communities and our shareholders. products and services company. 3 Community Involvement: Our employees promote initiatives that improve the quality of life in the communities we operate in. 4 Employee Engagement: We create an environment for Nancy McKinstry our employees that sparks their creativity and ambitions, CEO and Chairman of the Executive Board generating the development of innovative solutions that our business thrives on. We look for ways to increase the transparency and reliability of our sustainability data. Our shareholders have requested more sustainability-related information, and we want to be accountable for the targets we set. Therefore, in 2012, we introduced a new process to collect sustainability data. This is a joint effort between the departments of Accounting & Control and Corporate Sustainability that increases the completeness and reliability of our sustainability data. All sustainability data are now consolidated within our financial systems. 3 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Innovation Driven Sustainability Innovation is the main driver of our company’s growth. Strategy We operate in a market that is in constant transition and we need to deliver value every day. We strive to develop Wolters Kluwer wants to ensure the business relevance innovative solutions that align with the needs and concerns of sustainability, and that our business is sustainable. Our of our customers, and as a company, we believe high-quality strategy is built around the “Triple-P” concept. Triple-P aims sustainable solutions achieve this objective. Innovation to balance the interests of people, the planet, and profit to drives our sustainability agenda and is at the heart of how create a business that is both profitable and sustainable. That we operate. means a strong focus on financial results, while at the same time minimizing our environmental footprint and maximizing Our employees can create sustainable value for our our contribution to society, or social handprint. customers while collecting first-hand observations about what happens in the field to see where improvements are We can do so by minimizing our own consumption of natural needed. One example is the implementation of the Basel III resources while raising our level of corporate responsibility, accord for financial institutions. We organized seminars on and encouraging our stakeholders to do the same. the topic, and then developed services and solutions covering the elements outlined in the three pillars of Basel III. We set our strategic objectives and measure performance at a global level. At the same time, our different divisions As a global company we recognize our responsibilities to and operating companies have to meet the specific needs the world and the need to integrate sustainability into our of stakeholders at a local level. Our global policies set the operating processes. Integration starts with our suppliers, boundaries and direction while allowing freedom at a local who are expected to act in a responsible way by adhering level on how to meet those targets and set additional, to national laws and by applying labor and human rights locally-specific goals. standards. We recognize that operating on a global scale means our products have an impact on the environment in many places around the world. We have increasingly transformed our paper-based portfolio to high quality, Max nt electronic solutions that reduce the use of natural resources. tpri im iz o Minimize o handprint We believe that diversity sparks innovation. Therefore, we create an environment that fosters the ability of people with ur ur different professional skills, nationalities, and backgrounds to Innovationeo fo ask questions and develop new ideas and approach matters from new angles. Our ambitious talent development strategy Driven focuses on attracting the right people to the right role, at Sustainability the right time. And last, but not least, we are also aware that we are a Fo cu ts ul so s l Re part of our local communities. We support our employees’ n Fin a n cia promotion of community involvement initiatives. 4 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report We continue to focus on our four major building blocks: Our range of stakeholders includes customers, employees, suppliers, investors, non-governmental organizations, 1 Customers & Solutions: We develop high-quality government institutions, media, education, research solutions for our customers that improve their quality institutes, and the general public. We engage with of work as well as the quality of life in society. the communities where we work and the professional 2 Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer operates on communities we work for. a global scale and our products have a global impact. We aim to minimize the environmental impact of our Customers operations, and those of our suppliers and customers. Our Customers & Solutions program studies the drivers and These efforts reflect our current transformation from future challenges that influence our success and the success a paper-based to electronic services company. of our customers. Where possible, we involve customers in 3 Community Involvement: Our employees promote the development of new high-quality solutions. For example, initiatives that improve the quality of life in the nursing students have answered more than 54 million communities we operate in. questions using PrepU™, an adaptive learning solution offered 4 Employee Engagement: We create an environment for by Lippincott Williams & Wilkins (LWW), that is rapidly our employees that sparks their creativity and ambitions, improving student test scores and changing how nursing generating the development of innovative solutions that courses are taught. Our impact is measured by means of the our business thrives on. Net Promoter Score (NPS®), which asks customers whether they would recommend Wolters Kluwer based on their experiences with our products. Stakeholder Engagement Employees Our wide range of stakeholders We aim to improve the engagement of our employees by Engagement with our diverse stakeholders drives innovation actively listening to suggestions, building on productive through an understanding of different needs and priorities ideas for growth, and soliciting feedback for improvement. as we test ideas for new solutions. It reduces the risk to Business groups within Wolters Kluwer conduct Employee our organizational and product performance and identifies Engagement Surveys and an Organizational Health Index, opportunities to generate shared value. It also helps us to measuring and benchmarking employee engagement and understand the current and future needs and priorities of performance culture. Talent programs further develop critical our customers in the short and long term. business skills and boost personal development. One of the actions resulting from this practice is the establishment of the Global Innovation Award for employees. Suppliers Su s er We engage with suppliers and work with them on pp om lie st sustainability throughout the supply chain. Wolters rs Cu Kluwer requires suppliers to comply with the standards s& of engagement. This code includes general sustainability M Re an so er ns ag ur om io st lut standards that Wolters Kluwer wants to operate by, based on em ce en Cu So the articles of the United Nations Universal Declaration t Innovationof Human Rights, the eight core labor standards of the Driven International Labor Organization and United Nations Sustainability Global Compact, a framework for businesses that aligns C operations and strategies with universally accepted principles ee t In om oy en pl em vo m in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and Investors lv un em it Em gag en y anti-corruption. En t s pl mm oy The sustainability challenges faced by our business partners ee Co i Em un ty are part of our collective responsibility. We partner to find solutions and collectively invest in improvement measures. 5 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Investors performance indicators on which the financial STIP targets Investors increasingly research the Environmental, Social, are based. and Governance (ESG) policies and practices of the companies they invest in. We frequently participate in the Good corporate governance is the key to maintaining our efforts of specialized research groups that analyze the ESG credibility with our internal and external stakeholders. policies of corporations. We have been involved in reports and National regulations, like the Dutch Corporate Governance analysis by, among others, the Carbon Disclosure Project, Code, and international guidelines, like the Organisation Sustainalytics, Goldman Sachs, Markit, Oekom, Eiris, for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Vigeo, and Bloomberg. In cooperation with these institutions, Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, assist us we focus on supporting transparency through publically in implementing corporate governance principles. These available ratings. In 2012 we were recognized for the fifth year principles are represented by: Our Business Principles and in a row as a Bronze Class Media Sustainability Leader by the Company Values; a whistleblower policy; a human rights DowJones Sustainability Index (DJSI). The DJSI analyzes policy; an environmental policy; standards of engagement companies’ economic, environmental and social dimensions. for suppliers; an acceptable use policy; an insider trading Furthermore, Wolters Kluwer was listed in 34th place in the code, and a global travel policy. In 2012 we developed the Corporate Knights Global 100 list of the most sustainable Mobile Devices and iPad Policy and the Global IT Security large corporations in the world. The list, announced at the Policy. Also, we further implemented the compliance World Economic Forum in Davos, lists top‑performing training program on Business Principles and Company companies on a range of specific sustainability metrics. Values, Competition/Anti-Trust Law, Anti-Corruption and Information Security Awareness, for management in most Communities of our businesses globally. These training courses have been Engaging with the communities in which we do business translated into nine languages. and applying our employees’ skills produces initiatives that improve living conditions around the world. In collaboration All our publically available policies can be found on the with a range of local non-profit organizations and Wolters Kluwer website. non-governmental organizations (NGOs) we contribute to well-being in our communities. On local level, our operating companies have policies in place that enforce compliance. Governance & Remuneration Business Principles Guidance as 2012 2011 The Executive Board is committed to sustainability and % of Management sponsors activities that are integrated throughout the business. Under the sponsorship of Nancy McKinstry, CEO Provided Access to the Business and Chairman of the Executive Board, Maarten Thompson, Principles 100% 70% Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Company % Completed the Business Secretary, is responsible for sustainability. All of our Principles Training 70% 48% departments are engaged in building and implementing sustainability initiatives. In addition to our policies we organized several means of The Supervisory Board again resolved to use revenues from communication for our employees to discuss issues they electronic products as a percentage of total revenues as the encounter in their work. sustainability related target. Electronic products reduce paper consumption and increase productivity, while at the same time reducing our environmental footprint as well as that of % Of Employees With Access to 2012 2011 our customers. Measures to Handle Complaints and Grievances The Short-Term Incentive Plan (STIP) includes the sustainability related target descrived above. The payment Help Line 84% 77% of the STIP bonus for each executive board member only Whistleblowing 100% 93% takes place after verification by the external auditor of the Counseling 93% 31% financial statements of the company, including the financial 6 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Customers & Solutions Ambitions and Strategy We provide customers with sustainable solutions based on specific needs. We believe we have a long term Managing financial risks and sustainable impact on society when we are able to leverage our expertise in order to provide solutions Wolters Kluwer Financial Services offers financial for tomorrow’s challenges. The constant dialogue with crime prevention professionals a complete suite of our customers stimulates us to develop innovative and technology, content and professional services. The integrated solutions, delivering value to customers and company’s Wiz Sentri: Financial Crime Control the society at large. Our solutions integrate and simplify platform helps address the compliance and operational the work of professionals and give them the information risks tied to financial crimes, including fraud and they need, when they need it. We provide our customers money laundering. with the latest and most reliable content, integrated with innovative and cutting-edge technology. Policy and Targets Focus on innovation We focus on innovation by creating new ideas and transforming these ideas into useful products and services. Our employees play a key role in this process. All our employees are encouraged to spend time with customers to understand their needs and workflow. For example, the pressure on customers to do more work with fewer resources has driven the development of many products which provide productivity benefits. The SmartDox is one of those products, helping lawyers and counselors in drafting complex documents. Furthermore, our employees understand that professionals are in need of By doing so, we realize focused growth driven by high integrated solutions that can be accessed at any time and customer satisfaction. any place. The Facts & Comparisons® eAnswers meets those needs for medical professionals. New innovative ideas are born every day and employees are encouraged to submit Performance and Impact these ideas. This year, 700 ideas were submitted through the Global Innovation Award, which recognizes and rewards Our products and solutions are developed to provide a the contributions to our innovative solutions portfolio. positive impact on society. The following examples show how we enable our customers. Customer satisfaction We invest to meet customer needs and keep our solutions up to date. In 2010 we implemented the Net Promoter Making time for clients Score (NPS®) across our global customer segments. This metric measures customer satisfaction by asking how likely Highly educated professionals add most value to society the customer would be to recommend Wolters Kluwer to when they have sufficient time to meet clients and provide different stakeholders. We measure the NPS® at a product solutions to their problems. LEDESense helps law firms with level for different market segments and geographies. This their billing processes, giving them more time with clients. information helps us to identify elements of our solutions valued by our customers. Furthermore we learn how our TyMetrix Legal Analytics helps legal professionals make customers value our products, both in terms of strengths better data-driven decisions. It aggregates billions in global and weaknesses. Based on the results we can enable the legal spend and performance data in a reference database. right employees with the right tools to take actions that The database saves paper by providing professionals access focus on specific products, segments and geographies. to the entire catalogue using mobile apps. 7 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report SmartDox is an innovative legal expert system that can be Speeding patient treatment used by lawyers to improve and speed up their working processes. It supports lawyers and legal counsels in drafting Clinical questions need to be answered as quickly possible complex documents needed for an M&A process. to provide the right treatment on time. OvidMD provides quick answers to these questions in an easy-to-use interface based on the latest evidence-based research. This helps professionals provide state-of-the-art treatment for the patients’ benefit. Managing financial risks As an example of how our financial risk, compliance and audit solutions help organizations worldwide navigate the changing regulatory environment, Wolters Kluwer supported India’s banks and financial organizations in complying with local financial risk and regulatory reporting requirements, combating financial fraud and managing risk exposure across the entire enterprise. The integration of UpToDate into Sentri7® allows clinicians the opportunity to facilitate earlier, better, and more Wolters Kluwer Financial Services is actively encouraging consistent interventions. This lowers the length of hospital banks to put in place the correct Basel III measures to be stay, saves on patient costs and reduces antibiotic resistance. compliant and to demonstrate a sound regulatory and risk management strategy. For example, we held seminars, focused on new European regulations and international developments. Our ARC Logics for Financial Services enterprise risk management (ERM) solution suite helps risk management professionals more effectively mitigate the risks tied to financial crimes such as fraud and money laundering. It assists in bringing transparency, traceability and efficiency to manage compliance, operational, and financial risks. Training caregivers Lippincott’s DocuCare EHR is an educational electronic health record program that helps nursing students learn how to electronically chart patient care. The program is designed to prepare students for real-life practice, teaching them how to make risk-predictive care decisions, and document patient conditions. 8 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Ensuring the right diagnosis The Facts & Comparisons® eAnswers solution for mobile devices provides smartphone users with authoritative answers to drug information questions. This interactive resource helps practitioners ensure the safety and accuracy of therapeutic decision-making through quick and easy mobile access to independently reviewed and researched drug information. VisualDx® Oral from Lexicomp helps dental professionals find the right diagnosis for their patients. Dental professionals can produce a visual differential diagnosis based on patient findings. The tool saves dentists time and improves the quality of treatment. 9 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Resource Management Ambitions and Strategy Wolters Kluwer operates on a global scale with global supply Suppliers chains. We impact both the upstream and downstream We require business practices from our upstream suppliers side of these supply chains. We actively monitor the in line with international standards and cooperate with them environmental impact of our own operations and aim to to improve sustainable practices. minimize this impact where possible. We design our products to minimize the use of natural resources by customers. We We recognize that excessive use of paper by our customers started as a paper-based company, and have transformed can have a negative impact on biodiversity. With the switch our portfolio to primarily high-quality electronic products to electronic products, we first try to minimize the use and services. These solutions are developed to help of paper, and when paper is required we target the use of customers work more effectively, saving them time, energy, responsibly sourced paper. and resources. For the part of the portfolio that remains paper-based, Wolters Kluwer targets paper to be recycled or certified with FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), PEFC Policy and Targets (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification) or SFI (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) programs. Customers We are expanding our electronic solutions to emerging Customers markets. For example, a major shift is occurring from print We are helping our customers migrate to non-paper to online in the Indian professional market, which offers solutions. Over 74% of our revenue is now generated from valuable growth opportunities for online software solutions. electronic and service solutions. We have grown our India operations in recent years and continue to see great potential for our electronic products Wolters Kluwer’s operations in the healthcare, tax, and accounting markets. Our ambition is to lower the environmental footprint of our operations. We measure the direct and indirect use of Wolters Kluwer’s operations natural resources for each business group and location to Our resource management strategy is made concrete in manage improvements. our Environmental Policy. Our @WorkAnywhere program includes the development of a Remote Work Policy. The environmental performance of our business units are measured in terms of the natural resources we use in our own operations. Illinois Governor’s Sustainability Award Key highlights include: • Reduction in energy demand of over 500 MWh CCH was recognized with the 2012 Illinois Governor’s • Increase in water efficiency by 30% Sustainability Award. This award honors the green • New boilers yielding 10% reduction in power transformation of the CCH Chicago printing facility consumption over the past two years, and the resulting savings and • New high-efficiency lighting system saving estimated benefits. Complementing the sustainability efforts of its 426 MWh of electricity parent company, CCH and its employee-led Sustainability • Throughout the renovation, 92% of all construction Committee have focused on Leadership in Energy and waste was recycled. Environmental Design (LEED)-approved renovations and green improvements to the facility. The renovation of the half-century-old printing facility incorporated green materials and innovative approaches. 10 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report As we are converting our businesses from paper-based to The chart below shows the percentage of revenue by online, software, and services products, it is important that category of media, indicating the trend towards more the remaining paper-based portion should be as clean as electronic products and services revenue. Year-on-year we are possible. That is why we actively increase the percentage improving the percentage of electronic & services revenue. of responsible paper used. We now chart the volume of externally certified chain-of-custody paper and recycled paper, and measure the amount of responsible paper used Revenue by Media 2012 2011 across all our business units. Media Format Suppliers • Electronic Publishing / Online 27% 27% The management of supplier performance is a critical • Software / Workflow Tools 31% 29% function for improving value chain performance. Poor Services 16% 15% performance by suppliers can have a large impact Subtotal Electronic & Services 74% 71% on our ability to deliver products and services to our Print 26% 29% customers. Our supply chain does not include many direct Total 100% 100% manufacturing suppliers. Instead, we have a supply base that primarily consists of indirect suppliers who provide services to our company, such as printing, shipping, and IT consulting. Wolters Kluwer’s operations Nevertheless, we expect all our suppliers to comply with We measure the environmental performance of our business the Standards of Engagement. units in terms of paper, energy, and water use. We also measure the carbon-emissions-related impact of businessNext to the Standards of Engagement we are setting up related air travel. a supplier framework for so-called High Risk Countries (selection based on a sub-set of the United Nations Human Development Index). We analyzed the certifications that are being used by our suppliers in these countries. We have two Reducing paper while staying ahead of the curve major suppliers in Asia, that are using a mix of certifications with respect to quality, social and environmental standards. By shifting the product portfolio to digital products and Among them ISO 9001, ICTI, ISO 14001, FSC, PEFC and SFI. services, the use of traditional raw materials such as paper, water and energy is lowered. This has a positive influence on climate change and deforestation. Many of Performance and Impact these solutions, such as CCHProSystem fx Suite, have driven clients’ paperless General offices for years. In other The natural resources used by our customers depend on cases it is more direct. the type of media we use in our products and services. For The Emissions Trading those sectors where information changes constantly, such and New Energy Global as medical, financial and legal, we save a significant amount Guide is an online of paper by offering our products on digital media and/or subscription service as a digital service. Of course, any increase in Electronic & that helps professionals Services revenue also positively affects the environmental comply with emissions footprint of the Wolters Kluwer operations and those of trading and new our suppliers. energy laws in several jurisdictions around the world. 11 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Energy Consumption 2012 2011 Business Air Travel 2012 Total Energy Use in GWh 107 102 Total Millions of Kilometers (km) % Renewable Energy 18% 2% Travelled by Plane 106 Total CO2 Emissions from Flight Use (km /FTE) 5,510 Energy in Tons 36,482 41,297 Tons of CO2 Emissions from Tons of CO2 Emissions from Business Air Travel 17,850 Energy per FTE 1.9 2.2 Ton CO2 Emission from Business Air Travel per FTE 0.93 Total energy use increased more than the increase in FTEs. Because we significantly increased our percentage of The data were converted to CO2, using conversion factors renewable energy (now in Belgium, France, Germany and related to short, medium and long haul flights and the the UK), CO2 emissions went down by almost 12%. associated class. The information is this table is based on the use of We excluded the data for 2011, because the basis for data electricity, natural gas, and heating oil. We collected data collection was significantly different for 2012. for offices over 1,000m2 and extrapolated for the smaller ones. Location specific conversion factors were used to determine the CO2 data. Because we changed our scope (see About this Report), the 2011 data shown are not comparable with the data for 2011 in the 2011 report. Total Use of Certified Paper Usage 2012 Responsible Total Paper Use of Certified Responsible paper In Metric Ton Total Paper Use in in Metric Ton Metric Ton 33,030 1,786 Certified Responsible Paper 10 FSC 5,160 ,35 4 PEFC 10,354 SFI 1,786 Total Use Responsible Paper in Metric Ton 17,300 5,160 % Responsible Paper 52% The amount of responsible paper is now over 50% and increased significantly compared to last year. We continue to roll out our policy targeting for an increasing share of responsible paper. FSC (5,160) We excluded the data for 2011, because the basis for data PEFC (10,354) SFI (1,786) collection was significantly different for 2012. 12 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Saving paper in printing facilities Saving paper with Document Upload A team of employees at Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Before freight customers close a business deal with an developed a plan for minimizing the web press paper unknown party, they can use the Transport Company consumption. The web press uses large rolls of paper to Directory from Teleroute to find documentation about a create print forms. However, the print process inherently potential new business partner and ensure they are engaging wastes paper. with trustworthy people. A new Document Upload feature saves large amounts of paper by allowing users to upload and share the documents needed to confirm deals and select a partner. The team determined that paper use could be reduced by 28%. With Document Upload, when agreeing on a deal, there This was enough paper to reach from the print production is no need to send all transport, insurance and other legal facility in St. Cloud, Minnesota to Hollywood, California. documents by fax or email. The search functionality means freight customers can more easily identify freight, and avoid The team reviewed the process, collected data and tested dealing with offers that do not match their vehicle, saving several possible process changes before arriving at the transport miles and energy. final solution. The new process was documented in a set of guidelines for the operators to follow. Since the process was introduced there has been a 15.5% reduction in paper waste Saving energy with LED lights which represents a cost savings of $60,000. Wolters Kluwer Italy plans to install LED lights throughout its headquarters to save energy and reduce associated CO2 emissions. Starting in 2013, 240 LED lights will be installed on one floor of the building, moving to other floors in a later phase. The lights are equipped with sensors that reduce the power of the lamps when there is sufficient external light. The Water Consumption 2012 2011 sensors also switch off the light when there are no employees present and switch on again when an employee enters the Total Water Use in Cubic Meter 68,517 65,736 office. Through these measures, Wolters Kluwer Italy expects Water Use in Liters per Working Day to save 40-50% in its building energy use and more than per FTE 15 15 85 tonnes in CO2 emissions. Water usage increased in 2012, but the water usage per FTE per working day remained stable. We collected data for offices over 1,000m2 and extra­polated for the smaller ones, based on the m2 use in that particular part of the world. Because we changed our scope (see About this Report), the 2011 data shown are not comparable with the data for 2011 in the 2011 report. 13 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Suppliers For our paper suppliers we target the use of responsibly sourced paper. We measure responsible paper according to generally acknowledged certification schemes: Certification Details certification method Only report as certified paper if scheme packaged paper carries this logo “100%” – for products containing 100% material from FSC certified forests “Mixed” – for products containing a combination of material FCS from FSC certified forests, FSC controlled wood and eligible recycled fiber “Recycled” – for products containing only recycled fiber “Certified Sourcing” – for products from Certified Sourcing “Certified Chain of Custody – Promoting Sustainable Forestry” – for products promoting Sustainable Forestry via Volume Credit SFI “Certified Chain of Custody – X% Certified Forest Content, X% Certified Sourcing, X% Post-Consumer Recycled” – for paper with a specified mix of Certified Forest Content, Certified Sourcing, and Post-Consumer Recycled. “Certified Chain of Custody – X% Certified Forest Content” – for paper with a specified % of Certified Forest Content “PEFC Certified” – for PEFC certified paper PEFC “PEFC Certified and recycled” – for paper with a mix of PEFC certified and recycled 14 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Community Involvement Ambitions and Strategy Wolters Kluwer is a global company with employees around with 150 professional musicians in two charity concerts to the world. Our employees live in local communities and work benefit Fundación Balia, under the theme ‘Before Exclusion, for and with local professionals. Their skills, combined with Become an Audience’. Fundación Balia is an independent our services, provide solutions tailored to local communities Spanish NGO that develops different projects for children, that raise or secure the quality of life worldwide. young people and their families that are in serious risk of social exclusion. The charity concerts raised a total of €31,500. Employee driven Employees are encouraged to develop ideas in support of After super storm Sandy in the U.S., Wolters Kluwer their local communities. Offering their expertise, solutions, employees expressed a strong willingness to support and judgment, and time, they make a durable impact to the help those affected. In response, the Wolters Kluwer’s quality of life in their communities. Executive Board decided to create a special matching program to benefit the American Red Cross with their 2012 Customer driven Hurricanes and Other Related Storms Fund. Through Wolters Kluwer staff cooperates with customers to volunteer a special employee donation site, Wolters Kluwer employees and enhance the quality of life in the communities we contributed $27,146. This amount was then matched by both serve. Wolters Kluwer, resulting in a $54,293 total contribution. The donation helps the American Red Cross to prepare for and respond to storms. Policy and Targets Customer driven We support good causes that lie outside the scope of our Corsearch partners with American Forests to reduce its operation at the corporate level. In the U.S., Wolters Kluwer carbon footprint by planting a tree for every report it delivers supported the American Red Cross to provide super storm to customers. Sandy victims with food, shelter and other resources. Wolters Kluwer Health has committed itself to the Nestlé Wolters Kluwer supports the Amsterdam-based John Foundation’s enLINK initiative, which supports the Adams Institute by offering our expertise in software research of healthcare professionals in low-income countries solutions and information-enabled tools. The Institute is an to address malnutrition. independent body that promotes cultural exchange between the U.S. and the Netherlands. Wolters Kluwer has been a Employee driven corporate sponsor of this organization since 2005. In 2012, Fifty Wolters Kluwer Spain employees in Madrid and Wolters Kluwer helped producing an e-book, celebrating Valladolid supported our social Foundation. They participated the 25th year anniversary of the Institute. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services sponsors International Financial Crime Conference Wolters Kluwer Financial Services is a Charter Affiliate Member of the Association of Certified Financial Crime Specialists (ACFCS). The ACFCS is composed of private and public sector professionals, who work in various disciplines that help control, detect and combat financial crimes. As part of its Charter Affiliate membership, our Financial Crime prevention experts helped conduct an educational webinar for ACFCS members. Wolters Kluwer Financial Services is also sponsoring the ACFCS’ International Financial Crime Conference and Exhibition. 15 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report In response to the devastating impact of super storm Sandy, CCH, a Wolters Kluwer business, developed the webinar Tax Free Tax in a Flash Apps for students Treatment of Casualty and Disaster Losses. The webinar assists professionals in providing tax relief to clients who CCH, a Wolters Kluwer business, continues to expand its suffered losses. It offers practical guidance and advice on mobile offerings, by adding more and more iPad Apps how disasters affect clients. to its line-up. These new Apps makes it easier than ever to access world-class tax expertise when and where you work or study. By delivering more valuable content and Performance and Impact more flexible options to our customers, CCH enables access to the right information and analysis. Donations 2012 2011 The Tax in a Flash App is built specifically for students. It is a mobile study companion in a unique Donations in 1,000 Euro 759 554 Q&A flash card format. The App also features three study modules: Individual Federal Income Tax; Federal Donations increased especially in Italy and the Tax Business Considerations; and Federal Estate, Gift and United States. Other Tax Planning Considerations. The App is available for free and students can also select to purchase specific Because we changed our scope (see About this Report), modules that best meet their needs. the 2011 data shown are not comparable with the data for 2011 in the 2011 report. A commitment to provide vital nutrition resources in low-income countries Wolters Kluwer Health has committed to the Nestlé Foundation’s enLINK initiative, which supports the research into malnutrition by healthcare professionals in low-income countries. In 2004, the Foundation and Ovid, a global provider of medical and scientific resources and part of Wolters Kluwer Health, collaborated to develop the enLINK electronic library. This provides students, researchers, 25th anniversary e-book for the John Adams Institute and healthcare workers with easy access to important electronic medical and nutrition resources. Wolters Kluwer supports the Amsterdam-based John Adams Institute by offering our Investing in any activity that promotes increased access to expertise in software solutions information has a tremendous impact. The Nestlé Foundation and information-enabled tools. chose Ovid to develop enLINK because of its comprehensive An e-book was produced for an medical content and sophisticated technology. event featuring former U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, in celebration of the 25th year anniversary of the Institute. The e-book contains a collection of excerpts, short stories, and video clips from 25 prominent authors and public figures who have spoken at John Adams Institute events. The John Adams Institute was established in 1987 as an independent institution to promote cultural exchange between the United States of America and the Netherlands. Wolters Kluwer has been a corporate sponsor of this 16 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report organization since 2005. This is a part of our drive to support and other practitioners who prepare income tax returns and local organizations and promote sustainable growth by advise clients on tax matters. providing high-quality information-enabled tools and software solutions that improve the quality of work and the quality of life for the communities where we do business. Lowering carbon footprint by planting trees From March 2012 to March 2013, Corsearch, a Wolters Wolters Kluwer Spain employees sing in charity event Kluwer business, collaborated with American Forests to for underprivileged children reduce the carbon footprint from operations. Corsearch encouraged clients to receive their reports and watch notices Fifty employees of Wolters Kluwer Spain participated with in electronic format. Customers were informed about the professional musicians in two charity concerts in benefit program details and special recycled paper sticky notes were of Fundación Balia, under the theme ‘Before Exclusion, placed onto printed reports and watch notices. Become an Audience’, in Madrid and Valladolid, respectively. Fundación Balia, an independent Spanish NGO, fights against social exclusion of children and the youth in the country and since 2011 has developed different projects for children, young people and their families that are at serious risk of social exclusion. For every one of these electronic deliveries, Corsearch donates $1 to American Forests to plant a tree. The goal of 10,000 trees was reached in October 2012. Corsearch has since donated funds for over 15,000 trees. Helping professionals provide tax relief to disaster victims Following super storm Sandy, CCH, a Wolters Kluwer business, offered a webinar on Tax Treatment of Casualty and Disaster Losses. This webinar assists professionals providing tax relief to clients who suffered devastating losses. It offers practical guidance and advice on how disasters such as Sandy affect clients’ tax returns; an understanding of the reporting and substantiation requirements; and the very latest developments from the IRS in the area of casualty losses. The program is designed for tax partners, managers and staff, CPAs, enrolled agents, tax return preparers, tax attorneys 17 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Employee Engagement Ambitions and Strategy We attribute much of our achievement to our employees. a Leader Success profile to prepare the next generation of Their skills are essential for the development of innovative leaders. In order to identify potential leaders, talent reviews solutions for our customers. The creativity and ambitions were completed for each Division, Global Shared Services, of our workforce make this innovation possible. We are China, Finance and Strategy. In addition, we organized dedicated to attracting and retaining people with the greatest our first annual Enterprise Talent Review to share talent talent and highest capabilities. Ingenuity and innovation are information and to drive greater awareness across our promoted by developing a diverse workforce and rewarding enterprise. Our nomination-based 2012 Leadership Forum outstanding results and exceptional work. During past years, invited high potential people from across the company for we have developed programs that encourage employees to a two-day learning experience. Wolters Kluwer combines become more involved in innovative product development. these approaches in order to nurture the growth of potential These initiatives make us successful at what we do, both for leaders. We believe our employees are the key to our success. our customers and for the community. Wolters Kluwer recognises employees who make significant contributions to our success during our annual Global Policy and Targets Innovation Award ceremony. The award goes to those employees and teams who developed a profoundly As a global operating company, Wolters Kluwer continues innovative product or solution. These distinctive solutions to develop people with the talent necessary to be successful combine expert knowledge, software, and services to deliver in the global business environment. It is our goal to be at superior value to our customers. In 2012, the Innovation the top of the professional’s list, so we can recruit, retain Board met to select the winners of the Global Innovation and develop talented employees. Being on top of the list Award from among the finalists of the two previous rounds, means we support an appropriate work-life balance and comprising approximately 700 entries. Employees from provide market driven compensation. In 2012, Wolters the 14 finalist teams travelled to New York to present their Kluwer established a strong Global Talent Development projects. These employees came from the U.S., Canada, strategy, structure, and roadmap. Within the Global Talent the U.K., the Netherlands, Germany, and Sweden. Each Development framework, we established a Talent Governance team provided inspiring ideas about topics such as tackling Board that makes senior-level employees responsible for workflow inefficiencies, creating intelligent content delivery talent development. The Executive Board also completed platforms, and developing solutions that, at their core, Towards new working methods Wolters Kluwer’s employee engagement is regularly recognized for its excellence. Kluwer Training in Belgium won the HR Excellence Award in the category for “Best Learning, Coaching & Development Company”. The HR Excellence Awards addressed the theme ‘The Leap to the New World of Work’. It recognizes HR partners who excel in exceptional quality service and innovative solutions that help organizations to make the transition to the “New Working Methods” organization model. Kluwer Training was nominated in this category following a survey conducted among 1,300 HR decision makers and 750 CEOs. After a public vote and the selection by a specialist jury, Kluwer Training was again voted as “Best Learning, Coaching & Development Company” recognizing our training, coaching, personal and professional development in Belgium. 18 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report make our customers more productive and effective at what they do. Active for Life and Relay For Life Wellness We believe that workforce diversity is essential to our The Wolters Kluwer’s Wellness Program is committed competitiveness. Diversity sparks the innovation and to providing information and tools to help employees creative skills that are indispensable for staying ahead of maintain a healthy lifestyle. In the Active for Life our competitors and our success. Wolters Kluwer’s global program, fifty-eight teams across the U.S. entered into activities result in a diverse workforce of over 19,000 the first Wolters Kluwer Active for Life Physical Activity employees who operate in 40 different countries. We take Challenge. Teams representing 541 employees took a diversity into account when we seek people with the most pledge to lead a more active lifestyle. The challenge potential in our workforce. This means that we strive for included a focus on other aspects of personal wellgender balance in the workforce. Our active gender policy being, such as managing weight through healthy food, and gender diversity program often results in women in addressing preventative care needs, identifying and leadership positions, as shown by the examples of our CEO, managing stress, and getting more sleep. In total, the the CEO of our Legal & Regulatory Division, our Chinese, teams logged 726,962 minutes of purposeful activity Italian, Medical Research, Professional & Education, and CCH in five weeks. Wolters Kluwer is committed to the fight Tax and Accounting North America women business leaders. against cancer through our support of the American Cancer Society’s Relay for Life National Team Gender Diversity Gender Diversity ofofTotal Total Employees 2012 Employees2012 Program. With a goal to create 50 teams across the In % U.S., We currently have 30 teams registered with in % 347 participants. To date, teams have raised more than $43,000 to help the battle against cancer. 100% 72 57 46 75% 54 50% 43 25% 28 Executives Managers Employees Males Females In 2012 we have restructured our global Human Resources (HR) organization as part of Wolters Kluwer’s evolution to a more integrated global company. Our new HR structure Performance and Impact centrally aligns the HR support within the global operating divisions, but leaves room for strong local expertise within our HR community. This ensures we maintain local continuity Wolters Kluwer’s Workforce in 2012 2011 and diversity. These organizational changes cultivate a more 2012 in Ultimo FTE per Division global, diverse way of thinking, further boosting innovation and growth. Legal & Regulatory 7,639 7,704 Tax & Accounting 5,785 5,675 Health 2,528 2,425 Financial & Compliance Services 2,358 2,077 Corporate 102 98 Total 18,412 17,979 19 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Onsite clinics and vouchers for flu vaccination Talent development Wolters Kluwer’s Wellness Program hosted a national flu Today’s fast-paced, global business environment requires a shot program for all of its employees. Partnering with CVS/ new strategy for how we develop employees. We are Caremark, Wolters Kluwer offers benefits-eligible employees committed to building a talent-focused culture that will drive flu shots at no cost. CVS/Caremark supported our on-site our continued success. Several strategic talent programs and clinics and voucher program in all states. initiatives are underway to ensure Wolters Kluwer is building a global pool of talented people. One example is the recent divisional reviews with each Division CEO. These annual discussions are focused on ensuring a strong pipeline of talented people. Additionally, we completed our first annual Enterprise Talent Review, where our most senior level leaders came together to increase awareness of talent across the company. Our new nomination-based 2012 Leadership Forum invited some Safe driving of our high potential people from across Wolters Kluwer in the U.S. has partnered with Travellers the company for a Insurance to present the webinar, Driving Safely, for its two-day learning employees. The objective of the webinar is to educate experience. Wolters Kluwer is focused on approaches to help and help prevent nurture the growth of peoples’ potential, because we believe accidents that occur our employees are the key to our success. from inattention and distractions as well as learn defensive driving Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees strategies. In % Employee Turnover as a Percentage of Total Employees in % 15% (14) (13) 8 1 Employees that Employees HaveTaken Taken Part that Have inSkill Partin SkillAssessments Assessments 6 and Capability and Capability Development Development 10% In % in 100% 6 6 85 5% 75% 73 63 50% 2012 2011 Natural 25% Voluntary Involuntary % Based on number of employees that left the company and Executives Managers Employees the total FTEs ultimo 2012. 2012 20 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report HR for a global operating company Employees drive innovation As part of our evolution to a more integrated global operating company, changes have been made to the global Human Resources organization. These changes represent an important priority for the business and help to promote a global culture that ambitiously focuses on innovation and growth, making Wolters Kluwer the place to work. The HR structure focuses on Wolters Kluwer doing two things exceptionally well: • Enhancing our ability to compete for top people through unsurpassed recruitment, retention, and professional development programs; and • Effectively delivering Human Resources services that are both highly valued and aligned with business strategies. The new HR structure emphasizes a centralized alignment Wolters Kluwer awards the Global Innovation Award on of HR support within the global operating divisions, while annual basis to acknowledge employees and teams who building upon the strong local expertise within our HR make significant contributions to innovation. In 2012, The community, ensuring we maintain local continuity. The Innovation Board met to select the winners of this year’s organizational changes are an important milestone in Global Innovation Award from among the finalists of the boosting a culture that cultivates a global way of thinking. previous two rounds, comprising approximately 700 entries. Employees from 14 finalist teams travelled to New York to present their projects. They came from the U.S., Canada, the U.K., the Netherlands, Germany, and Sweden. Each team provided innovative ideas about topics such as tackling workflow inefficiencies, creating intelligent content delivery platforms, and developing solutions that, at their core, make our customers more productive and effective professionals. They combined expert knowledge, software, and services to deliver superior value in our primary markets. Wolters Kluwer views the Global Innovation Award as a unique opportunity to showcase innovations that will drive accelerated growth. 21 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Revenues Company Profile Total revenues 2012 €3,603 mln grew 7% compared to prior year Who We aRe & strong revenue diversification 2012, in % 16% 26 % 27% What We do Our customers make critical decisions every day; 31% we help them move forward Online Software Print Services with confidence. Revenues by division 2012, in % 11% 21 % 27% 41 % Legal & Regulatory Tax & Accounting Health Tagline Customers Markets Financial & Compliance Services Wolters Kluwer, when We serve professionals legal, business, Revenues by geography you have to be right in the legal, tax, tax, accounting, 2012, in % expresses the value finance, and finance, audit, customers find in healthcare markets risk, compliance, 1% 5% working with us to in over healthcare 54% drive for better results 150 countries Company Values Employees Products 40 customer focus, 19,112 employees over 74% of revenues % innovation, across europe, come from online, accountability, north america, software and services, Europe integrity, asia Pacific, including 350 mobile North America Asia Pacific value creation, and latin america apps and 100 e-journals Rest of the world teamwork 22 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Our strategy Wolters Kluwer supports Realizing our growth Potential 90% of u.s. banks and the top 40 global banks 1. focus on high gRoWth aReas: • Invest to expand high growth Wolters Kluwer segments, scale positions supports over • Drive growth in digital solutions and services Expand 210,000 tax Our leading high & accounting 2. incRease custoMeRs’ growth positions firms worldwide that’s over 40 million PRoductivitY: tax returns • Invest in mobile applications, Deliver cloud-based services, and integrated solutions Solutions and Wolters Kluwer • Invest 8-10% annually insights supports over in product innovation 13 million Drive healthcare 3. dRive efficiencies Efficiencies professionals to fund gRoWth: in more than • Drive efficiencies in areas 150 countries such as sourcing, technology, real estate, organizational processes, and distribution Wolters Kluwer channels supports over 250,000 legal professionals worldwide coMPanY stRuctuRe headquaRteRed Headquartered in Alphen aan den Rijn, the Netherlands. Stock listed on Euronext Amsterdam: WLSNC.AS, stock code 39590, ISIN code NL0000395903; included in the executive BoaRd coRPoRate AEX and Euronext 100 indices office financial & legal & tax & health coMPliance RegulatoRY accounting seRvices gloBal PlatfoRM oRganization gloBal shaRed seRvices MoRe infoRMation www.wolterskluwer.com www.facebook.com/wolterskluwer www.twitter.com/wolters_kluwer 23 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report financial oveRvieW Revenues Revenues by division Revenues by media in millions of euros in % 4,000 100% 26 27 27 3,603 3,308 3,354 1,491 1,471 1,451 3,000 75% 28 29 31 2,000 981 50% 922 931 31 29 26 1,000 745 25% 608 639 15 15 16 307 333 386 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Legal & Regulatory Online Tax & Accounting Software Health Print Financial & Compliance Services Services Revenues by geography organic revenue growth in % in % 100% 44 44 40 2.0 1.1 0.7 75% 1.0 0.6 54 51 50 50% 0.0 25% -1.0 4 5 5 1 1 1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Europe North America Asia Pacific Rest of the world 24 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report oRdinaRY eBita ordinary eBita by division ordinary eBita margin in millions of euros in % 1,050 21.9 785 21.8 716 728 334 750 325 324 21.8 21.7 450 262 21.7 262 257 21.6 163 150 107 126 21.6 62 64 73 0 -40 -43 -47 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Legal & Regulatory Financial & Compliance Services Tax & Accounting Corporate Health otheR KPis ordinary free cash flow diluted ordinary earnings per share in millions of euros (in actual currencies) in euros (in actual currencies) 550 1.60 1.58 500 507 1.55 450 1.50 446 443 1.47 1.45 400 1.45 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Key Performance indicators 2012 target 2012 2011 Ordinary EBITA margin 21.8% 21.5%-22.5% 21.7% Ordinary free cash flow¹ €473 million ≥ €425 million €438 million Return on invested capital 8.8% ≥ 8% 8.9% Diluted ordinary EPS¹ €1.47 low single digit growth €1.46 ¹ At constant currencies (EUR/USD = 1.39) 25 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Awards & Honors The list below is an overview of Wolters Kluwer‘s recent Health awards and honors: • Wolters Kluwer Health Ranked Second Overall in “2012 Best in KLAS” Awards Sustainability Quality of Clinical Decision Support Solutions Powers • Wolters Kluwer included in Dow Jones Company to the No. 2 Position in the Annual Performance Sustainability Index issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers and Customer Satisfaction Report. and the Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) Group. • ProVation® Medical Software Named Best in Clinical • Wolters Kluwer recognized as one of the ‘Global Procedure Documentation in “2012 Best in KLAS 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World’ Awards” as announced by Corporate Knights during the World This is the sixth consecutive year that ProVation MD has Economic Forum in Davos. received the top honor in this category from KLAS. • Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Journals Recognized Legal & Regulatory for Excellence in Editorial and Design at the 2012 • Wolters Kluwer’s Kluwer Arbitration Blog Earns FOLIO: Eddie & Ozzie Awards Prestigious CPR Award Four LWW Journals take home Silver and Bronze Awards in The popular Wolters Kluwer Law & Business arbitration 3 Categories. blog receives top recognition for Outstanding Electronic • Wolters Kluwer Health’s Ovid and LWW Technical Media focused on alternative dispute resolution. Services Team Receives Northface ScoreBoard AwardSM for Excellence in Customer Service Tax & Accounting LWW Technical Services was awarded both a Top • CCH Receives 2012 Governor’s Sustainability Award 100 Center of Excellence designation and a Center of for Achievement in Environmental Protection Excellence certification from Benchmark Portal. CCH also demonstrated green advancements in its • UpToDate® Honored for Delivering ‘World-Class’ printing processes in 2011, with 98 percent of its books Customer Service and 100 percent of its journals produced under the Forest UpToDate® received Omega’s Prestigious NorthFace Stewardship Council or the Sustainable Forestry Initiative. ScoreBoard AwardSM for Exceeding Customer • CCH Executives Mackintosh and Mortenson Honored as Expectations. Most Powerful Women in Accounting • Lexicomp, a Part of Wolters Kluwer Health, Named The “Most Powerful Women in Accounting” recognizes “Great Workplace” for Fourth Consecutive Year by 25 women who are making the greatest impact on the tax NorthCoast99 and accounting profession. Lexicomp is a leading provider of drug reference and data • CCH’s ProSystem fx Knowledge Coach Wins Best Audit solutions for the healthcare industry. Technology in K2 Enterprises Awards • Wolters Kluwer Health’s Sentri7® Patient ProSystem fx Knowledge Coach is an industry awardSurveillance Software Receives High Marks in winning and peer reviewed audit, review and compilation Two Recent KLAS Reports guidance solution. Sentri7® is a web-based platform that aggregates, • CCH ProSystem fx Practice Intelligence Named monitors and delivers patient data in real-time from 2012 Top New Business Intelligence Product by disparate hospital information systems to assist providers Accounting Today in delivering optimum patient care, reducing drug costs, CCH’s ProSystem fx® Practice Intelligence has been and improving outcomes. honored by Accounting Today in being named the • Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Receives 21 Awards magazine’s “2012 Top New Product” in the Business from the American Society of Healthcare Intelligence category. Publication Editors (ASHPE) for Editorial and Design Excellence Twelve LWW Journals Earn 7 Gold, 7 Silver, and 7 Bronze Awards – a Record Number of Wins for LWW. • Four Lippincott Williams & Wilkins Nursing Books Win AJN Book of the Year AJN is the nation’s oldest and largest circulating nursing journal and one of the most highly respected. 26 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Financial & Compliance • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Wins Banking Technology’s Readers’ Choice Award for Best Governance Risk & Compliance Product/Service The award highlights Wolters Kluwer Financial Services’ GRC solutions, which allow organizations to manage a single area of risk or work within a holistic GRC framework, including compliance, operational and financial risk management, audit and the governance function. • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Receives Compliance Register Platinum Award for Regulatory News Service The award acknowledges the third successive year that Wolters Kluwer Financial Services has been recognized by Compliance Register after winning “Best Editorial Team” in 2010, and “Most Comprehensive News Service” in 2011. • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Named Top 10 Firm on Chartis Research RiskTech100 Report This is the third year in a row that Wolters Kluwer Financial Services has earned a spot in the top 10, maintaining its sixth place position from last year, and the second year in a row it has won the Regulatory Reporting category. • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Named the Leading Provider in IFRS Technology Solutions by Chartis Research IFRS Solution Ranked as Highest in ‘Market Potential’ and ‘Completeness of Offering’ in the IFRS RiskTech Quadrant. • Wolters Kluwer Financial Services Wins Two Insurance Risk Awards Regulatory Reporting and Operational Risk Management solutions honored at the 2012 Insurance Risk Awards. 27 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Membership in (Trade) Organizations Agoria, Voka, Federgon (Belgium) Flanders Interuniversity Institute for Biotechnology American Bankers Association (VIB, Belgium) American Bar Association Groupement Français de l’Industrie de l’Information (France) American Chamber of Commerce in the Netherlands Healthcare Marketers Council (United States) American Marketing Association Human Resources Community (Italy) American Medical Publishers Association Indian Pharmacological Society (IPS) American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Institute of Chartered Accountants (Australia) America’s SAP Users Group Institute of Management Accountants (United States) Amsterdam Partners (Netherlands) International Academy of Cardiovascular Sciences Arbeitsgemeinschaft der rechtsund staatswissenschaftlichen (IACS, Canada) Verlage eV (Germany) International Association of Scientific, Technical & ARMA International (United States) Medical Publishers (STM, Netherlands) ASSINFORM – Associazione Italiana per l’Information India Publishing & Education Services Forum formed by Technology (Italy) Tower Watson Association of American Publishers (United States) International Society for Medical Publication Professionals Association Chartered Accountants (ACA, United Kingdom) (United States) Association Chartered Certified Accountants International Society Pharmaeconomics & Outcomes (ACCA, United Kingdom) Research (ISPOR, United States) Association of Customer Services (United Kingdom) Italian Publishers Association (AIE) Association of Learned and Professional Society Publishers La Confederación Española de Organizaciones Empresariales (United Kingdom) (Spain) Association of Information and Dissemination Centers Law Society of New South Wales (Australia) (United States) Law Society of Upper Canada Associazione Italiana Editori (Italy) L’Association des Editeurs Belges (Belgium) Assosoftware (Italy) L’Union Wallonne des Entreprises (Belgium) Auckland Chamber of Commerce (New Zealand) Marknadsföreningen (Sweden) Australasian Society of Clinical & Experimental MASZRE (Hungary) Pharmacologists and Toxicologists (ASCEPT, Australia) MATESZ (Hungary) Australian Human Resources Institute MATISZ (Hungary) Australian Institute of Management Medical Library Association (United States) Australian Society of CPAs Medie och Informationsarbetsgivarna (Sweden) AWVN (Netherlands) Michigan Association of Certified Public Accountants Better Business Bureau (United States) (MACPA, United States) Biotech Industry Association (BIO, United States) Mortgage Bankers Association (United States) Börsenverein des Deutschen Buchhandels (Germany) Mortgage Industry Standards Maintenance Organization British Educational Suppliers Association (United States) Canadian Tax Foundation National Association of Credit Union Service Organizations Certified General Accountants (Canada) (NACUSO, United States) Chartered Accountants (Canada) National Council of Prescription Drug Programs Chartered Institute Management Accountants (United States) (CIMA, United Kingdom) New Zealand Law Society Coopérative de la presse périodique (France) New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants CrossRef (United States) New Zealand Microbiological Society Deutsche Gesellschaft für Personalführung eV (Germany) New Zealand Software Architects Council Editors Association of Canada NUV, via NUV from VNO NCW, AWVN, CIO Platform Employers and Manufacturers’ Association (New Zealand) (Netherlands) Federación de Gremios de Editores de España (Spain) OJD (France) Fédération Nationale de la Presse d’information Spécialisée Ontario Bar Association (Canada) (France) Pharmaceutical Management Science Association Federation of Belgian graphic industry (FEBELGRA) (United States) 28 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Pharmaceutical Marketing Research Group (United States) Pharmaceutical Society of New Zealand Polish Book Association (Poland) Professional & Scholarly Publishers (United States) RUIT (Belgium) Skattebetalerforeningen (Norway) Society for Corporate Secretaries & Governance Professionals (United States) Special Libraries Association (United States) SQL Server Administrators Association (United States) State Bar Associations (United States) State Specific Bankers Associations (United States) Syndicat National de la Presse Professionelle (France) Syndicat National de l’édition (France) Syndicat de la Presse économique et juridique (France) Syndicat de la Presse médicale (France) Tankönyves Vállalkozók Országos Testülete (Hungary) Taxation Institute of Australia The Marketing Association of New Zealand The Publishers Association (United Kingdom): Verbond van Belgische Ondernemingen (Belgium) Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame Ontwikkeling (Netherlands) Vereniging VNO-NCW (Netherlands) Vlaams Economisch Verbond (Belgium) Vlaams Instituut voor Logistiek (Belgium) Vlaamse Uitgevers Vereniging (Belgium) Vlaamse Vereniging voor Zakelijke Communicatie (Belgium) 29 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report About This Report This Sustainability Report provides insight into our current We report following the guidelines of the Global Reporting strategies and policies concerning sustainability. Furthermore Initiative G3 (GRI) and Global Compact. For GRI we declare we share our performance on sustainability indicators, and level B. where possible, translate them into the environmental and social impact for 2012. The Sustainability Report is The preparation of this report in conformity with the GRI published on annual basis. A separate section of our website guidelines requires management to make judgments, is dedicated to sustainability. Our investment in measuring estimates, and assumptions that affect the application of these impacts makes it possible to report on an increasing policies and reported data. Actual results may differ from number of sustainability indicators. However, the highest those estimates, and may result in material adjustments impact we have is in the use of our sustainable solutions. within the next financial year(s). These product-related impacts are described in a qualitative matter, and we are working throughout the supply chain to collectively measure these impacts. In 2012 we conducted a major overhaul of our data collection system. We involved the experts of each business unit including procurement and sourcing, facility management and Human Resources. We followed a specific scope for the collection of data: • As a basic rule we collected data from countries that represent 1% or more of the consolidated 2012 revenue or consolidated number of FTEs ultimo 2012 • Corporate Governance data were collected globally • For Resource Management we collected: • Paper: per country • Business Air Travel: per country • High Risk Countries: for direct deliveries from high-risk countries and suppliers with a purchasing amount > €500,000 • Facility: per country and for offices > 1,000m2. For the U.S. we only collected data for offices that we own • HR: per country At Corporate headquarters, the data are collected in a consolidation tool and then analyzed for completeness and reliability. We will continue to further improve and expand the data collection and adjust next year’s report as deemed appropriate. All calculations which are expressed as ‘per FTE’ (paper consumption; energy use; aspects related to CO2; water; business air travel; amount spent on learning) are based on average FTE numbers from continued operations. Where relevant, currencies are converted using the financial year’s average exchange rate. 30 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table Global Reporting Initiative Strategy and Analyses 1.1 CEO statement CEO Introduction 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Introduction: Strategy Organizational profile 2.1 Name organization Front Cover 2.2 Products and services Company Profile 2.3 Operational structure Company Profile 2.4 Location headquarters Contact & Report Information 2.5 Countries located Annual Report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report 2.7 Markets Annual Report 2.8 Size of operations Annual Report 2.9 Organizational changes Annual Report 2.10 Awards Recognition & Awards Reporting parameters 3.1 Reporting period About this Report 3.2 Previous report About this Report 3.3 Reporting cycle About this Report 3.4 Contact person(s) Contact & Report Information 3.5 Process report content About this Report 3.6 Scope About this Report 3.7 Scope limitations About this Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures Annual Report 3.9 Data measurement techniques About this Report 3.10 Re-statements About this Report 3.11 Reporting changes About this Report 3.12 Standard Disclosures Disclosure of Management Approach GRI and Global Compact Table 3.13 Policy external assurance Introduction: Governance & Remuneration Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure Annual Report 4.2 Chair of the highest governance body Annual Report 4.3 Independent members Annual Report 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees Annual Report 4.5 Remuneration highest governance body Annual Report 4.6 Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Introduction: Innovation Driven Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement 4.7 Expertise highest governance body Annual Report 4.8 Internally developed statements Introduction: Governance & Remuneration 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body Introduction: Governance & Remuneration 31 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report 4.10 Performance highest governance body Annual Report 4.11 Precautionary approach Annual Report 4.12 Externally developed principles Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement 4.13 Memberships in associations Membership in (Trade) Organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement 4.17 Key topics through stakeholder engagement Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement Economic performance indicators Management approach to Economic performance: Customers & Solutions Community Involvement EC 1 Direct economic value Community Involvement: Performance and Impact EC 2 Financial implications due to climate change Introduction: Stakeholder Engagement EC 3 Coverage benefit plan obligations Annual Report EC 4 Financial assistance received from government Not applicable EC 6 Locally-based suppliers Resource Management: Performance and Impact EC 8 Infrastructure investments Community Involvement: Performance and Impact Environmental performance indicators Management approach to Environmental performance: Resource Management: Ambitions and performance strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact EN 1 Weight of materials used Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations EN 2 Recycled input materials Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations Suppliers EN 3 Direct energy consumption Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations EN 4 Indirect energy consumption Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations 32 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report EN 6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Customers & Solutions: energy-based products and services Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Customers Wolters Kluwer’s operations Suppliers Performance and Impact EN 8 Total water use Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations EN 11 Location land in protected areas Not applicable EN 12 Significant impacts on biodiversity Resource Management: Performance and Impact Suppliers EN 16 Total direct and indirect green-house gas emissions Resource Management: by weight Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations EN 17 Other relevant indirect green-house gas emissions Resource Management: by weight Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not applicable EN 20 NOx, SOx air emissions Not applicable EN 21 Total water discharge Not applicable EN 22 Total weight of waste Resource Management: Performance and Impact Wolters Kluwer’s operations (partly included) EN 26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Customers Performance and Impact General Wolters Kluwer’s operations Suppliers Social Indicators Labor Rights and Decent Work Management approach to Labor Rights and Decent Work: Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Employee Engagement LA 1 Breakdown of total workforce Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact LA 2 Employee turnover Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact LA 10 Training per employee category Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact LA 11 Programs for skill management Employee Engagement: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact 33 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report LA 13 Gender breakdown of governance bodies Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Human Rights Management approach to Human Rights: Introduction: Innovation Driven Sustainability Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Community Involvement HR 1 Significant investment agreements that include human Resource Management: rights clauses Policy and Targets Suppliers HR 2 Screening of suppliers on human rights Stakeholder Engagement: Suppliers HR 4 Incidents of discrimination Governance & Remuneration HR 6 Child labor Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Policy and Targets Suppliers HR 7 Forced or compulsory labor Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Policy and Targets Suppliers Society Management approach to social responsibility: Community Involvement SO 1 Impact on communities Community Involvement SO 3 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption Governance & Remuneration policies and procedures SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Governance & Remuneration Stakeholder Engagement: Suppliers Product Responsibility Management approach to Product Responsibility: Stakeholder Engagement: Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Suppliers PR 3 Product information and labeling Resource Management: Wolters Kluwer’s operations Suppliers PR 5 Customer satisfaction Customers & Solutions Performance and Impact PR 6 Marketing communications Customers & Solutions Employee Engagement 34 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of Introduction: internationally proclaimed human rights. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Introduction: human rights abuses. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Labor Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Introduction: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of Introduction: forced and compulsory labor. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Introduction: labor. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact 35 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Introduction: respect of employment and occupation. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Employee Engagement: Performance and Impact Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Introduction: environmental challenges. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Introduction: environmental responsibility. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Customers & Solutions: Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Customers & Solutions: of environmentally friendly technologies. Ambitions and Strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Performance and Impact 36 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Introduction: including extortion and bribery. Innovation Driven Sustainability Strategy Stakeholder Engagement Governance & Remuneration Resource Management: Ambitions and strategy Policy and Targets Employee Engagement Performance and Impact 37 Wolters Kluwer 2012 Sustainability Report Contact & Report Information Contact Stakeholder inquiries: Wolters Kluwer nv Maarten Thompson Zuidpoolsingel 2 Senior Vice President, General Counsel/Company Secretary P.O. Box 1030 Tel: +31 (0)172 641 450 2400 BA Alphen aan den Rijn sustainability@wolterskluwer.com The Netherlands Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 Investor inquiries: Fax: +31 (0)172 474 889 Meg Geldens Vice President, Investor Relations www.wolterskluwer.com Tel: +31 (0)172 641 407 Chamber of Commerce ir@wolterskluwer.com Trade Registry No. 33.202.517 Press inquiries: Caroline Wouters Vice President, Corporate Communications Tel: +31 (0)172 641 421 press@wolterskluwer.com Report This Sustainability Report is available online. Concept Wolters Kluwer Corporate Legal Department Production Wolters Kluwer Corporate Communications Content Roland Waardenburg and Lukas Hoex Graphic Design Lesley Moore DTP Strak (Haiko Oosterbaan) 38
