2012 Teradata corporate social responsibility report Teradata’s policies and processes to help our customers, community, and employees understand our past performance and continuing commitment to corporate social responsibility 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report TABLE OF CONTENTS CEO Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 About This Report. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.0 Teradata. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2.0 Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.0 Industry Involvement . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 4.0 Human Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 5.0 Quality. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 6.0 Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 7.0 Teradata Cares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 8.0 Environmental Responsibility. . . . . . 32 9.0 Global Manufacturing Processes . . . 42 10.0 Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 11.0 Reporting Parameters . . . . . . . . . . . . 47 2 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report This year, Teradata was recognized for our ethical behavior CEO Communication (GRI 1.1) and global sustainability from organizations including: Teradata Corporation continues to promote a culture of > Ethisphere Institute, which named Teradata one of global sustainability within our organization and throughout the ‘World’s Most Ethical Companies’ for the fourth our ecosystem of customers and business partners. In our straight year. fifth annual report, we are pleased to describe some of our > For the fifth consecutive year, FSTE4Good selected efforts that collectively support this mission – and positively Teradata as a member in good standing of its innovacontribute to our community, environment, and most importive series of real-time indices designed to reflect the tant, our customers’ bottom lines. performance of socially responsible equities. > For the third year, Teradata was selected for the Dow For our customers, we continue to allay the economic impact Jones World Index and North America Index as one of of data analytics by providing unparalleled performance, set the world’s leaders in sustainability. against minimal energy and space consumption. For example, the current release of the Teradata Database, version > For the second year in a row, Teradata was also 14.0, features software improvements that deliver up to 20% included in the Newsweek Green Rankings in the performance improvement over previous generations. And in Top U.S. 250 companies. our data warehouse servers, the Teradata Active Enterprise > Teradata’s UN Global Compact Communication On Data Warehouse, we have improved energy efficiency by a Progress (COP) achieved the ‘advanced’ designation in factor of 8 over the last five product generations. 2012, after becoming a formal signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2011, which pledged our commitment to To advance our efforts in corporate social responsibility, ethical behavior and human rights. Teradata continues partnerships and memberships with several research, planning, government, and industry Finally, our charitable and employee-based activities center organizations that address global sustainability. We remain on improving educational and living conditions around the committed to advancing energy efficiency in data centers world. Educational programs that focus on STEM education and business computing ecosystems through our memberat the high school level, and business intelligence educaship in The Green Grid global consortium. And we measure tion and standards at the undergraduate, graduate, and how well we reduce our impact on the environment by executive levels have gained traction through two primary tracking our recycling efforts as well as greenhouse gas programs: emissions. In 2012 recycling improved 68% over 2011, > In our partnership with FIRST, For Inspiration and which translates to 34,824 pounds of universal waste. In Recognition in Science and Technology, Teradata has 2012 we also announced our new five-year emissions awarded 30 FIRST scholarships to students on Teradatareduction goal of 41% in greenhouse gas emission intensity – sponsored FIRST Robotics teams since inception. based on facility energy usage and the number of Teradata platforms shipped per year using the base year 2010. > Teradata additionally now provides access to software and resources to over 3,000 faculty members from over Looking more broadly at our ecosystem, Teradata has 1600 schools in 94 countries – through its Teradata successfully used diverse suppliers nationwide – growing University Network Curriculum initiative to prepare the spend percentages to 11.36% in both Tier I and Tier II next generation of data analysts and scientists for curspend since launching our commercial Supplier Diversity rent and future career opportunities. Program in 2009. 3 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report > Teradata employees likewise demonstrate good corpoAbout This Report rate citizenship and an ongoing responsibility through our Teradata Cares initiative. In 2012, more than 4,500 This is the fifth edition of the Teradata® corporate social employees completed over 15,000 hours of volunteerism responsibility (CSR) report. The first was produced in in places including a children’s hospital in Manila, an 2009. This report describes the policies, processes and orphanage in Moscow, and a school in Pakistan. performance of Teradata Corporation to help our customers, community, and employees understand our past perforThis past year, Teradata’s employees and our extended mance and continuing commitment to CSR as we develop ecosystem furthered a culture of global sustainability and our plans for the future. social responsibility – demonstrated by our community relations programs, practices and behaviors, and environmental The information provided is a reflection of 2012 perforinitiatives for both operations and analytic data solutions. mance. At this time, our next report, based on our 2013 performance, is planned for release in 2014. However, this We are committed to making an even greater impact in 2013 schedule could be adjusted during 2013 and 2014. and beyond to improve the world in which we live and work. This report also constitutes our Communication on Progress (COP) as a signatory to the UN Global Compact. For more information about the UN Global Compact, please visit www.unglobalcompact.org. The content and design of this report was derived from the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3 Sustainability Reporting Mike Koehler, Guidelines. For more information about the GRI, please visit President and CEO, www.globalreporting.org. Teradata Corporation 4 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata focuses its efforts on three large and growing areas: 1.0 Teradata > Analytic data platforms, including workload-specific data 1.1 Our Mission (GRI 4.8) warehouse and data appliance platforms, Teradata Data Warehouse software, Teradata Aster Discovery Platform, At Teradata Corporation, we strive to protect our environment. Tools and Utilities, and Teradata Unity multisystem As such, we conserve natural resources while complying management software. with all applicable local, national and international environmental, health and safety laws. We endeavor to instill > Applications, including Integrated Marketing Applications environmentally-aware practices throughout our operations, > Analytic Applications Services, including Consulting and from our global corporate processes to the individual actions Customer Services of our employees and others working on our behalf. We Integrated Data Warehousing believe this is our social responsibility, and that sustainable Data warehousing is the process of capturing, storing, and business practices are good for our world and are right for analyzing data to gain insight. This process is built on an our business. Because of this belief, our company focuses enterprise data warehouse, which is a single, centralized, its efforts on providing our customers with best-in-class application-neutral repository of an organization’s current products and services that are environmentally sustainable. and historical data. Unlike its data warehouse competitors, 1.2 Our Company Teradata data warehouses are built specifically for analyti(GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.4, 2.6, 2.7, 2.10) cal processing rather than for transactional processing. Teradata Corporation (NYSE: TDC) is the global leader in analytic data platforms, applications and services. Only the Unified Data Architecture™ Teradata® Unified Data Architecture™ and Integrated MarketIn 2012, Teradata brought to market the Teradata Unified ing Management applications integrate all data to produce Data Architecture™, integrating the Teradata analytics platrelevant insights. Teradata’s commitment to help customers form, the Teradata Aster discovery platform, and Hadoop know and do more with their data is backed by its innovative technology into a cohesive and transparent fabric. Teradata people, industry-leading capabilities and proven technology. Unified Data Architecture™ bridges the gap between the business language of SQL, the extreme processing power Teradata has a presence in more than 60 countries. In the of MapReduce, and the big data residing in Hadoop to United States, the company has offices in Dayton, Ohio; provide a unified, high-performance big data analytics sysSan Diego, Atlanta, Indianapolis, and Raleigh, NC; with tem for the enterprise. Teradata Unified Data Architecture™ offices across the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa, makes it easy to gain valuable insights from massive data Asia and Japan. Visit Teradata.com for details. sets. Users can ask any question at any time to unlock new and valuable business insights. Teradata’s primary social media channels include: > www.linkedin.com/company/Teradata The Teradata® workload-specific Platform Family has > twitter.com/Teradata grown as its customers’ business needs have grown and offers data warehousing platforms to meet customers’ > facebook.com/Teradata > slideshare.net/Teradata > www.youtube.com/Teradata > www.flickr.com/photos/teradatanow 5 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report specific analytical and budgetary requirements. These > Teradata Appliance for SAS® – Fully integrated system platforms include: that is dedicated for executing SAS in-memory analytTeradata Active Enterprise Data Warehouse ics. It is a complete, “all-in-one” dedicated analytics As the foundation of enterprise intelligence and Integrated appliance with the pre-loaded SAS High-Performance Data Warehousing, active data warehousing drives valuable Analytics Server software and the Teradata DBMS information into a company’s operations and to hundreds of running on the same system. front-line decision makers. It enables smarter, more comTeradata® Database Software petitive decisions through near real-time information access At the heart of every Teradata Integrated Data Warehouse and analysis, as well as predictive analytics on customer or is the world-class Teradata Database. The massively business activity. Active data warehousing supports both parallel processing architecture that is the foundation of long-running strategic and short-running tactical queries. the Teradata Database spreads data evenly over a large An active data warehouse based on Teradata technology number of units of parallelism, making the Teradata Dataprovides strategic and tactical intelligence throughout the base fast and powerful. Teradata systems are designed to enterprise. evaluate the amount of resources that will be consumed for processing each query and to select an option that requires The Teradata Active Data Warehouse Private Cloud as few system resources as possible. provides virtualized resources, scalability, consistent performance, elasticity and self-service business intelligence. The flagship Teradata Database software is regarded by Teradata Appliances customers and industry analysts as a superior choice for Every Teradata solution is workload-specific and designed analyzing data and processing increasing volumes and to maximize the customer’s return on investment, lower total complexity of queries without compromising performance. cost of ownership, and deliver increased business value Teradata’s processing architecture, combined with our through a range of options, price points, and features. database software provides the foundation for our unique ability to support and manage a wide range of data ware> Teradata Data Warehouse Appliance – The Teradata housing functions. These functions range from reports to Data Warehouse Appliance is cost-effective, ready to ad-hoc queries to data mining and simultaneous data loadrun, purpose-built, and fully integrated to expand your ing, all from a single data warehouse that integrates data business. from across the enterprise to drive smarter, faster decision > Teradata Data Mart Appliance – Fully integrated, making. The Teradata Database software, which operates entry-level production data warehousing and data mart in different operating system environments (including LINUX solution. Ideal for meeting rapid time to value data and Microsoft Windows®), delivers real-time intelligence for warehousing and data mart requirements. customers with capabilities and features, such as support > Teradata Extreme Data Appliance – Analyze massive for mixed workloads, the ability to handle thousands of amounts of deep data using Teradata Extreme Data concurrent queries, robust and simplified system manageAppliance. Delivered fully integrated, ready to run, and ment, high system availability, event monitoring, and easy ready to grow with your business. integration into the enterprise. Teradata also offers a soft> Teradata Aster Big Analytics Appliance – The ware subscription program that keeps customers up-to-date industry’s first unified big analytics appliance provides on new product releases. a powerful, ready-to-run big analytics and discovery platform that is pre-configured and optimized specifically for big data analysis. 6 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata Aster Discovery Platform Teradata Tools & Utilities Traditional data are easily placed into columns and rows, These are a powerful set of tools and utilities that address grouped by a single common characteristic such as name the core data warehouse administration and database or cost. Newer data types such as data from web logs, access needs. They incorporate industry-standard intersocial media, RFID and sensor networks, are much less faces to help integrate a Teradata system into an enterprise easily grouped, and are present in exponentially great quanand streamline the data warehouse management tasks that tity. These new data forms are collectively referred to in the are commonly performed, such as moving massive volumes media as big data and are more difficult to manage and of data and accessing multiple data sources in parallel. analyze. At the same time, data analytics is changing the These tools and utilities also assist in maintaining a high way science is done and is now as fundamental to business level of overall Teradata system performance. as land, labor, and capital. Data analytics is now beginning to live at the heart of an organization – providing predicTeradata Unity tive information that enable companies to make smarter As workload-specific platforms are added to the data analytdecisions. There is enormous competitive advantage to be ics environment, they can introduce challenges to both IT gained from big data analytics, such as increased producand the business. Teradata Unity’s automated management tivity and exponentially greater profits. functions, architectural flexibility and enablement of diverse analytic capabilities allows organizations to embrace the full The 2011 acquisition of Aster Data Systems allowed benefits of having more than one system. Teradata Unity Teradata to extend its integrated data warehouse capabilialso simplifies the tasks for database and system administies to include newer data types commonly referred to as trators of managing, monitoring and controlling the Teradata big data. Teradata Aster provides tools that help companies Analytical Ecosystem. harness the power of a variety of diverse semi-structured Teradata Applications data from web sources, sensor networks, social networks, genomics, and more. Teradata Applications, formerly known as Aprimo, provides Integrated Marketing and Analytic Applications. Teradata The Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform is optimized for Applications software for marketing operations, campaign big data analytics, able to both store large volumes of data management and digital messaging, and a broad set of and to process rich analytic applications in-database. This data management and decision support offerings, helps platform uses a patented SQL-MapReduce® framework so marketers advance the productivity and performance of that any business intelligence tool that generates standard their marketing organizations and improve customer relaSQL or any business analyst that knows SQL can immetionships for competitive advantage. Teradata Applications diately invoke the power of data science without having serves hundreds of customers, including 36 of the Fortune to learn programming languages or new interfaces. This 100. Teradata Applications is headquartered in Indianapolis delivers breakthrough performance and scalability on large with lead regional offices in Raleigh, Toronto, ONT, Canada, data volumes, the ability to process relational data side by and Munich, Germany. side with digital data of multi-structured formats, ease of use for a new class of data science analytics and a choice of enterprise deployment options. 7 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Analytic Applications Services Market Leadership Teradata Consulting and Customer Services comprise Teradata has led the data warehousing market since its Analytic Applications Services. Teradata’s global consulinception and counts among its more than 2,350 customers: tancy supports the design and implementation of Teradata > Eleven of the top fifteen global financial institutions data warehousing solutions. From world-class patented > All of the top ten commercial banks methodology to services supporting strategy, Teradata’s > Nineteen of the top twenty global telecommunications more than 3,000 consultants help with the financial justificacompanies tion, development, planning, design, implementation, support and enhancement of global enterprise data > All of the top six global airlines warehouses. They are experienced in data acquisition and > Eight of the top ten travel and transportation companies integration services, business intelligence, Teradata > Eight of the top ten global retailers applications, quality and testing, and a full range of data> Ten of the top fifteen healthcare companies base support services. Teradata also maintains five global Consulting Development Centers to provide customers a > Seven of the top ten manufacturing companies critical mass of Teradata resources to meet their needs. Well over a million users access a Teradata analytic Teradata Services offers a complete portfolio of services platform on any given business day in almost every industry for one-stop support to architect, integrate, implement and throughout the world, for precise and reliable intelligence to support a company’s data warehouse, business intelligence support business decisions. and analytics solutions. With 35 years of data warehousing Teradata’s Industry Leadership experience covering more than 2,400 analytics implemenTeradata earned recognition for its sustainability efforts tations on a global basis, Teradata consultants provide in 2012: consulting and support services for Teradata for data warehousing, for Teradata Aster for big data insight and > Teradata was again listed in the FTSE4Good Index. discovery and Teradata Applications for integrated market> Teradata ranked 1,571 among the Forbes Global 2000 ing and analytic applications. Leading Companies. > Teradata ranked 226 on the Maplecroft Climate InnovaTarget Industries tion Index. Some industries such as financial services, communications, media and entertainment, travel, transportation and In 2012, Teradata was positioned as a leader by internaretail were strong early adopters of analytic data to drive tional IT analyst firms: business decisions. These industries continue to expand > Teradata was named a leader in: their use of Teradata products and services. As manufactur– Data Warehouse DBMS Magic Quadrant issued by ing, healthcare, government and public services, energy Gartner and utilities have embraced analytic data in more recent years, these industries have also come to rely on Teradata. – Information Difference Data Warehouse Landscape Other industries that are strong adopters and well repreStudy sented among Teradata customers include insurance, life – CRM Multi-Channel Campaign Management Magic sciences, gaming and hospitality. Quadrant issued by Gartner 8 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report – Marketing Resource Management Magic Quadrant > Lisa Arthur, Aprimo chief marketing officer, earned two issued by Gartner prestigious marketing honors. The Sales Lead Manage– Integrated Marketing Management Magic Quadrant ment Association named Arthur one of 20 “Women to issued by Gartner Watch” in sales lead management for 2012, and she was also named a finalist for the American Business Awards’ Teradata was recognized for its product innovation and “Marketing Executive of the Year.” Arthur is now Teradata technology: Applications chief marketing officer. > For the fifth consecutive year, Teradata was included in Teradata and some of its most innovative customers won the InformationWeek 500. top honors in 2012 in prestigious award programs including > Teradata again earned the San Diego Magazine the Information Management Innovative Solutions Awards. Technology Innovation Award. Customers also earned recognition for their use of Teradata > Teradata won in the Data Management Technology technology: category in the Banker Innovation in Banking Technology > Four Teradata customers received Ventana Research Awards and or the second year was named to the Top 25 Leadership Awards: USDA, Nationwide Insurance, RBC Enterprise Companies in financial technology. and HMS > Teradata Aster won the Ventana Technology Innovation > The State of Michigan and Sabre each won two TDWI Award and an International Business Award (Stevie) for (The Date Warehouse Institute) Best Practices awards in best new product, software. 2012. > Teradata ranked #48 on the Software 500. > Nationwide earned a CIO 100 2012 Award for its (data) > Teradata Aprimo was named a leader and Teradata model factory. named “a company to watch” in the CRM Market Awards. > The State of Michigan was honored by Computerworld > Teradata company eCircle won two Direct Marketing as a Laureate. Association awards with client Transport for London for their work to keep London moving during the 2012 Additional awards earned in 2012 include: Olympic and Paralympic Games. > Teradata was named one of Ohio’s Best Employers by the Ohio affiliate of the Society for Human Resource Teradata executives were given individual awards and Management. recognitions in 2012. > Teradata earned two platinum MarCom Awards for video > ExecuRank listed Darryl McDonald #7 to its Top CMO and whitepaper. 2012 list. McDonald was later named president, Teradata > Teradata Magazine won a platinum Hermes Creative Award Applications. for print and online and a min’s Best of the Web Awards. > ExecuRank listed Stephen Brobst #14 as to its Top CTO 2012 list. 1.3 2012 Financial Performance (GRI 2.8, EC1) > Bob Boehnlein, Aprimo president, was named to the For the full year 2012, Teradata revenue was $2.665 billion, BtoB Who’s Who in Demand Generation. Boehnlein was a 13 percent increase over 2011. The full year operating later named general manager, marketing operations/ income was $580 million compared to $456 million in 2011. Integrated Marketing Management, Teradata Applications. This was a solid result against a backdrop of the macroeconomic uncertainty that tech industry experienced. 9 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata’s technology leadership, competitive differentiation, sales and consulting organizations have the necessary the continued demand for business analytics, and the growresources and assistance to ensure success. ing interest in big data analytics contribute to the company’s strong performance. The company’s consistent investment 1.5 Teradata History and Development (GRI 2.9) in technology, solutions, services and it’s go-to-market Formed in 1979 as a Delaware corporation, Teradata’s strategy serve to support and solidify its strong working first product, the Teradata Database Computer, was partnership with its customers. For further financial informautilized by Wells Fargo and AT&T, among others. Teradata tion, please visit Teradata.com/investor. established a relational database management system 1.4 Organizational Structure on a proprietary platform in 1984. In 1990, we partnered (GRI 2.3) with NCR Corporation to jointly develop next-generation The Teradata organization is led by a senior management database systems. In 1991, AT&T Corporation acquired team of leaders who bring an average of more than 20 years NCR and, later that year, NCR purchased Teradata. In 1995, of industry-related experience to their positions. Their expeTeradata was merged into NCR’s operations and ceased to rience covers all aspects of the business, from engineering exist as a separate legal entity. and sales to marketing and finance with considerable depth In 1996, AT&T spun off NCR (including Teradata) to form and focus on the data warehousing, enterprise data warean independent, publicly traded company. In 1999, NCR housing, and analytics business. Teradata’s leaders set consolidated its data warehousing business into a separate the strategic direction for the company and each member Teradata operating division. Teradata continued to invest individually drives the results in their areas of expertise. in extending the scope of its enterprise data warehousing Teradata sales employees are responsible for direct sales solutions, including improvements to the company’s in current and new accounts within a defined geographic industry-leading database software, ongoing development territory. These individuals work cohesively to engage in of new enterprise analytic software applications, and the quality customer relationships and to promote the Teradata provision of sophisticated support and professional consultportfolio of products. ing services. Professional Services provides client support from project On October 1, 2007, Teradata completed its spin-off from management and high-end consulting to data modeling and NCR Corporation, and shares of its common stock began business intelligence. Teradata Customer Services provides regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) support to our customers all around the globe. under the symbol TDC. Teradata also is a component member of the S&P 500. Our Research & Development and Product Management teams provide Teradata with software support and lifecycle In 2009, Teradata celebrated its 30th anniversary. development. Product Management employees also focus Teradata expanded its presence in the big data analytics on developing a strategy to build Teradata products. marketplace to help customers harness the power of emergCorporate infrastructure depends on our core associates ing big data with the 2011 acquisition of Aster Data Systems, in finance, human resources, legal, information technology, now called Teradata Aster. Also that year Teradata acquired marketing and operations. Infrastructure organizations Aprimo, a leading provider of software and services that provide support at both a corporate level and in the regions advance the productivity and performance of marketing where Teradata does business, to ensure our engineering, organizations. Aprimo solutions enable marketers to engage, 10 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report lead and perform by empowering conversations on new characteristics required of Board member candidates, engagement channels, enhancing internal collaboration, taking into account the Company’s needs and the current and improving marketing performance and accountability. makeup of the Board. This includes assessment of the canAprimo, the cornerstone of Teradata Applications, acquired didate’s knowledge, experience and skills in areas critical eCircle in 2012. eCircle is one of the leading full-service to understanding the Company and its business; personal digital marketing providers in Europe, providing cloud-based characteristics, such as integrity and judgment; and, the solutions for email, mobile and social media marketing and candidate’s commitments to the boards of other publiclyoffers opt-in lead generation and email media solutions. held companies. Each Board member is expected to ensure that existing and future commitments to external boards 2.0 Corporate Governance do not materially interfere with the member’s service as a (GRI 4.1-4.4, 4.6) Director of the Company and that he or she devotes the The Teradata Board of Directors is elected by the stocktime necessary to discharge his or her duties as a Director holders to govern the affairs of the Company. The Board of the Company. selects the Leadership Team, which is charged with the 2.2 Committees conduct of the Company’s business. Having selected the Currently, there are four Board committees: Executive Leadership Team, the Board acts as an advisor to LeaderCommittee; Audit Committee; Compensation and Human ship Team members and monitors its performance. The Resource Committee; and, Committee on Directors and Board reviews the Company’s strategies, financial objecGovernance. The Board believes the current committee tives, and operating plans. structure is appropriate. From time to time, depending upon The Board also plans for management succession of the the circumstances, the Board may form a new committee Chief Executive Officer, as well as other Leadership Team or disband a current committee. positions, and oversees the Company’s governance and The Board appoints members of the committees on an compliance efforts. annual basis. The Committee on Directors and Governance, 2.1 Board of Directors with consideration of the desires of individual Directors and The Board currently has nine Directors. Each Director input from the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the meets the independence standards of the New York Stock Board, recommends to the Board the assignment of DirecExchange. The current Chairman of the Board is not an tors to various committees. Vacancies in the committees Executive Officer of the Company. will be filled by the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee on Directors and Governance, with input from The Board periodically reviews the size of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board. determines whether any changes are appropriate, although it is the sense of the Board that five to ten directors is Only independent Directors may serve on the Audit adequate. However, the Board is willing to increase its Committee, the Compensation and Human Resource size in order to accommodate the availability of an outCommittee, or the Committee on Directors and Governance, standing candidate. and at least one member of the Audit Committee must have accounting or financial management experience, as The Board, with input from its Committee on Directors and defined by the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission Governance, is responsible for periodically determining rules and/or as required under applicable New York Stock the appropriate skills, perspectives, experiences, and Exchange listing requirements. Additionally, a member of 11 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report the Audit Committee may not sit on more than two other then select “Corporate-Governance”) for more information Audit Committees of other public companies, unless the about the Company’s corporate governance standards and Board determines that such commitments would not impair practices, including the Company’s: Articles of Incorporation; his or her effective service to the Company. Bylaws; Board member profiles; Governance Guidelines; Charters for each of the Board’s Committees; Statement on 2.3 Conflicts of Interest, Standards of Director Independence; Securities Transactions by Board Conduct, Reporting, and Controls members; Code of Conduct; and, how anyone may com(GRI 4.6) municate with the Board. In April 2010, the Board adopted a The Board determines on a case-by-case basis whether Compensation Recovery Policy, such that members of the a conflict of interest exists with respect to Directors. Each Company’s Leadership Team are subject to forfeiture of the Director must advise the Board of any situation that could difference between the compensation they receive and the potentially be a conflict of interest and will not vote on any compensation they would have received in the event that issue in which he or she has any interest other than solely publicly-disclosed financial statements of the Company later as a Director of the Company. Each member of the Board of are restated. Also in April 2010, the Board adopted ExecuDirectors reviews and receives training on, and certifies his tive Stock Ownership Guidelines, which provide that or her compliance with, the Company’s Code of Conduct on members of the Leadership Team are expected to own at an annual basis. As set out in its Charter, the Audit Commitleast a specified minimum number of shares in the Comtee: reviews, approves, and monitors the Company’s Code pany; the specified number of shares varies depending on of Conduct initiatives and compliance, including as applied the executive’s level/position; this initiative is intended to to all senior financial officers of the Company and all membetter align the interests of the Company’s Leadership bers of the Leadership Team; and, oversees the Company’s Team with those of stockholders and the Company’s program for monitoring the Company’s compliance with long-term success. Information concerning these two Board laws and regulations and the Company’s ethical standards, actions is publicly-available through the above-referenced including receiving reports on all significant ethics and Corporate Governance web page of Teradata.com. compliance matters and investigations. The Audit Committee Charter also details how the Audit Committee addresses matters related to financial reporting, independent accoun3.0 Industry Involvement (GRI 4.13) tants, audits, internal controls, risk assessments, and other reports and issues. 3.1 The Green Grid Teradata is a contributing member of The Green Grid, a 2.4 Shareholder Communications global consortium dedicated to advancing energy efficiency Under the Teradata Bylaws, qualified stockholders may in data centers and business computing ecosystems. Dr. submit proposals to the Corporate Secretary in advance of David Wang of Teradata is the Chair of the TGG-China the annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, stockholdLiaison work Group. In furtherance of its mission, The ers wishing to communicate with the Audit Committee Chair Green Grid is focused on the following: defining meaningful, or any of the Company’s other non-employee Directors may user-centric models and metrics; developing standards, do so by contacting the Corporate Secretary. The Corporate measurement methods, processes, and new technologies Secretary will forward any communications as directed by to improve data center performance against the defined the stockholder. metrics; and promoting the adoption of energy efficient standards, processes, measurements, and technologies. Please see the Corporate Governance page of the Teradata Visit www.thegreengrid.org. website at Teradata.com (select “Company & Careers” 12 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 3.2 ASHRAE organizations have a dedicated HR Director to partner with them to execute HR initiatives. To support local business We are a member of the Technical Committee (TC) 9.9 operations, HR consultants are located in our largest the American Society of Heating, Refrigeration and Aircountries around the globe. conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE). We support ASHRAE’s mission to be recognized amongst all areas of the data-com Teradata’s HR strategy is not only to remain competitive industry as the unbiased engineering leader in HVAC and in the global high tech employment market, but to be an an effective provider of technical information for the dataemployer of choice for our dedicated employees. Human com industry. Visit www.ashrae.org. Resources has implemented global policies and procedures that allow our employees and the business to operate in a 3.3 ITI compliant, safe, inclusive, and non-discriminatory environThe Information Technology Industry Council (ITI) is the ment. Additionally, we strive to provide a work environment premier group of the nation’s leading high-tech companies where our passionate employees are encouraged and able and is widely recognized as the tech industry’s most to focus on our customers. effective lobbying organization in Washington, in various foreign capitals and the World Trade Organization. Teradata 4.2 Employment (GRI 2.5, 2.8, LA1, LA3) considers ITI membership important and essential to our At the end of 2012, Teradata employed more than electromagnetic interference (EMI) compliance program 10,000 employees in 42 countries around the globe. and potentially to the product safety and environment We are headquartered in the United States, and operate aspects of Teradata hardware products. Visit www.itic.org. in the three major regions of the world, with approximately 4,400 employees in the Americas region, approximately 4.0 Human Resources 3,400 employees in the Asia-Pacific-Japan (APJ) region 4.1 Overview and approximately 2,300 employees in the Europe, Middle Our Human Resources organization is chartered with East, Africa (EMEA) region. providing strategic global leadership to guide Teradata’s The nature of Human Resources work requires that the efforts to build sustainable competitive advantage through organization meet certain requirements to conduct proper our human capital strategy. Our human capital strategy is employment practices around the globe. In the United a strategic business goal and is aligned with Teradata’s States, we comply with all standards set forth by the business objectives. The Human Resources organization Department of Labor (DOL). The DOL provides employment is led by the Chief Human Resource Officer, who is a direct laws and standards for operating a business in the United report to the CEO, and holds an important position within States. To ensure legal compliance, Teradata Human the Teradata Leadership. Our Chief Human Resource Resources follows all applicable laws and standards Officer is a female. The Human Resources organization mandated by the DOL. is comprised of experienced leaders who drive global HR strategy and initiatives through Centers of Expertise, Outside of the U.S., Teradata maintains relationships with including compensation, benefits, staffing, HR operations, the following agencies to ensure proper work and employee communication, and talent management, and HR business practices while operating in other countries: partners, who provide HR leadership to guide and support > European Union (EU) – The EU has worked with compaour business operations. Each global region, our R&D and nies in Europe to establish overarching agreements that Customer Services organization, and our infrastructure apply to business operations and managing employees. 13 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata Human Resources complies with these laws 4.6 Career Development and standards while operating in European Union (GRI LA10) countries. Teradata operates a global organization dedicated to > Workers’ councils (found in countries around the world) providing learning opportunities to both Teradata manage– Representation requirements of workers’ councils vary ment and employees. Teradata Learning formats include with each foreign country. Teradata Human Resources instructor-led training (deployed globally), web-based trainworks with local workers’ councils within country entities as ing, facilitated distance learning (combination of self-paced required to maintain a positive relationship with employees and virtual classroom), and virtual workshops and webcasts. and with the countries in which we are operating. Employees have access to numerous resources that help enable their success. Extensive learning opportunities 4.3 Employee Turnover are offered for employees through Teradata University, an (GRI LA2) online learning resource unique to Teradata. Teradata Teradata emphasizes the importance of low employee University is a dedicated learning management system turnover by reviewing this data on a regular basis. Beyond (LMS) that provides 24/7 access for every employee to the statistics, Teradata makes sufficient efforts to meet position-related, certification-specific, or personal improvethe needs of all employees. However, when an employee ment opportunities. Course materials enhance knowledge decides to separate from Teradata, an exit interview is conof Teradata products and services, competitive trends and ducted. This process allows Teradata to acquire valuable analysis, methodologies, processes, tools, partner solutions feedback from employees. Teradata uses this information and products, project management, professional skills, to assess employment conditions within the company to internal and external certifications, and technical skills. further its efforts to meet employee needs. Through this program, Teradata provides a professional 4.4 Collective Bargaining Agreements certification program that supports industry standard (GRI LA4) certifications. In 2012, Teradata employees completed Teradata maintains compliance with local country regulations 148,644 courses for a total of 626,204 training hours. regarding collective bargaining and has recognized unions and/or workers’ councils in those countries where union/ 4.7 Tuition Assistance (GRI LA10) worker representation is the traditional employment model. Providing education and development opportunities for 4.5 Employee Communications employees is an important priority for Teradata. Aside from (GRI LA5) internal professional development, Teradata offers a tuition Appropriate notice is provided regarding operational assistance program for eligible employees. In addition to the changes, not only for those employees covered by collecconsiderable number of educational opportunities provided tive bargaining agreements, but for all Teradata employees. through Teradata University, the company may provide Teradata keeps employees informed through regular financial assistance towards collegeor graduate-level updates posted on the employee intranet. Hundreds of other education that supports both Teradata’s business priorities valuable resources are made available to employees on and the development of business-critical skills or knowledge the Teradata intranet. CEO Mike Koehler hosts quarterly for Teradata employees. webcasts to update employees on company news and future business initiatives. 14 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report National Merit Teradata Scholarships 4.8 Leadership Development (GRI LA11) Not only do we offer tuition assistance to employees, but we provide tuition assistance and scholarships for their children Management development is an important part of Teradata’s as well. Every year, Teradata provides scholarships to childculture for emerging leaders. It’s an ongoing process that ren of Teradata employees who are selected as National Merit includes: Scholarship winners. Students enter this academic competi> Preparing annual succession plans that focus on the tion in the fall of their junior year of high school by taking the identification and development of potential candidates for Preliminary Scholastic Aptitude Test/National Merit Scholarcritical leadership positions. ship Qualifying Test (PSAT/NMSQT). Since 2008, 18 national > Consciously developing future leadership through on-themerit scholarships have been awarded by Teradata. job activities, mentoring, special projects, and rotational assignments. Teradata International Scholarship > Providing specific management development programs Teradata supports children of our international employees through Teradata Learning, including a highly specific through Teradata International Scholarships. The college learning curriculum for managers and rising leaders. This grants are given in recognition of students’ academic program includes an inventory of management and leaderachievements and significant contributions to their communiship styles, 360-degree review by subordinates, peers, ties. Children of Teradata employees working in Africa, Asia, managers, and highly focused leadership sessions. The Canada, Europe, Japan, the Middle East, or Southern or curriculum enables managers and rising leaders to fully Central America are eligible if they are completing secondary understand the Teradata vision and charter, and adapt it to school and entering university. Scholarship winners are their own specific businesses, and sub-organization culture. chosen by an independent selection committee that considered academic achievements and records, school or 4.9 Performance Management Process extra-curricular activities, community and volunteer service, (GRI LA12) as well as the response to an essay question. Since its All employees participate in the annual Performance inception, 17 international scholarships have been awarded Management process, which is an ongoing process to by Teradata through the program. enhance individual and organizational performance through FIRST Scholarship the monitoring, measuring, reporting, and rewarding of performance. It’s what connects the work of the business, Teradata Cares, in our partnership with FIRST, For Inspiration the team and the individual employee to the company’s and Recognition in Science and Technology, provides scholvision, mission, and strategic objectives. arships to students on Teradata sponsored FIRST Robotics teams. The students are selected from a highly competitive Performance Management information is provided to guide group of applicants based on their academic achievements, employees in this collaborative process between the indidemonstrated leadership skills in school or their community vidual and their manager. Our performance management and their intention to major in a science, technology, engiprocess is driven by effective objective setting, ongoing neering or math discipline at an accredited four-year college dialogue captured in a quarterly reviews, and an annual or university. Since its inception, 30 FIRST scholarships have review summary that assesses an individual’s overall been awarded by Teradata through the program. accomplishments against business and development objectives. Employees are provided overall guidelines related to their role in the Performance Management process, to assist their annual preparations and further their success. 15 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4.10 Diversity diverse solutions for our business. Teradata recognizes (GRI LA13) several Business Resource Groups as part of its diversity Teradata’s shared Values form the foundation of our environment. Business Resource Groups (BRGs) business relationships with each other, our customers, our encourage employees to enhance their leadership and partners, and our suppliers. They define a global, consistent professional skills through educational and cultural opporframework within which we conduct business. We use tunities within the company and/or the community. These Teradata Values to direct our behavior and guide our deciglobally-chartered affinity organizations are supported by sions as we strive to achieve our business objectives. Teradata and provide a number of benefits to the business: Integrated into our Values is Teradata’s commitment to > Assistance with recruiting and retaining diverse diversity. Teradata complies with laws governing discriminaemployees. tion, but goes beyond compliance to focus on inclusion of > A resource pool of committed, engaged associates. the rich backgrounds our employees provide. Teradata is > Representation of Teradata as an involved community firmly committed to growing and fully leveraging diversity citizen. in all aspects of our business. We create an environment > Assistance with language and cultural support for where differences are valued, supported and encouraged. customers, business partners and other employees. And we believe in the power of diversity. That’s because we’ve seen what happens when people from diverse > A source of educational information on diversity topics. backgrounds and experiences combine their unique talents > A focused communication channel for constituency to unlock bold new ideas. At Teradata, we value the unique issues. qualities, abilities and perspectives each person brings to Supplier Diversity Program solving customer business problems. With our Teradata Teradata recognizes the need for and the benefits of guiding principles as a foundation, we build working sourcing and stimulating the growth of Small Businesses, relationships based on trust and respect that extend to our Minority, Women and Veteran-owned business enterprises customers, partners, suppliers, and the communities in (diverse suppliers) and, consequently, has adopted a which we live and work. proactive policy of promoting the use of such businesses We believe in understanding and respecting differences as sources of supply. Teradata believes that by including among all people. This concept encompasses but is not diverse suppliers in our sourcing strategy adds value to limited to human differences with regard to race, ethnicity, our business by providing us with a competitive advantage religion, gender, culture, and physical ability. Teradata is which allows us to invest in the economic success of committed to being a globally inclusive company where all disadvantaged businesses across the country. We further people are treated fairly, recognized for their individuality, encourage our suppliers to work with qualified diverse promoted based on merit, performance and opportunities, suppliers as often as possible to fulfill our contractual needs and encouraged to reach their full potential. and further promote the success of such diverse businesses. Teradata believes that by having this approach in Every individual at Teradata has an ongoing responsibility sourcing will develop stronger communities where we live to respect and support a globally diverse environment. and where we work and thereby creating a solid foundation We are engaged in building and nurturing a diversityfor supplier diversity success across the nation. As stated friendly, inclusive environment, one that seeks out, by Teradata’s President and CEO... welcomes and values diverse people, diverse thinking and 16 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report “It is Teradata’s policy to ensure that Small Businesses, avoid, address, and not tolerate any forms of discrimination, Minority-owned, Women-owned, and Veteran-owned harassment, or retaliation and include training regarding businesses are sought to participate as suppliers, sexual harassment/discrimination and non-discriminatory contractors, and subcontractors of goods and services Performance Management practices and compensation to Teradata; and comply with regulatory agency requireplanning for managers. ments and with federal, state, and local procurement All newly-hired employees (including employees of comregulations and programs...” panies newly acquired by Teradata) are oriented to the In October 2009 Teradata launched the company’s comCompany’s shared Values, Behavioral Qualities and Code mercial Supplier diversity program – a complement to of Conduct as a part of the Company’s onboarding process, Teradata’s already active government supplier diversity they must complete the Company’s Code of Conduct program. Since this program has been implemented training module shortly after their employment start-dates Teradata has made great strides in the successful utiliza(or merger dates for employees of newly-acquired compation of diverse suppliers nationwide by growing the spend nies), and, upon their completion of that module, they must percentages to 11.37% by the end of year 2012 in both certify that they have read, understand and will comply with Tier I and Tier II spend and hopes improve on our 2012 the Company’s Code of Conduct, and they must disclose performance in 2013. all potential conflicts of interest they may have. In addition, all Teradata employees, individual staff contractors, 4.11 Employee Ethics and Compliance officers, Leadership Team members and Board members Training are required to complete a supplemental Code of Conduct (GRI HR3, SO2, SO3) training and certification module on an annual basis. The Teradata shows its commitment to integrating ethical busiCompany’s online Code of Conduct training modules ness practices throughout the Company’s global workforce include: information on key ethics and compliance areas by offering various ethics and compliance learning opportuthat are the most relevant to Teradata; state-of-the-art/bestnities, requiring certain amounts, levels, and subject-areas practices video-audio scenarios; questions/answers; and, of ethics and compliance training, and requiring various links to the Company’s Code of Conduct, Ethics Guides, ethics and compliance certifications from all employees, and Ethics Helpline. officers, Leadership Team members, and Board members. These communications, training programs, and certificaAll employees of the Company also are required to complete tions focus on the Company’s: shared Values; desired mandatory periodic environmental, health and safety comBehavioral Qualities; compliance with laws requirements; pliance training, and all managers and facilities coordinators compliance with policy requirements; Code of Conduct are required to complete more-advanced periodic environcommitments; environmental, health and safety compliance; mental, health and safety compliance training. Employees respect for human rights; commitments and practices to who deal with government contracting and governmental avoid and eliminate corruption; and, how to raise ethics and officials/representatives in the United States are required compliance concerns and questions, and report potential to complete periodic training on, and certify compliance ethics and compliance violations, including through a thirdwith, supplemental ethics and compliance requirements party-administered whistleblower Ethics Helpline without that apply to those subject-areas. Employees who deal fear of retaliation and on a confidential and anonymous with non-U.S. transactions or matters that involve non-U.S. basis. They also expressly cover the Company’s standards governmental officials/representatives, officials/representaof conduct and requirements of all Teradata people to tives of governmentally wholly-owned or partially-owned 17 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report enterprises, officials/representatives of public international concerns and questions and report suspected violations agencies, or books-and-records for non-U.S. transactions/ through a variety of channels (including through a toll-free/ payments are required to complete additional training online Ethics Helpline, which can be used on a 24X7 conon, and certify compliance with, supplemental ethics and fidential and anonymous basis), and information about the compliance requirements that apply to those subject-areas, Company’s policy of not tolerating any retaliation against including compliance with the U. S. Foreign Corrupt Pracemployees who raise issues or make violation reports in tices Act , the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, good faith. The Teradata Values and Code of Conduct anti-bribery and anti-money-laundering policies and laws. document emphasizes personal and corporate integrity Employees who deal with imports, exports or distributions and exemplifies the Company’s commitment to integrity, of technologies/information that are subject to boycott, ethics and compliance in all words, decisions and actions of anti-boycott or embargo laws/restrictions also are required the Company and its people, and reinforces that Teradata to complete additional training on supplemental ethics and people should ask questions and obtain guidance before compliance requirements that apply regarding those subject acting if they have any doubt about whether something areas. Additional ethics and compliance training programs they propose to do might violate the Company’s Code of are presented to Company employees at various team Conduct, Company policies or the law. meetings and to various subject-matter-focused audiences Teradata ethical standards and commitments are set and on a continuous basis; members of the Company’s Leaderreinforced from the top of the Company and are comship Team, next-level Leadership Council, Law Department municated and applied to all managers, team leaders, and financial controls organizations also receive periodic employees, and business partners. The Company’s Values ethics and compliance training on key subject-areas that are Statement and Code of Conduct document includes ‘tonerelevant to their roles and heightened responsibilities. at-the-top’ messages from the Company’s Chief Executive In connection with the subject-areas noted above, as well Officer and the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The as several other key ethics and compliance subject-areas, Company’s Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer is a the Company Ethics and Compliance Office publishes member of the Company’s leadership council and has direct subject-matter-specific Code of Conduct supplemental access and reporting responsibilities to President and Chief materials, which are referred to as ‘Ethics Guides.’ The Executive Officer and the Audit Committee of the Board of Ethics Guides are used in the Company’s ethics and compliDirectors. Managers, team leaders and Leadership Team ance training programs and are available to all employees members are held to even higher ethical standards and from the Company’s employee web site. scrutiny, and expressly have additional obligations under the Company’s Code of Conduct to set, maintain, reinforce, The Teradata Values and Code of Conduct document and and exemplify a pervasive culture that reflects the ComTeradata Ethics Guides themselves include and are used as pany’s commitments to integrity, ethics, and compliance. learning and training aids. In addition to stating the Company’s shared Values, Behavioral Qualities and standards Managers are required, under the Company’s Code of of conduct, those documents include explanations of why Conduct, to consider integrity, ethics, and compliance in those Values, Behavioral Qualities and standards apply, all performance evaluations and decisions regarding hiring, answers to frequently-asked-questions, real-world-based retention, compensation, and promotion of employees. scenarios-and-guidance, red-flags/warning-sign listings, Managers are provided with ethics and compliance tools so explanations of the Company’s ethics and compliance that they may have reinforcement discussions and learning processes, details on how employees can raise ethics sessions with employees, such as regarding real-world 18 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report scenarios and lessons-learned discussions resulting from Systems and Ethics/Compliance Program. Teradata has the Company Ethics and Compliance Office’s periodic achieved this recognition based on performance assessdistribution to management of ‘Ethics in the Headlines’ ments for the 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 calendar years. summaries and such as discussions resulting from the As we move forward, Teradata remains committed to Company Ethics and Compliance Office’s periodic distribumeeting or exceeding the high standards established by tion to management of thought-provoking ‘Ethics Quotes these ethics criteria in our all of our operations throughout and other “Ethics Aids”.’ Ethics and compliance reminders Company and across the world. and reinforcement messages frequently also are included in the Company’s employee e-newsletters, employee web 4.12 Teradata Code of Conduct (GRI 4.8) sites, kick-off meetings, leadership council meetings, and ‘town-hall’ meetings and webcasts. The toll-free telephone Teradata integrates ethical business practices throughout number for the Teradata Ethics Helpline appears on most the Company, its global workforce and with respect to its Teradata employee identification badges and mention of supply-chain and other business partners by adopting, that fact is included in the Company’s Code of Conduct publishing, communicating, and training based on a written training programs, so that all employees will have, and know Code of Conduct. they have, access to the Company’s ethics and compliance All Teradata people (e.g. employees, independent staff conguidance and reporting resources at all times. tractors, officers, and directors) and Teradata entities (e.g. During 2012, approximately 10,600 different Teradata the parent company, as well as all Teradata subsidiaries, people (employees plus individual staff contractors and affiliates, branches, business groups, and teams) worldwide members of the Board of Directors) received ethics and are subject to the Teradata Code of Conduct. In addition, compliance training, including anti-discrimination, antiTeradata has adopted numerous subject-matter-specific harassment, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, data privacy, policies and procedures, as well as subject-matter-specific information security, environmental, health and safety, Code of Conduct supplements, known as “Ethics Guides”, training, for over 60,000 person-hour of ethics and compliapply to all Teradata people and entities which deal with ance training during the year (i.e., an annual average of those subject matters and that provide more particular guidmore than five hours per person). In recognition of the ance and details on standards of conduct relevant to those quality and effectiveness of it implementation of its complisubject areas. ance training, during 2011, Teradata received the Kaplan The Teradata Code of Conduct and the Company’s related EduNeering “Knowledge Summit Achievement Award” as policies, procedures and Ethics Guides include: duties to the top company globally in the category of “Compliance” respect human rights and employment/labor rights and training and communications. laws; commitments and practices to avoid, eliminate and Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Companies have zero-tolerance for corruption; commitments to environFor each of the past four years, Ethisphere Institute mental, health and safety standards, laws and regulations; has named Teradata one of the ‘World’s Most Ethical and, how to raise ethics and compliance concerns and Companies’. The independently-assessed criteria for this questions, and report potential ethics and compliance recognition includes the following: Corporate Citizenship violations, without fear of retaliation and on a confidential and Responsibility; Corporate Governance; Innovation that and anonymous basis. They also expressly cover the Contributes to the Public Well Being; Industry Leadership; Company’s standards of conduct and requirements of all Executive Leadership and Tone from the Top; Legal, Teradata people to avoid, address, and have zero-tolerance Regulatory and Reputation Track Record; and, Internal 19 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report for any forms of illegal or improper discrimination, harassIn 2011, Teradata became a formal ment and retaliation against anyone. signatory to the UN Global Compact. At a high level, our Code of Conduct commitments are: This report also constitutes the Teradata Communication On Progress (COP) that 1. We conduct business ethically and in compliance with is a part of our obligation as a signatory our Code of Conduct and Policies. to the UN Global Compact. During 2012, 2. We seek guidance and report concerns and violations. the Company’s UN Global Compact COP 3. We respect others. achieved the ‘advanced’ designation. Teradata also is a 4. We comply with laws. member of the Ethisphere Council, the Business Ethics 5. We compete fairly. Leadership Alliance (BELA), the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE), and the Ethics & Compli6. We avoid conflicts of interest. ance Officers’ Association (ECOA) and has aligned its Code 7. We protect assets. of Conduct, Ethics and Compliance program initiatives, 8. We protect data. and related policies, procedures, and Ethics Guides with 9. We keep accurate records. standards and best-practices from those organizations and 10 We apply our Code of Conduct and Policies consistently. with the criteria for nomination to and selection for the Ethisphere World’s Most Ethical Companies listing and 11. We do the right thing – always. Dow Jones Sustainability Index listing. Teradata also has adopted the standards of conduct Under the Teradata Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the established by: the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Company’s vendors must commit to and certify compli(EICC) Code of Conduct; the United Nations (UN) Global ance with the principles set out in the Teradata Code of Compact; the International Labour Organization (ILO); the Conduct and the EICC Code of Conduct with respect to all Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Developof their Teradata-related dealings, including with respect ment’s (OECD’s) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; to Teradata Requests For Proposals (RFPs) and contracts the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) Rules of with Teradata. Under the Teradata Code of Conduct various Conduct to Combat Extortion & Bribery, Rules on CombatTeradata entities, business organizations and teams may ting Corruption, Guidelines on Agents, Intermediaries and adopt supplemental standards of conduct and related poliOther Third Parties, and Guidelines on Whistleblowing; cies and procedures, but they must be at least a stringent the Online Privacy Alliance; and, the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor as Teradata global enterprise-wide ones and must comply Framework for privacy protection for cross-border data with all applicable laws and the underlying principles flows. Teradata has embedded the key principles which embedded in the global Code of Conduct. This enables underlie these standards into the Teradata Code of Conduct them to establish organization-specific specific and/or and the Company’s related policies, procedures, and Ethics location-specific standards of conduct that are higher than Guides. Among other things, these standards and principles the Company’s global policies and procedures. require and reinforce our commitments to: respect for human rights; commitments and practices to avoid, eliminate and As summarized in more detail in the section above regardhave zero-tolerance for corruption; respect for the environing employee ethics and compliance training, the Company ment; sustaining resources; and, that no form of illegal implements extensive training and communications related or improper discrimination, harassment or retaliation by to its Code of Conduct and related policies, procedures Teradata people, suppliers or other business partners will and Ethics Guides, and the Code of Conduct and Ethics be tolerated by the Company. 20 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Guides themselves include various best-practices learning Compliance Officer. This team determines for all significant aids. The Teradata Code of Conduct is available to anyone inquiries/investigations if a violation has been committed, at all times through the Teradata website at www.teradata. what disciplinary actions will be imposed and what remedial com (select “Company & Careers” then select “Corporateactions should be taken to prevent recurrences. The Chief Governance” then select “Code of Conduct”). The Code of Ethics and Compliance Officer make such determinations Conduct and related policies, procedures and Ethics Guides for all routine/non-significant matters on an interim basis, are available to all Teradata employees at all times through and review the results with the Ethics and Compliance the Company’s internal/employee web sites. And, as set out Committee. The status, handling, and determinations for all in the Code of Conduct document, anyone can contact the inquiry/investigation matters, as well as the programmatic Teradata Ethics and Compliance Office and/or other identiaspects of the Company’s Ethics and Compliance initiative, fied resources, including the Company’s always-available additionally are periodically reviewed by the Audit Commitmultiple-language Ethics Helpline, to report a Code of tee of the Board of Directors. Conduct violation or other ethics and compliance violation or to raise a Code of Conduct compliance or other ethics 4.13 Teradata Values and Behavioral and compliance issue, question or request at any time. Qualities The Teradata shared Values are broad core principles that Teradata regularly, globally, and systematically audits, monare used to guide all Teradata people and teams in all of itors, and reviews the compliance of its entities with the their Teradata-related acts, decisions, and words. These standards of conduct established by the Company’s Code of high-level Values, and the actionable Behavioral Qualities Conduct and related policies, procedures, and Ethics Guides. that arise from them, foster behavior and a company culture It utilizes internal controls personnel and internal auditors to that not only comply with legal and ethical standards, but verify such, as well as external independent auditors where additionally help Teradata achieve its other business objecappropriate. Through or in coordination with the Teradata tives and aspirations. Where our Code of Conduct or related Ethics and Compliance Office, Teradata conducts inquipolicies, procedures, or Ethics Guides do not address a ries and investigations into all instances where potential particular issue, Teradata people are to use our shared compliance exceptions have been reported or otherwise Values and Behavioral Qualities for directional guidance in have been identified as a result of auditing, monitoring and determining the right thing to do. Our shared Values and reviewing for controls and compliance, including those Behavioral Qualities therefore serve as foundations for our regarding environmental, anti-fraud/corruption, conflicts Code of Conduct commitments, and are included in the of interest, human rights and import/export/anti-boycott Company’s Values and Code of Conduct document (which compliance, as well as other forms of financial-related and is available through the Teradata.com website. non-financial-related potential misconduct. The Teradata shared Values also serve as the basis for the The Teradata Ethics and Compliance Office periodically overall direction of the Company and as evaluation criteria reviews the status and handling of all such matters, as well for the Company scorecard and its Leadership Team, colas the programmatic aspects of the Teradata Ethics and lectively and individually, not merely with respect to ethics Compliance initiative, with the Teradata Ethics and Compliand compliance, but with respect to developing and running ance Committee. The Teradata Ethics and Compliance the entire business, and with respect to establishing and Committee is comprised of certain members of the Leadermaintaining the culture of the Company. They are to be ship Team, and the Company’s leadership council, including embedded in and underlie everything done and aspired to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, be done at Teradata. Chief Legal Officer, Chief HR Officer and Chief Ethics and 21 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Teradata shared Values are: Teradata and its people are committed to applying the INTEGRITY – We are committed to the highest standTeradata shared Values and exemplifying our desired ards of integrity and ethics. At Teradata, we do the right Behavioral Qualities in all of their Company-related thing – always. decisions, words, and conduct. PEOPLE FOCUS – We believe our employees distinguish 4.14 Public Policy (GRI SO5, SO6) us. We respect individual differences and strive to build a supportive work environment. During 2012, the Company adopted a new Political Activities Policy Statement. Through it, the Company reinforced OPEN, TRUST-BASED ENVIRONMENT – We strive to and declared its commitment to being a responsible corpocreate an environment of openness and trust within rate citizen, while also complying with applicable laws and Teradata and with our customers, partners and suppliers. related regulations regarding the use of corporate resources in connection with political activities. The Company generCUSTOMER DEDICATION – We are passionate about our ally encourages its employees to participate in permitted customers and their success with our solutions. political activities where they live and work, provided that RESPONSIBILITY – We demonstrate responsibility in all such activities only occur in an individual and private aspects of our business endeavors. We are committed to capacity and not on behalf of the Company. In furtherance the communities where we work and live. of these principles, the Company’s political activity policy now provides that the Company and its affiliates will not INNOVATION – We foster an environment of continuous make political contributions or use any corporate funds innovation to deliver greater value to our customers. or assets for any candidates or political parties, including campaign committees and funds, caucuses, independent The Teradata Behavioral Qualities arise from the Teradata expenditure committees, or special interest groups engaged shared Values and help translate the directional guidance in lobbying activities. It further provides that employees who provided by those Values into a list of actionable characterengage in partisan political activities, including the election istics that are sought from all Teradata associates, teams, process, must do so solely on their own behalf and not on and business partners. They reflect the types of behaviors the Company’s behalf, time or premises. that Teradata stands for, strives for, and expects of all Teradata people. They apply not merely with respect to ethics and compliance matters, but with respect to everything 5.0 Quality Teradata people do in connection with the Company. 5.1 Teradata Quality System (GRI PR1, PR5) Our desired Behavioral Qualities are: Delivering solutions and services that provide value to Trust our customers is critical to Teradata’s ongoing success. Excellence A key component in the value we bring to our customer is Respect the quality of our solutions and services. In support of this, Achievement everyone in Teradata has a shared responsibility to ensure Dedication that their daily activities deliver quality to the next step in the Accountability process and, ultimately, to the end customer. Teamwork Attitude 22 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata is committed to providing solutions and services 5.2 Carnegie Mellon-SEI/CMMI Institute that meet or exceed customers’ expectations, are free of Partner Network defects, comply with all applicable standards and regulaTeradata is a general member of the SEI/CMMI Institute tory requirements, and offer greater value than those of Partners Network and an SEI/CMMI Institute Advisory Board our competitors. Teradata will ensure that product and Member. The Partner Advisory Board provides guidance process standards (ISO, CMMI), certifications, and registraand support to the SEI and CMMI Institutes regarding its tions are achieved; that quality initiatives are leveraged direction and activities. The Carnegie Mellon Software and integrated; and that environmental, health, and safety Engineering Institute (SEI) and CMMI Institute work closely legal requirements are achieved, resulting in material with organizations, industry, and academia to continually improvements to the total business system. We will utilize improve software-intensive systems. Their core purpose is and continually improve our global business process as a to help organizations improve their software engineering means of delivering outstanding customer value. capabilities and to develop or acquire the right software, defect free, within budget and on time, every time. Visit Teradata also holds suppliers accountable for meeting www.cmmiinstitute.com/. performance expectations in terms of quality, cost, delivery, integrity, environment, and innovation to consistently meet our customer’s requirements. 6.0 Stakeholders (GRI 4.14-4.17) The Teradata Quality Management System is comprised of Teradata has always reached out to its most important key processes, measures, and controls required to fulfill the assets – its stakeholders. These include but are not limited intent of the Quality Policy, which is to: to: customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the different > Consistently meet or exceed the quality expectations of communities in which we live and the organizations that our customers. support those communities. > Continuously improve processes that allow all employees 6.1 Customers to do their jobs right the first time. Our customers allow us to exist because of their trust in our Teradata’s Program Realization Process is a corporate-wide company and their valuable feedback. They are the industry process overseeing all program activities, from the conceppowerhouses that are outpacing their competitors. They join tual stage through lifecycle management. Its purpose is to: with our partners to form a worldwide collaborative network > Involve all necessary corporate functions/organizational connecting every industry, market, and geography with levels at the right time. application-specific expertise and proven best practices. Teradata actively seeks partnerships with other leading > Require management decisions at appropriate points. innovators in software, technology, and integration services > Provide a framework of order and parallelism to sustain to provide customers with end-to-end analytic solutions. Teradata’s portfolio management while ensuring faster time to market and the highest quality. Via a series of integrated processes, we have been helping Formal process management methods (fully documented our customers make the best decision possible throughout with measures and improvement activities) are used to the life of the product. These best-in-class processes maintain this process as well as other business and quality include but are not limited to: processes within Teradata. > World-class, passionate professional and customer service associates, coupled with the Teradata Global 23 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Support Center, an interactive Teradata @ Your Service – Customer Interaction Management Product website, software updates on demand, and the Teradata Advisory Council (CIM PAC): CIM PAC provides Education Network. advisory input for product development direction to > The PARTNERS Users Group has been formed for Teradata Aprimo analytical applications. The CIM PAC technical education to support the business community, consists of license holders and end-users who come by sharing information related to data warehousing, busitogether to provide insight into new business strateness applications and big data analytics. The members gies, processes, and functionality with an eye towards are encouraged to not only utilize existing technology adding business value to the analytical applications. to advance technology and its positive impact to busi– The Service Focus Team (SFT): works closely with nesses but also identify opportunities for technical Teradata on key issues regarding support services development and application to address new concerns and other areas that fall beyond the scope of product in the industry. enhancements. The SFT represents the concerns of The activities primarily occur during the annual Teradata customers and gathers feedback to make PARTNERS Users Group Conference & Expo, which service improvements. is held in a major city in the U.S. each year. The > The Teradata PARTNERS User Group Conference organization was formed as a non-profit corporation in & Expo provides business and IT professionals with 1997. Within the Partners User Group are the following educational sessions, exposure to new products and subgroups: solutions, and networking opportunities to advance the – PARTNERS Steering Committee: The Partners data warehousing, business applications and big data User Group is governed by a Steering Committee analytics disciplines. Customers share best practices of customer representatives who are the board of and noted keynotes provide forward thinking insight. directors of the Partners User Group. The Partners The PARTNERS Conference provides an opportunity to Steering Committee is instrumental in orchestrating network with colleagues, industry experts and visionarthe annual Partners User Group Conference and Expo ies from around the globe. and oversees the other customer committees. > Teradata uses its customer satisfaction program to – Product Advisory Council (PAC): The PAC repreprovide each account team with performance scores sents the voice of the customer and works closely and commentary from their customers. Furthermore, the with Teradata to gather customer requirements—both company uses the feedback from customers, obtained shortand long-term—to address key product and via questionnaires, to provide Teradata management service issues. The PAC also facilitates a compreguidance into positive areas that can be leveraged and hensive product and service enhancement request negative areas that need improvement. When a question(ER) process, which equitably represents the entire naire is completed, results are sent to the account team customer base. for review and action, where appropriate. Each quarter, results are reviewed by marketing research, and aggre– Unified Data Architecture Product Advisory gate results and recommended actions are presented to Council (UDA PAC): The UDA PAC represents the Teradata leadership team and area leaders. the valuable voice of the customer, providing client questions, suggestions, and concerns directly to the > Aprimo has multiple forums by which customers are able Teradata Labs team. UDA PAC acts as a conduit to to provide feedback on product and processes within the make the customers heard as a unified group with a company. First we have a series of formal meetings that vested interest in direction, functionality, and services. include: Aprimo Marketing Summit Customer Advisory 24 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Board, User Groups by Vertical, Aprimo Product Cuskeeping employees informed through regular communicatomer Focus Groups and the Aprimo Analytical Product tions from leadership and by providing them with open Advisory Council (AAPAC). We also allow customers channel to provide feedback. In addition to an ongoing idea to provide feedback directly to our product team via a generation program we participate annually in local and scheduled meeting with their account rep and a reprenational employee engagement surveys to give managesentative from the product development team. Finally, ment a view of our workplace culture. As ongoing support customers are able to provide feedback at various touch for our virtual workforce, we created Workplace Connection, points with Aprimo through an online survey adminisa dedicated website that provides virtual employees with tered by Mindshare Technologies. Some of the touch direct links to the information, tools, and tips that allow them points include: Contract Signing, Implementation Design to work effectively “anytime, anywhere.” Sign-off, Customer Care Handoff, Quarterly Review, We believe our people around the globe who dedicate their (Customer) Fiscal Year End, and a quarterly Overall time and talents to Teradata and who are so passionate about Satisfaction survey. our customers’ success are key to our continuing success. > Teradata Aster gets strategic input on product, services, and support from its customers throughout the year via To attract the passionate questionnaires and product review calls. In addition, professionals of the future, there is an annual customer advisory board (CAB) Teradata maintains contact meeting conducted in conjunction with PARTNERS with colleges and universiwhere a large number of Teradata Aster customers are ties globally to recruit new in attendance. graduates. In the U.S., we recruit from a number of 6.2 Investor Relations University of California Teradata is committed to serving the best interests of its campuses, the University shareholders. Teradata’s investor pages, located at Teradata. of Southern California, and Teradata New Hire Program com, enable investors to find key shareholder information Stanford as well as and financial reports, which can help put Teradata Corporanationwide from leading schools such as the Miami Univertion’s financial performance into perspective. sity (Ohio), University of Georgia, University of Indiana, James Madison, Drexel and University of Texas Austin. 6.3 Shareholder Communication Internationally, we attract new hires from universities such Stockholders are encouraged to communicate with the as Jawaharlal Technological University and Mumbai Audit Committee Chair or any of the company’s other University (India), Atenio do Manila University (Philippines), non-employee directors by contacting Teradata’s Corporate Copenhagen Business School (Denmark), Universita Roma Secretary at 10000 Innovation Drive, Dayton, OH 45342. La Sapienza (Italy), and Universidad Tecnológica Nacional The Corporate Secretary will forward any communications (Argentina). as directed by the stockholder. During 2012, shareholders approved increasing the 6.4 Employees employee stock purchase plan discount from 5% to 15% Employees are Teradata’s most valuable asset. This of the average market price, effective January 1, 2013. It includes all individuals employed by Teradata, both regular also initiated a matching-gifts program during 2012 through full-time and part-time individuals. At Teradata we know which the Company matches qualifying employee charitable it’s our people that make us great. We are committed to donations. The Company also recognized and supported a 25 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report new Business Resource Group during 2012 for employees trend by nurturing and developing young people’s interest who are Veterans of the U.S. military. The Company was and education in the STEM disciplines (science, technology, recognized as one of the Best Employers in Ohio during engineering, and mathematics). In addition to preparing 2012, and its headquarters city was recognized as number today’s youth for life in the modern world, this approach also one in Forbes’ list of “The Happiest Cities to Work In”. develops our industry’s future technologists and business leaders. One of Teradata’s most strategic partners is FIRST 7.0 Teradata Cares (For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technol(GRI SO1) ogy). Founded in 1989, FIRST’s mission is to inspire young At Teradata, it’s the people who make our company great, people to be science and technology leaders by engaging and their commitment to excellence extends far beyond them in exciting mentor-based programs that build science, the company. Teradata Cares, the Teradata Community engineering and technology skills; that inspire innovation; Relations program, administers all of Teradata’s community and that foster well-rounded life capabilities, including investment programs and is committed to building strong self-confidence, communication and leadership. In addition, and vibrant communities, improving quality of life and makTeradata also supports programs like Junior Achievement, ing a positive difference where we live and work. that benefit the business community by ensuring that the next generation of business leaders is well-poised to pursue Our global focus is on education in Science, Technolcareers in business. ogy, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). This focus 2. Helping the environment by supporting develops student interest in technology subjects that will global sustainability. lead to a strong future workforce, and it creates opportuniTeradata strives to comply with all applicable workplace ties for employees to engage with students in their local health and safety requirements and regularly monitors its communities. Teradata Community Relations engages in achievements in these areas. Also, Teradata has implegrant-making that is consistent with this educational focus mented recycling programs, utilizes recycled products and our technological competency. (such as paper) and has implemented various energy Teradata’s grant guidelines are available at and resource conservation programs at multiple facilities. Teradata.com/t/community-relations. Teradata’s green family of products boosts energy efficiency, enabling more output with less consumption. The entire 7.1 Community Relations Areas of Focus platform leverages energy-efficient processors and cabinet At Teradata, we believe that volunteering shows the power of designs. Finally, in our volunteer efforts, our employees the human spirit, fuels individual passions, develops employee participate in neighborhood clean-ups, restoration projects, skills, facilitates teamwork, and helps employees understand and assist with disaster relief. and appreciate the interdependence between our company 3. Strengthening neighborhoods and communiand the communities where we live and do business. ties where Teradata has a presence. Teradata focuses our corporate-giving resources and Through Teradata Cares, Teradata employees donate their employee-volunteer talents on three key areas: time and expertise to improve communities around the world. Teradata’s employees also volunteer their time as 1. Improving education to help build tomorrow’s board members for nonprofit organizations, participate in technologists and business leaders who understand the possibilities that technology provides. social service programs and lend their considerable experience to many community organizations. Interest among youth today in science and technology is diminishing. Teradata Cares is dedicated to countering this 26 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 7.2 Employee Involvement impact on the community. Community Champions have the Each employee at Teradata has their own passions and unique opportunity to not only be a volunteer, but also to skills that can benefit the world around them. Through lead, inspire, and motivate colleagues to get involved. Teradata Cares, we encourage people to support their Teradata Cares provides training, support and tools to assist personal passions or find new ones through multiple volunthese passionate employees to further our efforts around teering opportunities in the cities where they live or while the globe. Community Champions are also a critical part they are attending Teradata events. of Teradata’s Annual Days of Caring. Currently, over 60 Volunteering Policy Teradata Community Champions are located in cities across As part of its commitment to give back, Teradata provides the United States and around the world. employees four days a year during normal working hours to Teradata Annual Days of Caring volunteer in their local communities. Teradata encourages Each August, Teradata employees around the globe are employee community engagement in volunteer organizations invited to participate in the annual Teradata Days of Caring, by offering a variety of opportunities to give back. In 2012, during which employees join together to support local over 4500 employees completed over 15,000 hours of volcommunity projects. In 2012, employees, families, customunteerism. Since the launch of Teradata Cares in May 2008, ers, and partners volunteered over 2,500 hours, completing over 46,000 hours of volunteerism have been completed. 125 projects with non-profit organizations of their choice all Community Champions around the world. The Community Champions program provides employees Teradata Cares for the Earth the opportunity to promote an ethic of service in their local In order to support our second area of focus, Helping the community. Community Champions embody the values environment by supporting global sustainability, we of Teradata and are the leaders of change. Working with were excited to launch a new program in 2012. In conjuncTeradata Cares in their local offices, they are integral to tion with Earth Day, Teradata Cares launched a global mobilizing the corporate community and leveraging our effort around conservation for all employees. Around the highly-skilled workforce to make a significant and positive globe, employees and their families were encouraged to Earth Day — Australia Canberra India goes Green — Adopt A Plant 27 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report participate, share their current conservation efforts, and User Group Conference held annual in various cities, target new ways to help support our environment. The projects are completed to support those local communities. strategic objectives for the program are to: In 2012 in Washington D.C., Teradata employees, partners 1. Expand Green and customers built over 100 green machines and donated Awareness and them to children at the local Boys and Girls Club. In addiBehaviors – leaving the world a better place tion, volunteers at the event also hand-tied 45 blankets for 2. Bridge activities from Green to Conservation Project Linus, to provide to children in hospitals. 3. Link global employees in a shared initiative – power of employees together Resources were developed and shared with all employees, encouraging them to find ways to help our environment. In its first year, the program drove a total of 29 different projects in 17 cities and 6 countries. Plans are underway for the 2013 program. Community Service Grants Teradata Cares also provides Community Service Grants to encourage civic volunteerism by providing funds for volunteer projects performed by teams of five or more employees. Community Service Grants must be used to Teradata employees, partners and customers built over 100 green purchase supplies and materials for the performance of a machines and donated them to children at the local Boys and Girls Club in specific, one-time, hands-on project to be completed by Washington, D.C. the employee group that requests the grant, or donations in support of teams raising money for various causes. At the 2012 EMEA Teradata Universe, our European Examples of this type of project might include the purchase customer conference, Teradata Cares supported, The of lumber or hardware to build a fence around a school Peter McVerry Trust, an organization which supports young playground; the purchase of bathroom fixtures to renovate a homeless people to break the cycle of homelessness and homeless shelter; the purchase of flowers, shrubbery, and move towards independent living. Through Teradata and mulch to landscape around a community center. customer donations, the organization received over $10,000 to support their programs. Examples of 2012 Community Service Grant projects include visiting a National Children’s Hospital in Manila Dollars for Doers providing both emotional support for the children as well Teradata’s Dollars for Doers volunteer service grant proas much needed supplies, working with a local orphanage gram provides financial grants in support and recognition in Moscow, refurbishing a school in India and working with of employees who volunteer with nonprofit organizations. Habitat for Humanity in Atlanta. Once an employee has been actively involved with an organization and has performed at least 50 hours of volunteer Teradata Cares at Events service during the previous calendar year, they may apply In addition to projects near their homes, Teradata leverages for a volunteer grant. The nonprofit organization is required customer events to engage not only our employees but also to verify the hours served. our customers and partners. At the Teradata PARTNERS 28 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Celebration of Caring Awards 2012 Asia-Pacific Teradata Cares Employee of the Year – In 2008, Teradata Cares launched its “Celebration of Caring Ganesh Arcot, Hyderabad, India. Awards”. Teradata employees are nominated annually for Ganesh is passionate about giving back to the school where their personal involvement in helping to improve the quality he was educated during his childhood. During a visit to of life for others. The Celebration of Caring Awards recogTagores Home New Era Institute at Secunderabad where he nize and honor Teradata employees whose volunteer efforts spent nearly 12 years of his schooling from Kindergarten to best exemplify dedication to the well being of the people in 10th Grade, he realized that the school was in a dilapidated their communities. In addition, the charities that our winners condition, lacking health, hygiene and security measures. support also receive grants from Teradata. Ganesh, both on his own time, and along with volunteers he engaged from the Hyderabad office, renovated the rest 2012 Celebration of Caring Award Winners room, repaired electrical wires in almost all the 25 rooms 2012 Americas Employee of the Year – Tammy Gorman, that were posing a safety hazard, set up fans & tube lights Cincinnati, Ohio in almost every room, modernized their computer lab, set Tammy is a Court Appointed Special Advocate (CASA) for up a new library and led a committee to sponsor students abused and neglected children and has completed more from the school who lack financial support. Ganesh has than 375 hours of child advocacy service in 2012. Since been serving Annapurna since 2006 and has invested over beginning as a CASA in 2009, she has Advocated for 21 350 hours of volunteer time during 2012. You can see more children across 11 families. Child Advocates are sworn offiabout the ongoing efforts on Facebook. cers of the court and are appointed by judges. Advocates are specially trained and attend all court hearings relative to 2012 Teradata Cares Team of the Year – Teradata a child’s case. The role of the Advocate is to be the voice of India Engineering & Services (TIES) Social Service the child and represent the best interest of the child to the Committee, Hyderabad, India court. Tammy has been a Child Advocate for almost 4 years The Teradata India Engineering Services (TIES) Social and wants to inspire others to make an impact in the lives of Service Committee Team focuses on Education, Medical, children who have no one to be their voice. Environmental and self-sustaining initiatives. Their aim is to help the community to help themselves. Over 75 partici2012 EMEA Teradata Cares Employee of the Year – pants have volunteered 1,800 hours in 2012. In education, Maliha Elahi, Islamabad, Pakistan they’ve sponsored faculty and education fees for an underMaliha conceptualized an idea to promote child education privileged school and have donated books and backpacks for girls at the same time encouraging entrepreneurship in with supplies to various orphanages. To help in the medical a hardship area for disadvantaged ladies in 2010. Maliha arena, they’ve donated towards life-saving surgeries for put 600 hours toward her efforts and in May of 2012, she those who could not afford it and collected unused medicine was able to implement the program with great success. for an organization which gives the medicine to the needy. 30 children in the impoverished community are now sitting Their “Adopt a Plant” program encouraged 120 people to in school obtaining an education. A local village woman adopt and plant trees. They also initiated a paper recycling opened the school in her home and has thereby gained campaign to raise environmental awareness and over 160 financial independence for the first time in her life. Maliha’s pounds of paper has been donated as a result. This group goal was not only to help the children receive an education works year round to find opportunities to serve their commubut to help promote independence among the ladies of the nity and to make the world a better place for the poor and community. You can see more about Maliha’s project on underprivileged. YouTube or Facebook. 29 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report children’s interest in math, science and technology careers. Around the globe, support of STEM initiatives includes local science fairs, science and technology programs, Girls in IT programs, and mentoring programs. Our support of FIRST includes FIRST Lego League and FIRST Robotics Competitions at state, regional, and team level in our local communities in California, Georgia, Ohio, North Carolina, South Carolina and Canada. In addition, Teradata awards annual Teradata FIRST Scholarships to outstanding senior 2012 Teradata Cares Office of the Year – San Diego, participants on the teams we support. California Teradata University Network In 2012, San Diego office employees volunteered more Mastering the challenges of tomorrow’s dynamic busithan 2,400 hours. Their efforts affected over 900 lives and ness and IT environments will require a combination of resulted in donations of over $8,700 to several non-profit technical expertise and practical, hands-on training – and organizations, with an emphasis on environment, health, that’s exactly what students experience through Teradata STEM, after school programs, and education. Employees University Network (TUN). have done habitat restorations with the San Dieguito River Park, keeping river areas clean by adding native plants and Teradata works with a dedicated board of academics to removing invasive ones. Throughout the year, employees ensure faculty at universities around the globe have free donated 130 pints of blood to the San Diego Blood Bank. access to the necessary tools to prepare future generaThey have mentored FIRST robotics teams at local schools tions of technologists and business leaders. The academic during the year, training students on engineering and proboard that drives this unique teaching portal is composed gramming concepts. The Women of Teradata raised $1,800 of leading practitioners and renowned academics recruited in donations for the Boys & Girls Club’s Holiday Adopt a from around the world, united by their dedication to sharing Family program and volunteered with the children at the day innovative, proactive applications of authentic technology care program. The group also awarded $1,000 scholarships for data-driven decisions. to three local high school seniors who planned to major in Teradata’s goal is to train students to be break-through a STEM discipline and exhibited financial need. San Diego thinkers and doers who use data to create business value. volunteers are enthusiastic, devoted, and passionate about the causes they support. “TUN is a win-win, win-win, win-win situation. 7.3 Investing in Our Future Teradata is increasing brand awareness and In addition to the financial support we provide communities thought leadership, students get leadingthrough our volunteer efforts, Teradata also makes investedge skills, professors are more effective ments in programs in support of our strategic focus on and employers receive skilled recruits.” education. Barb Wixom, Program Director of MS MIT at the McIntire School of Commerce, University of Virginia Strategic Grants Teradata’s focus on STEM education is evidenced through Back in 2011, the TUN Academic Board began a Curriculum our support of programs and events that encourage initiative to develop some recommended standards for 30 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report teaching business intelligence and the undergrad, graduate TABE, Teradata Alliance of Black Employees and executive education levels which were deployed in 2012. TABE employees have adopted a school in Washington D.C. Preparing the next generation of data analysts and scientists Their goals are to assist the teachers and staff with items for current and future career opportunities is our primary from their wish lists, volunteer to help in the classroom and focus. Currently, TUN is providing access to software and mentor students. They believe an ongoing commitment resources to over 3,000 faculty members from over 1600 will ensure long-term success for the students and staff. In schools in 94 countries. 2012, they volunteered with the students and donated a Science Supply Center which supports the Teradata Cares 7.4 Teradata Cares: Community Spotlights STEM initiative, dedicated to educating children in the areas Paris, France of Science, Technology, Engineering and Math. To boost their spirit, over 200 children in local hospitals were treated to a professional magic performance courtesy of Teradata employees and customers. This innovative 8.0 Environmental Responsibility Teradata Cares project was launched by Eric Joulié, VP Our commitment to environmental responsibility is evident Southern Europe and Middle East & Africa, Teradata in our people, products, and processes. Corporation and Magev, a non-profit organization. The concept was announced at a customer conference and it 8.1 Environmental Program Membership (GRI EN2, EN3, EN4, EN7, EN16, EN17) quickly became a project embraced not only by Teradata Greenhouse Gas Management Program employees, but by our customers as well. Teradata Cares, To manage the risks from greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions employees and customers joined together to fund 4 magic from our operations and identify cost-effective mitigation performances in 4 local area hospitals. opportunities, Teradata joined the U.S. Environmental Dayton, Ohio Protection Agency (EPA) Climate Leaders program in Teradata employees in Dayton have continued to support 2008. However, late in 2010, the EPA announced that the the Montgomery County Science Day and Engineering Fair. agency would be winding down the program in September On average, the fair brings 350 to 400 bright, young and 2011. The EPA’s goal was to give direction, guidance and eager participants from over 25 local schools to present the tools for companies to become aware of the importance projects from 7th through 12th grades. More than 120 of understanding their impact on the environment. A major professionals in various disciplines from the Dayton and part of the program was to educate companies on what surrounding areas are on hand to judge projects in 13 sciengreenhouse gases are and the importance of tracking and tific areas, ranging from Behavioral Science to Zoology. reporting a company’s greenhouse gases. Over the past two years, Teradata has worked with the EPA as apart of São Paulo, Brazil the Climate Leaders program to review our GHG invenEmployees held a charitable event and collected over 400 tory and develop our Inventory Management Plan (IMP). pounds in donations of food, milk, clothes, supplies and Through this process, our Inventory Management Plan was toys for Creche Tia Léa or Creche Aunt Leah. The nonexternally verified through the EPA program in 2008-2010 profit organization has been operating for over 40 years in to assure that our processes of gathering our emissions the area of Social Care and Early Childhood Education with based data was correct and repeatable. Being a part of the the mission to promote the integral development, protection EPA Climate Leaders program demonstrated our company’s and support to needy children in Brazil. The event was such commitment to reducing our impact on the environment a success, employees plan to provide future support to through a corporate-wide goal to reduce emissions. Going Creche Tia Léa. 31 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report forward we will continue to use the same GHG inventory FSTE4Good Index tools and IMP to track our impact on the environment. In 2012, Teradata was selected as In 2009, Teradata developed a worldwide, corporate-wide a member in good standing of the inventory for its GHG Emissions for 2008. The Emissions FSTE4Good Index, which is an were for a full year 2008 and continue to serve as our base innovative series of real-time indices year in our EPA Climate leaders reporting process. We also designed to reflect the performance have provided our emissions for 2008-2011. See tables 1-4. of socially responsible equities. This is Teradata’s fifth consecutive year to be included in the FSTE4Good Index. In 2010, Environmental Protection Agency Climate Leaders program officially approved Teradata’s aggressive five-year “FTSE Group confirms that Teradata has been indepengoal to reduce its worldwide greenhouse gas emissions dently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and intensity by 45 percent. The greenhouse gas emissions has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of intensity calculation is based on facility energy usage and the FTSE4Good Index Series. Created by the global index the number of Teradata Purpose-Built Platforms shipped company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index per year. With regards to our goal progress, based on our series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies 2009 emission results as compared to our 2008 baseline, that meet globally recognized corporate responsibility we achieved a 33.6% reduction in our energy intensity goal. standards. Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series We are well on our way to achieving our goal through the have met stringent environmental, social and governance EPA program. criteria, and are positioned to capitalize on the benefits of responsible business practice.” During 2011, we completed our reporting process for EPA SmartWay Transport Program calculating our progress against our announced goal of Teradata has been a member of the SmartWay Program 45% reduction of greenhouse gas emissions intensity. This since 2008. SmartWay is an innovative collaboration process was completed after our 2011 CSR (2010 results) between the freight industry and government to reduce report was completed. We are very pleased to announce air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, improve fuel that we have met and exceeded our goal in that in 2010 we efficiency, and strengthen the freight sector. achieved at cumulative 52.1% reduction in our greenhouse emissions intensity target vs. 2008! In just 2 years, we were SmartWay Transport’s goals are to reduce the impact of able to advanced pass our 5 year goal. freight transport on the environment, and to help our partners see the rewards to their business. Working together, Teradata has announced that its new emissions reduction we aim to reduce: goal is a 5 year 41% reduction in greenhouse gas emission intensity. Again this calculation is based on facility energy > Fuel consumption from trucks and rail delivering freight. usage and the number of Teradata platforms shipped per > Operating costs associated with freight delivery. year. Our base year will be 2010. > Emissions of CO2. Teradata’s emissions for 2012 were those area included in > Emissions of NOx, PM, and air toxics. Table 1. 32 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report USA Direct USA Indirect International International Total Direct Total Indirect Emissions Emissions Direct EmisIndirect EmisEmissions Emissions (Metric Tons (Metric Tons sions (Metric sions (Metric (Metric Tons (Metric Tons Year CO2 eq) CO2 eq) Tons CO2 eq) Tons CO2 eq) CO2 eq) CO2 eq) 2008 498 13049 0 2769 498 15818 2009 521 14251 0 2837 521 17088 2010 724 15754 0 2993 724 18747 2011 504 17068 0 3037 504 20105 2012 502 18556 0 2992 502 21548 Table 1. Emissions 8.2 Dow Jones Sustainability Index When selecting the top performers in each business sector, For the third Dow Jones reviews companies on several general and straight year, industry-specific topics related to economic, environmental Teradata was and social dimensions. These include corporate governance, selected for two of the Dow Jones Indexes, both the environmental policy, climate strategy, human capital World Index and the North America Index. Based on development and labor practices. The indexes are compiled thorough analysis of corporate economic, environmental and annually by Dow Jones and the Zurich-based Sustainable social performance, this annual index is the largest global Asset Management Group. More information is available at analysis of corporate sustainability leadership. In addition www.sustainability-indexes.com. to recognition as one of the world’s top companies, being 8.3 The Sustainability Yearbook 2012 named to this index encourages investment companies to Teradata was name the 2012 Computer and Internet Sector consider Teradata. Leader by the 13th SAM Corporate Sustainability AssessThe Dow Jones Sustainability World Index comprises more ment as published in the Sustainability Yearbook 2012. than 300 companies identified as the top 10 percent of the Sector Leaders are chosen by those companies who score leading sustainability performers among the largest 2,500 the highest in each of the 58 sectors. Teradata was also companies in the Dow Jones Global Total Stock Market selected as 2012 Gold Class Member through the assessIndex. Companies on the North America Index represent the ment. Last year Teradata was a Bronze Class member. top 20 percent of the highest performers. 8.4 Newsweek Green Rankings “Being recognized in this rigorous external benchmark further In 2012, Teradata was awarded inclusion to the Newsweek reinforces our commitment to continue to be a sustainability Green Rankings in the Top US 250 companies for the 2nd leader. Making sustainability practices a part of the corpoyear in a row. The rankings are available at Newsweek.com/ rate operating philosophy continues to make good business green. The rankings were developed based on surveys of sense,” said Bruce Langos, Chief Operations Officer, the 500 largest US firms. The information was prepared by Teradata Corporation. leading CSR environmental research and analytical firms Truscost and Sustainalytics. Some of the data points included Launched in 1999, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes are were to assess companies’ environmental footprint (including the first global indexes that track the financial performance greenhouse-gas emissions and water use); management of the leading sustainability-driven companies worldwide. (including environmental policies, programs, and initiatives); 33 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report and disclosure (including company reporting and involvement Through the third-quarter 2012 issue, Teradata Magazine was in transparency initiatives). Underlying data are drawn from a printed in a “Zero Direct Landfill Waste Facility” with more variety of sources, including the companies themselves, and than 98 percent of its waste being recycled and the remainder vetted for reliability. being burned for beneficial use to generate power. 8.5 Virtual Office Program Beginning with the fourth-quarter 2012 issue, Teradata Maga(GRI 2.8) zine is now available digitally only. This cut Teradata’s use of At the end of 2012, Teradata had 12,151 employees and conpaper by more than 36,000 pounds in the fourth quarter. tractors around the world, approximately 19% work virtually. Recognitions: This not only allows Teradata as a company to lessen the impact of its people in terms of fuel consumption, but it also 1. 2012 Energy Star Partner of the Year Award recipient allows our employees the flexibility of working from home, a 2. 2011 International Energy Professional Development factor that helps us attract and retain high-quality people. Award – AEE – Association of Energy Engineers 3. 2010 CenterPoint Energy Customer of the Year for 8.6 Paper Conservation energy efficiency Teradata Annual Report and Proxy Statement In 2008, Teradata was one of the first companies to take 4. 2009, 2010, 2011 Xcel Energy Process Efficiency Winadvantage of the SEC-approved “Notice and Access” (N&A) ners as top customers for energy efficiency policy, which allows companies to send notices to all 5. 2010 What They Think Award – Environmental Initiative shareholders that the company’s Annual Report and Proxy Award Winner – sponsored by Statement are available electronically, while also providing 6. 2011 Corporate Energy Management Regional Award – an opportunity for shareholders to request paper copies. AEE – Association of Energy Engineers This policy significantly lowered the required number of 7. Energy Star Partnership Logo – First printer granted printed copies of both Teradata’s Annual Report and the permission to use Energy Star logo in magazines they Proxy Statement that were printed and mailed to shareholdprint. The magazine continued with its commitment ers. Since 2008, Teradata has printed on average 35,000 to environmentally friendly practices including water copies of each report per year, which equates to a 87% soluble ink that is safer for workers than solvent-based reduction from the 275,000 copies that would have been ink, elimination of paper address labels as well as cover required per year without N&A. letters and polybags for employee copies Teradata Magazine Business Cards Teradata Magazine is printed by a vendor that is commitIn addition to our marketing collateral, our employee ted to environmentally sound practices and has achieved business cards and letterhead have remained eco-friendly. status with its state (Minnesota) as a Very Small Quantity Business cards for Teradata Corporation are produced Generator (VSQG) of hazardous waste. Furthermore, the from FSC-certified, 100% recycled/post-consumer waste hazardous waste that is generated is put to use through a material. We purchased 1,350 pounds of this material in fuel-blending program and burned as a fuel; non-recyclable 2012. Additionally, our letterhead is FSC-certified, 80% and non-hazardous wastes are used to fuel an energy plant post-consumer waste material. We purchased 240 pounds to generate electricity. These actions reduce the consumpof this material in 2012. tion of fossil fuels. Our vendor is a member of the EPA’s SmartWay Transport, EPA Energy Star Partner, and Department of Energy Better Buildings Better Plants programs. 34 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Promotional Items 8.8 Product Environmental Performance (GRI EN6, EN26) In 2012, total eco-friendly units purchased on the promotional website were 20% of total sales. New items added Product Development Sustainability Requirement this year included BPA-free water bottles, grocery totes, As a business value driver, Teradata R&D will continuously re-usable travel mugs and lunch coolers. This resulted in an search out and leverage technology alternatives in our additional increase in the purchase of eco-friendly, green hardware and software that can improve performanceitems from 1% of total purchases in 2008 to 20% in 2012. per-watt, reduce cooling requirements, and shrink the floor Office Products space needs in data center environments as part of our In 2012, 18% of Teradata’s total spend on office products product designs. was on Recycled/Remanufactured items. An additional The data center industry in which our products operate has 3% was on items with other green attributes (e.g. Energy broad concerns. Energy consumption rates are skyrocketEfficient, Refillable, Reduced Harsh Chemicals, etc.). 14% ing, and many organizations are experiencing shortfalls in of the ink and toner cartridges that Teradata purchased in data center capacity for power, cooling, and space. While at 2012 were considered green. the same time responsible companies are driving to reduce In addition, Teradata switched from non-recycled copy their environmental impact and reduce overall energy costs. paper to 30% recycled paper in 2009. In 2012, 75% of According to leading industry research firms Gartner Group Teradata’s spend on cut sheet paper was considered green. and IDC, the amount of power required to operate and This recycled paper usage equates to 234 fewer trees used cool data center equipment is a key issue with the chief vs. virgin paper alternative and a net energy savings of 68 information officers of major corporations. Awareness of million BTUs! the critical nature of data center power and cooling became Technical Manuals top of mind back in 2006. While the economic conditions In 1999, Teradata, then a division of NCR, started to move can impact the enthusiasm for green initiatives at times, all its technical manuals from printed paper that shipped along users of IT equipment remain intensely focused on the cost with the product to electronic distribution available by printsavings that are enabled by smaller, more energy efficient on-demand or electronic media. This move created more equipment. than a 98.7% reduction in printed sheets, from 11,000,000 Industry, government, and consumers are simply demand(the equivalent of 1,137 trees) in 1999 to 149,551 (14 trees) ing vast increases in computing and internet capability. The in 2012. result? The power consumed by IT equipment and the data 8.7 Indirect Procurement center infrastructure to support it has exploded to the point Teradata Corporation continues to develop sustainable initiawhere worldwide, the digital warehouses use about 30 tives in its procurement philosophies. billion watts of electricity, roughly equivalent to the output of 30 nuclear power plants.1 These challenges are occurring The Teradata RFP is a sustainable RFP. It contains an despite the advancement in performance per watt enabled entire section inquiring about potential business partners’ by the processor chip industry. sustainable programs in the areas of ethical, social, and environmental policies. These are criteria that Teradata will Another long emerging trend that is driving the explosion closely consider when determining awards for new business. in data center growth is the enormous amount of data 1 http://www.nytimes.com/2012/09/23/technology/data-centers-waste-vast-amounts-ofenergy-belying-industry-image.html 35 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report generated in the world. This phenomenon has been labeled the Teradata products of five years ago while demanding as “Big Data” by the industry and it is created by the vast 75% less power and cooling and occupying 80% less data increase in data sources and data uses worldwide. This center floor space. In addition, the hybrid storage capability would include sources such as internet use patterns and was introduced in 2011 to further enhance the Active EDW click streams, wireless call routing data, automobile senplatform’s efficiency in performance delivery. Teradata sors, etc. This flood of data requires an enormous increase hybrid storage optimizes the performance of solid state in the equipment to store the data and to analyze it. drives (SSD) with the efficient storage capacity of hard disk drives (HDD) through the intelligent tracking and movement Not only is power a problem, but cooling and space requireof data based on its usage pattern. A hybrid storage based ments are growing as well. According to Gartner Group and 6700 can provide up to four times the performance level of Liebert Group the growth in energy consumption drives the a standard storage platform without any increase in energy same level of growth in cooling demands for the data center or floor space. This provides our users an efficient path for essentially doubling the cost and emissions impact of IT the speed needed for today’s business analysis challenges. equipment. The “real estate” in corporate data center floors is some of the most expensive space on the planet due to Teradata introduced their Data Warehouse Appliance the extensive infrastructure required there. platform products in 2009 that enable customers with smaller numbers of users and user data to perform high Efficient Data Warehouse Computing performance analytics with a simpler computer system that As shown over the last five years, Teradata has uniquely saves energy and floor space compared to other Teradata leveraged key IT industry technology to deliver the same and industry alternatives. Teradata is also leveraging the industry-leading data warehouse capability while dramatiimprovements in disk drive storage to bring energy and floor cally decreasing power, cooling, and floor space demands. space savings to our customers. The current Teradata Data Teradata has demonstrated that we are an industry leader Warehouse Appliance 2700 released in 2012 leverages the in our use of the industry standard multiple-compute core smaller form factor 2 ½” hard disk drives that reduces the technologies for microprocessors that are so important to floor space per unit of data capacity for the system by up to vastly improving compute performance per watt. 50% along with a significant reduction in electrical power per unit of data. A vast majority of system and solution providers to the data center choose to use general purpose standard industry Extreme Data equipment, not equipment specialized for particular computThe Teradata Extreme Data Appliance leverages the capaing tasks as are the Teradata systems. As a result Teradata bility of scaling up in both the data size per node and the solutions are relatively more efficient than the mainstream number of nodes to build a warehouse appliance that scales of the data center industry. Key to Teradata’s capability here from 23TB (terabyte) to over 186PB (petabyte) of user is the Teradata Platform Family in which a range of systems data. This enables customers to affordably perform busihave been purpose built to meet the needs of specific ness analytics on large amounts of data such as with deep industry segments and applications. archive data. By using large numbers of very high capacity disk drives, the user trades off a lower performance for a For instance, the Teradata Active Enterprise Data Waremuch lower cost per TB of storage, and, at the same time, house (EDW) is targeted for the broad enterprise wide vastly reducing the footprint and energy required per unit of needs of many users and workload types. In fact, this storage. For example, an entry sized system of 91TB of user platform can deliver the same data warehouse capability as 36 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report data with the Teradata Extreme Data Appliance requires Software Efficiency Improvements just 15% of the floor space of a high performance Teradata Teradata 14.0, the current release of the Teradata Database, Active EDW system with the same capacity of user data. features software improvements that deliver up to 20% Big Analytics Appliance performance improvement over previous generations. As a result, our customers are able to perform more processing The Big Data challenges described earlier includes the on the same hardware with the same energy consumption. analysis of high volumes of data which lacks the structure to We continue to focus on developing software that makes be efficiently addressed with a standard relational database. the Teradata systems run more efficiently and perform more It would require a large sized, power hungry platform to useful work on the same system hardware. “brute force” the analysis of this data. Teradata began to offer in 2012 the Big Analytics Appliance which is optimized Product Stewardship to analyze these large volume unstructured data efficiently Teradata recognizes that responsible product stewardship with a smaller, lower power system. This platform is based begins with our product designs and specifications. From on the Teradata Aster MapReduce Platform for discovery of product conception to final disposition, Teradata not only patterns in big data and Hadoop analytics servers to store designs our products to meet or exceed all applicable any data type in the low-cost, scalable Hadoop engine. safety and health standards, but also strives to improve the Business analysts and data scientists can now in a single environmental design of our products, with a goal of maxicabinet derive the valuable insights form Big Data that make mizing opportunities for environmental efficiency, recycling it’s use mandatory for successful companies. an/or reuse. Server Virtualization For example, the newest model of the Teradata Active The virtualization of servers and storage is allowing the whole Enterprise Data Warehouse, announced in April, 2012, IT industry to more efficiently use the IT resources in the data provides Teradata customers with up to 84% reduction in center. Virtualization means that one large, highly utilized electricity usage and 89% reduction in floor space for the server is able to support the workload typically provided with same capability data warehouse as compared to servers multiple under-utilized servers by acting like multiple virtual of six years prior. That’s enough KWh of energy saved by servers. This process enables a data center to replace a one typical system to power 60 U.S. homes for one year. By large number of lightly used servers with a smaller, more dramatically reducing energy usage for the same system efficient set of fully utilized servers. performance and required floor space, Teradata also has reduced associated data center cooling and power delivery Teradata adopted the virtualization approach to our basic infrastructure by similar ratios. product architecture in 1996 as a path to full utilization of the Teradata platform (servers and storage). Virtualization In addition, Teradata has adopted an energy per perfortechniques have been a key enabler to Teradata’s ability to mance metric for data warehouse energy efficiency. It’s effectively leverage the escalating performance capability of based on the amount of data warehouse performance multiple core processor technology. Teradata hybrid storage provided by a Teradata system (as calculated by Teradata’s with Teradata Virtual Storage Software has also introduced own measure of data warehouse performance, potential, the virtual storage capability that enables customers to called TPerf). The Kilowatt per TPerf (KPT) efficiency metric automatically assign more frequently used data to high is the amount of energy (in KWh) consumed in order to performance, low power SSD storage and less used data to provide a 100 TPerf level for a system. Over the last five larger disk storage units that are more energy efficient on a product generations, Teradata has improved its total KPT watt per megabyte basis. rating by over a factor of 8X, and with the release of the 37 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Teradata Active Enterprise Data Warehouse 6690 alone, system size by 44%. Therefore, the total system also uses KPP decreased by 84% over the earlier Active EDW 5500 44% less power and cooling energy to support the system. product. This measurement shows that our products enable On an average system, this results in 8 KW of continuous our customers to do more with less. power savings – enough to power five average U.S. homes for one day. The Cooling Door Starting with the Active EDW 5400 platform generation and 8.9 Product Environmental Compliance continuing with every model and generation of the Teradata RoHS Compliance Platform Family prior to 2013, each Teradata platform feaTeradata complies with the European Union Directive on tures the patented cooling door. This innovative door design the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (EU RoHS), which allowed data centers to run up to five degrees warmer while limits the use of certain substances, such as lead, mercury, maintaining the required air temperature within the cabinet, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, polybrominated biphenyls thereby reducing cooling energy requirements up to 25%. (PBBs), and polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in With increasing concerns about data center power usage, electrical and electronic equipment placed on the European this savings is an advantage for our customer base. community market. Data Compression Prior to the effective date of the EU RoHS Directive, The Teradata Database software provides a range of data Teradata implemented comprehensive due diligence, order compression features that shrinks the amount of storage control, and parts management processes to ensure initial space required to contain a data table. The extent that a compliance and we continue to do so in order to assure data table can be compressed depends upon the data patongoing compliance. As a result, Teradata is fully compliant terns that make up that table. The compression factor can with the EU RoHS Directive and similar legislation in other reach 5X or greater for data with highly repeatable patterns, parts of the world, including regulations applicable in China, such as phone call information, where popular area codes India, and California. repeat often. It’s estimated that the typical Teradata user can enjoy an average compression factor of 3X through the 8.10 Product Recycling (GRI EN26) use of Teradata Database compression capabilities. End-of-Life Activities Teradata introduced a hardware based compression capaWith technology progressing at lightning-fast speeds, it bility in 2011, that enables a Data Warehouse Appliance to seems there is more obsolete computer hardware to achieve compression ratios of up to 10X automatically and manage every year. Teradata, through technology like without requiring valuable processor resources. In typimulti-generational coexistence, has helped to extend the cal usage, the hardware compression will conservatively life of data warehouse systems. Even so, all systems must provide a 3X to 4X compression factor. be replaced eventually. Teradata established a program in 1996 to extend the life of those replaced systems and to Data table compression enables a Teradata user to avoid mitigate the environmental impact of disposal. purchasing additional data storage, resulting in substantial energy savings. For example, a user with an average 2X The Teradata Used Equipment program collects all trade-in compression factor would require approximately 44% less systems and systems returned to our leasing partner, GE total disk storage space for the same amount of user data; Capital. These systems are then recycled in one of four ways: since Teradata systems require balanced storage and > Systems are disassembled and reused as spare parts server configurations; this would reduce the required total to service the installed base of systems around the 38 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report world. This helps minimize the amount of new products EU WEEE Compliance purchased over the service life of our products. Our equipment decommissioning and recycling programs > Systems are reconfigured and sold for customer use. are compliant with international recycling legislation, such This allows customers to: as the European Union Directive on Waste Electrical and – upgrade discontinued platforms with the same generaElectronic Equipment (EU WEEE), as well as other application of equipment ble e-waste laws and regulations in other parts of the world. Products that are affected by the EU legislation are labeled – purchase larger upgrades to meet growth in accordance with the Directive. requirements – purchase systems as test and development platforms California Waste Recycling Act California SB20, amended by SB50, established the All systems to be resold go through rigorous testing to Electronic Waste Recycling Act of 2003. The act requires a ensure they are stable and meet the same standards as retailer selling a covered electronic device (CED) in Californew equipment. The refurbishment effort includes reconfignia to collect a waste recycling fee from the consumer and uring the system and updating firmware, wiping data from transmit the collected fee to the State Board of Equalization. the drives, replacing UPS batteries, and stress-testing the The act requires manufacturers to inform retailers selling system for several days. their product if a CED is subject to the waste recycling fee and to submit an annual report that makes recycling > Systems are reconfigured and redeployed internally for information available to consumers. The act prohibits CEDs enhanced R&D and lab systems. This sustains the life from sale in California if the device is prohibited from being of the systems, keeps our labs updated, and lowers our sold or offered for sale in the European Union under the capital costs. RoHS Directive. (2011/65/EU) > Systems beyond their economic and functional life are recycled. Health and Safety Impact (GRI EN2 PR2, PR9) Over the last nine years, Teradata has reused more than There are no known incidents of non-compliance with 2600 nodes and 11.5 petabytes of disks in 42 different counregulations and voluntary codes concerning the health tries. This is an increase of 13% in node recycling. The units and safety impacts of Teradata products and services. are often shipped in recycled crates and boxes reclaimed Furthermore, since becoming an independent publiclyfrom new hardware shipments. traded company in 2007 and through the date of this report, Teradata-controlled global facilities and operations had Finally, when the time comes, all hardware is shipped no fines or penalties incurred for non-compliance with to our recycling center, where it’s disassembled and environmental compliance, pollution control, or occupational de-manufactured. safety and health regulations. Over that same time period, We have recycled several times the amount of equipment Teradata Corporation did not experience any non-monetary that has been reused. Here the equipment is broken down, sanctions, notifications of permit or licensing violations, sorted and shredded into various materials categories like administrative orders or warnings issued by governmental drives, circuit boards, wire, plastics, metals, etc. for further agencies responsible for enforcement of environmental refining. Our recycling partner and all of its suppliers, right compliance regulations or ordinances, nor has Teradata down to the refineries and smelters, are ISO 14001:2004 ever incurred any significant fines or non-monetary sanccertified and meet or exceed all federal, state, and local tions for products, services, or environmental law/regulation environmental standards and practices. non-compliance. 39 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 8.11 Release Process Restrictions 4863 individual min-pallet/boxes. The cost savings realized (GRI PR2, PR3, EN28) was $21.76 per box or $105,818. As a part of our release processes, we ensure that all of our Our products ship in wood crates. In 2003, we started to products do not emit hazardous resources or waste byprodput processes in place to reuse crates; In 2012, we recycled ucts. Further, all regional, country, and local regulatory laws 243. Total to date for the program is 2012 crates. Each crate and codes are strictly followed during the product developis about 30 cubic feet. Therefore, through this program we ment process. The following country requirements are have recycled over 60,360 cubic feet of wood. tested during our release process: USA, Canada, European Union, Europe Global, Japan, Australia/New Zealand, and Taiwan. A product cannot be released unless it has passed 9.0 Global Manufacturing all current regulatory standards. All appropriate certification Processes (GRI HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7) and environmental labeling is present on our products. 9.1 Supply Base 8.12 Product Transportation (EN26) (GRI EN29) Vendor Managed (owned) Inventory (VMI) In 2012, Teradata logged 639,045 miles carrying 1,235 tons Teradata has set up programs with Tier One suppliers to of hardware equipment on American highways delivering locate equipment for sale close to our final assembly locaour products to our customers’ data centers. All shipments tion. Under this program, the suppliers ship bulk quantities were ground-based; Teradata did not ship any products to of product to local hubs near a manufacturing site, rather U.S. customers by air. There are no other environmental than sending discrete customer shipments. Of course this impacts of transporting our products. With the introduction process saves us in inventory holding costs, but when we of Appliance Product Teradata is shipping more nodes per look at it through an environmental lens, we see significant cabinet than ever before. This allows our customer’s more environmental savings. We are pleased to report that processing power with a smaller foot print resulting in less 100% of our manufacturing suppliers participate in the VMI weight system to transport. program. Our EMS partner, Flextronics, is the administrator of our wood crate recycling program, which allows the 8.13 Product Packaging (GRI EN26) company to reuse crates after the equipment is unpacked at the customer site. This program continued to operate very Teradata continues to work with its vendors to reduce the efficiently in 2011. Flextronics also has a facility energy savamount of product packaging used when shipping our ings team that focuses on reducing the amount of energy product into and out of the factory. used by the local facility where our product is built. Teradata has worked with our manufacturing suppliers to implement environmentally-friendly programs regarding 9.2 Teradata Code of Conduct for Suppliers (GRI 4.8) Teradata equipment, including the reuse of crates and palAs mentioned earlier, Teradata Corporation, its employees, lets and the recycling of other shipping materials (such as and partners have adopted the Teradata Code of Conduct. cardboard and plastic). We’ve also turned to bulk packagIn addition, we have has also adopted the standards of coning for drives, controllers, and drive modules for use with duct set forth in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Teradata systems. Instead of using one mini-pallet/box per (EICC) Code of Conduct. Together, these standards, product, they use a multi-pack container that holds up to 12 where applicable, constitute the Teradata Code of Conduct products. In 2012, this vendor used 400 of these multi-pack for Suppliers. containers for our product. This resulted in a savings of 40 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Teradata Code of Conduct This audit program is directly based on the EICC self-audit Teradata expects and requires its business partners, includtool. Teradata performed an audit through this program in ing its suppliers, to comply with or exceed the standards 2011 and 2012, and achieved an excellent grade in both the of conduct set forth in the Teradata Code of Conduct with Corporate and facility audits. We are also using this audit respect to all of their Teradata-related dealings. For more tool to evaluate our tier one vendors. information, see section 4.12 of this report or view the 9.3 Flextronics: Our EMS Supplier entire Teradata Code of Conduct online at Teradata.com/t/ Flextronics has the 14001 Environmental Management Certicode-of-conduct. fication for the manufacturing site(s) that we employ. We are The EICC Code of Conduct proud to be a partner with this company. Flextronics is also Additionally, Teradata requires its business partners that are a founding member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship also electronic industry suppliers to comply with or exceed Coalition. This only increases our confidence in our manuthe standards of conduct set forth in the EICC Code of facturing partner in terms of its ability to assure an ethical Conduct with respect to all of their Teradata-related dealsupply chain. These partnerships are another way our ings. The areas covered in the Code of conduct are: Labor, customers can be sure that we partner with the leading edge Health and Safety, Environmental, Management Systems, suppliers in the world. Flextronics is our sole EMS supplier. and Ethics. Further details concerning the EICC Code can be found at www.eicc.info. 10.0 Facilities (GRI SO1) In combining these two Codes of Conduct, we are able to reach out to all Tier One suppliers, not just those in the 10.1 Teradata Environmental Health and electrical industry. We are pleased to report that all of our Safety (EHS) Program Tier One suppliers have signed an agreement stating that Teradata is committed to protecting the environment and the they are in compliance with the Teradata Code of Conduct health and safety of its employees, contractors, and vendors for Suppliers. as well as the communities in which it operates. In 2009, as part of that commitment, Teradata developed a global EnviIn 2011, as a part of the our Teradata Code of Conduct ronmental Health and Safety (EHS) program. This program for Suppliers program and as a result of our adoption of provides guidance on implementing and complying with the EICC Code of Conduct, we developed an self-audit basic environmental, health, and safety procedures within program for our tier 1 direct manufacturing suppliers. One our facilities and complying with regulatory requirements. of the tenets of the EICC Code of Conduct is to periodically assess production facilities and corporate procedures The EHS policy and procedures are based on established, for adherence to the code. With regards to this process, well-recognized international standards and regulatory Teradata has developed an assessment tool based directly requirements that apply to Teradata locations worldwide. on the standards of the EICC Code of Conduct. The The program requires that all employees and onsite contraccompletion of this assessment is a requirement for tier one tors comply/review the EHS program procedures every suppliers of Teradata. three years. In addition, onsite audits and assessments are to be conducted every three years on a rotational basis. 41 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report There are two components to the EHS program – the EHS In 2009, the program was implemented globally. In 2012, 24% Management System (EHSMS) which explains the overall of the 109 sites Teradata occupies are located in the US. DurEHS program and 19 standard operating procedures (SOPs) ing 2012, Teradata continued its sustainability commitment to which contain the guidelines and procedures to be followed compliance and provides up-to-date information on its internal for specific areas of EHS. facilities website that helps promote green living to all Teradata employees and contractors. The successful implementation of this program requires each Teradata location to have a designated Site EHS Teradata is committed to complying with all applicable Coordinator. This person will serve as the primary contact health, safety, and environmental laws, regulations, and for EHS matters and “take charge” of the facility should an standards in delivery of services to customers, interactions emergency situation arise. with employees, and involvement within the community. To fulfill this commitment, Teradata will work to establish and Oversight of Teradata’s EHS program falls under the commaintain sustainable practices by: pany’s COO office. In 2012, we have continued this program > Increasing employee awareness of sustainability issues and perform the necessary facility audits to ensure we are in through formal and informal communications. compliance with our program. > Promoting ownership, responsibility, and accountability for Teradata adheres to ISO 14001 for the Enterprise Health sustainable performance and continuous improvement. and Safety program in place in all Teradata owned, leased, > Establishing procurement policies that support regional rented office space. Teradata does not presently have any sourcing, recycled content, reusable materials, and manufacturing facilities. Our EH&S policy and standards Energy Star certifications where economically feasible. are reviewed and updated yearly to ensure compliance with > Continuously improving sustainable performance through up to date relevant data pertaining to EH&S. Teradata has compliance auditing, measurement, and reporting. not been fined or found guilty of any office safety violations since inception as an independent company. 10.3 Facility Locations (GRI EN5, EN6, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN23, EN24) 10.2 Facility Information The company’s primary research and development center Teradata operates in 26 facilities in the United States (an is located in San Diego, California, comprised of 460,000 sf. increase of 12%), 25 of which are leased. Teradata’s only Table 2 lists Teradata locations we track emissions and their owned facility is our San Diego campus in Southern California. corporate function. None are located near protected areas In 2008, Teradata Corporate Real Estate embarked on a of high biodiversity value. quest for greater sustainability. As a starting point, policies and procedures were created to govern how our sustainability program would be implemented in our facilities, with an initial focus on the United States. 42 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Unit of State / Rentable MeasureBuilding Address 1 City Province Country Space Use Area ment San Diego, CA, 17095 Via Del Campo SAN DIEGO CALIFORNIA USA R&D 460,689 SQF United States (17095) El Segundo, CA, 100 N. Sepulveda EL SEGUNDO CALIFORNIA USA R&D 49,012 SQF United States Boulevard Miamisburg, OH, 10000 Innovation MIAMISBURG OHIO USA OFFICE 60,000 SQF United States Drive Mumbai, MH, Hiranandani MUMBAI Maharashtra IND OFFICE 29,624 SQF India – Winchester Business Park Building Secunderabad, Municipal No. 1-8SECUNDERAndhra IND R&D 29,010 SQF AP, India 382, 386, 388, 389, ABAD Pradesh – HYDERABAD 436 and 443, Sardar Patel Road Pune, MH, India Tower XII, PUNE Maharashtra IND OFFICE 22,020 SQF Cybercity, Magarpatta City West Columbia, 3245 Platt Springs WEST SOUTH USA OFFICE 13,813 SQF SC, United States Road COLUMBIA CAROLINA Prague, Czech Na Strzi 65 PRAGUE – CZE OFFICE / 10,104 SQF Republic – City STORAGE Empiria Building Rome, Italy Via Valentino MazROME – ITA OFFICE 2,723 SQF zola 66/ Via Erminio Spalla 41 Dublin, Ireland Santry Demesne, DUBLIN – IRL OFFICE 2,616 SQF Swift Square Lahore, Punjab, Block-C-1, Gulberg-III LAHORE PUNJAB PAK OTHER 2,605 SQF Pakistan – Commercial Building No. 31/A Melbourne, VIC, 606 St Kilda Road MELBOURNE VIC AUS OFFICE 2,464 SQF Australia Santa Clara CA, 2055 Laurelwood SANTA CALIFORNIA USA R&D 7,725 SQF United States Road CLARA Table 2. 43 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report 10.4 Facilities Environmental Impact program was discontinued in favor of new mandaThrough a study conducted as part of our membership in tory recycling regulations put in place by the state of EPA Climate Leaders program, Teradata learned we are in California. However, Teradata continues its aggressive compliance with the use of ozone depleting substances in our recycling programs, resulting in the reduction of operatproducts and processes. Also, because Teradata has only ing costs. The range of environmentally sound business office and light assembly operations, NOx, SOx and other air practices include: innovative reuse and recycling; emissions are presumed to be minimal and, therefore, are resource conservation; conducting employee education not estimated or tracked. Teradata has not evaluated any programs; buying recycled-content supplies for the contribution of fugitive emissions. Our data centers are laid workplace; and managing electronic waste responsibly. out with a hot/cold aisle scheme, server virtualization was Conservation efforts include: implemented and plans are in place to migrate to a lights out > Paper Conservation: Teradata diverted 7.5 tons of waste environment. This in conjunction with the added a ducted office paper from the landfill in 2012, saving the equivalent return system has increased cooling efficiencies. of 127.5 trees and 52,500 gallons of water that would have During calendar years 2008-2012, Teradata’s operationbeen required for processing raw pulp into paper. This ally controlled sites disposed of no hazardous waste. In also includes more than a 65% reduction in the amount of 2012, Teradata recycled 34,824 pounds of universal waste paper used in 2009. (CRTs, fluorescent lamp, and household batteries). This is The San Diego facility also participates in Shred-It’s an increase of 68% from 2011. Teradata neither imported paper shredding program, through which it saved the nor exported any hazardous waste at sites within Teradata’s equivalent of 177 trees. This was an actual 95% increase operational control. Additionally, during this reporting year, over 2011 due to the purging of old files and out dated there were no significant spills or releases of hazardous material. waste from Teradata’s operationally controlled facilities. > Metal Scrap and Other Recycling: In 2012, Teradata Teradata did not have any intentional discharge of waste diverted 89 tons from the landfill consisting of: metal water other than into municipal waste water disposal systems. scrap, including light and heavy iron, electronic scrap, Teradata does not recycle or reuse water, because Teradata batteries, monitors and circuit boards. The majority of only withdraws water from municipal sources for human the metal scrap generated through the Teradata San support and HVAC heat rejection. Diego location is electronic scrap. Teradata San Diego also recycles other waste streams, including aluminum 10.5 Facilities Update: Rancho Bernardo cans, plastic bottles, fluorescent lamps, construction (San Diego) debris, and toner cartridges. Our San Diego facility continued its commitment to the > Green Landscaping: Teradata’s San Diego landscapcommunity to be a sustainable partner. Here are some ers are required to recycle all of the green waste that is highlights at San Diego facility from the past year: generated by this facility. An arborist recycles all wood San Diego, California from the tree trimming that is done twice a year. > Teradata was honored for its innovative green business – Irrigation controllers with integrated weather stations practices through the 2009-2011 Waste Reduction have been installed to minimize the water used for Awards Program (WRAP), sponsored by the California irrigation. These controllers allow for different plant Integrated Waste Management Board. In 2012 this material and landscaping conditions to factor into watering schedules. 44 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report “Teradata is committed to sustainable business practices summer and can also be used for heating over the winter. that are good for the environment, while contributing to corAs a building envelope measure, specially coated glass porate profitability. Our investment in conservation paid for and window treatments were installed to reduce thermal itself within one year,” said Scott Gnau, chief development transfer. The energy savings are about 250,000 Kwhs officer, Teradata Corporation. “Our customers, investors annually with this system. and communities are increasingly looking to Teradata to > Prior installation of state-of-the-art lighting that utilizes identify and adopt innovative green business practices energy-efficient T8 fluorescent lamps, compact fluoresacross our business.” cents, and LED technology has significantly reduced energy usage. To supplement the T8 lamps, we installed SDG&E offers companies financial incentives, design parabolic reflectors, deep louvers, and electronic assistance, performance audits and training to build greater ballasts. The energy savings are about 195,000 Kwhs energy-efficiency into their operations. SDG&E’s energy annually with this lighting system. management initiatives provide a wide range of customized solutions to help lower electricity and natural gas costs and Hyderabad, India solidify the bottom line. The energy-efficiency and demandIn November 2011, Teradata R&D India relocated its Hyderresponse initiatives plus relevant equipment are designed abad site to a modern office building in a dedicated IT Park. to help reduce energy usage; lower operating costs and This assisted in reducing overall power consumption, and in generate real savings. particular the power consumption associated with the diesel operated back up generator. The diesel operated generator “We are committed to helping all of our customers take a in the old facility was used regularly due to frequent power proactive approach to energy conservation,” said Caroline outages by the local electricity provider. The new facility has Winn, SDG&E’s vice president of customer services. dual external power sources, should one supplier fail. “Through our various energy-efficiency incentive programs, we can help customers save energy and put money back in In 2012, average electrical consumption has been reduced their pocket.” from 4.22 kwh/sft in 2011 to 4.09 kwh/sft in 2012 The conservation program includes the following energy > Electricians are switching off the lights and AC after improvements to the facility: office hours > Server Virtualization: replaced 319 old servers and stor> We have also placed single tube in twin tube electrical fitage systems by leveraging virtualization technology, fewer ting in the passage area where lux level is not that critical servers were needed to perform the same workload. > Maintaining the air conditioning equipment on 24º > CRTs are being replaced with LCD monitors. These LCD Mumbai, India monitors use about 20% of the energy of the old CRTs. Average electrical consumption has been reduced from > Prior installation of a Building Automation System (BAS) 2.83 kwh/sft in 2011 to 2 kwh/sft in 2012 to control campus lighting and heating, ventilation, and > Electricians are switching off the lights and AC after air conditioning (HVAC) systems continues to reduce office hours the energy needed to maintain the building environment. > Kitchen equipment’s are switched off after office hours BAS controls operation times and limits individual zone thermostatic adjustments, ensuring affective climate > We have also placed single tube in twin tube electrical fitcontrol without zone competition. BAS also controls the ting in the passage area where lux level is not that critical activation of waterside economizers that allow Teradata > Maintaining the air conditioning equipment on 24º C to minimize compressor operating times during the 45 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report Miamisburg, Ohio building the servers in our existing virtual infrastructure. This One of the most efficient HVAC systems on the market has directly results in an ongoing annual energy consumption been installed for the Teradata new Miamisburg building. The avoidance of about 302,000 kWh. Further, we eliminated 29 system is called a Water Source Heat Pump (WSHP) system. older physical servers out of a planned 30 to 35, resulting in additional ongoing energy savings of about 91,0000 kWh’s. The WSHP system consists of a number of heat pump units We continue efforts to target additional physical servers connected to a common recalculating water loop. WSHP for replacement or retirement. Also during 2012, Teradata units on this loop exchange heat with the loop by rejecting implemented a new network wiring design within our nonheat to the loop (for those units in the cooling mode) and production data center improving airflow and allowing the extracting heat from the loop (for those units in the heating facility to reduce the load and improve the efficiency of the mode). A Cooling Tower and High Efficiency Natural Gas cooling equipment. Boiler removes and adds heat as required, to maintain the loop temperature within the proper temperature range. 11.0 Reporting Parameters Efficiencies include: GRI 3.1 This report covers Teradata Corporation’s fiscal > Variable Speed Pump and Fan Motors – These motors year 2012 unless otherwise specified. save energy by operating at optimum levels. > Heat Recovery – Energy is recovered from exhaust air GRI 3.2 This is the fourth sustainability report for Teradata. and then re-used to heat or cool the space. GRI 3.3 Teradata plans to issue updated reports annually. > CO2 Control – The Carbon Dioxide (CO2) levels are constantly measured to ensure the correct amount of outside GRI 3.4 For questions regarding this report, please air is conditioned and introduced into the building. contact E. Alan Lord, Program Manager, Sustainability. Tokyo When we relocated we have used energy saving lighting in GRI 3.5 Teradata conducted a review of its internal the new office space. We also have office lighting on a timer processes based on the G3 GRI index and deterso that the entire office lighting is programmed to switch off mined which indicators/areas were applicable to at night. our company today. From this process, we also learned what we can work on to become a more Sydney sustainable company. We have linked up with the building management and they have put motion sensors into our toilets within our tenancy, GRI 3.6 Teradata is a global company, and this report covfree of charge so the lights are not operating when they are ers all of Teradata Corporation. However, in some not in use. geographic areas, individual limitations to specific areas may be required based on how Teradata is 10.6 Ongoing Data Center Operations aligned. Teradata continues efforts to conduct efficient data center operations leveraging strategies for virtualization and elimiGRI 3.7 Teradata is a global company, and this report covnation of older infrastructure to reduce and manage energy ers all of Teradata Corporation. However in some consumption. As a result of these efforts, we were able to areas, individual limitations to specific areas may avoid the deployment of 96 new physical servers in 2012 by be required based on how Teradata is aligned. 46 2012 Teradata Corporate Social Responsibility Report TERADATA.COM GRI 3.8 This is the fifth sustainability report from Teradata GRI 3.11 There are no significant changes form previous Corporation. Our 2012 operations were compared reporting periods in scope, boundary, or meaagainst our 2011 operations. surement methods applied in the report. GRI 3.10 There are no effects from re-statements of GRI 3.12 See Table 3 at the end of this report. information provided in earlier reports. Teradata Teradata Report Report Teradata Teradata GRI Section GRI Section GRI Report SecGRI Report SecIndicator number Indicator number Indicator tion number Indicator tion number 1.1 Inside cover 3.13 11 EN10 10.3 HR5 9.0-9.2 2.1 1.2 4.1 2.0-2.4 EN16 8.1 HR6 9.0-9.2 2.2 1.2 4.2 2.0-2.4 EN17 8.1 HR7 9.0-9.2 2.3 1.4 4.3 2.0-2.4 EN19 10.3 SO1 7.0; 10.0 2.4 1.2 4.4 2.0-2.4 EN20 10.3 SO2 4.11 2.5 4.2 4.6 2.0-2.3 EN21 10.3 SO3 4.11 2.6 1.2 4.8 1.1; 4.12; 9.2 EN23 10.3 SO5 4.14 2.7 1.2 4.13 3.1 EN24 10.3 SO6 4.14 2.8 1.3; 4.2; 8.5 4.14 6.1-6.5 EN26 8.8; 8.10; 8.13, 9.1 PR1 5.1 2.9 1.5 4.15 6.1-6.5 EN28 8.11 PS2 8.10-8.11 2.10 1.2 4.16 6.1-6.5 EN29 8.12 PR3 8.11 3.1 11 4.17 6.1-6.5 LA1 4.2 PR5 5.1 3.2 11 EC1 1.3 LA2 4.3 PR9 8.1 3.3 11 EC2 8.1 LA3 4.2 3.4 11 EN2 8.1 LA4 4.4 3.5 11 EN3 8.1 LA5 4.5 3.6 11 EN4 8.1 LA10 4.6, 4.7 3.7 11 EN5 10.3 LA11 4.8 3.8 11 EN6 8.8;10.3 LA12 4.9 3.10 11 EN7 8.1 LA13 4.1 3.11 11 EN8 10.3 HR2 9.0-9.2 3.12 11 EN9 10.3 HR3 4.11, 9.0-9.2 Table 3. The Best Decision Possible is a trademark, and Teradata and the Teradata logo are registered trademarks of Teradata Corporation and/or its affiliates in the U.S. or worldwide. Teradata continually improves products as new technologies and components become available. Teradata, therefore, reserves the right to change specifications without prior notice. All features, functions, and operations described herein may not be marketed in all parts of the world. Consult your Teradata representative or Teradata.com for more information. Copyright © 2009-2013 by Teradata Corporation All Rights Reserved. Produced in U.S.A. EB-5902 > 0713 47
