CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Rudholm Group Holdings AB CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Rudholm Group meets or often exceeds legal requirements and regulations relating to social responsibility, with common sense and measured judgement united at the frontline of good practice. Our team The Group's core values as shown on the following documents resonate throughout all aspects of the business and contribute to our drive to nurture corporate social leadership throughout our Group of companies in all areas of the world. Rudholm Group Holdings AB Environmental Policy. The Rudholm Group is the leading supplier of garment accessory trims which have been supplied through the Group for more than 50 years, The Group is committed to the prevention of pollution and to the minimisation of the impact of its operation on the environment. We regard the conservation of energy, raw materials and water and the minimisation of waste to be a high priority in our business. The Environmental Management System within the Rudholm Group has been developed and includes the design and management of the trims which we develop for all major customers in Europe and America. The Environmental Management Systems are subject to continual improvement which is monitored by the Rudholm Group Board. This is chaired by the Group Managing Director who sits on the Group Board. Through Employee co-operation and efficient management procedures, the Group undertakes to achieve the following environmental aims.  To encourage sound environmental practises throughout the organisation.  To operate to standards such that we comply fully with, and where practicable exceed, any relevant legislation or codes of practice pertaining to our industry and local requirements dependent upon the country of origin of the product.  To promote environmental awareness, understanding and responsibility amongst our employees, Suppliers and customers and communicate our Environmental policy publicly.  To include environmental criteria in the selection and review of key suppliers.  To minimise any significant adverse environmental impact of any of our existing processes and activities and to ensure that the implications of new processes are fully assessed prior to their introduction.  To reduce the consumption of resources and to manage energy effectively. To commit to recovery and recycling as opposed to disposal wherever feasible.  To manage and control our procedures and processes and to dispose of waste and any effluent in a responsible manner. Jonas Wollin Rudholm Group Managing Director Rudholm Group Holdings AB CODE OF CONDUCT Rudholm Group Holdings AB INTRODUCING THE CODE OF CONDUCT WHAT IS A CODE OF CONDUCT AND WHERE DO OUR VALUES APPLY? PURPOSE  To reinforce the Rudholm Group’s values, culture, behaviours and responsibilities;  To explain how the Rudholm Group’s values apply to our internal and external business activities and relationships;  To set out the behaviours we require from employees and those we do business with; and  To enable concerns to be raised and help sought as necessary. KEY MESSAGES  We recognise that this Code may not address every situation which you may encounter. When faced with uncertainty, employees should ask themselves these questions before taking any action:  Is it legal?  How would I feel if it was reported in the media?  Does it comply with our Code of Conduct, and the Rudholm Group’s policies and procedures?  Am I setting a good example?  Would I be comfortable explaining this to my colleagues, family and friends? RESPONSIBILITIES  The Code of Conduct applies to everyone in the Rudholm Group and we must all follow its principles and supporting policies, and pro-actively seek guidance if we are unsure how to be compliant with the Code or any Policy.  Heads of Department, Country Managers, Regional Managing Directors and Line Managers have additional responsibilities under this Code. They should ensure that they:  Explain the Code and ensure it is understood by employees;  Consider applicable local legislation and guidance in their market;  Set an example to employees and third parties by promoting the standards of the Code;  Address any training or guidance needs which employees or third parties may have in order to meet the standards of the Code; and  Ensure that employees and third parties remain aware of, and comply with, the principles of the Code. Rudholm Group Holdings A INTRODUCING THE CODE OF CONDUCT ASKING QUESTIONS AND RAISING CONCERNS  The Rudholm Group believes the ethical behaviour set out in this Code should be consistently demonstrated in all our business activities and relationships.  If you have any doubts or queries regarding any of the principles of this Code, it is important to seek guidance before taking any action – ignorance will be no defence. Department heads should be contacted in the first instance. Thereafter the Local or Global Anti-Corruption Officers or a member of the Legal Team should be contacted. SPEAKING UP  Should you have a concern that malpractice or any act in breach of the Code or related Policies has occurred, may occur or is planned to occur, that concern must be raised at the earliest opportunity in accordance with the Rudholm Group’s Speaking Up Policy.  The Speaking Up Policy allows concerns to be raised in a confidential and secure manner, and the process for this is as follows: In the first instance the concern should be raised with the individual’s immediate manager. This can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern in this manner they should contact their Head of Department/Director. Again, this can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern as above, they should contact Ken Roberts on +44 (0) 121 459 5800 or on the confidential email inconfidence@rudholm.co.uk this email will only be accessed by Ken Roberts.  If the individual prefers to leave a phone or email message in their local language this can be done. In such instances it is recommended, but not essential, to confirm the country from which the message is being left. A confidential external translation service will be used as appropriate.  The Group is committed to thoroughly and fairly investigating all concerns of malpractice raised.  Retribution or other adverse consequence against the person raising the concern will not be tolerated in any circumstance where a concern has been raised in good faith. Rudholm Group Holdings AB INTEGRITY IN OUR BUSINESS FIGHTING CORRUPT PRACTICES : ANTI-CORRUPTION OUR POLICY AND PRINCIPLES/ STANDARDS  Bribery, other corrupt practices and unethical behaviour of any sort are contrary to our beliefs and aims and will not be tolerated in any of the Group’s global activities or relationships.  Bribery is the offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of an undue reward with the intention of encouraging someone to “improperly perform” their duties in order to obtain or retain a commercial advantage.  Facilitation payments (a payment made to a public official to expedite or secure performance of an action that would reasonable be considered routine to the official carrying out their duties) must not be made, regardless of value or whether they may be considered local custom & practice.  In all of the Group’s activities, we will closely monitor the performance of our partners, third party agents, contractors etc. to ensure that they observe these anti-corruption standards. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  We will all comply with the guidelines set out in the Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures and, most importantly, will never: Offer, pay, solicit or accept a bribe in any form, either directly or indirectly;  Engage in the unauthorised or inappropriate receipt, transfer or disbursement of funds; or  Engage in activities which may suggest, or give the impression of, a lack of ethical behaviour. MORE INFORMATION/ WHAT NEXT?  Full guidance is available in the Group’s Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures.  Remember to follow the Speaking Up Policy if you have any concerns of malpractice. Rudholm Group Holdings AB INTEGRITY IN OUR BUSINESS GIFTS, ENTERTAINING, & HOSPITALITY OUR POLICY AND PRINCIPLES/ STANDARDS  The Rudholm Group believes that the occasional acceptance or provision of modest items of hospitality, entertaining or gifts can legitimately contribute to good business relations so long as they are reasonable, proportionate and transparently recorded, and do not influence proper business decision-making. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  Employees are expected to adhere to the guidelines set out in the Business Transactions – Specific Types of Activity section of the Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures when engaging in all new and existing business relationships and activities.  It is prohibited for employees to solicit hospitality, entertaining or gifts.  Similarly, travel expenses (met in relation to a third party), charitable donations, contributions to political parties and sponsorship also require careful consideration to ensure they accord with the Global AntiCorruption Policy. MORE INFORMATION/ WHAT NEXT?  Full guidance is available in the Global Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures.  Remember that you can raise any concerns of malpractice you may have using the Speaking Up Policy. COMPETITION/ANTITRUST OUR POLICY AND STANDARDS  We ensure that we comply with legislation and rules wherever we do business, including the anti-trust and competition laws of each country in which we operate.  The competition rules vary in every country, but generally speaking competition law seeks to prohibit: Agreements between businesses that restrict fair competition; and  Abusive conduct by businesses in a dominant market position. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  Infringement of competition law could lead to serious penalties including criminal sanctions and director disqualification, so it therefore important that, where relevant, we: Familiarise ourselves with the competition and anti-trust guidelines for each market in which we operate;  Never get involved in conversations, meetings, e-mail exchanges, or share information, directly or indirectly with competitors, regarding details of prices, costs, profits, margins, trading terms, or new product launches;  Never try to fix prices, divide up markets, customers or territories, or to boycott any customer. Rudholm Group Holdings AB INTEGRITY IN OUR BUSINESS WORKING WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS OUR POLICY AND PRINCIPLES  The Rudholm Group will adopt the principles of this Code in all of its business relationships, including those with: Subsidiaries and other entities over which we have effective control;  Joint Ventures;  Agents and intermediaries; and  Contractors and Suppliers. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  Prior to engaging in any new material business relationships or transactions, we will carry out appropriate due diligence on the other party to ensure that they do business in a manner that is consistent with our Code.  Where the people we work with have their own Code of Conduct, we will ensure that they are operating to the same ethical standards as we have set out in our Code.  Where the policies, procedures or practices of a third party are not fully consistent with our Code, any elements of the Code necessary to supplement the third party’s arrangements should be included in the relevant contracts.  We will not work with business partners whose practices are inconsistent with this Code. MORE INFORMATION/ WHAT NEXT?  For further guidance in this area, or if you have concerns of malpractice regarding the conduct of, or relationship with, a business partner, please reference the Business Relationships section of the Group’s Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedures, or follow the guidance in the Asking Questions and Raising Concerns section of this Code as appropriate. INTERNATIONAL TRADE OUR POLICY/ PROCEDURES  The Group trades in accordance with legal requirements and international sanctions for the import and export of goods for each country in which we operate. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  To ensure that we comply with all the legislation governing the import and export of our products and trade laws of each country which we operate in or do business with: To obtain all necessary import and export licences; and  To provide accurate information to all customs authorities Rudholm Group Holdings AB INTEGRITY IN OUR BUSINESS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST OUR POLICY AND PRINCIPLES/ STANDARDS  We believe that conflicts of interest can be damaging to our business and reputation. OUR RESPONSIBILITY  It is the responsibility of employees to act in the best interests of the Rudholm Group at all times and to avoid situations where our personal, social or financial interests, commitments or loyalties may conflict with its business.  If any family member or close relation works for a customer, supplier or competitor, or you have any other existing or potential conflicts of interest you should disclose this in writing to your Line Manager.  If such a conflict does arise and is properly notified, the individual will be isolated, without disadvantage, from decision-making or operation in the area in which the conflict of interest exists.  All Rudholm Group assets should be utilised appropriately and not by employees for their own personal gain or benefit.  Employees should seek written approval if they wish to act as an officer or director of another business. MORE INFORMATION/ WHAT NEXT?  Remember that you can raise any concerns you may have using the Speaking Up Policy. Rudholm Group Holdings AB THE WAY WE WORK OUR PEOPLE RECRUITMENT  The Rudholm Group is committed to recruiting the highest calibre of individuals to support business growth, provide talent management for the future and positively contribute to the culture of the Group.  We are committed to hiring the person best suited to the job through application of the Group’s Equal Opportunities Policy at all stages of recruitment and selection.  Recruitment will be based solely on the applicant's abilities and individual merits as measured against the criteria for the position without regard to gender, gender reassignment, sexual orientation, marital or civil partnership status, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, age, pregnancy or maternity leave or trade union membership.  Any candidate with a disability will be included unless it is clear that the candidate is unable to perform a duty that is intrinsic to the role, having taken into account any reasonable adjustments which may need to be made to the recruitment process or the job role to ensure that no applicant is disadvantaged because of his/her disability. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT & DEVELOPMENT  We operate an annual performance management and development process at all levels across the business.  The purpose of this process is to set clear objectives for individuals which contribute to the overall achievement of the Rudholm Group goals, give constructive feedback to individuals regarding their job performance, identify personal development needs, and support employee career progression. Rudholm Group Holdings AB THE WAY WE WORK OUR PEOPLE LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT  We are committed to the learning and development of our employees. This commitment ensures the Rudholm Group has quality employees at all levels to achieve current objectives, realise long-term plans and ensure continued success. All learning and development plans are developed and delivered in line with business values, Group strategy and annual operating plans.  The learning and development needs of every employee are assessed on an annual basis, as a minimum, via the performance management and development process, and may be identified at any time throughout the year.  All Line Managers within the Rudholm Group have a responsibility to develop their staff through an open and supportive management style, however responsibility for learning and development is shared between each individual employee and the Group.  We support continuous learning and will facilitate an employee’s further education and training where this is relevant to the individual’s ability to perform their current role more effectively, or where it will enhance future potential to contribute. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES  We are committed to providing equal opportunities in employment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination in all areas of our business. Striving to ensure that the work environment is free of harassment and bullying, and that everyone is treated with dignity and respect, is an important aspect of ensuring equal opportunities in employment.  Every employee is required to assist the Rudholm Group in meeting its commitment to equal opportunities. HARASSMENT  The Rudholm Group sets out to protect employees from harassment or bullying at work. Such behaviour is viewed as unacceptable, as the Group strives to create a culture where all employees are treated with dignity and respect.  Harassment, in whatever form, is considered unacceptable and will not be condoned.  The Rudholm Group requires the support and involvement of all employees in our efforts to avoid harassment or bullying in the workplace.  Any employee who, after careful investigation is found to have caused harassment or bullying will be subject to the Rudholm Group’s disciplinary procedures. Rudholm Group Holdings AB THE WAY WE WORK HOW WE CONDUCT OURSELVES ALCOHOL  The Rudholm Group always promotes a greater awareness of the impact of alcohol in the workplace, and to ensure that the Company continues to safeguard the health and safety of employees.  The Company’s approach is to set an expectation, based on the individual responsibility of each employee, that alcohol will not be used in such a way as to adversely affect safe behaviour or work performance.  Employees are under an obligation, in any situation where they may be viewed as representatives of the Rudholm Group, to protect our reputation. Employees should recognise that as a result drinking irresponsibly or committing offences relating to the misuse of alcohol, their reputation and that of the Group is at risk.  In some areas of the business, particularly in roles which involve the entertainment of clients, customers or consumers, situations may arise whereby an employee may legitimately consume some alcohol during working hours or while attending a business related function. Such circumstances do not negate or otherwise diminish the employee's obligation to promote responsible drinking. Employees should never feel obliged to drink at such events. DRUGS  The Rudholm Group will always promote a greater awareness of the negative and potentially dangerous impact of drugs in the workplace and to ensure the health and safety of our employees.  We expressly forbid employees from being impaired by, consuming, being in possession of or supplying illegal drugs while in the workplace or on Group business. ROAD RISK  The Rudholm Group, underpinned by local legislation particular to each geography, requires any employee driving on company business in either a company owned vehicle or their own private vehicle, to adopt and maintain a responsible attitude to road safety and uphold the highest standards of driving and safety. Rudholm Group Holdings AB THE WAY WE WORK HOW WE CONDUCT OURSELVES EXPENSES  The Rudholm Group operates a compliant, robust and equitable Expense Policy which is designed to ensure that appropriate standards are met and that employees who incur costs on its behalf are treated in a consistent and fair manner. The Group will authorise and reimburse expenses which are:  Incurred wholly and exclusively and necessarily in carrying out an employees duties in the course of Group business;  Properly and appropriately incurred, in keeping with our core values;  Submitted and approved in compliance with the Group’s Expense Policy.  Employee expenses which do not comply with the Expenses Policy are, in the first instance, returned to the employee for correction, deletion or resubmission. Serious breaches of this Policy in respect of persistent non-compliance, or knowingly or falsely attempting to claim expenses, may ultimately result in disciplinary action being taken.  The Expense Policy contains more information. E-MAIL / INTERNET  The appropriate use of e-mail and internet access within the Rudholm Group is encouraged. Appropriate use facilitates communication, knowledge and efficiency, and is of assistance to many employees in the performance of their duties. Inappropriate use can bring problems, ranging from minor distractions to legal claims against the Group.  The E-mail and Internet Policy sets out the Group’s view on the correct use of e-mail and internet access, and explains how this can be achieved, as well as the response to inappropriate use. IT NETWORK SECURITY  We all rely upon the efficient operation of our IT network to support the business, and it is therefore in all our interests that the appropriate security measures as set out are followed. Any breach of security will be taken seriously by the Group and may result in action taken under the disciplinary procedure. SOCIAL MEDIA  The Rudholm Group recognises that the internet provides many opportunities for employees to engage in interactive discussions and share information using a variety of social media. However, it is important that employees use social media in a responsible manner to ensure that it does not pose any risk to our confidential and proprietary information, our reputation, and our legal obligations.  If you are uncertain or concerned about any issue regarding social media, please contact your Line Manager or follow the guidelines set out in the Speaking Up Policy. Rudholm Group Holdings AB THE WAY WE WORK HEALTH, SAFETY & ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH & SAFETY  The Rudholm Group is fully committed to providing the highest level of health and safety in the workplace for all employees and others who have occasion to be on our premises, or who may be affected by any of our operations.  The Rudholm Group complies with health and safety legislation in all territories in which we do business. In addition we co-operate fully, and maintain open relationships with, all relevant regulatory authorities. ENVIRONMENTAL  The Rudholm Group is committed to the prevention of pollution and to the positive management of its operations on the environment. We regard the conservation of energy, raw materials, and water, and the minimisation of waste, to be a high priority in our business.  The Rudholm Group complies with environmental legislation in all territories in which we do business. In addition we co-operate fully, and maintain open relationships with, all relevant regulatory authorities.  The Environmental Policy contains more information. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY & PROCEDURES Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY POLICY The coming in to force on 1st July, 2011 of the Bribery Act 2010 requires companies to have in place “adequate procedures” to prevent acts of bribery being committed directly or indirectly on their behalf anywhere across their global operations. For this reason it is appropriate to restate our beliefs and reconfirm our general practices, not just for the UK, but around the world.  The Rudholm Group believes in fair, free and open markets. Wherever we operate in the world we will be a responsible corporate citizen and positively manage the social, environmental and ethical impact of our activities.  Through our core values the highest standards of ethical and compliant behaviour is expected and required in all of our undertakings. The laws of every land in which we operate will be complied with, without exception.  Bribery, other corrupt activities or unethical behaviour in whatever form (including money laundering and extortion) is contrary to those beliefs and aims. We specifically will not tolerate: The offer, payment, solicitation or acceptance of a bribe in any form, either directly or indirectly;  The unauthorised or inappropriate receipt, transfer or disbursement of funds; and  Engaging in activities which may suggest, or give the impression of, a lack of ethical behaviour.  Your attention is also drawn to the separate Speaking Up Policy which explains how any concerns of malpractice can be raised in a confidential and secure manner.  Finally, we confirm that in no circumstances will an individual suffer any disadvantage or other adverse consequence for refusing to engage in a corrupt act. This includes the refusal to give or receive a bribe, and is regardless of whether business is lost, or fails to be secured, as a result. Rudholm Group Holdings AB BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS – GENERAL REQUIREMENTS Records and Books of Account  All business transactions must be recorded accurately and transparently in the records and books of account with sufficient segregation, detail and documentation to identify the parties involved, the amounts of money involved and the business purpose of the transaction  The records and books of account must be held available for inspection in accordance with local statutory retention periods.  The falsification of records or books of account, or the making of false, misleading or incomplete statements in connection with any audit, examination of financial statements or preparation of required reports, whether internal or external, is expressly prohibited. Internal Controls and Audit  An effective system of internal control, including controls specifically designed to aid the detection and prevention of activities which are in breach of this policy and anti-corruption laws, must be maintained to provide reasonable assurance that: Transactions are executed in accordance with approved delegation of authorities;  Transactions are appropriately recorded;  Access to assets is appropriately restricted and controlled; and  Recorded assets and liabilities fairly reflect existing assets and liabilities.  Internal controls and arrangements under this Policy will be subject to regular audit and review by internal audit, risk management and external audit functions to ensure the integrity and effectiveness of the controls, records and books of account.  The findings of such audits and reviews will be made available to the Audit Committee for their independent assessment of the adequacy of arrangements. Delegated Authority  A comprehensive, documented and approved Summary of Delegated Authority/Approval Matrix must be maintained at each location.  All approvals must be appropriately documented and retained for potential future review.  The delegated authorities in relation to activities specifically addressed by this Policy must be approved by the Global Anti-Corruption Officer. Conflict of Interest  Situations where loyalty to the Rudholm Group may come into conflict with personal interests and/or loyalties must be avoided e.g. where the spouse or partner is employed by a potential supplier.  If such a conflict does arise it must be declared in writing to senior management who must then ensure that the individual is insulated from decision-making or operation in the area in which the conflict of interest exists. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES Corruption Risk Assessments  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer will conduct regular local corruption risk assessments and maintain an up-to-date corruption risk register. The register will be reported to the Group AntiCorruption Officer as required.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer will ensure that local anti-corruption arrangements and resource are adequate, prioritised and aligned with the corruption risks as identified by that risk assessment.  The Global Anti-Corruption Officer will conduct regular group-level corruption risk assessments and, also reflecting the respective local risk assessments, maintain an up-to-date Group corruption risk register and risk inventory.  The Global Anti-Corruption Officer will ensure that anti-corruption arrangements and resources across the Group are adequate, prioritised and aligned with the corruption risks as identified by the risk assessments.  The Global Anti-Corruption Officer will ensure that the corruption risk inventory is appropriately communicated and available as an input to corruption risk assessments across the Group to promote comprehensive consideration of all potential corruption exposures. Anti-Corruption Policy Register  As set out elsewhere in this Policy certain responsibilities, business relationships and business activities are required to be recorded in an Anti-Corruption Policy Register.  The format and manner of use of the register is as approved by the Global Anti-Corruption Officer and must be applied consistently by each location.  The register must be kept up-to-date by the Local Anti-Corruption Officer, held available for inspection and reported to the Global Anti-Corruption Officer as required under the monitoring & reporting procedures supporting this Policy. Incentive Programmes  Incentive programmes for customers, suppliers and staff must be proportionate to the level of business and must not encourage behaviour which is inconsistent with this Policy. Facilitation Payments  Facilitation payments must not be made, regardless of value or whether such payments may be considered consistent with local custom and practice.  Where a facilitation payment is solicited it must be refused and notified in writing to the line manager and the Local Anti-Corruption Officer at the earliest opportunity.  Where there is no alternative to making a facilitation payment to protect against loss of life, limb or liberty, the payment should be made and reported in writing immediately to the line manager and the Local Anti-Corruption Officer. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES Government or Political Bodies or Officials  Given the sensitivities of transactions with Government or political bodies or officials, they must be avoided unless they are permissible under local rules, consistent with local custom and practice, and do not create the appearance of impropriety.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer shall determine whether a due diligence review of a government or political body or official is necessary. If deemed necessary, details of the review and the conclusions must be documented and retained.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer must specifically approve all employees and third party intermediaries authorised to interact with government or political bodies or officials on behalf of the company, and maintain an up-to-date list of those employees and third party intermediaries which is held available for review.  Appropriate and properly documented due diligence of all third party intermediaries with government or political bodies or officials must be undertaken prior to engaging their services.  The manner in which any such intermediary conducts business with government or political bodies or officials must be transparent, ethical, beyond reproach, and be subject to appropriate oversight by the Local Anti-Corruption Officer.  All transactions with government or political bodies or officials, regardless of cost or value, must be reviewed and approved in advance by the Local Anti-Corruption Officer. Evidence of the approval must be documented and held available for review.  Transactions with government or political bodies or officials must be promptly recorded in the Anti-Corruption Policy register which is maintained and held available for review. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS – SPECIFIC TYPES OF ACTIVITY Hospitality, Entertaining and Gifts  The occasional acceptance or offer of modest items of hospitality, entertaining and gifts can legitimately contribute to good business relations, but must never influence, or be perceived to influence, business decision-making.  When establishing new business relationships all parties must be made aware of this Policy and, in particular, the position regarding these types of activity.  It is prohibited to solicit hospitality, entertaining or gifts.  It is prohibited to give or receive items of this nature when: There is an established, or presumed, expectation that it will be reciprocated or recurring;  It is not compliant with local laws and regulations;  It is in cash, cash equivalent or other form of untraceable funds;  It is in relation to personal services;  It is a loan;  It is of excessive value in relation to the level of business or the industry norm;  It is inappropriate, in poor taste, “adult” in nature, or in an inappropriate venue;  It has not been approved in accordance with the Summary of Delegated Authority;  the business partner is not present; or  It is during periods when important business decisions are being made (eg tenders).  The following may be given or accepted without prior approval: A gift (of one or more items), including corporate gifts featuring the logo of the donor;  Meals related to a business context; or  Occasional invitations to events of no more than one night and two days, where “occasional” means no more than 3 times per year with the same individual or organisation.  The giving or accepting of items of this nature outside of these parameters must be approved in advance by the line manger and Local Anti-Corruption Officer, and be promptly recorded in the Anti-Corruption Policy Register.  In certain circumstances, typically cultural in nature, the refusal to accept a gift (note: not hospitality or entertainment) which is not compliant with this policy may be considered discourteous or cause embarrassment and, as a result, be detrimental to TEG’s interests. In such circumstances: The gift may be accepted on behalf of the Group but must immediately be reported to the line manager and Local Anti-Corruption Officer; and  The gift must be submitted to the Local Anti-Corruption Officer who will determine the appropriate action to be taken (e.g. donation to charity); and Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES Hospitality, Entertaining and Gifts (continued)  Where Rudholm Group would be disadvantaged (as opposed to gaining an inappropriate advantage) by not giving or receiving hospitality, entertaining or gifts that are customary in the industry but not compliant with this Policy, the activity may be undertaken if, and only if : It can be clearly demonstrated that the activity is customary in nature, that our competitors undertake the activity, and that TEG would be disadvantaged if it did not do so;  The activity is not illegal; and  The prior documented approval of the Local Anti-Corruption Officer has been received.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer must promptly record the activity in the Anti-Corruption Policy Register. Travel Expenses (met in relation to a third party)  Promptly recorded in the Anti-Corruption Policy Register. Any travel costs met in relation to a third party (including transport, accommodation, meals and entertainment in connection with business travel) must be: Reasonable and customary;  Based on a specific business need;  Provided in the normal course of business;  Permissible under applicable laws and regulations;  Limited to what is necessary to meet the needs of the business; and  The service provider or organisation must be reimbursed directly. It is prohibited to reimburse an individual or a party not directly involved in the transaction.  Travel costs in relation to a third party must not exceed what would be incurred by a TEG employee of equivalent status if they were to travel to the same destination.  Travel costs in relation to family members, or other individuals accompanying the third party, must be approved in advance by the Local Anti-Corruption Officer. The approval must be documented and retained, and the activity Charitable Donations  Charitable donations must be approved in accordance with the Summary of Delegated Authority, which must include the Local Anti-Corruption Officer. The approval must be documented and retained.  Charitable donations must be reasonable in value and be paid or given (in the instance of Group product or other tangible good) to a legitimate registered charity or an authorised official of a legitimate registered charity.  The charity must have clear relevance to the business.  Charitable donations must never be given in cash or cash equivalent.  A receipt or other form of independent acknowledgement must be obtained. The receipt or acknowledgement must be matched to, and retained with, other related documents supporting the transaction. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES Contributions to Political Parties  Contributions to political parties, organisations or individuals engaged in politics as a way of obtaining advantage in business transactions will not be tolerated.  Contributions to political parties must be approved in advance by the line manager and Local Anti-Corruption Officer. The approval must be documented and retained.  All contributions to political parties must be promptly recorded in the Anti-Corruption Policy Register. Sponsorship  Sponsorship is defined as support provided by Rudholm Group to another person or organisation, or an event or activity run by another person or organisation, where:  the support is provided by the giving of company product, time or expertise of employees or some other form of help at Rudholm Group expense, and  The cost of sponsorship must be reasonable and commensurate with the benefit expected to be derived, and must not be given in cash or cash equivalent.  The nature and recipient of the sponsorship must have clear relevance to Rudholm Group business.  Sponsorship of a government or political body or official, or an event or activity run by a government or political body or official, must be approved in advance by the Local AntiCorruption Officer. The approval must be documented and retained, and the transaction promptly recorded in the Anti-Corruption Register. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES HUMAN RESOURCES  Human Resource policies and procedures, including recruitment, promotion, training, performance management, remuneration, recognition and disciplinary practices, must be aligned with the commitments of this Policy.  New hires who will be involved in any activities covered by this Policy must have background checks carried out to the extent permissible under applicable laws. At a minimum, references must be obtained and any offer of employment must be conditional on disclosure of: Any unspent criminal record or indictment; and  Any civil or administrative penalty or pending investigation relating to unethical activities.  If any negative information is discovered by the background checks the relevant functional main Board member and the Global Anti-Corruption Officer must be advised. The relevant Board member must approve the candidate before they may be hired.  Job descriptions and related documentation must make clear the mandatory nature of compliance with this Policy, and employees and relevant Third Parties will be required to certify their compliance when asked to do so.  As compliance with this Policy is mandatory any breach will result in disciplinary action which. Given the importance of this Policy, this could ultimately result in termination of employment and the involvement of external authorities. Training and Communication  Directors, managers, employees and agents of Rudholm Group, its subsidiaries and its joint ventures must receive appropriate and consistent training in this Policy. The training must be provided on induction and on a regular basis thereafter (at least once per year).  Trainees must formally acknowledge that they have received the training and the acknowledgements must be retained.  Appropriate steps must be taken to assess the effectiveness of the training (e.g. an “exit exam”), with the assessments retained and the training revised to improve as necessary.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer will ensure that training records are documented, retained and reported on as required.  Where appropriate, significant contractors and suppliers will also receive training on the Policy.  A copy of this Policy must be held at each location in a manner that is readily accessible b staff.  On a regular basis the purpose, importance and key requirements of the Policy must be communicated in an appropriate manner to staff and other stakeholders (e.g. intranet “home page”, team briefs, website, other Group periodicals). Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES SEEKING GUIDANCE AND RAISING CONCERNS  If it is uncertain whether an act was, or will be, in breach of this Policy guidance must be sought at the earliest opportunity from the Local or Global Anti-Corruption Officer.  If a bribe is demanded or offered it must be rejected and reported to the line manager and the Local Anti-Corruption Officer at the earliest opportunity.  If there is a concern that an act in breach of this Policy has occurred, may occur, or is planned to occur, the concern must be raised at the earliest opportunity in accordance with the Group Speaking Up Policy. This policy can be found on local and group intranets and is included in this series of documents  The Speaking Up Policy explains the ways in which concerns can be raised in a confidential and secure manner, as follows: In the first instance the concern should be raised with the individual’s immediate manager. This can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern in this manner they should contact their Head of Department / Director. Again, this can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern as above, they should initially make contact in confidence by using the following dedicated email address inconfidence@rudholm.co.uk  Where a concern has been raised in good faith, regardless of whether the concern is proven or not, it will be dealt with in strictest confidence. In no circumstance will: The individual suffer any adverse consequence for having raised that concern in good faith; or  Retribution in any shape or form against the individual raising the concern will be tolerated.  Thorough, independent and sensitive investigation will be made into all concerns and breaches of the Policy. Rudholm Group Holdings AB . GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES MONITORING, REVIEW AND REPORTING  It is imperative that this Policy is evidenced in practice and the corresponding records retained.  The Global Anti-Corruption Officer must ensure that: Appropriate global processes are in operation to provide adequate: evidencing of the Policy in practice Group-wide;  assurance that the Policy is being consistently complied with across the Group; and  assurance that all relevant parties across the Group remain aware of the requirements of the Policy;  Any instances of non-compliance are swiftly identified, brought to the attention of senior management as appropriate, and addressed in an appropriate manner; and  The Global Anti-Corruption Officer must report any instance of corruption in a timely manner to the relevant authority. Where the act occurred overseas the Global Anti-Corruption Officer will coordinate with local senior management the reporting of the act to the relevant local law enforcement agency.  The Local Anti-Corruption Officer must ensure that: Accurate reports are submitted to the Global Anti-Corruption Officer as required;  Appropriate local processes are in operation to provide adequate: Evidencing of the Policy in practice;  Assurance that the Policy is being consistently complied with; and  Assurance that all relevant parties remain aware of the requirements of the Policy;  Any instances of non-compliance are swiftly identified, brought to the attention of local management and the Global Anti-Corruption Officer, and appropriately addressed. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES APPENDIX 1 DEFINITIONS Bribery  The offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of an “undue reward” with the intention of encouraging the person being bribed to “improperly perform” their duties to obtain or retain a commercial advantage.  The “undue reward” can be to the direct benefit of the person being bribed, or to their family, friends, associates or acquaintances.  To “improperly perform” duties would be to act other than in good faith, other than in an impartial manner, and/or in a manner that is in breach of their position of trust. The performance of duties will be judged against UK, not local, standards. Bribery of a public official  The offering, promising or giving of a financial or other advantage to a “public official” with the intention of: Influencing the official in the performance of their official function; and  Obtaining or retaining business or an advantage in the conduct of business.  An offence will not be committed where the “public official” is permitted or required by written law to be influenced by the advantage.  “public official” includes: Any person holding a legislative, administrative or judicial position;  Any person performing a public function in a branch of national, local or municipal government or any public agency (e.g. health agency) or public enterprise;  Any official or agent of public international organisations such as the UN or World Bank. Corruption  The misuse of entrusted power or authority by an individual for their personal gain, or for the gain of their family, friends, associates or acquaintances. Money Laundering  The process of hiding the criminal origins of money or money’s worth (the “proceeds of crime”) within legitimate businesses or business activities to give it the appearance of legitimacy. Extortion / Solicitation  The bribe is refused. The request or demand for a bribe, with or without a threat of repercussion if Facilitation Payment  A payment made to a public official to expedite or secure the performance of an action that would reasonably be considered routine to the official carrying out their duties. Third Party  An individual who is not employed by Rudholm Group, or an organisation or venture in which Rudholm Group does not have a controlling interest. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL ANTI-CORRUPTION PROCEDURES APPENDIX 2 CIRCUMSTANCES THAT MAY INDICATE CORRUPTION  The presence of the following circumstances does not mean that a bribe or other act of corruption has or will take place, but management should exercise greater diligence and scrutiny of activities, and take extra care in ensuring adequate and effective safeguards are in place.  If there is a concern or guidance is required in relation to the context of a business relationship or activity the Local or Global Anti-Corruption Officer should be contacted at the earliest opportunity.  The following is a not an exhaustive list of circumstances that may indicate corruption: Request by a customer, business partner, distributor etc. for: An increase in price, rather than a discount, for matters unrelated to a change in contract specifications or requirements during negotiations;  An unusual transaction structure, inclusion of incorrect or unnecessary cost items or false documentation; or  A payment “up-front” or before completion of a project, or an increase in compensation during the life of a project where not provided for in the governing contract.  Requests for payments to be made: In a different country to that where the organisation resides or provides it goods or services;  To a third party; or  In cash or any other form of untraceable funds.  Requests for reimbursement of expenses which are poorly documented or substantiated.  Incomplete or inaccurate information in required disclosures.  Requests for false invoices or other documentation.  Refusal to commit to, or certify compliance with, the Global Anti-Corruption Policy.  The organisation is owned by or employs a government or political official or officials.  One or more principals of the organisation are related to, or associated in some way with, a government or political official or officials.  Prices observed in the market place which are exclusive of duty or other excise or sales related taxes.  Depletion volumes which are in excess of volumes known to be shipped directly to the market. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL SOURCING GUIDELINES Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL SOURCING GUIDELINES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  We require our business partners to meet or exceed domestic and international legislation relating to Social Responsibility.  We will favour business partners who share our own commitment to impacting and improving the communities in which they have a presence. EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS  We will only do business with partners who adhere to the following guidelines –  CHILD LABOUR – Use of child labour is not permissible. Workers cannot be under 15years of age and not younger than the compulsory age to be at school. We will not do business with suppliers who use child labour either directly or in any of their facilities/supply chains. We support the development of legitimate apprenticeship programmes.  PRISON/FORCED LABOUR – We will not utilise either prison or forced labour directly or otherwise to manufacture or finish our products. DISCIPLINARY PRACTICES – We will not do business with suppliers who use corporal punishment or other forms of mental or physical coercion.  WORKING HOURS – Whilst we recognise the need for flexibility in production, we will identify local legal limits on working hours and seek business partners who do not exceed them, except in the instance of reasonable and appropriately compensated overtime payments.  WAGES AND BENEFITS – The Rudholm Group believes that employees must be properly contracted and be able to enjoy the benefits and protection of any relevant employment legislation/regulation, and be fairly paid for their work.  FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION – We respect worker’s rights to form and join organisations of their choice and to bargain collectively. We expect our suppliers to respect the right to free association and the right to organise and bargain collectively without unlawful interference.  Suppliers that we do business with must ensure that workers who make such decisions or participate in such organisations are not the object of discrimination or punitive disciplinary actions and that the representatives of such organisations have access to their members under conditions established by local laws or by mutual agreement with the employer.  DISCRIMINATION – Whilst we recognise and respect cultural differences, we believe that workers should be employed on the basis of their ability to do the job, rather than on the basis of personal characteristics or beliefs.  HEALTH & SAFETY – We will only do business with suppliers who provide workers with a safe and healthy working environment which is compliant with all relevant legislation, regulation and codes. Where applicable, this extends to the provision of residential facilities for workers which also meet the relevant local law requirements/standards. Rudholm Group Holdings AB GLOBAL SOURCING GUIDLINES PRINCIPLES  Wherever The Rudholm Group operates in the world we will be a responsible corporate citizen, positively managing the social, environmental and ethical impacts of our activities.  We believe in fair, free and open markets. Through our highest standards of ethical and compliant behaviour which is expected and required in all of our undertakings and all business relationships.  The Laws of each country in which we operate must be complied with, this without exception.  These Global Sourcing Guidelines establish the standards expected of all of our suppliers, and we require our suppliers to ensure these standards are in turn applied throughout their own supply chains.  The guidelines are based upon internationally recognised codes of practice, notably the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) Base Code (http://www.ethicaltrade.org/resources/key-eti-resources/etibase-code) and the UN Global Compact (http://www.unglobalcompact.com).  The UK Bribery Act 2010 establishes certain legal obligations on all UK companies like Rudholm UK Ltd and these obligations extend to our dealings with our supply chain. In response to this legislation the Rudholm Group has introduced an Anti-Corruption Policy and these guidelines are aligned with and support that policy.  Suppliers must apply the Rudholm Group Global Sourcing Guidelines at all times and be able to demonstrate that they are doing so. The Rudholm Group will work with its suppliers to facilitate compliance with the guidelines and drive continual improvement however we may also take action which may involve cancelling contracts if suppliers do not operate in a compliant manner. Please refer to our Purchase Terms and Conditions for details. TERMS OF ENGAGEMENT Ethical Standards  We will only do business with business partners who, as individuals and organisations, promote and adhere to a set of ethical standards which are consistent with our own. Legal requirements (Including Corruption and Anti-Competition)  We require our business partners to be law abiding, complying with all domestic and international legislation and/or regulations relevant to the conduct of their business.  Bribery, or other corrupt, anti-competitive or unethical activities in whatever forms contrary to Rudholm Group beliefs and aims and will not be tolerated. Activities of this nature or activities which could suggest or give the impression of a lack of ethical behaviour must be avoided. Environmental Requirements  We will only do business with partners who share our commitment to the Rudholm Group Environmental Policy a copy of which is attached. Rudholm Group Holdings AB SPEAKING UP POLICY & PROCEDURES Rudholm Group Holdings AB SPEAKING UP PROCEDURES POLICY  The Rudholm Group expects and requires the highest standards of ethical and compliant behaviour in all activities and relationships, both internal and external.  The Rudholm Group considers malpractice in whatever form to be a very serious matter and is committed to addressing any such incidence regardless of where, or at what level, in the Group it may occur.  It is in all our interests to ensure that malpractice does not occur. It is therefore of fundamental importance that valid concerns are raised and managed in a just, safe, secure and confidential environment.  The Rudholm Group Board believes that the application of the Speaking Up Policy provides that environment.  If an individual has a genuine concern that an act of malpractice has been committed, is being committed, or is likely to be committed, they must raise that concern at the earliest possible opportunity.  All malpractice concerns raised will be taken seriously and will be treated in a confidential, sensitive and just manner.  The identity of the individual raising the concern will be protected and wherever possible restricted to only those personnel directly involved in any investigation. In turn, the number of personnel involved in any investigation will be restricted as fully as possible without detriment to the investigation.  The Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 (“PIDA”) provides statutory protection for individuals who raise a valid concern of malpractice in good faith and reasonable belief.  The PIDA covers incidents inside and outside the UK and is therefore applicable to all Rudholm Group operations regardless of location.  The harassment, victimisation or sufferance of a workplace disadvantage of any manner by an individual who has raised a genuine concern under this policy, or any actions taken to deter or attempt to deter an individual from raising a genuine concern will not be tolerated.  Any such action may be subject to disciplinary proceedings. Rudholm Group views this sort of behaviour very seriously and any disciplinary action could therefore result in dismissal. Similar action would be taken against others working for Rudholm Group who are not subject to disciplinary procedure, including termination of their relationship with Rudholm Group. Rudholm Group Holdings AB SPEAKING UP PROCEDURES PROCEDURES Scope and Reach  In general, concerns relating to an individual’s personal circumstances would be addressed through the appropriate Grievance Policy. Where the concern relates to the interests of others, or of the organisation, it would be addressed through this policy.  The SUPP applies to all permanent and temporary employees of all companies owned by Rudholm Group, or over which Rudholm Group has a controlling interest, regardless of location. It also applies to external consultants, contractors, agents, intermediaries and agency personnel whilst conducting Rudholm Group business under contract at any of those locations.  In addition to this policy each country may have country specific policies which will also apply to employees etc. in that country. Raising a Concern  An individual should raise a concern when, in good faith and with reasonable belief, they suspect that a malpractice has been committed, is being committed, or is likely to be committed.  Once satisfied that the concern should be raised under this policy, due care should be taken to ensure the accuracy of the concern without putting the individual, or any subsequent investigation, in jeopardy.  Concerns should be raised in the following manner: In the first instance the concern should be raised with the individual’s immediate manager. This can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern in this manner they should contact their Head of Department / Director. Again, this can be done verbally or in writing.  If, for whatever reason, the individual does not consider it appropriate to raise the concern as above, they should initially make contact in confidence by using the following dedicated email address inconfidence@rudholm.co.uk  If the individual prefers to leave a phone or email message in their local language this can be done. In such instances it is recommended, but not essential, to confirm the country from which the message is being left. A confidential external translation service will be used as appropriate.  All concerns will be investigated, even If they are raised anonymously. However the individual is encouraged to provide as much detailed information as possible as this will help any investigation, including name, position, details of the malpractice together with comments on how it came to light and any evidence.  Individuals are encouraged to put their name to any disclosures made. Anonymity can be requested but this may seriously hinder the ability to successfully progress and/or conclude any investigation and therefore satisfactorily address the concern. Rudholm Group Holdings AB SPEAKING UP PROCEDURES  Due care should be taken to ensure the accuracy of any concern raised. If an individual raises a concern in good faith and with reasonable belief, but investigation does not subsequently confirm the concern, no action will be taken against the individual.  If, however, an individual raises a concern which is found to be deliberately false or malicious disciplinary action will be taken against that individual. As TEG views this sort of behaviour very seriously any disciplinary action may result in dismissal. Investigating a Concern  All concerns of malpractice raised will be investigated.  Receipt of the concern will be confirmed to the person who raised it as soon as possible, typically within 2 working days.  The Group HR Director and/or Group general Counsel will, in the first instance, consider the concern raised and determine the appropriate initial approach to be taken.  The concern will be investigated in conjunction with the appropriate departments relevant to the subject matter of the concern. The number of parties involved in the investigation will be limited as far as is practically possible.  The identity of the individual who raised the concern will be kept confidential unless this would hinder or frustrate the investigation, in which instance all reasonable steps would be taken to ensure the individual suffers no disadvantage as a result.  The individual who raised the concern may be interviewed during the course of the investigation and may be accompanied by a colleague of their choice who can be conferred with during the course of the interview but who may not answer on behalf of the individual.  Appropriate feedback will be given to the individual on the progress and conclusion of the investigation including, where possible, what, if any, action has been taken. Seeking Advice  If an individual is uncertain on whether to use the SUPP manual and wants independent advice at any stage, they can contact the independent UK charity Public Concern At Work on +44 (0)207 404 6609 (or equivalent in the relevant country). The charity’s lawyers can provide free and confidential advice at any stage from how to raise a concern through investigative proceedings.  It would not normally be appropriate to disclose confidential information regarding a concern to a third party unless the SUPP manual has been followed first.  Failure to do so could render any disclosure to a third party in breach of the confidentiality obligations in the individual’s contract of employment, contract of engagement or terms and conditions of trade, and mean that the statutory protection offered by PIDA is not available. Rudholm Group Holdings AB SPEAKING UP PROCEDURES APPENDIX EXAMPLES OF MALPRACTICE  Examples of malpractice would include, but are not limited to:  Bribery, other corrupt activity or unethical behaviour in whatever form  Fraud  Irregularities involving accounting or financial procedures  The commission of any criminal offence  Conduct which is or may be in conflict with Rudholm Group interest such as involvement with a business competitor  Dishonesty, unacceptable conduct, or other irregularities in dealing with customers and suppliers  Conduct which endangers the health & safety of employees or others working for Rudholm Group, or those in the vicinity of a Rudholm Group location  Conduct which endangers the environment  Breach of the Group’s core values  Breach of the Group’s Alcohol and Drug policies  Breach of the Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility policy  Breach of the Group’s Marketing Code  Improper use of company assets, intellectual property or company confidential information  Failure to comply with a legal obligation  Attempt to coerce another to act in an inappropriate or non-compliant manner  Attempt to conceal any of the above  It is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of scenarios of malpractice, and there may be other instances that give rise to concerns. Individuals are encouraged to speak up if there are any concerns at all.
