Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on 2012 Additional information is available in the referenced documents and the GRI indicators of the Sustainability Performance Report. Human rights  When selecting employees and determining their assignment in the company, Geberit at EC5 taches great importance to qualifications appropriate to the task description. No employees anywhere in the world are hired in the minimum-wage segment. This considerably reduces the risk of human rights violations. Principle 1:  Geberit has a Code of Conduct in which the company undertakes to be an exemplary, relia Code of Support and ble and fair business partner and employer at all times for all of the people with whom it has Conduct for respect the prodealings. As a fair partner, Geberit recognizes local, national and international laws, direcEmployees tection of internatives and standards, and complies with them in full. tionally pro Approximately 98% of all employees were trained in the Code of Conduct in 2008. Since  HR3 claimed human then, new employees receive their training as part of their job orientation. Developed in 2012, rights. the Geberit Integrity Line, which is being launched Group-wide from January 2013, will give  SO3 all employees worldwide the opportunity to report misconduct anonymously.  Compliance with the Code of Conduct is monitored as part of an annual, binding Group-wide  DMA-HR survey. Verification is supplemented by internal audits on site. In the year under review, one  HR4 case of discrimination was reported (see COP Principle 6).  With respect to human rights violations, the greatest risk for Geberit lies with suppliers, who  Sustainabilcan be influenced only indirectly. Geberit does all it can to minimize this risk and requires ity strategy that business partners and suppliers comply with comprehensive standards.  The Code of Conduct for Suppliers is intended to ensure that Geberit’s suppliers act in  Code of accordance with internal and external guidelines, as well as internationally recognized Principle 2: Conduct for standards concerning human rights and the ILO core labor standards. As of the end of 2012, Make sure the suppliers 671 suppliers had signed the Code of Conduct. This equates to 95% of the total procurement company is not value. complicit in human rights abus In 2012, the planning system for the performance of systematic audits underwent further es. development. In particular, EHS (environment, health and safety) audits are performed on suppliers in the highest risk category. 38 suppliers, which equates to less than 5% of the total  HR2 procurement value, are classified in this category. 21 of these 38 suppliers have already been audited. Three third-party audits were carried out in China for the first time. In one case, a violation of the Code of Conduct was discovered and the subsequently imposed conditions met. Labor practices  No rights with respect to exercising freedom of association or collective bargaining as dePrinciple 3: fined in the ILO core labor standards are subject to restriction at the Geberit Group. This is  HR5 Uphold the freeverified annually as part of a binding Group-wide survey. No restrictions were in effect in dom of associa2012. tion and the effective recognition of  Approximately 4,200 employees, and thus around two-thirds of all employees, are currently covered by collective agreements. Above all in Germany, Austria and Switzerland, over 90%  LA4 the right to collecof employees are subject to collective labor agreements. There are no collective agreements tive bargaining. with employees in the USA and China (16% of all employees). Principle 4:  Geberit’s exposure with respect to forced and child labor is considered low because of its Uphold the elimiindustry sector and the countries in which business activities are carried out as well as its nation of all forms high quality requirements. of forced and  Forced and child labor are categorically rejected at Geberit. According to the annual, binding compulsory labor. Group-wide survey, no cases of forced or child labor were discovered in 2012, nor were any  HR6 cases revealed during the course of the audits performed among the suppliers. The basic  HR7 principles established in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers expressly include compliance Principle 5: with the ILO core labor standards for the exclusion of forced and child labor. Uphold the effective abolition of child labor.  The Geberit Code of Conduct clearly specifies how employees are to behave and how  Code of Geberit assumes responsibility as an employer in order to counteract discrimination in adConduct for herence with the ILO core labor standards. In 2012, one case of verbal sexual harassment Employees Principle 6: was reported and appropriate measures were taken.  HR4 Uphold the elimi Geberit has no personnel policy or employment practices providing for preferential treatment nation of discrimi EC7 of persons from local vicinities. nation in respect of employment  Protection of the principles of equality is anchored in the Geberit Code of Conduct. This and occupation. includes the prohibition of discrimination against any employee on the basis of gender. Fair and equal pay for men and women is a matter of course at Geberit, as was verified and doc LA13-14 umented in 2012 as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. The proportion of female employees as of the end of 2012 was 31%; in upper management this figure was 6.5%. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2012 1 Environmental protection  With the precautionary approach in mind, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors has  4.11 implemented an extensive system for monitoring and controlling the risks (incl. environmental risks) linked to the business activities.  Geberit has long stood for a high level of environmental awareness and been committed to  Code of environmentally friendly, resource-efficient production as well as to the development of waConduct for ter-saving and sustainable products. Environmental criteria are considered in all decisionEmployees making processes. A demonstrably high standard is achieved in this regard, one which often greatly exceeds statutory requirements. Principle 7:  As with the water footprint (see COP Principle 9), the CO2 footprint was calculated for the  Water footSupport a precaufirst time in 2012. Similarly, the CO2 footprint also covers the entire value chain – from the print tionary approach provision of raw materials, the manufacturing of products at Geberit, logistics and use, right to environmental  EC2 through to disposal. This analysis revealed that, at 67%, product use is by far the largest challenges.  EN6 source of CO2 emissions.  The manufacturing of products at Geberit accounts for only 3% of total CO2 emissions: In 2012, these CO2 emissions dropped by 6.6% to 71,853 metric tons. The CO2 emissions per  EN16 sales (currency adjusted) improved by as much as 10.6%. This confirms that Geberit is on  EN18 track with its long-term CO2 strategy.  Approximately CHF 1.2 million was spent on environmental protection and preventative  EN30 environmental management in 2012. This involved external advising and training, external certification and human resources expenditures.  Since early 2007, Geberit has had a combined group certificate for quality and environment in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. In 2012, the group certificate was extended by  DMA-EN a further three years. The annual preparation of a corporate eco-balance has been an established part of Geberit’s environmental strategy since 1991. The absolute environmental imSustainabipact decreased by 5.1% in 2012. The environmental impact per sales (currency adjusted) lity strategy has improved by 9.3%. As a result, the target figure of 5% has been markedly exceeded.  Geberit places its faith in energy saving and energy efficiency: In addition to the insulation of buildings, important measures include the continuous modernization of machinery, increas EN5 Principle 8: ing the efficiency of production installations, the optimization of cooling plants through the Undertake initia EN18 use of natural ambient cold (free cooling), improved use of waste heat (heat recovery) as tives to promote well as the careful use of compressed air. greater environ The share of green electricity increased sharply in 2012 from 13 GWh to 20 GWh and ac Story mental responsicounted for 18% of total electricity consumption. In 2012, a block heating station was combiogas bility. missioned in Pfullendorf (DE) that is supplied with 9.4 GWh of regional biogas.  Thanks to targeted savings measures, fresh water consumption has been reduced by 35%  EN8 since 2006 and remains at a constantly low level.  Geberit regards eco-design as the key to environmentally friendly products. Beginning with the development process, the most environmentally friendly materials and functional principles are used, risks are minimized and high resource efficiency is pursued. Eco-design is  EN26 also implemented in product modifications and technology projects. Every new product is to be better than its predecessor with respect to environmental aspects.  The suggestion from the external stakeholder panel with regard to illustrating the water  1.2 consumption throughout the value chain in the form of a «water footprint» was adopted. This  Panel shows that nearly 100% of the water consumption is attributable to the use of Geberit prodStatement Principle 9: ucts by customers. Water-saving solutions can therefore exert a major impact here. The entire dual-flush and flush-stop «fleet of cisterns» produced since 1998 has saved around  Water footEncourage the print development and 1,850 million cubic meters of water in 2012. diffusion of envi Eight Geberit product groups – a total of over 330 sales products – carry the water efficiency ronmentally label WELL, which enables customers to consciously opt for water-saving products. Seven of  EN26 friendly technolothese eight product groups carry the top A class label and account for almost 20% of Group gies. sales.  Story green  Green building is a market of the future experiencing strong growth throughout the world. As building the leading system provider of sanitary solutions, Geberit is already offering suitable products for this purpose. Anti-corruption  As a long-time member of Transparency International Switzerland, Geberit is committed to  DMA-SO high standards in combating corruption. Principle 10:  The Internal Corporate Audit Department inspected a total of 19 companies in 2012. This is  SO2 Work against approximately one-third of all Geberit companies. In addition, approximately two to three in SO4 corruption in all its depth audits are carried out each year, whereby the audit focus is on the processes of forms, including Group-wide functions (e.g. Purchasing, Logistics, Controlling, HR, IT, etc.). No cases of corextortion and ruption were discovered in 2012. bribery.  As a rule, Geberit does not make donations to parties or politicians. All donations and related  SO5 commitments are neutral from a party political point of view. This was verified and docu SO6 mented as part of the annual, binding Group-wide survey. Communication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) on the financial year 2012 2
