presence capability experience consistency AN NUAL REVIE W 2012 CON TE NT S T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Contents About The Abraaj Group 4 The Year in Review Letter from the Group Chief Executive 7 Presence, Capability, Experience, Consistency Robust Investment Decision-Making 16 Value Creation 18 Sustainable Investing 20 Mitigating Risk 24 One Firm, One Culture, One Team 26 Investing in Growth Markets South East Asia Successfully Investing in the Consumption Story 31 South Asia Building Businesses in Growth Cities 37 Middle East and North Africa Scaling Businesses 43 Central Asia and Turkey Building Regional Champions 49 Sub-Saharan Africa Accelerating Growth Via ‘Buy and Build’ 55 Latin America Enabling Regional Opportunities Through Local Networks 61 Sector Expertise The Healthcare Paradigm in Growth Markets 66 Developing Infrastructure in Urban Cities 71 Capturing the Real Estate Opportunity 75 Building Sustainable Communities Shaping the Stakeholder Model 81 3 ABO UT THE ABRAAJ G R OU P About The Abraaj Group The Abraaj Group is a leading investor The Group’s current partner companies $7.5bn operating in the growth markets of Asia, include industry leaders such as Network Middle East and North Africa, Turkey and International, the largest independent Central Asia, Sub-Saharan Africa and payment solutions provider in the Middle Assets under Latin America. East and Africa; NEP Holding, with its management Diamond brand and a market leader in In 2012, it completed the merger and the residential filtration market of Malaysia 150+ Partner companies integration of Aureos Capital, thereby creating a deep bench of private equity (with a growing presence in Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southern China); experience across growth markets. Brookside Dairy, the leading dairy in East 200,000+ Partner company Employing over 300 people, the Group Africa; and IasaCorp, a long-established family run women’s retail business in Peru. has 31 country offices spread across six employees regional hubs in Dubai, Istanbul, Mexico Sustainable impact City, Mumbai, Nairobi and Singapore. Local The Abraaj Group is committed to the 31 Country offices presence across these markets provides the Group with unmatched expertise, knowhighest environmental, stakeholder engagement and corporate governance how, proprietary transactional access standards. The Group is a signatory to and the ability to grow partner businesses the United Nations-backed Principles for across borders. Responsible Investment and the United Nations Global Compact. The Group’s The Abraaj Group currently manages US$ Founder, Arif Naqvi, was appointed to the 7.5 billion, which encompasses private United Nations Global Compact Board by equity (majority and significant minority UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon investments with ticket sizes of between in 2012. US$ 10 million to US$ 100 million) and real estate (primarily yield-generating) Through its social investing program, The investments. Abraaj Group has supported best-in-class organizations focused on entrepreneurship The Group has set the standard for private and job creation, healthcare, education and equity investing in growth markets, across a community engagement, thereby enabling range of companies that have emerged as a deep-rooted and sustainable impact on today’s regional champions and tomorrow’s the economic landscape of the markets in global challengers. which it operates. 4 Note to readers: Unless otherwise stated, all references to “Abraaj” or “the Group” in this document should be interpreted to mean “The Abraaj Group”. All data in this report is as of December 31, 2012, unless stated otherwise. ABO UT THE ABRAAJ G R OU P T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Regional hubs ISTANBUL DUBAI MEXICO CITY MUMBAI NAIROBI SINGAPORE 5 Arif Naqvi, Founder and Group Chief Executive The Abraaj Group L etter from the G roup C hief Executive T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Letter from the Group Chief Executive With each passing year, growth India are among the world’s ten fastest By 2025, two-thirds markets have become an growing economies and, as The Economist of global GDP, 19 of increasingly popular topic among points out, Africa has grown faster than East the world’s 30 largest investors. Having been born in these Asia in eight of the last ten years. economies, and 1.4 billion new middle class markets and having built one of the consumers will come most relevant investment platforms The Abraaj Group has always been focused from growth markets. focused solely on them, we view on this opportunity, and the firm was this with a sense of pride and purpose-built to invest effectively in and satisfaction as it validates our across these markets. We view ourselves as longstanding belief in their potential. a local global private equity firm. Markets many used to consider “frontier” That is why the acquisition of Aureos from Mexico and Indonesia to Nigeria Capital was such a highlight last year and and Turkey among many others are why we invested significantly in developing increasingly becoming mainstream and integrating our combined platform investment destinations and more people throughout 2012. We did this by networking are starting to replace the phrase emerging our offices into a hub and spoke model, markets with the far more accurate label adopting a standardized competency matrix that we at Abraaj have long advocated: across all functions to ensure Group-wide growth markets. alignment and consistency within our organizational structure, connecting our staff While people have recently come to worldwide through a common information understand the opportunity before us, backbone, establishing clear processes it is worth reiterating that this is not a and policies to deliver the consistent results temporary or short-lived trend. We are in the we are known for, and continuing to set the middle of one of the great socioeconomic pace of leadership in terms of our work on transformations of human history. By 2025, value creation, stakeholder engagement, two-thirds of global GDP, 19 of the world’s and sustainability. 30 largest economies, and 1.4 billion new middle class consumers will come from We did all this while going on with the growth markets. business of making solid investments, helping companies grow, and delivering These countries are growing more strong exits. Last year, we deployed than three times as fast as developed US$ 460 million into 22 investments in 19 economies, and include many countries countries and exited 20 companies fully or beyond the BRIC. In fact, only China and partially. Meanwhile, combined EBITDA at our partner companies grew at 40% and many partner companies achieved important milestones. 7 L etter from the G roup C hief Executive In 2008, for the first The big picture This matters to investors like us because, time in human history, It is important to emphasize that we in countries that have taken the right steps the majority of people believe the rise of growth markets is not toward social and economic reforms, became city-dwellers a temporary blip. What we are witnessing urbanization is correlated with economic and the trend is only today is an axial shift. By the end of this growth, rising incomes, growing private accelerating. By 2050, there will be 2.6 billion decade, more than half of global GDP will consumption, and an expanding middle new urban residents. come from growth markets. The last time class. This is creating opportunities across that was true, the United States the most a range of sectors. From the demand for powerful economic force in modern history infrastructure and infrastructure-related was being torn apart by a crippling Civil War. businesses to the need for financial services, We have, in short, gone over the precipice housing, healthcare, education, and the into a very different world than the one in desire for consumer goods, the rise of which we grew up. growth markets is creating a whole host of opportunities for the private sector. Decades from now, when people discuss the most important trends of our lifetime, Just the potential to address shortfalls, let the rise of an urbanized middle class will alone new demand, is staggering. Consider stand out. From a social and economic financial services in Africa: less than 3% of standpoint, so much of what is happening the population has a credit card, only 25% today economic growth, climate change, has a bank account, and on a per capita resource scarcity, and increased productivity basis the U.S. spends 300 times as much is related to the fact that people are on insurance premiums. moving into cities. There are literally more people with credit In 2008, for the first time in human history, cards in Italy than in all of Sub-Saharan the majority of people became city-dwellers Africa. This in a continent that already has and the trend is only accelerating. By 2050, more middle class households than India. there will be 2.6 billion new urban residents. One could cite similar examples in every To put that in perspective, the world is sector and in every growth market. adding almost one million city-dwellers every five days. Meanwhile, if you visit almost any city in the South from Bogotá to Jakarta you Moreover, they are moving into cities in the will spend some time sitting in a car that southern hemisphere. Right now, seven isn’t moving. Next time you are stuck in New York City’s worth of people are moving one of Mexico City’s famous traffic jams, into growth market cities each year. Some consider that just a third of the country’s places, like many parts of Latin America roads are even paved. The demand for have already undergone a major wave infrastructure, which will feed a demand for of urbanization. However, other regions infrastructure services, is enormous. From like Africa and Asia are in the midst of a water treatment and power generation to great migration. Across the modern world, roads and bridges, trillions of dollars need cities are the centers of economic life and to be invested to address the shortfall in contribute disproportionately to GDP. infrastructure at a time when the demand for it is only growing. 8 L etter from the G roup C hief Executive T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 As cities across the southern hemisphere Private equity investing is a deeply local As Abraaj has grown continue to grow, so will trade between business that needs to be informed by local over the years, we have these cities and the rest of the world. Southknowledge, insights, and management. stayed absolutely true South trade now exceeds North-South Having a strong local presence is why so to four principles which we believe are both trade, and continues to grow. Over time, many of our investments are derived from necessary for investing in this has given growth markets a strong and proprietary deal flow. This local knowledge growth markets and key sustainable competitive edge within the also helps us foresee and manage the factors in the success of global economic landscape, and we believe risks inherent in markets that are still our own firm: presence, that this theme alone will provide investors developing where there are information capability, experience, with robust and favorable investment gaps, reputational risks, and sometimes and an overarching focus opportunities for a long time to come. challenging political circumstances. on consistency. These are jarring numbers billions of Our network of 31 country offices across people, trillions of dollars but they speak six regions is organized into an explicit to the scale of the shift happening in the hub and spoke system. The six regional world today. Private equity investing at hubs provide strong centralized functions, least when it relies on growth rather than including execution capabilities, portfolio leverage has to be driven by an investment management and environmental, social and thesis guided by the clarity of having a long governance (ESG) resources while country view that can be segmented into specific offices provide local sourcing, management, investment strategies. and insights. Investing in growth markets is different Our local offices are not just dots on a from investing in developed markets, and map, but reflect a conscious decision that Abraaj was designed from the beginning being embedded in the community leads to address this challenge. Even as Abraaj to better investments. At the same time, we has grown over the years, we have stayed have learned that having only local offices absolutely true to four principles which we is not ideal either because it leads to subbelieve are both necessary for investing scale value creation, relearning of lessons in growth markets and key factors in already learned in other geographies, and the success of our own firm: presence, inconsistencies in approach. That is the capability, experience, and an overarching value of embedding these offices within a focus on consistency. global platform that prioritizes collaboration and knowledge-sharing, enables value Presence creation across the firm’s investments, and Today, we have one of the largest physical delivers a consistent set of policies and footprints of any private equity firm processes. We believe this model delivers worldwide. I do not say this lightly the best blend of local and global while because maintaining such an expansive avoiding the pitfalls of over-centralization or office network is not an inexpensive a franchise approach. proposition, and let me say bluntly that we would not do it if we did not believe that this Several partner companies chose to work presence is absolutely vital to an effective with us precisely because of this mix, which investment strategy. means they get the benefits of a local team that can not only offer world-class resources aimed at creating value but can also help them to grow regionally if not globally. 9 L etter from the G roup C hief Executive Our investment Capability experience investing in growth markets. in technological To further improve our ability to leverage The same was true of Aureos Capital, which improvements is knowledge, experience, and expertise was formed out of a conscious deliberation significant but we believe across the firm, we embarked on a series of about the best way to invest in markets it is an investment worth major projects to further enable this through that at the time were just starting to show making for the returns it will deliver: enhanced technology improvements whose twin goals real potential. performance, increased are to improve access and mobility. value creation, and Every step we have taken over the last two greater transparency. The cornerstone of this infrastructure is a decades from the very creation of Aureos proprietary web-based platform we call and Abraaj to their integration into The Opera that provides staff with single-point Abraaj Group last year has been shaped access to a whole suite of applications by our experience in these markets and covering everything from real-time access to a careful consideration of the most effective partner company financial information to a way to access the growth taking place library of expertise across Abraaj. in them. Additionally, we are rolling out two major We have conviction around these decisions technology solutions that will enable the fundamental focus on local expertise unprecedented mobility among our and the equally strong insistence on employees, standardize a range of backembedding it within a global firm, the office systems, and increase the ease with evolution of our investment strategies in which our investors and partners interact lockstep with the progression of different with us. In short, these investments will markets, the longstanding belief in value set new standards for how a private equity creation over financial engineering, and firm enables collaboration both internally an overarching emphasis on stakeholder and externally. engagement and sustainability. Our investment in technological We have conviction around these improvements is significant but we decisions because they are shaped by our believe it is an investment worth making experiences in these markets. They reflect for the returns it will deliver: enhanced lessons we have learned over two decades performance, increased value creation, and of actively investing in these markets, and greater transparency. many more decades of relevant experience living and working in them. Experience This past year was a unique opportunity to Consistency reflect on the history of The Abraaj Group. Consistency is an essential hallmark of a It was, after all, the tenth anniversary of superior private equity firm, which is why it the Group’s creation. This is an important is a theme that cuts across every part of our milestone, but it is also worth recalling firm. There is little value in having a unique that the decision to establish Abraaj was platform if you cannot ensure consistency itself a reflection of more than a decade of of strategy and execution from one office to the next. Abraaj has focused on managing this challenge throughout its growth and expansion. That is why our offices are connected by company-wide platforms, governed by group-wide committees, enabled by centralized resources, and united by a common investment process and approach. 10 L etter from the G roup C hief Executive T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 This was further reinforced over the last year with the incentives, tools, and processes Over the last year we during the integration of Aureos, and we enables us to combine the insights of local have arrived at a set of have arrived at a set of values, processes, presence across growth markets with the values, processes, and and policies that ensure a common oversight, resources, and macro-view that policies that ensure a common approach to our approach to our business across the firm. are only possible at a central level. business across the firm. This consistency is driven and governed A global firm with local roots by a group of committees focused on Abraaj is not just an investor in growth Investment, Management, Risk, and markets, but an outcome of them. Leaving Portfolio Review. Composed of relevant our footprint aside, Abraaj has employees individuals from across the firm, these from over 50 nationalities who live in the committees ensure we are applying a same communities where we invest. common standard to the selection of investments, the operations of our business, From the outset, we have held a strong the management of risk at multiple levels, conviction that the relationship between and value creation. business and society just like the relationship between business and finance We have an established Investment should be both mutually beneficial and value Committee that combines very senior accretive. This is why I believe private equity permanent members who ensure the same firms in growth markets belong alongside high standards are followed worldwide as other businesses that generate profits by well as regional members who are able to creating real value. provide the relevant local perspective. This is also why Abraaj has focused so To ensure that lessons in value creation emphatically on engaging a wide range of are consistently shared and applied across stakeholders in any community where we our portfolio of partner companies, we invest or operate. We believe this is not a established a Partner Company Review luxury or a distraction, but a core part of Committee (PRC) composed of every investing in growth markets where many regional head as well as the leaders of outcomes depend on collaboration between the Abraaj Performance Acceleration multiple stakeholders specifically business, Group (APAG). government and civil society. Through our Abraaj Strategic Stakeholder Engagement The firm is governed by a Management Track (ASSET) program, Abraaj seeks to Executive Committee, which sets clear both engage and collaborate with these processes, policies and procedures on actors with the goal of demonstrating both operational matters and is responsible our relevance and commitment to the for ensuring high levels of reporting and communities where we operate. accountability from our regional teams and for implementing the Group’s annual During the past four years, Abraaj has business plan and strategy. increasingly focused on establishing multistakeholder collaboration around our core Consistency is something you design for, skill set nurturing and supporting the and that is exactly what we have focused on entrepreneurial ecosystem in the markets doing. A culture of collaboration combined in which we are present. In 2012, we continued to do this through our long-term 11 L etter from the G roup C hief Executive I remain totally confident support of entrepreneurial and educational Conclusion that the best is yet to initiatives such as Endeavor, Injaz Al Arab Whenever I consider the evolution of Abraaj come. In every one (Junior Achievement) and Ruwwad. and the markets we operate in, I am always of the six regions we reminded that the private equity industry on operate in, economies In 2012, we also decided to involve the whole is relatively young. are growing, middle classes are expanding, various stakeholders in our commitment cities are booming, and to sustainable investing and to help The private equity business model is still a variety of sectors communicate the importance of effective being refined, if not defined. Nowhere is this from infrastructure and giving. As a result, we have established a more true than in growth markets. These are healthcare to consumer Sustainability Council as an independent very different markets from the ones where goods and financial advisory body comprising ten eminent the private equity industry first developed services are going to figures from a cross-section of disciplines or even from one another and they are benefit. to advise the Group’s Board on our evolving at a rapid pace. sustainability initiatives and help ensure we continue to be pioneers in this field, This is why we have insisted on being which bridges across our work on ESG and a learning organization that adopts stakeholder engagement. international best practices while also generating a ground-up view of the best For the past two years, the Group way to approach these different markets. developed an integrated sustainability report that was subjected to a third party limited As a result, the firm we have built over assurance by KPMG and an evaluation by the years is a reflection of entrepreneurial the Global Reporting Initiative in order to thinking guided by a clear-eyed view of achieve an independent rating of B+. We the opportunity and tempered by experience are pleased to note that Abraaj successfully and institutional knowledge about dozens achieved the B+ rating in both years of markets. after transparently reporting on over 50 performance indicators. I remain totally confident that the best is yet to come. In every one of the six regions in This year, we have decided to take a which we operate, economies are growing, different approach. With the proliferation middle classes are expanding, cities are of reporting standards and the creation of booming, and a variety of sectors from our independent Sustainability Council, we infrastructure and healthcare to consumer will ask the Council to oversee our Annual goods and financial services are going Sustainability Report using a variety of to benefit. reporting standards as benchmarks and identify the best way of sharing it with the As a firm born in and designed for these broader responsible investing community. next generation markets, Abraaj remains entirely focused on evolving a private equity model that encompasses our on the ground presence, value creation capability, consistency of approach and institutional experience necessary to seize this opportunity. Last but not least, we are grateful to all our investors, our partner companies, our advisers, our colleagues, our friends and our team who have made our journey such an exciting and fulfilling one. 12 2012 Highlights T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 2012 Highlights 22 40% 20 New investments Partner company EBITDA growth $460mn 60% Full and partial exits1 Increase in female Deployed employees in partner companies in 2012 Select Investments Select Exits Viking Acibadem Awards Oil and Gas Healthcare Named the African MENA & Turkey Turkey Private Equity Investor of the Year by Africa CEO Forum Awards Named the MENA Saham Finances Golden Lay Private Equity Firm Financial Services Consumer Staples of the Year by Private MENA Sub-Saharan Africa Equity International Golden Lay, an Abraaj partner company, won Private Equity International’s Acurio Restaurantes IHH Healthcare Berhad inaugural Operational Consumer Discretionary Healthcare Excellence Award Latin America South East Asia Porini Holdings Limited, an Abraaj partner company, was named the Community UAP Avance Ingenieros Conservancy of the Financial Services Consumer Discretionary Year by Eco-Warriors Sub-Saharan Africa Latin America Orca Global Aqua Packaging Education Materials South East Asia South Asia 13 1 20 exits include three deals negotiated for exit but not consummated in 2012 Presence, capability, experience, consistency presence capability experience consistency 14 Presence, capability, experience, consistency T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 We believe a proven combination of investment and performance acceleration skills, and our collective knowledge gained across 200+ investments in over 45 countries, set us apart. From Mexico City to Singapore, we have a common set of values, principles and processes that ensure a consistent approach as we build growing businesses in growth markets. 15 Presence, capability, experience, consistency Robust Investment Decision-Making Deep experience and wide-ranging Our deep-rooted local insight coupled expertise ensure that investment with our global network, and together decision-making at The Abraaj with our standardized process ensure that Group is focused, disciplined and the discipline and rigor of our investment rigorous. decision-making is a ‘one firm, one philosophy’ applied throughout the Group. The investment process within The Abraaj Group is at the heart of our business. The Investment process process has been embedded within the Abraaj adheres to a structured, consultative Group culture through continuous regional and accountable decision-making engagement with all levels of investment process combining our hub and spoke professionals, ensuring that the investment model within our regional teams and the philosophy is consistently applied from global functions which include the Global region to region. Each investment decision, Investment Office (GIO), Abraaj Performance and the associated opportunities and Acceleration Group (APAG), and the risks, is always taken within the context Risk and Compliance unit. Deal teams of the local environment. Combining local proposing investments submit papers to knowledge with global oversight ensures the Investment Committee (IC) at the initial that we always maintain consistency and a screening and final approval stage. In the disciplined approach. final approval stage, the validation of the diligence findings, final proposed structure Our significant investment in organizational and terms of the transaction are debated. infrastructure and people, who themselves are embedded within the wider stakeholder Prior to the papers being submitted to the communities in their respective regions, IC, the GIO is mandated to ensure that there enables us to understand and appreciate is consistency in the process and to stressthe culture and dynamics of each market, test the hypothesis of transactions based and to make informed investment decisions. on information provided by the deal teams. Common themes running across IC papers include the assumptions surrounding the key commercial hypotheses, value creation plans and their implementation, and the critical success factors underpinning the investment case. 16 ROBUST INVESTMEN T DEC IS ION-M A K ING T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Collective experience ‘Partnership’ based investing The Abraaj Group has Through the process operated by the IC, Each transaction is founded on the transacted 200+ our collective global and regional experience relationship with the partner company is harnessed in each investment and management and the deal is built divestment decision. from there. deals in growth markets The role of the IC, which oversees all Often we work with entrepreneurs who transactions, is not to replicate the work have grown their business over a number of of the regional investment teams but to years; the business is close to their hearts enshrine Group-wide best practices. Four and their way of living. That is why they of the permanent members Arif Naqvi need to trust us as genuine partners. (Chair), Sev Vettivetpillai, Mustafa AbdelWadood and Wahid Hamid are among the Once invested, the businesses we have most experienced deal makers and senior partnered with go through transformation executives in the Group. and in some cases scenarios develop which were not originally envisaged. It is for these Having transacted more than 200 deals in reasons that Abraaj uses the diligence growth markets, the Committee has the and negotiation process as building experience to take an objective view of blocks in developing a sense of shared each deal and its origins. While the regional values, partnership and alignment with the teams know their region, it is the IC’s role management team, which are critical for a to provide ideas, ensure key aspects of the successful outcome. deal are adequately addressed and bring to bear the collective experience of the senior team unemotionally and objectively. Mustafa Abdel-Wadood Sev Vettivetpillai The Abraaj Group Partner and Chair of the Partner Council is trusted to ensure proper diligence, to be Partner and Chair of the Management Executive Committee principled and to deliver The Abraaj Group on our commitments. Our long-term success depends not only on the success of our track The Abraaj Group record, but also critically, on how we conduct ourselves as a Group. 17 Presence, capability, experience, consistency Value Creation Value creation is part of the DNA of Our growth markets heritage our business. The instinctive desire We focus on performance driven by value to create value is embedded in the creation in the real economy through mindset of our people and in the growing businesses in growth markets, not particular combination of skills we through financial engineering. This often have gathered across the Group. requires overcoming a set of challenges that are unique to growth markets: a Our team of more than 170 investment paucity of reliable market data; underand operating professionals bring a range developed governance standards; a lack of varied yet complementary skills to the of infrastructure and official systems and table; many are entrepreneurs, some are processes; and the need to manage deal makers, while others possess excellent extremely rapid growth. commercial and operating experience and acumen. They all share one thing in common Our heritage and experience in these an entrepreneurial mindset backed by a markets mean we know how to jump these keen understanding of the need for rigor in hurdles successfully, and we can do so the way businesses operate. with sensitivity to local customs, cultures and circumstances. Our teams on the Every deal is owned and managed by the ground comprise homegrown professionals deal team. The team pulls in the Group’s who can provide investors and partner resources throughout the investment cycle companies with a unique combination: our of each deal to actively realize value. This Group-wide approach to sustained value enables us to create value in our partner creation coupled with deep local expertise companies (ParCos) by helping them reach that can only come from years of working their full potential, through growth and on the ground. innovation, in a disciplined manner. Our goal is to help them achieve success in their We help partner companies clearly identify own geographies and go on to become their path to growth and create synergies by regional champions. harnessing the power of our global network, including our 150+ like-minded partner companies operating in six regions spanning the globe. Wahid Hamid Tarek Kabil We focus on Partner and Chair of the ParCo Review Partner, The Abraaj Group performance driven by value creation in the real economy through Committee, The Abraaj Group growing businesses in growth markets, not through financial engineering. 18 Value Creation T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Close collaboration with our partner Setting the standard companies is critical to help them reach their APAG is responsible for setting a correct full potential. For example, through direct and consistent set of standards and engagement with one of our ParCos, a processes, required to create value across leading insurance player in Nigeria, our partner companies. This includes: we have focused the business towards building an e-commerce platform and >> Effective due diligence: the development improving the sales model to maximize of value creation plans, including a plan cross sell opportunities and effectively for the first 100 days of investment, which enhance returns. use a rigorous methodology and meet strict criteria; and standardized back-end Driving performance processes such as a common financial Today, a strong mix of financial, commercial reporting platform; and operational skills is required to create >> Ensuring ESG considerations are taken value through the investment lifecycle. into account at every stage of the The Abraaj Performance Acceleration investment lifecycle to create value. For Group (APAG) works hand-in-hand with this reason, our ESG team is embedded our investment teams to offer that full within APAG; complement of skills, helping partner >> Taking advantage of synergies across companies achieve their potential. our entire investment portfolio by sharing information about best practice, It does this in three ways. capitalizing on business development opportunities and making beneficial Firstly, it equips our investment teams connections; with a strong set of tools and best practice >> Giving partner companies access to standards to help them identify and shared services and benefits that will effect operational improvements in our aid their growth, such as helping them partner companies. access working capital through The Abraaj Group’s banking relationships. Secondly, APAG, together with the deal team, works directly with our partner companies to drive value creation. We firmly Value creation standards believe that the future of our investments is determined by the actions we take with our partner companies early in the investment lifecycle. Our ParCo Review Committee is responsible for ensuring that value creation Commercial continues throughout the investment period Due Diligence in each of our investments. Value And thirdly, APAG identifies synergies Reporting Creation Plans across our partner company network ESG that can help individual businesses to develop faster, expand regionally and become more efficient. 100 Day Portfolio Plans Reviews 19 Presence, capability, experience, consistency Sustainable Investing Most of our partner We work in partnership with the Most of our 150+ partner companies, companies, through our businesses in which we invest to through our efforts and impetus, have efforts and impetus, realize mutual and inextricably integrated ESG decisions into their have integrated ESG linked goals of being commercially business. Some ways in which they have decisions into their successful and sustainable. done so are through inclusive supply chains, business which has fundamentally enhanced inviting labor unions to set up offices on their underlying value. The markets in which we invest are the their premises, and engaging in collective markets from which we hail. We seek to procurement negotiations with formal and transform our partner companies in informal stakeholders. Asia, MENA, Central Asia and Turkey, Sub-Saharan Africa and Latin America Private sector engagement into inclusive businesses. These As a member of the private sector, we businesses function with sound actively participate in the dialogue around corporate governance, uphold the sustainability. We believe that we hold a international labor convention, train and unique position as a Group, with a long incentivize employees and are cognizant history of investing in over 200 businesses Ashish Patel of global environmental challenges. in highly diverse growth markets. Our Managing Director perspective on sustainability is informed The Abraaj Group The management teams realize the very by this depth of investing experience when real implications of these challenges to their we participate as members of the Principles businesses. And there are many of our for Responsible Investment (PRI) Private partner companies who seek to go further, Equity Committee, on the Global Impact turning these challenges into opportunities, Investing Network’s Investors’ Council, on through a “value creation” lens. Such the United Nations Global Compact Board businesses we find yield direct benefits and as a Strategic Partner of the World to their economies and give rise to Economic Forum. positive externalities. The private sector’s voice on sustainability is a commonly heard one but the private equity voice is newly emerging. They are both converging with the agreement Embedding Porini Porini is a hospitality company operating in sustainability Kenya. It leases land from local Maasai tribes in our partner for the purpose of establishing communitycompanies based conservancies. The additional income Porini brings to local communities through conservancy fees has diversified income streams for families while spurring micro enterprises. Local employees have managed to break the cycle of key wage earners needing to work in cities to support families back home. As a result, more families are able to live together and disposable income has increased due to the lower cost of living in the conservancies relative to the cities. 20 Sustainable Investing T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 that the private sector is essential to the We believe that this has been a unique At The Abraaj Group, we development of sustainable economies and approach in our industry, where there have committed to driving capable of generating outputs to sustain is a strong practice of rigorous financial value through the life of the needs and potential of a rapidly growing valuation but not much by way of looking our investments. We do that by championing ESG population. In this ecosystem, our ability at valuing sustainability. The ASI has aided as members of APAG. In to maintain high sustainability standards us by giving us a framework with which to this manner, we not only across multiple sectors and geographies help our partner companies and monitor value ESG at the point allows for a rapid and consistent spread their success. It further demonstrates our an investment is made, of best practice. dedication to the space and our ability to instead, we commit to truly add a multi-dimensional positive impact it through the entire To accomplish ESG at scale, we have over to growth market businesses. investment cycle. time developed and refined ESG tools which reflect value enhancement principles aimed Since inception, we have focused on at creating tangible outputs in our partner consistency of approach to get core values companies that ultimately strengthen embedded in our business and in our the value of the investment. We further partner companies. Justly so, our focus on embed sustainability in the heart of our ESG as being value accretive has been a own business and have done so since guiding framework since inception and we inception thereby making the practice of will continue to identify and develop new ESG formally a part of each deal team. quantifiable ESG value-added opportunities Geetha Tharmaratnam with our partner companies going forward. Director, The Abraaj Group The Abraaj Sustainability Index Measuring sustainability impact is not simple and measures are not always immediate or visible. To ensure that we can effectively track the sustainability progress in our partner companies, we work with our Financial bespoke proprietary development index, Performance the Abraaj Sustainability Index (ASI), to measure over 70 quantitative and Health, Safety, Economic qualitative indicators. Environmental and Social Linkages In our experience, six segments affect the sustainability of our partner companies: Financial Performance, Economic Linkages, Socio-economic Impact, Private Sector Development, Management and Management Socio-economic Impact Governance and finally, Health, Safety, & Governance Environmental and Social. Private Sector The ASI allows us to capture the Development sustainability impact in our partner companies. It gives us the discipline to manage our engagement with our partner companies, firstly, benchmarking them to themselves and secondly, seeing how they perform over time as compared to their sector peers elsewhere. 21 Presence, capability, experience, consistency Case Study Brookside Dairy Investment Year 2009 Sector Consumer Staples Growth Market Kenya The success behind Brookside Dairy Limited (Brookside) is a In order to facilitate the collection of Brookside has really been Kenyan dairy founded in 1993, one year fresh milk across a large region with about leadership and a after the deregulation of the Kenyan dairy limited refrigeration facilities, Brookside team that is committed sector. At the time of investment, the has developed an extensive collection to quality and efficiency, company’s sponsors had nearly 30 years of infrastructure including the use of local in order to achieve sustainable development. large-scale dairy farming experience. With “bicycle boys” to efficiently source milk from the dairy industry poised for rapid growth a large and diverse base. Brookside has following the deregulation of the sector, also reached out to small shop owners and they recognized the opportunity to expand currently supports livelihoods for downstream into the processing and over 200,000 people in Kenya and a packaging of milk. further 10,000 in Tanzania and Uganda who work for the company’s regional We supported our partner company, distribution network. Brookside Dairy Limited (Brookside) in the 100% acquisition of Kenya’s third largest Health, safety & environment Peter Njoka private dairy, Spin Knit Dairy Limited (SDL) The company’s management has Managing Director in February 2009. The acquisition has since demonstrated its commitment to improving The Abraaj Group transformed Brookside into Kenya’s largest safety and environmental performance. dairy by intake volume due to the combined It has also been diligently pursuing farmer and customer network of Brookside environmental, health and safety, and and SDL. quality certifications, thus mitigating risks in these areas while ensuring the integrity of 17% In 2011, Brookside recorded its highest Brookside’s product base. milk intake to date. In addition to selling to the domestic Kenyan market, Brookside The company has mandatory firefighting, now exports to Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, emergency response and preparedness CAGR in Brookside’s milk Burundi, Egypt and Mauritius. training for all staff in its factory, with intake between 2009dedicated firefighting equipment on site. 2012 A multi-dimensional development impact Furthermore, it conducts first aid training Since investment, Brookside’s milk intake for its staff. has increased by a CAGR of 17% to 145,000+ 600,000 liters per day through its increased outreach to small-scale suppliers in the Socio-economic impact Brookside was the first dairy company in Local subsistence farmers and informal sector. As a result, its suppliers Kenya to introduce guaranteed pricing cooperatives provide grew by a CAGR of 35% between 2008 contracts, thus providing farmers with 95% of the milk supply and 2011 to more than 145,000. In fact, pricing transparency and a guaranteed to Brookside Brookside sources 95% of its milk market for their milk. Through its from these 145,000+ local subsistence sustainability program, Brookside has also farmers, cooperatives and farmer groups worked to improve many roads and bridges on a daily basis. in local areas, thereby improving access to its suppliers. The company sponsors training field days which are attended by up to 6,000 local farmers. These field days are used to spread best practice in livestock management 22 Sustainable Investing T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 200,000+ $5.65mn Livelihoods supported Expenditure on new technology and provide networking opportunities for As Brookside’s markets have expanded, the Brookside sponsors geographically isolated smallholders. company has introduced new technologies training field days to to the region. Brookside has been spread best practice in Brookside and its staff are deeply involved instrumental, through marketing and the livestock management, which are attended by up in their local communities. Staff participate introduction of new machinery, in expanding to 6,000 local farmers. in events such as the Dettol Heart Run and the availability and sales of ultra high Freedom from Hunger Walks. The company temperature (UHT) milk in Kenya. is involved in providing food, clothing, cash donations and helping develop Making a difference infrastructure for children’s homes and other Capital invested by the Group has enabled community-based programs. Promotion Brookside to expand its product line from of a healthy lifestyle is a common theme in fresh milk to include long-life milk, flavored Brookside’s products, and something they milk and high-value products such as butter, extend to their philanthropic efforts through cream, yoghurt and ghee. The company’s their standing sponsorship of the Kenyan products are exported to all East African Secondary School Sporting Association countries and as far afield as MENA and the since 2006. Indian Ocean islands. Private sector development This has, in turn, enabled the creation of Brookside has commenced construction of jobs with Brookside currently employing a new powder plant adjacent to its main 2,894 people, up nearly 20% from 2009. plant. The plant has been specially designed With ASI data stating that each wage earner to meet international standards and has on average five dependents, Brookside therefore safeguards have been built in to is effectively able to indirectly impact another ensure the workers’ occupational health and 10,000 individuals. Brookside’s expansion safety while mitigating the possible pollution has also enabled it to increase linkages of the environment. between rural and urban economies, and provide a sustainable route out of poverty The powder plant is expected to help for approximately 200,000 Kenyans. smoothen out volatility of milk production by increasing the storage life of the milk Brookside is a truly inclusive and wellproduct. This is critical as increasingly integrated sustainable business, profitably unpredictable climatic changes result in sharing positive externalities between the cycles of milk glut and scarcity. company and its stakeholders, functioning as an exemplary Kenyan brand. 23 Presence, capability, experience, consistency Mitigating Risk Prudent risk-taking is an integral near misses arising across the Group part of our business. The primary are reported through our formal incident objectives of our risk management management mechanism which enables strategy are to protect the issues to be managed in a timely and capital of our investors, financial efficient manner. strength of our business and partner companies, safeguard The biggest mitigant to risk is our local our reputation, promote risk presence, which enables us to identify transparency and accountability issues early on and to manage these as across the Group, and ensure the appropriate. Our framework promotes a integrity of risk management and risk-aware culture in which all functional, control processes. regional and country heads take ownership and manage risks in line with the Group’s The risk management function is responsible risk management operating principles: for embedding risk management principles and practices into the organization in order >> To discuss risk in an open and to help the Group achieve its strategic transparent manner thus promoting a objectives and enhance value. Risk healthy risk culture; management contributes to the Group’s >> To use a systematic and structured success by promoting a risk-aware culture. approach to risk management rather than The function ensures that systems are just relying on intuition; maintained and procedures are in place >> To make risk management an integral to mitigate strategic, financial, operational, part of decision-making processes; and compliance and external risks to which the >> To promote intelligent and informed risk Group is exposed. taking with appropriate monitoring and management of those risks. Risk management framework Our framework identifies and manages risks Holistic Compliance and Governance through the adoption of both top-down Framework and bottom-up approaches. Our ‘Top We recognize that our long-term corporate Risk Assessment’ process is used to gain success depends not only upon the an understanding and agreement on the business in which we engage but also organization’s key risks and how they are upon the manner in which we conduct managed. This is complemented by the that business. Accordingly, we have more granular analysis of risk across five created a Holistic Compliance and risk categories and 36 risk types within our Governance Framework, which describes Group risk registers. the Group’s regulatory compliance standards and corporate governance Risk management works side-by-side with principles and processes. risk owners throughout the business to provide them with the tools and techniques Our Group has 13 regulatory relationships to effectively manage situations that arise across the various jurisdictions in which we on a day-to-day basis. Any incidents or operate and our policy is to adopt the most demanding regulatory compliance standard to which any member of our Group may be subject. 24 MITIGAT IN G RISK T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 This standard is the default for all companies Value creation The biggest mitigant to that are part of the Group and is applied, The Group’s Target Portfolio (as referenced risk is local presence. This where relevant, to both our investors and earlier in the report) is a tool used allows us to detect issues partner companies. To ensure that all to mitigate risks from a portfolio early on and manage them accordingly. Our employees are fully aware of the existence, perspective, considering factors such global risk management scope and content of the compliance as asset allocations, deal structures and function in turn adds a policies and procedures, employees are investment types. critical layer of context. required to provide a monthly declaration that they are aware of, understand and Risk identification, assessment and agree to adhere to these policies. In mitigation are an integral part of the addition, each employee is required to value creation planning process for our follow the Personal Account Transaction partner companies. procedure to trade in listed companies. The value creation plan (VCP) consists of Risk management and compliance are both strategic initiatives (those that directly complementary functions and interact deliver the revenue and earnings growth closely with all disciplines within the objectives outlined in the investment thesis), organization to ensure that the Group and as well as enabling initiatives (those that its partner companies (to the extent to which build the organization’s infrastructure and it is responsible for these entities) adopt the capability to deliver and manage growth). highest standards of corporate governance These initiatives are the critical success and ethical conduct, and remain compliant factors that positively impact value creation. with appropriate Group standards and relevant regulatory codes, rules and The risk framework associated with the VCP regulations. Our Risk and Compliance identifies the threats to the critical success Committee, which is accountable to the factors, assesses their likelihood and impact Group Chief Executive, provides guidance of occurrence, prompting management to on and oversight of risk and compliance conduct scenario analysis and planning to related matters across identify appropriate responses to counter the Group. these threats should they materialize. Waqar Siddique Tom Speechley Partner, The Abraaj Group Partner and Chair of the Risk and Compliance Committee Risk management practices include regional diversification, optimal target portfolio construction, focus on The Abraaj Group later stage investments and appropriate deal structuring 25 Presence, capability, experience, consistency One Firm, One Culture, One Team As we have grown The Abraaj Group Our people to new geographies, our resolve to The Abraaj Group is among the leading maintain and strengthen our unique investors in growth markets that seeks to culture has been at the forefront of create positive economic impact and longour strategic objectives. term value for our investors, the companies we invest in and the communities in Collectively, the Group possesses an which we operate. We do this through the extensive level of expertise in building commitment and expertise of our people. businesses in growth markets. With 51 nationalities speaking 32 languages, Our high performance culture is embracing and operating in local augmented by our collaborative approach communities and markets are second and entrepreneurial mindset institutionalized nature to our people. through the active development of our people. Not only do we work in a stimulating environment, but we also pride ourselves To nurture this development, we established on our exacting culture, holding ourselves to the Abraaj Academy, headed by Professor rigorously high standards. We work and live Josh Lerner of Harvard Business School, in a performance-driven environment, built bringing together leading academic on learning from the collective experience institutions and industry practitioners to and expertise of our colleagues. provide bespoke training and development to our professional staff. Having the right attitude is essential. Mutual trust, respect, and the ability to see beyond The objective of the Academy is threefold: to individual silos are vital to the success of the build a broad awareness of the challenges Group. We constantly seek to collaborate faced by private equity groups as they across sectors, geographies and functions. evolve, to serve as a valuable learning tool that will help the Group retain its The Abraaj Finance and Support Services professionals and attract future employees, Group (AFSS) leads the Group’s initiatives and to develop specific tailor-made learning that allow our people to manage their sessions through case studies based on business in a streamlined manner with real investments made by the Group. At best-in-class tools and resources. The the heart of the Academy is the ethos that team is responsible for managing Finance, recognizes individual development and Fund Administration, Legal, HR, IT and continuous learning. Administration services. Leading technologies In 2012, we embarked on a series of ‘smart’ technology related initiatives designed to enhance Group-wide communication and collaboration and provide more efficient access to resources and knowledge. Today, ‘on-the-go’ technologies facilitate information consumption and decisionmaking irrespective of location or device with complete information from an application suite that provides for a single ‘source of truth’. The Group’s knowledge management platform Opera brings the best of Abraaj to each decision-making process. 26 One Firm, O ne Culture , One Team T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 The platform enhances the ability of our resource planning (ERP) solution for finance We are a geographically professionals to connect with internal and human resources. This enables the diverse firm, so we have experts on deals, share knowledge Group to adopt consistent, re-engineered to effectively collaborate through discussion forums and collaborate and efficient processes. It further allows us with each other, to understand how we on projects and initiatives. So whether to exercise standardized controls across grow as a business. someone wants to find a colleague with regions and obtain relevant and timely This is a real opportunity experience in a particular region or sector, management information required for for us to deploy smart or wants to share a valuable piece of decision-making at multiple levels within infrastructure so that we information with the rest of the Group, the organization. can enable collaboration Opera allows them to do this quickly across the Group. and effectively. The infrastructure that supports our initiatives is being transitioned from the Thanks to Opera, our investment managers traditional in-house data center to a worldin Nigeria with expertise in oil and gas can class private cloud environment. The help a colleague in Latin America close move provides us connectivity between a deal in the same sector. Two Partners the multiple devices that we use today managing technology investments in from desktops and laptops to tablets and Kenya and India can share what they have smartphones. It allows us to access relevant learned to help their respective partner data on the move, offers a consistent companies grow. user experience across different offices and, at the same time, further improves Opera will become an evolving archive our information security and disaster of our intellectual property, available to all management infrastructure. employees to help them and the Group excel at what we do best building AFSS initiatives are designed to deliver sustainable businesses in growth markets. significant autonomy to regional teams We believe it is a strong differentiator that thereby enabling them to take better provides us with a distinctive competitive decisions with greater transparency. This advantage in our market. level of independence is essential for the smooth and effective functioning of each During 2012 we redesigned our global region as an independent business unit. internal processes and embarked upon the implementation of a leading enterprise Implementation Narayanan Rajagopalan Mounir Husseini Chief Financial Officer The Abraaj Group Partner, The Abraaj Group People Process Operational Excellence Technology Measurement 27 investing in growth markets investing in growth markets 28 investing in growth markets T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 To truly understand a business culture, you need to be embedded in regional markets. To make the most of the opportunities within each country and region, you need the right network and knowledge. This is what we mean by local intelligence. 29 Industry Sectors Invested to date $422mn 1.4% 1.2% 1.1% Healthcare 1 .7 %% Consumer 1.7 % 8 1.8 % 4.8 3.2 Construction & Manufacturing % Energy, Mining & Utilities 5 .8 % Hospitality & Leisure Metals 9.8% 67.5% Telecoms, Media & Technology Agriculture Education Offices SINGAPORE Logistics & Transportation Brunei, China, Business Services Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam South East Asia T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 South East Asia Successfully Investing in the Consumption Story While the BRIC countries have Post 2010, consumption growth has Real consumption in been the most widely covered and outpaced the broader economy and this South East Asia is set to well known investment stories trend is expected to continue, with real grow at a 6.5% CAGR to and destinations in Asia over the consumption set to grow at a 6.5% CAGR 2025, boosted by rapid population growth that past decade, South East Asia is to 2025, boosted by rapid population is twice as fast as the increasingly attracting global growth, that is twice as fast as the OECD countries. investor attention. OECD countries. Strategically located at the center of Asia Consumer trends Pacific, the region today, unlike any period in This consumption-driven growth story the past, is favorably positioned for strong, presents investment opportunities along a sustainable and broad-based growth over number of nascent, under-developed and/ the next decade. or fragmented industries such as organized retail, consumer products, healthcare, The region’s growth is attributable to a education, logistics and transportation. few key underlying factors. The pursuit of economic reform post the 1997 Asian The Abraaj Group identified this potential Financial Crisis and governments’ general early on, and since 2005, has committed willingness to open up their economies over US$ 400 million in 15 investments1 through relaxing foreign ownership rules across South East Asia in consumer and have encouraged foreign investment inflows consumer related operations (including into the region boosting growth. healthcare and education services). More important however, is the region’s On the premise that a growing, more potential for domestic consumption-led affluent middle class population would have growth, a theme prevalent in growth a greater propensity to consume basic yet markets more generally. Domestic higher value-added services and products, consumption remains a key driver of the Abraaj identified and invested in three region, contributing on average 50% to separate casual dining platforms across 60% of GDP and representing a major the region. component of the region’s strong growth. Omar Lodhi Hanjaya Limanto We identified the Partner and Head of South East Asia Partner, The Abraaj Group consumption potential in the region early on and partnered The Abraaj Group with entrepreneurial businesses. Buoyed by rising consumer trends and supported by our regional network, these businesses have today emerged as leaders in their industry. 31 1 Including co-investments investing in growth markets The Abraaj Group has Investments in food and beverage have grown at a CAGR of 15% as of yearcommitted over US$ 400 Our 2005 investment in Pancake House end 2012, driving same stores sales growth million in 15 investments Group, a multi-brand casual dining chain (in local currency terms) of 8.6% and 11.3% across South East Asia in operator with international food offerings in in 2011 and 2012 respectively. consumer and consumer the Philippines, was based on the brand’s related operations (including healthcare and ability to target the young and rising middle During the year, the Group also validated education services). class population (growing at 9% annually) its sector thesis by successfully completing on the back of expanding remittance inflows the exit of Hot Pot, its third casual dining and evolving lifestyles. investment in the region, through an initial public offering (IPO) which was three times Since Abraaj’s investment, leveraging oversubscribed on the Thailand Stock our regional network and capabilities, the Exchange. Our investment in Hot Pot during 3x company’s management has been able 2006 was premised on better positioning to expand into multiple new countries and the company to capture a more meaningful has successfully acquired two key brands share of the rising urbanization trends resulting in the tripling of outlets to 278 and prevalent in Thailand specifically, but across growing EBITDA by over 20% year-on-year the region more generally. as of year-end 2012. Over the investment period, strengthening Expansion in Pancake House outlets since Similarly, during 2010, tapping on the and supplementing management Abraaj’s investment expected doubling of Indonesia’s middle capabilities, supply chain, operational class by 2020, the Group invested in PT processes and management information Champ Resto, an Indonesia-based middle systems, including setting up a centralized income focused casual dining chain kitchen and cold storage facilities, resulted 15% with 40 outlets across Greater Jakarta in the doubling of outlets to 126 while and Bandung. achieving over 25% year-on-year growth in revenues. The Hot Pot investment was Since our investment and under the a clear demonstration of our ability to CAGR of average management of a newly inducted team, contribute value to businesses even in monthly customers outlets are expected to double by the end minority positions through strong alignment as of end 2012 in of 2013 while average customers per month with incumbent shareholders. Champ Resto Creating regional champions Abraaj’s ‘consumption’ investments across South East Asia transcend beyond the traditional FMCG and food and beverage businesses. Education is a highly fragmented yet essential consumer sector for the development and growth of the region. 32 South East Asia T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 In mid-2012, the Group invested in Orca Leveraging the planned creation of a Abraaj’s investment in Global, a Singapore-headquartered young common single market by 2015 the Orca Global is premised children focused English language training ASEAN Economic Community 2015 (AEC on supporting sound education provider. Owning and operating 2015) that aims to achieve free movement business models to create local and regional the “I Can Read” brand across growth of goods, services, investment, skilled labor champions. markets, the company has 48 centers (as of and free flow of capital, the Group invested year-end 2012) teaching English through a in Crossland Logistics (Crossland) in 2012. trademarked and copyrighted methodology that has served over 100,000 students The hypothesis of our investment in to date. Crossland, a Thailand-based cross-border trucking operator, is related to the crossA market leader in Singapore with nascent border economic liberalization that AEC operations across the region, the investment 2015 shall bring about, directly expanding is premised on replicating high quality intraregional trade and investment. Today, private English language education to the company serves all markets between underserved markets across South East Singapore and South China, providing doorAsia. This investment demonstrates our to-door logistics solutions for consumer strategy of assessing critical sectoral gaps electronics and perishable consumables. within regional macroeconomic themes low but growing literacy levels with close to Amid the turmoil and uncertainty in today’s one-third of the population below 14 years markets, South East Asia is a region of age and supporting sound business epitomized by growth and optimism in an models and strong management to create ever-changing world economic environment. local and regional champions. We remain excited and confident that equipped with our enhanced platform, deep local expertise and far-reaching access within the region, there exists tremendous opportunity for Abraaj to partner with strong companies and ride on the region’s consumption-led growth. 33 investing in growth markets PT Yupi Indo Jelly Gum FMCG Over the past five years, In 2006, The Abraaj Group completed a Hanjaya Limanto, Abraaj’s Partner in The Abraaj Group’s team leveraged buyout of Yupi from an IndonesiaIndonesia and a seasoned veteran in the has made Yupi more based consumer goods business group fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) progressive and efficient, controlled by a German entrepreneur. At the industry, said: “This was a profitable equipping it for long-term time of Abraaj’s successful exit from Yupi in company with a strong record of export success. This was a case of a real partnership and 2012 via a trade sale to financial investors, sales and a high market share in a achieved by proactively Yupi was a recognized market leader in region with significant untapped growth engaging with our Indonesia’s domestic gummy candy market opportunities. We believed we could management. We are with an estimated market share of 90%. implement operational improvements in the now well positioned to business that would add significant value.” take Yupi to the next level Abraaj’s original investment in Yupi was of growth. predicated on the favorable demographics The initial investment analysis determined of Indonesia, which has a population of 238 that the main area for attention included million, 29% of which is in the age range of establishing a new strategic senior 0-14 years with a median age of 26 years. management team post the spin-off from The trend in consumption per capita in Yupi’s original management. In addition, confectionery generally tracks consumer sales and marketing, distribution, purchasing power, and in Indonesia and production costs and human resources South East Asia, the rising middle class needed to be optimized. Production lines contributed to the prospective growth were only operating at 65% capacity due to Yohanes Teja of the industry. stagnant demand. Chief Executive Officer, Yupi However, Yupi was facing several Targeted marketing challenges. Despite strong brands, its sales Together with the management team, Abraaj volumes had been stagnant for a number helped to formulate and implement strategic of years and inefficiencies permeated the initiatives to increase Yupi’s penetration in system. It was clear that while the company new markets and across existing clients. had potential for greater things, much could Management focused on in-house product be improved. innovations in order to increase its appeal amongst customers. Yupi introduced a new product every two months or so and started adding higher value products to the mix, such as vitamin gummies for children, and limited releases of licensed TV themed gummies. Targeted marketing programs also got the product message out to millions of consumers. 34 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 85% Sales volume growth from 2006-2012 160% Revenue increase from 2006-2012 90% Yupi’s distribution model was further Training and development programs, improved through adding new distributors, structured performance targets and streamlining the network and standardizing incentive schemes were also established distribution policies. As a result, Yupi which subsequently resulted in a highly Market share in grew from relying on a single, third party motivated workforce. Indonesia distributor into one with a dedicated countrywide network of over 30 distributors Accelerated performance 30 reaching into low-income distributional All of the above initiatives led to impressive chains. results. Sales volume grew by 85% from investment to the time of exit in 2012. Unnecessary costs were driven out of the Revenues over the same period rose by business by optimizing production runs 160%. Further, the more profitable own label and shifting the focus towards Yupi’s own production for export rose from 40% to over higher margin brands. Abraaj discovered 70% of total export sales. that 400 stock keeping units (SKUs) caused Dedicated countrywide inefficient capacity utilization which resulted Underpinning the growth of the company distributors in higher production costs, and hence was the need to ensure the right sought to reduce the number of SKUs to management team was in place. Through about 200. the investment period, several management changes occurred. Abraaj instituted a The reduction of SKUs resulted in a process of incentivizing management focus on higher value products and fewer through key performance indicators switches in the production lines thereby linked to management performance and reducing wastage and leading to greater company goals. Through this process, Yupi efficiency and margins. This also created increased productivity, performance and a ripple effect as the increased volumes total remuneration. translated into higher economies of scale in areas such as packaging. Internally, a management information system (MIS) was implemented which enhanced data integrity within Yupi’s accounting and reporting functions. This allowed management to better track performance on a timely basis. Together with the management team, Abraaj helped to formulate and implement strategic initiatives to increase Yupi’s penetration in new markets and across existing clients. 35 Industry Sectors Invested to date $164mn 6 .1 % 6.3 % Construction & Manufacturing 9 .1 % Business Services 36.7% Healthcare MUMBAI Telecoms, Media & Technology 10.7% Consumer 3 Logistics & Transportation 13.4% Energy, Mining & Utilities 17.7% Offices India South Asia T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 South Asia Building Businesses in Growth Cities The Abraaj Group’s investment With rapid urbanization, many of these Urban India’s contribution philosophy in South Asia is premised, cities have reached, or are on the cusp of to the country’s GDP is within the overall context of rapid reaching, critical mass resulting in significant expected to increase from urbanization, on the growth of Tier-II unmet demand for consumer and businessapproximately 58% in 2008 to 70% in 2030. and Tier-III cities. to-business focused products and services. The growth in these cities is likely to be Improving living standards driven by the combined effect of factors such Fast growing Tier-II and III cities will drive an as urbanization, lower-cost labor, affordable increase in per capita income across India, real estate and growing infrastructure. with urban per capita disposable income estimated to grow from US$ 1,333 in 2008 In India, Tier-II and III cities, defined as to US$ 5,310 in 2030, almost quadrupling cities with populations of 1-4 million and within a generation. A growing urban 0.5-1 million respectively, account for population, with high aspiration levels and 7.2% of the country’s population and disposable incomes, is expected to spur have a literacy rate of 76.7%, according growth across diverse sectors. to the National Census of 2011. The Census recorded 45 urban areas each The gradual migration of industries to with a population of more than one million, these cities, coupled with the increase in 67% more than the number in 2001, and disposable income has resulted in increased compared to a total of 35 across Europe. living standards, and accordingly demand for healthcare services and access to The scale and speed of urban education. In 2009, we invested in BSR, transformation in India is unrivaled across an integrated healthcare services provider the world, with the exception of China. operating three hospitals and 16 imaging Urban India’s contribution to the country’s diagnostics centers across secondary and GDP is expected to increase from tertiary cities in Central and East India, a approximately 58% in 2008 to 70% in 2030. region with per capita income 30% below the national average. Ashish Dave Partner and Head of South Asia Rapid urbanization is and will continue to be a primary driver for economic development in the region. In particular, and within the context of accelerated metropolitan growth, Tier-II and III cities are at the core of this The Abraaj Group investment thesis, shaped by improving infrastructure, higher disposable income, changing consumer lifestyles and the need to provide goods and services to tap into emerging aspiration driven demand. We have been early and committed investors in this space and have partnered with entrepreneurial businesses that have recognized and acted on the growth opportunity these cities provide. We look forward to maintaining this investment momentum in the future. 37 investing in growth markets Studies estimate that The investment approach involved targeting are located in relatively lesser developed 70% of all net new jobs underserved cities, in order to improve states including Jammu and Kashmir, Uttar created by 2030 will be quality and more importantly healthcare Pradesh, Meghalaya and Madhya Pradesh. generated in urban areas, accessibility. Since our investment, BSR has The company is focused on building and will account for over augmented its hospital beds by connectivity and providing infrastructure, 70% of the country’s GDP. 50%, doubled the number of patients including dams, irrigation facilities and public served, and tripled the presence of its transportation, in these states. diagnostic centers. Additionally, ECI, an infrastructure Infrastructure growth development company operating in the In order to achieve economic growth, engineering, procurement and construction developing India’s infrastructure will be space, is executing a road project worth 4x critical; hence the Indian government US$ 250 million in the state of Arunachal has set an infrastructure budget of US$ Pradesh. The project once completed will 1.2 trillion for the period 2012-2017. not only connect the rural areas of the state It is expected that the majority of the to the capital city of Itanagar, but will also infrastructure spend will be committed connect the strategically important North to Tier-II and III cities. Eastern part of India to the rest of the country. Increase in urban per Our investments in Ramky Infrastructure capita disposable (Ramky) and ECI Engineering and Enabling connectivity income expected Construction (ECI) are examples of the Continental Warehousing (Continental), an between 2008-2030 in Tier-II and III cities Group actively supporting businesses integrated logistics provider and an Abraaj which have made significant progress in partner company, demonstrates how developing infrastructure particularly across logistics businesses thrive on leveraging the secondary locations in the country. network effect across multiple locations that are becoming larger economic centers and Ramky, a leading mid-size infrastructure increasingly interconnected. Continental company, is currently executing projects provides express cargo services across worth approximately US$ 1.6 billion across multiple sectors in over 40 secondary and Tier-II and III cities. Most of these projects tertiary cities. As a result of our investment in Continental, the company is implementing a regional expansion plan to grow the company’s product offering to include air cargo and express cargo services. 38 South Asia T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Additionally, Continental has enhanced its third party logistics services and currently provides warehouse management services to major retail, cement, fertilizer and consumer durable companies. This deep Auro Mira’s operations are opening up rural economies and generating significant multiplier effects in the local and regional communities. Over the course of our investment, employment has increased 43% Increase in direct employment in Auro penetration and presence across cities by 43%. Mira following Abraaj’s have driven Continental’s ability to grow its investment revenue base by 23% since the time of our Another such example is our investment in investment and maintain its EBITDA margins Watawala Plantations, which manages tea, over this period of expansion. rubber and palm oil plantations covering 12,500 hectares in the Watawala, Hatton, 50,000 Stakeholder and shareholder impact Lindula and Udugama regions in Sri Lanka. Our investments in India-based Auro Mira The company has provided livelihoods for a and Sri Lanka-based Watawala Plantations significant section of the rural population in are examples of the synergistic effects of and around the plantation areas. Livelihoods supported by Watawala Plantations a company benefiting from low-cost labor and the community benefiting from the Employing close to 11,000 people, and employment and business opportunities assuming a family of five members, it created as a result of the investment. is estimated that Watawala provides a livelihood to approximately 50,000 In 2010, we invested in Auro Mira, a individuals. Additionally, the company has renewable energy generation company made significant investments in providing comprising three bio-mass plants and a education and healthcare to the plantation small-hydro plant located in Pudukkottai, worker community, filling gaps left by the Kallupatti, Tirunelveli and Sonathi public sector in these areas. in Southern India. Auro Mira offers employment opportunities and competitive Staying local wages to the local community. Out of the 300 private equity deals done in India between 2008 and 2011, 42% were In addition, the company’s operations have in companies that were located outside the significantly increased regional household metropolitan cities, yet 75% of the private incomes through the sourcing of almost 700 equity firms are based in metropolitan cities tonnes of fuel per day from local farmers and work out of a single office. and contractors. 39 investing in growth markets Recognizing the need to stay local, together We believe by staying local and building with the conviction that the next generation regional teams across the country, of high growth companies in India will we will be able to forge stronger emerge from Tier-II and Tier-III cities, The relationships, based on trust and Abraaj Group is one of the few investors to comfort, with local companies, have three offices in India Mumbai, Kolkata promoters and government authorities. and Chennai. These associations, coupled with access Each of these offices is augmented with to local information, will enhance the team’s senior members of the team, to establish knowledge and ability to target leading a first-mover advantage in sourcing and companies and strong regional brands consummating investments. at attractive entry valuations, given the absence of local private equity competition. The key focus of the teams is to identify and source proprietary investment opportunities Staying in close proximity and dedicating in rapidly growing cities, which is facilitated direct resources to our partner by working out of strategic hubs covering companies will enable us to closely East, West and Southern India. monitor and enhance value-addition across our investments. The Abraaj Group is one of the few investors to have three offices in India Mumbai, Kolkata and Chennai. This enables us to secure a first-mover advantage in sourcing and consummating investments. 40 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 BSR Healthcare Group Healthcare BSR Healthcare Group (BSR), founded in Working together with Abraaj, BSR has BSR has been profitably 1992 by Dr M K Khanduja, is an integrated enhanced its management information operating in secondary healthcare services provider. The company systems, allowing for greater business and tertiary cities for the is headquartered in Bhilai, an industrial town oversight and early risk identification. In last two decades. in the state of Chhattisgarh, and operates augmenting BSR’s efforts to improve the Abraaj has been an across Tier-II and Tier-III cities in Central quality of its facilities, Abraaj accelerated exceptional partner India, including Bhilai, Raipur and Nagpur. the purchase of key medical equipment as we execute on our BSR currently has three hospitals in the for cancer treatment including the Linear growth plans, providing Bhilai region; a 175-bed tertiary care hospital Accelerator LINAC and Brachy. This has us with the strategic and under a franchise agreement with Apollo resulted in a significant increase in cancer operational tools to help Hospitals (a leading Indian hospital chain), a patients from around the region who us plan ahead, improve 50-bed cancer care hospital and a 50-bed previously had to travel to metropolitan cities our service offerings secondary care hospital. Additionally, BSR in India to avail of such facilities. and secure long-term manages a chain of imaging diagnostic financing to grow our operations further. centers with CT scan / MRI facilities across Abraaj’s strong local networks have secondary and tertiary cities in Central India. facilitated introductions for BSR with leading financial institutions such as Axis Tapping growth opportunities Bank for term debt financing in order to Having reached a particular scale by 2009, fund new projects. In addition to funding BSR was keen to further capitalize on the expansion, Axis Bank has acquired (at the vast untapped growth opportunities better terms) the initial debt availed from across the Central and East India states. local branches of other banks, resulting in Concurrently, The Abraaj Group was significant interest expense savings for BSR. evaluating investment opportunities across Central India. After spending close to 11 The results months with Dr Khanduja and BSR’s senior To complement BSR’s growth initiatives, management team preparing the five-year Abraaj has expanded its core senior business plan, Abraaj invested in BSR management team and helped fill key in November 2009 and subsequently in positions, such as Company Secretary, January 2012 with a follow-on investment. Executive Director Projects and General Manager Finance. The focus on Dr M K Khanduja An initial analysis of the business identified augmenting human capital and further Founder, BSR Healthcare the key areas that the company needed professionalizing the senior management to address. One of the major issues team was targeted at positioning BSR as recognized at the onset was a completely the employer of choice in the region, thereby fragmented company structure with multiple offering attractive employment options to 50% smaller group entities. Secondly, the Abraaj leading talent. team identified further challenges faced by BSR given limited management bandwidth The focus on strategic and operational and location in a Tier-III city. These included improvements at BSR has resulted in access to bank financing and senior banker impressive growth over the past three Increase in hospital relationships, attracting and retaining quality years. BSR has increased the number of beds since 2009 manpower, and adhering to best-in-class diagnostics centers from six to 22, hospital governance standards. beds have been augmented by 50% and patient inflow has significantly improved from 2,600 patients per month through 2010 to 5,200 patients per month currently. 41 Industry Sectors Invested to date $2.4bn Construction & Manufacturing 0.8% 0.6% 0.3% Energy, Mining & Utilities Healthcare 2.6% 2.3% Chemicals % 4.9 4.1 Aviation % DUBAI 21.3% Business Services 5.3% 10 Financial Services 5.8% Real Estate 15.4% Education Offices 6.4% Agriculture Algeria, Dubai, Egypt, Jordan, 7.1% Consumer Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan, 7.8% 15.3% Marine Palestine, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia Telecoms, Media & Technology Logistics & Transportation Hospitality & Leisure Middle E ast and north A f rica T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Middle East and North Africa Scaling Businesses The Middle East and North Africa (GCC) have helped our partner companies The Abraaj Group has (MENA) region has gone through in realizing their growth ambitions. In doing been an early investor a transformation over the last so, we have leveraged our institutional in the MENA and has decade with governments beginning relationships for the benefit of our partner consummated some of the leading transactions to plant the seeds of growth through companies and adopted a hands-on in the region. reform and inward investment in approach in securing adequate financing, local economies. sourcing growth opportunities, and fostering ties with local partners across the region. The Abraaj Group has been an early investor in the MENA and has consummated some We have deliberately chosen to focus of the leading transactions in the region. on sectors that are defensive yet growth This is due to the model we have adopted oriented such as healthcare and education which has been one of partnering with local which have a favorable demand-supply businesses and helping them gain scale and dynamic. We like regional brands that relevance in regional markets. customers can relate to, we like products that have a cross-border appeal and we We have always believed that a leading like investing in local platforms that can be local business could be transformed into scaled up at a regional level. We believe a leading regional business leveraging the that having the right management team close ties among MENA countries which and putting in place effective systems and have developed through historical, trade processes are fundamental to the long-term and economic imperatives. This philosophy success of our partner companies. is anchored on the shared demographic profiles of countries within our region and Retail the accumulated experience and knowledge Our investment in Spinneys in 2004 was that we have captured through our investing premised on backing a regional brand experience in the MENA region. established in 1924 with almost a centurylong history in North Africa and more Our investment teams spread across recently the Levant region. At the time of regional and local hubs in the Maghreb, our investment, Spinneys had a single local Levant and the Gulf Cooperation Council presence in Lebanon but over time and Ahmed Badreldin Hossam Y Radwan Partner and Head of MENA We have taken Partner, The Abraaj Group a structured, yet The Abraaj Group opportunistic, view to value creation and worked closely with our partner companies to achieve shared value. Our understanding of regional markets has helped us to achieve our strategy that was set out at inception. 43 investing in growth markets Spinneys is an together with the management team, we how retailers are developing targeted established brand, transformed Spinneys into a thriving and marketing campaigns and using innovative blending international scalable regional operation. technologies to strengthen customer loyalty. standards with regional pedigree. Our We achieved this by first introducing a series Spinneys’ well-established track record has combination of product quality, trust, attention of operational improvements across the helped nurture and reinforce a highly trusted to and knowledge of business. We subsequently strengthened brand name and built strong consumer our customers, has laid the management team by appointing appeal across the region. the foundation for our Michael Wright as the Chief Executive, an expansion in existing industry veteran with 25 years of experience, Oil and gas territories and launch in to execute our growth strategy. Stanford Marine Group (SMG), an offshore new markets. supply vessel chartering business, was a Today, Spinneys has grown in size and scale US$ 20 million EBITDA business five years with operations spread across five countries ago and was formed originally as a grouping Egypt, Qatar, Lebanon, Jordan and the of four disparate divisions. UAE (under a franchise agreement) store portfolio has quadrupled to 16, and sales Subsequent to our investment, the have increased by almost five times to US$ company disposed of its non-core business 400 million over the past five years. lines such as fabrication and focused on the high growth segments of offshore marine Michael Wright Going forward, Spinneys plans to expand and shipbuilding and repair. SMG went Chief Executive Officer, its presence in existing markets through through multiple rounds of debt financing Spinneys additional store openings in Qatar and and grew aggressively by firstly capitalizing Egypt. The company is also looking to enter on its shipbuilding capabilities to rejuvenate new markets, such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, its fleet by selling old vessels and building 5x Iraq and North Africa. Spinneys is currently new vessels, secondly by taking advantage in advanced discussions with a potential of market dislocation between asset prices partner in Kuwait and is looking at securing and day rates to acquire secondhand locations in the Libyan cities of Tripoli and vessels, and thirdly by acquiring an operator Benghazi where it aims to commence in South East Asia (Minnow Marine Projects operations in 2014. Limited) at the end of 2010. Spinneys increase in In a bid to further strengthen customer SMG has capitalized on its asset base sales to US$ 400 million offerings, Spinneys is in the process of and balance sheet to secure financing for over the past five years introducing online retail services across its next growth phase and will continue to the region, starting with Lebanon. The deploy vessels across its target operating move to online shopping demonstrates regions, including the GCC and beyond. As a result of this growth strategy, SMG’s EBITDA has increased by three times over the last five years and its fleet has increased by 17 during the same period. The company is now well positioned to IPO on an international stock exchange. 44 Middle E ast and north A f rica T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 FMCG Financial services With our support, Saham When Abraaj invested in Moulin d’Or in In mid-2012, we invested in Saham Finances is targeting late 2012, the investment was based on Finances, an insurance holding company growth opportunities in providing financial and strategic support to with controlling stakes in three operating new geographies such as Kenya and Nigeria and a leading baked goods company in Tunisia subsidiaries that cover over five million is on track to execute an with a 41% market share. The Founders of insured clients in Morocco and 14 countries ambitious development Moulin d’Or had an ambitious vision for the in Sub-Saharan Africa. plan over the next three company and sought a partner of choice years. who could help them achieve that vision. Abraaj’s investment was aimed at supporting one of the best industry Since the investment, Abraaj has become management teams in Morocco to execute a significant shareholder of Moulin d’Or and an ambitious growth plan, favoring the has appointed two senior team members emergence of a leading insurance player in 5mn to its Board. Abraaj and Moulin d’Or’s the high growth markets of Africa and the management have developed a value Middle East. creation plan that includes building stateof-the-art operations, strengthening sales In line with our operating approach, we and marketing functions and developing an have made our management expertise and Saham Finances’ insured international expansion strategy. deep regional network available to Saham clients in Morocco and Finances. Since our investment, Saham Sub-Saharan Africa A few months after the investment, Abraaj’s Finances has made major acquisitions in involvement has demonstrated positive the Middle East and Sub-Saharan Africa. results. The company established an With our support, the business is targeting 41% Algerian subsidiary and is considering further growth opportunities in new geographies regional expansion in North Africa. Looking such as Kenya and Nigeria and is on track ahead, Moulin d’Or is on track to achieve to execute an ambitious development plan a strong year of significant revenue growth over the next three years. in 2013 in line with its projected average Moulin d’Or market growth rate of 25% per annum. Growth markets will be the engine behind share in the baked goods segment in Tunisia global expansion over the next few decades and the MENA region will be an increasingly important contributor to economic growth. Even in the most challenging of times our businesses in the MENA have continued to grow, driven by increasing consumer demand, the strength of local and regional networks, and our consistent approach to sustainable value creation. 45 Regional Case Study Integrated Diagnostics Holdings Healthcare The Abraaj Group In 2012, the two leading diagnostics effectively doubled the size of IDH, which has proven to be the laboratories in Egypt, Al Borg and Al currently operates 242 branches spread partner of choice for us Mokhtabar, announced a merger to create across Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and as they are focused on the largest medical diagnostics business in Northern Sudan. The combined entity has a driving operational and the Middle East and a market leader in the unique opportunity to grow its share of the strategic improvements that build fundamental Egyptian diagnostics market. The merger, overall medical diagnostics market through business value. which was facilitated by The Abraaj Group, investing in new quality service offerings, represented a milestone in the development IT-enabled services and expanding further We look forward to of the regional healthcare sector. throughout the MENA region. working closely with Abraaj as we jointly In May 2008, The Abraaj Group acquired Five million patients implement our strategy a 76% stake of Al Borg Laboratories that By combining resources and specialist of geographic expansion was later raised to 90% through a series capabilities, a range of powerful synergies across the region and of company-funded share buybacks and have been created that have significantly introduce improved a subsequent take-private transaction in enhanced IDH’s ability to provide worldbusiness performance measures in our company 2010. class healthcare solutions across a range of for the benefit of our rapidly growing countries. customers, employees Al Borg, which was established in 1991, had and stakeholders. grown quickly to become the largest private Moreover, with over 3,000 group laboratory group in the Middle East, having employees and by building upon the served more than 18 million patients and combined specialism, IDH is uniquely having conducted more than 50 million tests positioned to meet the needs of over five since inception. A new holding company, million patients. IDH offers customers a Integrated Diagnostics Holdings (IDH), wide range of diagnostics testing services was later established by Abraaj to retain its that will materially impact patient and investment in Al Borg and manage follow-up community wellbeing and ultimately capture transactions in the diagnostics space across further value-added opportunities in the the Middle East and Africa. healthcare space. Dr Hend El Sherbini Since the acquisition, Abraaj has supported The Chief Executive Officer and promoter Chief Executive Officer, IDH IDH’s expansion by investing in a fastof Al Mokhtabar, Dr Hend El Sherbini, track branch roll out strategy to reach 100 assumed the role of IDH Group Chief branches in Egypt by the end of 2011 Executive following the merger and a new versus 62 branches at the end of 2008. management team was identified. Abraaj Local specialty labs such as Molecular has worked in close collaboration with Dr El Diagnostics Center, Medical Genetics Sherbini to lay down a detailed integration 242 Center and El Ansary Labs were acquired to plan which is currently under execution, expand its test menu and augment in-house alongside spearheading IDH’s business expertise. Abraaj also led IDH’s regional development initiatives to expand further expansion into Jordan and Northern Sudan into the region. IDH branches across through the acquisition of Biolab and Ultra Egypt, Saudi Arabia, Lab, the two leading local laboratory chains. In the wake of the Arab Spring, IDH’s Jordan and Northern business continues to grow, boosted by Sudan In August 2012, Abraaj led IDH’s merger a number of factors, including increased with Al Mokhtabar Laboratories, Al Borg’s migration from government healthcare main competitor in the Egyptian market, facilities to private providers, as budgetary in an all-share transaction. The transaction constraints in Egypt make it challenging for governments to provide comprehensive healthcare services to its citizens. 46 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Viking Services Oil and gas services Viking Services (Viking) was established in purchases and acquisitions. The fleet Since the acquisition, 2008 as the captive services arm of U.S. expansion together with a continued ramp Abraaj has demonstrated listed Transatlantic Petroleum (TransAtlantic), up of current fleet utilization will drive the their dedication to our offering oilfield services in Turkey, Northern company’s growth. vision of the continual establishment of Viking as Iraq and Central and Eastern Europe. the leading multi-service Operating from three bases in Istanbul and To reinforce the presence of Viking in Central provider in its region. another in Erbil, Viking offers a wide range of and Eastern Europe, BXR Group (BXR), an services including drilling, well completion, international private investment group with Their commitment to seismic, work-over and underbalanced a strategic focus on Central and Eastern value creation has been services. In addition, Viking provides Europe, was brought on board as cointegral to the growth equipment rental and stimulation services investors in Viking. of our business and in to its anchor client Transatlantic Petroleum, our quest for market and other third party clients in Northern Iraq, The strong sponsorship of Abraaj and leadership. Abraaj’s Poland, Hungary and Serbia. BXR has provided Viking with a regionally established presence throughout many of the influential and competent shareholder base markets we seek to In June 2012, The Abraaj Group concluded to support its development plans in target enter reduces our a 50/50 partnership with Malone Mitchell III, growth markets. Viking’s strategy for Central learning curve on country an industry veteran based in Dallas, Texas and Eastern Europe is to establish an on the matters and enables us to acquire Viking and capitalize on its ground presence in these markets and to jointly execute on our modern fleet, internationally experienced work with major national oil companies shared vision. management team and steady revenue that have acquired substantial acreage stream from Transatlantic Petroleum. positioning to exploit the unconventional shale gas potential. The acquisition will create a fully integrated, high quality oilfield services provider to avail With TransAtlantic comprising 65% of of the attractive opportunity in both the Viking’s 2012 revenues, the company still unconventional and conventional segments maintains customer relationships with a across Turkey, Central and Eastern Europe diverse group of established regional and and North Africa. international exploration and production players. These relationships are supported Malone Mitchell III Aggressive expansion by long-term contracts and master service Chairman of the Board, Viking Since Abraaj’s investment, Viking has agreements (MSAs). Since June 2012, initiated an aggressive expansion strategy Viking has restructured the marketing and to ramp up its presence in existing markets, business development department to be diversify its customer base and expand its focused by service line. This has yielded fleet, geographic footprint and service lines leads in new markets such as Romania, with the objective of mobilizing the company Saudi Arabia, Albania and Tunisia. The for a premium listing on the London Stock drilling division has been able to contract Exchange in 2014-15. rigs to Hunt Oil, Afren Energy, and Perenco. Viking has embarked on this expansion strategy with the support of Abraaj, having Abraaj is confident that Viking is well secured an expansion facility from Goldman positioned to deliver a strong growth Sachs, which will be used primarily to trajectory going forward. In 2013, Viking finance oilfield services equipment will continue to move towards its target of becoming a leading multi-service provider through organic and acquisitive campaigns, while developing critical mass in key markets. 47 Industry Sectors Invested to date $542mn 1.8% 1.0% 1.0% 7.2% ISTANBUL Healthcare Energy, Mining & Utilities 19.8% Marine 69.2% Business Services 2 Chemicals Telecoms, Media & Technology Offices Kazakhstan, Turkey CEN TRAL ASIA and Turkey T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Central Asia and Turkey Building Regional Champions Turkey’s track record as a prime our on the ground teams in Istanbul and There are several factors investment destination over the last Singapore. In a transaction that highlights that make Turkey a decade speaks for itself as there are the increasing scope of collaboration among uniquely attractive market only a handful of countries in the players in growth markets and synergies for investment enabling investors like The Abraaj world that have recovered as quickly between South-South participants, we sold Group to transform local from the global downturn in 2009 and our stake in Acibadem Healthcare, APlus companies into regional grown GDP by nearly three times (in and Acibadem Project Management to and, ultimately, global US$ terms) over the last decade. the Malaysian Government’s investment champions. arm, Khazanah Nasional (Khazanah), and The economic fundamentals for Turkey IHH Healthcare Berhad (IHH) through a remain promising, strengthened by key combination of cash and stock. competitive advantages such as economic and political stability, a solid banking sector, Following the sale of our stake to Khazanah low household debt, strong regulatory and IHH, we worked in close collaboration bodies, and increasing liquidity in the public with the shareholders and management on and private markets that enable investors to the IPO of IHH. harvest their returns. The IHH listing, a US$ 2 billion IPO was a We have been present in the country with a dual and concurrent listing on the Kuala strong local team since 2006. Over the last Lumpur and Singapore stock exchanges in five years, we have made six investments July 2012 and was ranked the third largest in Turkey. IPO in 2012 after Facebook and Felda Global. The IPO made IHH the world’s The signature exit from the Acibadem second largest publicly traded healthcare Group (Acibadem) in 2012 was the most company with a market capitalization of significant given the size and unique US$ 7.8 billion as of the listing date. structure of the transaction developed by Selçuk Yorgancioglu The Abraaj Group has been present in the region since 2006 working with Partner and Head of Central Asia and Turkey high growth businesses. What differentiates us from our counterparts is our hands-on approach to working with our partner companies. Each and every company benefits from our expertise, global connections, and ability to fasttrack consolidation activity. The Abraaj Group Our commitment to the development of our partner companies, as well as the regions we operate in, make us a real partner, rather than a procedural or bureaucratic one. 49 investing in growth markets Another fast growing and important market Given the growth potential that lay in for The Abraaj Group is Central Asia, transforming Acibadem from a local to a particularly Kazakhstan. We have made four regional institution, we embarked on an investments in the region since establishing aggressive geographical expansion strategy a presence in 2008 in Kazakhstan, a country starting in 2008. which is the world’s largest producer of uranium (17% of world’s uranium deposits), This was supported by our own investment the seventh largest exporter of grain, and as well as CAPEX facilities raised from 19,000 has the third fastest growing economy local banks. At the time of our investment, after China and Qatar. Kazakhstan’s GDP Acibadem had six hospitals with four has grown by approximately nine times in located in Istanbul and two located in Bursa International patients the last decade, reaching US$ 233 billion and Kocaeli, cities in the vicinity of Istanbul. visited Acibadem in and accounting for 58% of Central Asia’s 2011 compared to 220 combined GDP. During the investment period, Acibadem in 2007 added eight hospitals to its network Political stability combined with continued expanding its presence to three new cities 3.8x robust economic growth, as evidenced (Adana, Kayseri and Eskisehir) in Central in Kazakhstan’s investment grade rating, and Southern Turkey. Two additional makes the country an attractive investment hospitals were in construction in Ankara, location for The Abraaj Group, and a base the capital, and Bodrum, a prime holiday from where we can expand our operations destination, at the time of our exit in 2012. EBITDA growth for across Central Asia. In 2011, Acibadem acquired a 50% stake Acibadem between 2008-2012 in Sistina hospital in Macedonia, which Enabling regional growth became the first Acibadem hospital There are several factors that make Turkey a outside of Turkey. uniquely attractive market for investment. During the same time period, revenue and However, some of the most compelling EBITDA grew by 2.6x and 3.8x and the are the inherent market dynamics such as number of inpatients by 3.6x. At the end of underpenetrated industries that enable longour investment, Acibadem was a regional, term investors like ourselves to transform if not globally known brand, attracting the local companies into regional and, ultimately, attention of a global healthcare institution global champions. such as IHH that owns and operates leading healthcare chains in key Asian markets such We have experienced this firsthand via as Singapore and Malaysia and enjoys a our investment in Acibadem, a local growing presence in the Middle East, China healthcare provider which at the time of and India. our investment in 2007 had six hospitals. Within a four year investment period and Turkey’s leading role following a robust value creation program Acibadem is just one example among many developed in conjunction with Acibadem’s Turkish companies that have successfully Founder, Mehmet Ali Aydinlar, Acibadem evolved into regional and global firms. was transformed into a regional healthcare service provider. 50 CEN TRAL ASIA and Turkey T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 We believe that there are two key and especially post the Arab Spring. Many local We believe that there are complementary factors to Turkey’s success companies have benefited from Turkey’s strong local businesses in cultivating regional and global champions. approach to look ‘East’ as well as from the in Turkey that can be The first factor is the underpenetrated region’s growing demand for a role model transformed into regional players with the right nature of sectors such as healthcare, such as Turkey. framework and hands-on which are poised to grow as a result of institutional investor continuing wealth creation in the country, This trend of internationalization has support that encourages changing demographics and increasing extended across a variety of sectors and is their growth ambitions. consumer demand. not just limited to healthcare. Today, wellknown Turkish brands can be found on For example, the healthcare sector, in which the supermarket shelves across countries we invested through Acibadem has grown such as Iraq, construction companies are at 10% on average per annum between active in winning large-scale infrastructure 3x 2009 and 2011, reaching 19.2 billion Turkish contracts in the Middle East and Russia, Lira, and is expected to continue growing at and Turkish soap operas are streamed 11% between 2012 and 2016. across the region’s television networks. However, despite its double digit growth In addition to Turkey’s effort of exporting track record, Turkey’s US$ 668 healthcare more products and services, its growing expenditure per capita and 8.7% healthcare international profile also helps attract more expenditure as a percentage of GDP is still people into the country which has created Growth in Turkey’s GDP much below the OECD countries’ average new industries such as medical tourism. (in US$ terms) over the of US$ 4,286 and 12.7%, respectively. Although nearly all of Acibadem’s hospitals last decade The opportunities for private healthcare are located in Turkey, Acibadem has been in service providers in meeting this gap are the best position to attract medical tourists therefore profound. from Africa, the Middle East, the Balkans, and Russia given its recognized regional However, a growing local market is just excellence in healthcare. one piece of the equation for becoming a regional champion. The second key factor is The next goal in Acibadem’s evolution is a country’s political aspirations in playing its strengthening its global presence and brand part in the regional and global arena. equity, which has already started with the integration into IHH. We believe that, as Over the last decade and as a result of the in the case of Acibadem, there are other current government’s expansionist policies, local businesses in Turkey that can be Turkey has increasingly integrated into the transformed into regional players with the wider region and assumed a leading role, right framework, an enabling environment, and hands-on institutional investor support that encourages their growth ambitions. 51 investing in growth markets Acibadem Insurance Life and health insurance Acibadem Insurance The Acibadem Group expanded into the Additionally, it is one of the fastest has come a long way health insurance sector in Turkey through growing companies in Turkey, outgrowing over the last two years. Founder Mehmet Ali Aydinlar’s acquisition competitors in the last two years and, of Bayindir Health and Life Insurance importantly, remaining the most profitable We managed to from the Turkish Government in 2004. health insurer in the market with a current transform the company into one of the fastest The company was subsequently named combined ratio (key profitability matrix growing and most Acibadem Insurance. that includes losses, commission and profitable health administrative expenses) of c. 92%. insurers in Turkey by The Abraaj Group acquired a 50% stake in shying away from priceAcibadem Insurance in late 2007 as part Challenging start based competition of its overall investment in the Acibadem Acibadem Insurance today has a strong and channeling our Group. Abraaj has remained investors in position in the market and an excellent focus to our group and the insurance business, after exiting from financial performance. Nevertheless, the individual customers Acibadem Healthcare, APlus and Acibadem investment was off to a challenging start via new products and Project Management in early 2012 through initially as the company was a loss-making customized services. a sale of its stake to IHH Healthcare Berhad business with a combined net income loss (IHH) and Khazanah of Malaysia. of US$ 10 million between 2008 and 2010. Abraaj retains a 50% stake in Acibadem However, Abraaj, together with its partner Insurance along with Acibadem Founder Mehmet Ali Aydinlar, had a strong view on Mehmet Ali Aydinlar who owns the the positive long-term growth dynamics remaining 50%. of the health insurance sector in Turkey. This outlook was based on income per Acibadem Insurance is a provider of health, capita that has nearly doubled over the Gokhan Gurcan personal accident, and life insurance last decade, increasing private healthcare Chief Executive Officer, products in Turkey. The company today is spending in Turkey that has grown at 10% Acibadem Insurance the third largest health insurance provider per annum between 2009 and 2011, and with a market share of 10.3%. potential new products that are yet to come to the market such as top up insurance and long-term care. Mehmet Ali Aydinlar and Abraaj weathered some challenging times but always stayed loyal to the value creation plan and implemented tough, but necessary, changes such as replacing the management team of the company in 2010. 52 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 205,000 10.3% Insured customers Market share in 2012 10% Dynamic sales force The company has a dynamic direct sales After two years, the result is clear. Acibadem force through which it can control Insurance is one of the fastest growing and the customer experience, customize most profitable companies in the sector products and services, and cross-sell nonthanks to the combined efforts of the new life and life insurance products. Increase in annual private healthcare management team led by Chief Executive expenditure between Officer Gokhan Gurcan. Looking ahead, the outlook for the 2009-2011 health insurance industry in Turkey is As a result of the changes implemented in bright. Acibadem Insurance is a strong 210% pricing, underwriting, and product strategy, local player with a growing presence and the company increased its market share the infrastructure to further penetrate to 10.3% as of the end of 2012, up from the market. 6.7% at the end of 2006, grew gross written Growth in gross written premiums by 210% between 2008 and premiums between 2008 2012, reaching 237 million Turkish Lira at and 2012 the end of 2012, and increased its network to an insured base of 205,000 customers. Acibadem Insurance today is a preferred provider to several blue chip companies such as Turkish Airlines and international financial services companies such as ING and Citibank because of its differentiated product offering and service-oriented culture. Acibadem Insurance today is a preferred provider to several blue chip companies such as Turkish Airlines and international financial services companies such as ING and Citibank because of its differentiated product offering and serviceoriented culture. 53 Industry Sectors Invested to date $408mn 1.0% 0.1% Financial Services 1.6% Construction & Manufacturing 1.7% 4.4 6.4 % Consumer % 5 24.2% Energy, Mining & Utilities NAIROBI Telecoms, Media & Technology 8.8% Healthcare Business Services 17.4% 18.2% Metals Aviation 16.2% Logistics & Transportation Offices Hospitality & Leisure Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Nigeria, South Africa SUB-SAHARAN AFRIC A T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Sub-Saharan Africa Accelerating Growth Via ‘Buy and Build’ The Abraaj Group’s investment stable businesses and ensure an inclusive The Abraaj Group’s philosophy in Africa has evolved over development impact, thereby benefiting the ability to help partner the last 20 years. Abraaj’s investment widest number of stakeholders. companies execute buy professionals initially focused on and build strategies effectively is derived transactions that were primarily Over the years and having seen the from our deep local targeted at helping businesses grow commercial benefits of adopting such an knowledge, relationships organically and sustainably. approach, ten out of 18 Abraaj partner and our hands-on companies have actively executed a approach to active partner Today, our experience demonstrates that buy and build strategy across such company management. businesses that have grown successfully diverse sectors as packaged goods, still need further strategic support in order oil and gas services, manufacturing to emerge as regional champions. This and financial services. realization has led to the inclusion of a buy and build strategy as a core part of our Regional diversity investment thesis. We recognize that buy and build strategies in the continent need to be tailored for The evolution of this thinking was a regional markets. For example, in East response to the limitations of organic Africa, these strategies are often driven growth in some of our operating markets by the need to enhance procurement in Sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, our early channels and consolidate the production of experience in the continent taught us that a complementary products. buy and build strategy, if executed properly, could be used as an effective means to The Abraaj Group provided acquisition accelerate the growth of partner businesses. financing to Athi River Steel Plant Limited (Athi Steel) to support the 100% acquisition We understood that the adoption of of Great Kenfast Works Limited. The this strategy could generate enhanced acquisition was driven by the strategic need financial returns, help build diversified and to diversify the product range of Athi River to include cold rolled steel. Davinder Sikand Jacob Kholi Through buy and build Partner and Head of Sub-Saharan Africa Partner, The Abraaj Group strategies, we have been able to fast-track the trajectory of select The Abraaj Group partner businesses by helping them acquire key products, provide them access to know-how, widen their customer networks and pursue opportunities to consolidate within an industry. 55 investing in growth markets C&I expanded into Ghana The acquisition, combined with an annual to be growth oriented and resilient product through the acquisition melting and rolling production capacity of lines in Nigeria. Overall, since the first of Leasafric in order to 122,640 MT and 138,700 MT respectively, investment in C&I in 2006, the company better service its regional transformed the company into one of the has grown sixfold at a 44% CAGR clients. This transaction leading steel manufacturers in the East through 2012. enabled C&I to role out other services such as African region. fleet management and Doubling revenues operational leasing. We supported our partner company, We have been part of a similar story Brookside Dairy Limited (Brookside), in the in the oil and gas services sector. Our 100% acquisition of Kenya’s third largest partner company in Nigeria, AOS-Orwell, private dairy, Spin Knit Dairy Limited (SDL), has become one of the country’s largest in February 2009. The acquisition has since indigenous oil services company. The transformed Brookside into Kenya’s largest company’s transformation into a national dairy by intake volume due to the combined champion was driven by the Abraaj44% farmer and customer network of Brookside mediated and funded merger of AOS and and SDL. Orwell to form AOS-Orwell. CAGR in C&I from The Abraaj Group’s recent buy and build Since the initial transaction in 2011, 2006-2012 experience in West Africa covers a range the company has executed two further of sectors from industrials with C&I Leasing acquisitions, approximately doubling (C&I), financial services with Custodian and revenues. Furthermore, AOS-Orwell has Allied Insurance (Custodian) and oil and gas significantly deepened its service offering, services with AOS-Orwell. The success of expanding from its core business of the buy and build strategy in West Africa drilling services to providing services in has been largely premised on extending the the production, construction, maintenance acquiring company’s expertise to a broader and modification sub-sector of the oil customer base. services industry. This strategy is well illustrated by C&I However, the most recent and one of the Leasing’s two-stage acquisition of a most compelling buy and build success controlling stake in Leasafric, another stories in the West Africa region is the partner company of The Abraaj Group acquisition nearing completion as of the based in Ghana. As Nigeria’s largest and second quarter of 2013 of Crusader only listed leasing company, C&I decided Nigeria Limited (Crusader) by Custodian, to grow across borders in order to better an Abraaj partner company. Abraaj’s on the service its multinational and regional clients ground investment team worked with the by expanding into Ghana. senior management of both Custodian and Crusader to help arrive at terms which were Since executing the transaction, the acceptable to both parties. platform has also enabled C&I to roll out other services such as fleet management Following the acquisition, the new and operational leases which have proven entity will become one of the top three insurance companies in Nigeria by premiums written. It will achieve greater 56 SUB-SAHARAN AFRIC A T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 portfolio breadth considering its ownership The Group provided Shelys Pharmaceutical, The Abraaj Group has of a Life business, a larger General a leading pharmaceutical business in developed a positive business and a professionally managed Tanzania, acquisition financing to acquire working relationship Pension Fund Administrator. The customer 100% of Beta Healthcare, a pharmaceutical with Wole Oshin, Chief Executive of Custodian, base will also be diversified, to comprise drug manufacturer in Kenya. This and worked with him on both corporate clients and a growing retail transaction transformed Shelys into a growth strategies with base, which will be targeted and leading manufacturer and distributor of M&A being identified as a expanded through innovative marketing pharmaceutical drugs in the East key driver from the start. channels and customer relationship African region. management strategies. As a result of this The investment also enabled the relationship, the Crusader Our experience in executing buy and construction of Shelys’ state-of-the-art transaction will be build strategies in Southern Africa has pharmaceutical manufacturing plant in concluded in 2013 and been equally rewarding. Allied Catering Tanzania. The plant is WHO-GMP (World the combined entity will become one of the top Equipment, a South African company Health Organization Good Manufacturing three private insurers was funded by Abraaj through the Practice) certified and equipped with in Nigeria. Southern Africa Fund to acquire MARS, technology for the manufacture of antia manufacturer of specialized industrial malaria and HIV drugs which are widely sold cooking pots. The acquisition of MARS across the continent. allowed Allied Catering Equipment to enhance its existing product range Through our extensive business networks, through MARS’s design capabilities Shelys was introduced to Aspen and existing products. Pharmacare, Sub-Saharan Africa’s largest pharmaceutical manufacturer. Consequently, SA Block, another South African partner Shelys’ leading position in the East African company, was funded to complete a 100% region encouraged Aspen to acquire a acquisition of Clinker Supplies from Eskom controlling stake in the business as part of (South Africa’s electricity public utility) in its African expansion plans. order to secure its source of raw materials used in manufacturing bricks. Buy and build strategies will continue to be a key component of our strategy in Africa. This approach demonstrates that it is indeed possible to accelerate growth across borders and enable today’s national champions to emerge as tomorrow’s regional leaders. 57 Regional Case Study Southey Holdings Industrial conglomerate We believed that we The Abraaj Group invested in Southey to extend their services into other African could take advantage Holdings (Southey) in 2009 when it acquired markets on the strength of Abraaj’s of Southey’s historical a 49.4% stake in the business. Southey geographical footprint and their own growth and marketmanagement, led by Chief Executive Barry commercial credentials. leading position and use Wickins, had identified the need to bring in a our presence in various markets across Africa and third party to assist the business in moving The impact of Abraaj’s investment and other growth markets to to the next stage of its growth trajectory and hands-on operational approach is evident create new opportunities was looking for a partner who could help in Southey’s financial performance. Since for the business. realize international expansion opportunities. Abraaj’s investment in 2009, revenues have The Abraaj Group proved to be that partner grown at a CAGR of 20% to 2012, with As we have seen over for Southey as it brought a combination EBITDA growing at 16% CAGR over the the last few years, of deep local knowledge in Africa and an same period. Southey’s management extensive global presence bolstered by on team has embraced this the ground teams across Asia, MENA, Latin Assisted by Abraaj’s African and global opportunity, expanded America and Turkey. partnership networks, Southey has into several new markets and grown its market expanded its non-South African operations position accordingly. Southey was originally involved in industrial considerably, from a US$ 6.8 million painting and contracting for mining turnover business (mainly in DRC and and heavy industries, but subsequently Zambia) at the time of the investment to diversified its operations over the years US$ 30.5 million, comprising Zambia, through acquisition and organic growth. DRC, Oman, Mauritius, Angola, Botswana, A dozen companies now form part of the Gabon, Ghana and Tanzania, representing a Southey group, in areas including ship 65% CAGR over the investment period. repair, blast cleaning, oil and gas services including rig repair and maintenance, Specifically, Abraaj’s networks and global refrigeration, manufacture of oil and gas reach have opened up potential commercial Ron den Besten tankers and contract services for a range of opportunities for Southey, especially in terms Managing Director industry sectors. of forging links in the shipping industry in The Abraaj Group South East Asia. Although based in South Africa, Southey plays a broader regional role, as it operates Stronger governance from permanent bases throughout Through representation at the Board, Africa and the Middle East, servicing an Abraaj has ensured best practice corporate 20% international marketplace. Over its 73 governance is observed in the business. year history, Southey has grown to This involved assisting the Board in moving become the largest company of its kind in from the King II to King III Code of Corporate CAGR of Southey Southern Africa. Governance Principles, setting up various Holdings’ revenue sub-committees to focus on compliance, growth from 2009-2012 Recognized leaders IT governance and risk management, Over the time of Abraaj’s investment in and improving integrated reporting and Southey, many growth capital opportunities disclosure, risk governance and stakeholder have been realized in the business, management. including expanding Southey’s contracting arm in Kenya, Nigeria, Angola, Democratic Southey has made conscious efforts to Republic of Congo (DRC), Zambia adopt Abraaj’s Business Principles and and Oman. the IFC Performance Standards with a specific focus on health and safety, which Today, Southey businesses are recognized has further entrenched a culture of ESG leaders in their respective market segments practices in the business. in Southern Africa, and offer a platform 58 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Golden Lay Consumer staples In 2006, The Abraaj Group concluded a Abraaj also leveraged its strong networks to The Abraaj Group management buy-in (MBI) transaction in introduce the management of Golden Lay contributed far more than Golden Lay Limited (Golden Lay), a poultry to environmental consultants who assisted just capital and drew on operation involved in the production and with the preparation of environmental project its vast networks and associates to ensure our distribution of table eggs. Following a six briefs and environmental management business was financially year holding period, Abraaj successfully plans. Industry experts were introduced for stable and robust. exited Golden Lay in March 2012 through a technical advice on poultry nutrition and sale of its shares to an agriculture-focused placement cycles and social experts for With a personal touch private equity fund. HIV/AIDS awareness programs. In addition, from each member of experts from PwC supported Golden Lay on its experienced team, At the time of exit, Golden Lay had tax advisory work. it made our journey diversified its client base to include the together a rewarding formal market through two of the three The technical expertise gained by Golden and profitable experience largest supermarket chains in Zambia. Lay as a result of these external partnerships that I would gladly undergo again. enabled it to achieve compliance Golden Lay, previously trading as Flamingo of four key regulations issued by the Farms Limited, was originally managed by Zambia Environmental Management a Greek family looking to leave Zambia. At Agency, namely in Air Pollution Control, the time of investment, Flamingo Farms Hazardous Waste Management, Limited did not maintain audited accounts, Environmental Impact Assessment and had no governance structure in place, Pesticides and Toxic Substances. lacked environmental controls and placed insufficient focus on managing social issues, Meeting high demand Fletcher Broad including health and safety. Capitalizing on the high demand for their Chief Operating Officer product, the management at Golden Lay Golden Lay However, it was a cash generative business invested in doubling the number of growing where demand exceeded supply, and houses used to nurture young chicks and Abraaj believed in the growth potential tripled the number of production houses. As of the business. a result of this investment, the company’s 89mn production capacity grew from 36 million Value creation eggs per annum in 2006 to 89 million eggs A robust value creation plan for Golden per annum in 2012. Lay was developed in collaboration with Eggs produced per the management team. Corporatization of This allowed Golden Lay to increase its annum in 2012 up from the business was the main focus and this revenue by 268% and EBITDA by 235% 36 million in 2006 was ensured by installing a fully-fledged during Abraaj’s investment holding period. accounting system that allowed for annual During the investment, Golden Lay also audited accounts to be created. A Board upgraded its bio-security system by creating of Directors and two sub-committees were established that met every quarter. ESG matters became part of the agenda of Board meetings on a regular basis. a quarantine facility and a new rearing site two kilometers away from the existing farm and in line with best practice. 268% Increase in revenue from 2006-2012 Today, Golden Lay is the leading producer To support the growth of the business, and distributor of table eggs in Zambia, Abraaj introduced a number of value-added supplying mainly to the informal sector in initiatives including the raising of third party the Copperbelt, Central and Lusaka debt to help fund the expansion program provinces of Zambia as well as in the from Saturnia Regna (a local pension Katanga province of DRC. fund manager), and NORSAD (a financier supporting small and mid-cap businesses). 59 Industry Sectors Invested to date $181mn 0.6% MEXICO CITY Consumer 4 5.4 3.1% % Telecoms, Media & Technology 5.6 % 32.4% Logistics & Transportation 6.4% Energy, Mining & Utilities Hospitality & Leisure 7.0% Financial Services Business Services 10.3% Colombia, Costa Rica Construction & Manufacturing 11.5% 17.7% Healthcare Mexico, Peru Chemicals L AT IN AMERICA T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Latin America Enabling Regional Opportunities Through Local Networks Regional integration opportunities Intra-regional development has created Abraaj’s involvement and strong local growth prospects opportunities for roll-up and roll-out in Condor was key in were two of the key underlying strategies, where effective exploitation of our first step towards assumptions when The Abraaj opportunities in North America has required the regionalization of our company through Group first began investing in companies in the region to specialize further, the acquisition of Chile Latin America. build scale and move up the value chain. Always in Chile. As we continue implementing Since then, numerous bilateral and Condor Travel, a tour operator in Peru and our regional expansion multilateral trade agreements have lent an Abraaj partner company, illustrates how plan, The Abraaj Group’s more weight to the assumption that regional a regional platform added value to its support and geographical cooperation and coordination are key to product assortment offering both local platform will be crucial for developing and augmenting the role of the and regional travel packages and thereby successful execution. region in the global economy. increasing its market share within the Latin American region. Five of Abraaj’s 13 partner companies have executed regional strategies, whereas the Condor has strengthened its regional majority of the remainder operate with a presence by migrating from a franchise countrywide presence. model to company owned operations. Chile is the first country where an acquisition The growth of regional market activity and has been made in this process, and it is enhanced access to the world’s largest expected that further acquisitions will follow Sammy Niego Chief Executive Officer markets through trade agreements have in Brazil and Colombia. Condor Travel accelerated expansion and consolidation for select small and medium companies in We have developed a highly distinctive and Latin America. disciplined investment strategy tailored to local markets. Through this knowledge and experience, we help partner businesses to scale up by using local and regional expertise to align interests with company management and sponsors, in order to fulfill the potential of these businesses. Erik Peterson Miguel Olea Latin America has been Partner and Co-Head of Latin America Partner and Co-Head of Latin America a rising star within growth markets. This is due to a combination The Abraaj Group The Abraaj Group of factors including strong macroeconomic growth, a demographic sector that is young and aspirational and increasing political stability across the region. 61 investing in growth markets Redit is a good example As an example, one of our partner CAGR of more than 40% since the initial of how an investor can companies in Peru, IasaCorp, a women’s investment in 2008. This expansion leverage a company’s accessories retailer, has been able to would not have been possible without growth platform and take execute its international expansion plan with the capital, corporate infrastructure and it to the next stage in its the support and involvement of different governance which was implemented development. Abraaj Group team members in other following our investment. When Abraaj first invested countries where we are present. Today, in the company, Redit was IasaCorp has a presence in five countries In a similar fashion, hard discount retailer transitioning from being (Peru, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and D1 started its operations initially in the a last mile connectivity Venezuela) with more than 400 points of Medellin region, and has expanded over supplier for carriers to sale and is about to open stores in Mexico time to the coffee-growing region (Pereira co-location services in and Central America, also with the help of and Manizales), finally entering the Bogotá data centers. In five years, our local teams in those countries. market in 2012. Redit has become one of the leading companies In the region, we have developed a In Mexico, Redit is another example of local in virtualization, cloud computing and managed reputation over time as a hands-on expansion, where Abraaj’s first investment services in Mexico. and credible partner, which allows our in 2009 was used to acquire a local data investment team members the latitude center, followed by an additional investment to frequently visit partner companies’ shortly thereafter to acquire a data center in top management and be perceived as a San Diego aiming to cater to the demand in trusted counselor in terms of the company’s the northern region of Mexico. strategy and expansion plans. Redit has also received a major capital ITS InfoCom, an IT services company injection of US$ 68 million from two based in Costa Rica, is an example of this international players to boost its portfolio interaction, where the company has used of services and value-added products. As our extensive global network to enable a result, the company now has an even discussions with several strategic players, stronger presence in the Mexican market following up on a referral from our team in and is well positioned to leverage this. Singapore to a proprietary contact through our team in Costa Rica. The Latin American region bears distinct similarities in terms of language, culture Local networks and overall economics. This supports The Abraaj Group has been able to assist the rationale of continuing with a regional companies to expand within the local expansion strategy and leveraging domestic markets, as is demonstrated by synergies. While some of the markets several of the partner companies in which are large enough to take advantage of a we have invested. growing middle-income population and increasing acquisition power, other countries Rentandes, a renting company in Colombia, in the region like Peru and Colombia will with an initial presence in the country’s need to adopt a regional approach to reach capital, Bogotá, has now grown to five other the next level of growth. regions within the country (Cali, Medellin, Barranquilla, Santander and the Coffee Given our presence, investments and Region). The company has maintained a networks in these markets, we will continue to leverage our geographical platform and support partner companies in their regional growth aspirations. 62 Regional Case Study T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Analistas de Recursos Globales Consumer finance Analistas de Recursos Globales S.A. de Following its investment in 2008, Abraaj ARG and Abraaj enjoy C.V. (ARG) is a supplier of transportation developed a value creation plan in an extremely successful solutions for mid-sized companies and collaboration with management, to identify partnership and one individuals in Mexico. It has also expanded, opportunities to strategically grow ARG’s that has enabled us to acquire a leading position selectively, to financing industrial equipment business. As part of this plan, ARG in the market. for AAA clients. As part of its product developed a detailed strategy map and offering, ARG has introduced to Mexico a corporate balanced scorecard. One of At the end of the day, the concept of renting, an innovative fullthe key recommendations from the value we are committed service leasing solution, including preventive creation plan was to concentrate ARG’s to building better maintenance, documentation, armoring, growth in the transportation industry: a businesses, and today GPS and fleet management services. major success achieved in this regard was we have achieved that the acquisition of Remex in 2008. through a steady focus ARG is an important supplier of trailer box on customer service, financing for small fleets through Remex, This acquisition represented an important sales management, financial discipline and a specialized company acquired by ARG. milestone in ARG’s growth trajectory as it best-in-class corporate Through its fleet management division, was a lucrative diversification opportunity, governance. ARG provides integral vehicle management which has since increased ARG’s revenues. solutions including basic maintenance to its customers and corporate clients. Capital infusion To strengthen ARG’s capital base and The Abraaj Group invested in 2008 in ARG allow it to access bank financing to fund its with the objective to invest in a business expansion plans, Abraaj invited a with high growth potential in the small and Mexico-based private equity fund manager, mid-cap (SMC) sector. Given the lack Alta Growth, to make a capital investment at of bank financing available for SMCs a slight premium to reinforce ARG’s equity Juan Garibay in Mexico, the investment provided an base. This capital infusion ensured that Chief Executive Officer, ARG excellent opportunity for a global investor ARG was able to continue with its growth such as Abraaj to bring its expertise, and diversification plans, employ and resources and network of contacts to a retain high quality sales and management promising business. staff, and expand its customer relationship management team. Building value ARG was well suited for private equity In a US$ 40 million transaction in the investment as it provided excellent summer of 2012 (the largest in the Mexican downside capital protection given that public markets for a leasing company) its assets contracts that generate a ARG was able to securitize its portfolio predictable cash flow over fixed periods of of receivables, including residual values, time are easy to value and have a good and obtained an AAA rating from two secondary market. local agencies. ARG today runs on a sophisticated ERP system and has been able to tap the local capital markets in addition to securing bank credit lines in amounts sufficient to bankroll its expected growth. A capable management team that has worked closely with the Board of Directors has been instrumental in steering the company on a day-to-day basis in the very challenging Mexican market. 63 sector expertise sector expertise 64 sector expertise T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Across the Group, we harness our industryspecific expertise and experience to map trends and opportunities. We use our specialist knowledge to dig deeper and find sectors and businesses with genuine growth potential. 65 sector expertise The Healthcare Paradigm in Growth Markets Over the next three decades the The public sector, which was traditionally lion’s share of global economic seen as the natural provider of healthcare growth is expected to come from in most growth markets, has typically been growth markets. The healthcare resource constrained and more often than sector, long dominated by not has failed at delivering results even developed markets, is no exception when adequate funds have been available, to this global mega-trend. as in the case of many natural resourcerich markets. Growth markets are a diverse and varied group of countries at different stages As a result, the private sector has taken on of economic, social and political an increasingly central role in the provision development. However, with few of healthcare services. Macro trends such exceptions, they are all plagued by as high overall economic growth has relatively poor social infrastructure. resulted in increasing wealth driving a surge in demand for better access to quality This is especially true when it comes healthcare products and services. At the to healthcare. The numbers speak for same time, innovations in products, services themselves growth markets lag developed and financing have driven costs down, markets in almost every aspect, whether dramatically increasing affordability it is input metrics such as hospital beds of healthcare. per 1,000 population (0.87 in South Asia compared to an OECD average of 5.23), The first half of the past decade saw the physicians per 1,000 population (0.29 development of major private generic in Sub-Saharan Africa compared to an pharmaceutical manufacturers in growth OECD average of 2.65) or output metrics markets, especially India. These companies such as infant and maternal mortality rates changed the paradigm in the global (24.1 in MENA and 0.80 in Latin America pharmaceutical sector, opening up large respectively compared to OECD averages new growth markets and generating new of 6.47 and 0.19). demand in increasingly price-sensitive developed markets reeling under the rapid escalation of healthcare costs. This first wave was followed up with the emergence of healthcare delivery and services groups Pharmaceutical and Purshotam Ramchandani healthcare companies estimate of global revenue to come As the standard of living in growth markets Partner, The Abraaj Group from growth markets improves, people seek to enhance their by 2017 quality of life with better access to healthcare, 40% healthcare products and infrastructure. The shortfall in current delivery mechanisms present compelling opportunities for long-term investors such as The Abraaj Group, given both our track record in, and familiarity with, the healthcare sector in growth markets. 66 The Healthcare Paradigm in Growth Markets T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 such as Acibadem in Turkey, Fortis and to them. While frugal cars, computers The investment Apollo in India, and IHH Healthcare Berhad and mobile phones have rapidly become opportunity for in South East Asia that succeeded in entrenched in middle or low-income healthcare is compelling attaining substantial scale and becoming countries, there has been a tendency within as a result of substantial demand overhang due to globally relevant businesses. healthcare, until recently, to view these large historic underinvestment population pools as un-addressable. complemented by Additionally, companies such as Integrated growing affordability Diagnostics Holdings in North Africa and It would be reasonable to expect a process across most Dr Lal’s in India leveraged opportunities of ‘reverse innovation’ in the area of frugal growth markets. in key sub-sectors within the healthcare healthcare business models and products, delivery value chain, rapidly generated scale to emerge from growth markets over the and established themselves as successful next decade and get exported to more companies in their respective geographies. developed markets. Global trends in healthcare Urbanization The investment opportunity for healthcare One-third of the world’s population, about is compelling as a result of substantial 2.6 billion people, live in growth market demand overhang due to historic cities. By 2030, the number of these urban 60% underinvestment complemented by dwellers will increase by an additional 1.3 growing affordability across most billion, with another 371 growth market growth markets. cities exceeding the 500,000 population mark. This trend will have a major influence There are certain common global trends on both disease patterns as well as the Value of private funding that apply across these markets which, viability of healthcare models. The success for healthcare in India will be important to understand in order of healthcare companies in these markets to effectively access the investment will depend largely on their ability to adapt opportunities in the sector going forward. to and take advantage of this developing urban landscape. The cost puzzle Over 5.7 billion people live in growth Risk pooling markets, most of who belong to middle A high percentage of healthcare spending or low-income households and are severely in growth markets is funded from private underserved from a healthcare perspective. sources ranging from 44% in China to A substantial portion of these people 50% in Indonesia and c. 60% in India and are paying for their own healthcare costs Nigeria. Additionally, most of this private at present. spending is out-of-pocket with negligible private insurance coverage barring a few Business models and innovations that are exceptions such as Brazil. Increasing able to crack the ‘cost puzzle’ will have penetration of private risk pooling is going to a market of unprecedented scale open be a key driver of affordability and therefore demand growth in these markets, many of which are already seeing extremely high growth in private insurance coverage. 67 sector expertise The Abraaj Group has Increased government intervention take a longer-term view than mainstream been an early investor Informed policy making is critical to commercial investors and their tolerance in the healthcare shape the future of the healthcare sector for higher risk in the quest for achieving space. Since 2003, the and to further encourage private players their social objectives allows for the Group has executed 27 to participate in the sector. The most development of innovative investment transactions across Asia, MENA, Central Asia and important development in this space has models specifically designed to address Turkey, Sub-Saharan been the relatively recent initiative by some the need and opportunity that present Africa and Latin America. governments to expand government-funded themselves in these markets. coverage for large segments of their populations. Our experience in healthcare As demonstrated through the examples China and Indonesia have announced below, The Abraaj Group has been an early their intention to implement universal investor in the healthcare space. Since healthcare coverage and India has plans 2003, the Group has executed for government coverage programs for 27 transactions, committing c. US$ 1 low-income families which have already billion across Asia, MENA, Central Asia and c.$1bn been implemented in some states. There Turkey, Sub-Saharan Africa and are many challenges that will need to Latin America. be overcome before these plans are Value of healthcare substantially realized. However, even a Our experience in the healthcare sector transactions made by partial implementation will have far-reaching in Asia started in 2007 when we invested The Abraaj Group implications for healthcare provision and in STS Holdings (STS), the owner and access for the bottom of the pyramid operator of Apollo Hospital Dhaka, the first populations and therefore businesses privately owned, international-class and catering to this segment in these countries. only Joint Commission International (JCI) accredited tertiary medical facility Doing good by doing well in Bangladesh. Last, but certainly not the least, is the emergence of social investors such as nonThe investment in STS was premised on governmental organizations and foundations the largely untapped healthcare sector in as key investors of risk capital focused Bangladesh. Additionally, given the low on the development and implementation number of beds three per 10,000 people of private sector, for profit and affordable compared to nine per 10,000 people in healthcare solutions in growth markets. India there was an opportunity to cater to the largely unmet domestic demand for The idea that sustainable social impact quality healthcare in Bangladesh. is most successfully achieved through commercial, for profit initiatives that are by Our investment has resulted in the hospital’s definition self-sustaining in the long term, bed capacity expanding by 40% to reach appears to be one gaining widespread 350 operational beds with a robust organic acceptance. The ability of such investors to and inorganic expansion strategy being implemented across Dhaka and Chittagong. 68 The Healthcare Paradigm in Growth Markets T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Similarly in 2009, we co-invested in Sri In December 2009, Abraaj acquired a In 2009, we launched Lanka’s Central Hospital (CH) alongside Sri stake in Nairobi Women’s Hospital. Since the Africa Health Fund Lanka’s largest conglomerate (John Keells the investment, Nairobi Women’s Hospital with support from the Holdings). The company was promoted has expanded from one 61-bed facility to a International Finance Corporation, the Bill by a large corporate group (Asiri) who had network of three hospitals and 226 beds. and Melinda Gates a strong track record of operating a well Foundation, DEG managed hospital group in Sri Lanka, with Subsequent investments include C&J and the African occupancy rates of over 85% across its Medicare Hospital (C&J), a healthcare Development Bank. hospital network. provider in Accra, Ghana, and the Avenue Group, which is the only healthcare provider CH was a 256-bed greenfield private tertiary in Kenya to combine healthcare cover with care hospital in Colombo that during its the delivery of affordable medical services at first year of operations generated operating both the outpatient and inpatient levels. The profits and continues to outperform Avenue Group has opened six outpatient expectations year on year. facilities in Kenya since investment and is expected to open its 65-bed hospital in 8 Our investments in the Philippines-based Kisumu in mid-2013, doubling its inpatient Daniel O. Mercado Medical Center (DMMC) capacity in Kenya. and India-based BSR Healthcare are examples of the Group actively supporting We have been active and hands-on commercially viable business models with investors in the healthcare space in the a social impact strategy. This approach Middle East and North Africa. Our partner involves targeting underserved secondary companies cover diagnostics laboratories, and tertiary cities, in order to improve pharmacies and pharmaceutical quality and more importantly healthcare manufacturers, as well as healthcare accessibility in the countries we operate in. technology firms. Abraaj led the merger of partner company Al Borg Laboratories In 2009, we launched the Africa Health with Al Mokhtabar Laboratories, its closest Healthcare investments made by Abraaj Fund with support from the International competitor in the Egyptian market, in an Finance Corporation, the Bill and Melinda all-share transaction that has effectively Gates Foundation, DEG and the African created the largest diagnostics business in Development Bank. The Fund’s objective the Middle East and North Africa serving five is to help low-income Africans gain access million patients. to affordable, high quality health products and services through targeted investments Similarly, our investment in Opalia Pharma, in private health companies across a branded generic pharmaceutical company various sectors including health services, in Tunisia, will enable the company to pharmaceuticals and risk pooling. expand its offering into new regional markets in North Africa as well as in the GCC. 69 sector expertise Through an active value A return on healthcare South East Asia healthcare group and creation plan executed While our longstanding experience in the the market leader in Malaysia, acquiring during our investment, healthcare sector has enabled us to create our shareholding. Vejthani was able operational improvements in our partner to achieve JCI companies, it has also seen us deliver Our investment was premised on enhancing accreditation by tripling the number of original outstanding returns for our investors. 2012 the availability of quality medical treatment specialties, adding 80 saw us successfully exit two healthcare and capturing a greater share of the growing additional doctors, as investments in Asia. healthcare tourism market. Through an well as training and active value creation plan executed during upgrading its medical In our first healthcare divestment in 2012, our investment, Vejthani was able to achieve support staff. we exited our investment in MalaysiaJCI accreditation by tripling the number of based IHH Healthcare Berhad (IHH), the original specialties, adding 80 additional largest private and growth markets focused doctors, as well as training and upgrading healthcare provider with a dominant its medical support staff. presence in Malaysia, Singapore and Turkey. These operational enhancements resulted Our investment in IHH, through rolling in the share of foreign patients growing up of the Group’s ownership in one of to 45%, compared to 10% during 2007, Turkey’s largest private healthcare providers, and simultaneously tripling profitability, Acibadem, was premised on creating a an illustration of our ability to achieve global champion. Our investment measurable value enhancement in our in Acibadem resulted in the hospital partner companies. group more than doubling its facilities and beds, and tripling its operating earnings in Healthcare today is rapidly emerging as four years. a vibrant investment space. According to the Bain Global Healthcare Private Equity The Group’s IHH exit was followed by Report 2012, healthcare is expected to be a the divestment of our stake in Thailandprime sector for investment, capturing as based Vejthani, a multi-specialty hospital in much as 20% of total global private equity Bangkok with 22 clinics. The exit garnered investment dollars in a given year. We substantial strategic and financial sponsor remain excited about the opportunities interest, with KPJ Healthcare, a regional presented by the healthcare sector in growth markets and are well poised to strengthen our leadership position in this space given our scale and expertise. 70 Developing Infrastructure T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 in Urban Cities Developing Infrastructure in Urban Cities Infrastructure comprises the vast for many infrastructure assets generally assets that help support everyday provides for a built-in hedge for inflation. life and forms the foundation of an economy’s ability to compete in a Infrastructure trends continuously changing world. The pressing need to address failing infrastructure in the developed world and It includes all the elements of a country’s to build infrastructure in growth markets will physical foundation: roads and bridges, demand substantial investment over the railways, airports, essential utilities and next 20 years. services, such as water, sewage, electricity and energy storage, communication In the advanced economies, renewed networks of towers and wires, hospitals, economic vitality is dependent on schools and other social services facilities. expanding critical infrastructure, much of which was built more than a half century As an asset class, infrastructure is an ago. The demand for new infrastructure attractive and relatively stable proposition is most pronounced in growth markets due to its potential to generate consistent where favorable macro drivers such as returns and stable cash yields that demographics, a rising middle class exhibit little correlation to equity and fixed and urbanization coupled with historic income returns. underinvestment have significantly increased the need for infrastructure investments in a Infrastructure assets tend to operate under wide variety of sectors. the jurisdiction of governments or regulators and, once up and running, tend to be rather Urbanization is one of the key themes for immune to normal business cycles since infrastructure investment in growth markets. demand for their services is largely inelastic. Urban infrastructure needs in growth Further, the regulated nature of revenues markets are huge, ranging from housing to sanitation, from power supply to water supply, and from road networks to mass transport systems. Additionally, cities are witnessing the growth of soft or social Number of people that are Tabish Gauhar born within or migrate to cities in growth markets each week The demand for new infrastructure is Partner, The Abraaj Group most pronounced in growth markets where favorable macro drivers such as demographics, a rising middle class and urbanization have increased the need for 1 million infrastructure investments. 71 sector expertise The current infrastructure infrastructure that focuses on investments capita in Sub-Saharan Africa) but is likely to needs in growth in healthcare, education, food security and increase in tandem with rising income levels. markets, while extremely low-income housing. It is estimated that 60% of the global challenging, represent a generating capacity added through 2030 compelling investment Globalization is also an important will be built in growth markets. Renewable opportunity. factor driving the growing demand for energy and off grid solutions will increasingly infrastructure development as markets take center stage. become more global and interconnected, improved railway, port, airport and other In the transportation sector, an estimated transportation services are needed to US$ 5 trillion of investment is needed to facilitate growing business and trade. sustain current levels of economic growth. The current infrastructure needs in growth Investment opportunity $30-40trn markets, while extremely challenging, represent a compelling investment Infrastructure investment has historically been the domain of the public sector, but Hard infrastructure opportunity. Estimates of hard infrastructure over the last few decades, both hard and expenditure required in expenditure required in the next two soft infrastructure has benefited from the growth markets over the next two decades decades in these markets range from a involvement of private sector players. massive US$ 30-40 trillion. The private sector brings an entrepreneurial, The most serious infrastructure deficits innovative and results-driven approach to in many of these markets are in water and infrastructure. Complementing the role of basic sanitation and growing water scarcity government, market-based solutions can will only exacerbate the problem. There are expand the provision of essential services on about 1.2 billion people across the globe a timely basis, at affordable rates, improving who lack access to safe drinking water and the quality of life in local communities in 40% of people in Africa have no access measurable ways-often through Public to sanitation. Spending on improving and Private Partnerships (PPPs). expanding water treatment (and sanitation) will comprise approximately 30% of hard PPPs have been proven to be effective infrastructure expenditure. forms of delivering infrastructure projects but remain a small share of the total spend Electricity consumption per capita in (even in the EU, PPP spend only amounts growth markets is significantly lower than in to 12%). PPPs are typically structured the developed markets (8 MWh per capita in with concession agreements backed by OECD countries compared to 0.5 MWh per government where the private sector player will, either, or all of, build, operate, own and transfer the infrastructure asset. 72 Developing Infrastructure T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 in Urban Cities Governments across growth markets are As governments around the world PPPs have increasingly encouraging private sector investment in grapple with severe financial pressures, become the norm for the infrastructure projects to bridge funding PPPs have increasingly become the funding of infrastructure, gaps in markets and sectors as below: norm for the funding of infrastructure, expanding the opportunities available to expanding the opportunities available private sector companies >> Mexico, the second largest economy to private sector companies and and to investors. in Latin America, needs significant to investors. infrastructure investment to maintain growth. It is estimated that US$ 400 >> Opportunities to participate in the billion is expected to be invested between infrastructure space are also available 2013 and 2018 under the new National through direct investments in Infrastructure Plan (power and water infrastructure-related companies or in infrastructure targeted for the bulk of new businesses providing ancillary services to investments). The government plans the industry. to use PPPs to execute a large portion of these. Our experience in infrastructure The Abraaj Group has been a pioneering >> Colombia has also outlined a US$ 20 investor in the infrastructure space, investing billion transport infrastructure plan with in both hard (such as utilities and oil and over 50% of the contribution coming from gas) and soft infrastructure (such as the private sector. healthcare and education). >> With historical underinvestment in The investment in GEMS, a leading provider infrastructure and significant funding of K-12 education, is an example of the gaps, several African countries have Group’s ability to identify and capitalize on initiated mega infrastructure plans. The evolving infrastructure trends. Since the Kenyan government has put forward Group’s investment in 2007, the GEMS the Kenya Vision 2030 Program that portfolio of owned and managed schools envisions US$ 60 billion in infrastructure has grown to 60, providing education to spending over the next eight years. over 80,000 students across the region. >> A PPP Bill passed in 2011 allows the In 2009, The Abraaj Group invested in private sector to participate in public KESC, Pakistan’s only remaining vertically services through capital investments, integrated power utility company supplying management skills and technology power to the largest city, Karachi. When provision. South Africa will spend more Abraaj took control of the business, the than US$ 93 billion on new power company was suffering from a multitude of stations, road networks, dams, water issues, including severe underinvestment, supply pipelines, rail and port facilities, operational weaknesses and misalignment schools and hospitals over the next three among various stakeholders. years. Nigeria is another key growing economy where significant infrastructure investments are being planned. 73 sector expertise KESC is an example of how Abraaj Since the Group’s investment, Viking has upgraded and improved an existing asset initiated an aggressive expansion strategy through a turnaround strategy focused on to ramp up its presence in existing markets, broad multi-stakeholder engagement, apart diversify its customer base and expand its from capital injection. fleet, geographic footprint and service lines. In 2012, KESC became profitable for Infrastructure will continue to attract the first time in 17 years, achieving an significant investment globally in the years additional 1,000 MW of generation capacity, ahead. Accelerated spending in the shortsignificantly reducing transmission and term combined with the secular demand distribution losses (from an estimated 40% for infrastructure development and repair to 28.6%), and providing uninterrupted over the long-term support the investment power supply to over half the city. opportunity in infrastructure. Rapid urbanization and rising prosperity make it all Realizing the massive opportunity in the but inevitable in growth markets. ancillary oil and gas service space, The Abraaj Group recently invested in Viking With our established presence in growth Services, which offers a wide range of markets and track record of investing and services including drilling, well completion, managing infrastructure investments, we seismic, work-over and underbalanced are well positioned to capitalize on the services in Northern Iraq, Poland, Hungary expanding infrastructure opportunity. and Serbia. KESC is an example of how Abraaj upgraded and improved an existing asset through a turnaround strategy focused on broad multi-stakeholder engagement, apart from capital injection. 74 Capturing the Real Estate Opportunity T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Capturing the Real Estate Opportunity The unprecedented speed and stimulus undertaken in the wake of the scale of urbanization in growth global financial crisis will almost certainly markets is generating compelling lead to inflationary pressures over time, real estate opportunities, which with a similar impact on interest rates as a The Abraaj Group, with its deep consequence. Real estate values generally local knowledge and network, have a negative correlation to rate rises; together with its dedicated Real however, the current large gap between Estate Investment Team, is uniquely property yields and interest rates will act as positioned to capture. a valuation buffer. Real estate has always been an important A recent trend has also seen institutional asset class, given its relative and absolute investors increasing their exposure size, but it is becoming an increasingly to the real estate space, as financial essential component of a well-diversified disintermediation provides a unique investment portfolio. The value of global opportunity for those with patient and commercial real estate is estimated at over flexible capital to fill funding gaps across the US$ 26 trillion, with around US$ 400 billion debt and equity capital structures. traded annually. This compares to global listed equities valued at over US$ 54 trillion The Commercial Mortgage Backed and global listed bonds valued at over Securitisation and Residential Mortgage US$ 93 trillion. Backed Securitisation market, which has underpinned the liquidity in the real estate Real estate has become more attractive sector in the U.S. and Europe has been on as it gives investors exposure to an life support since the financial crisis, income-producing asset with yields well falling by over 90% since the market above current treasuries in a low-interest peaked in 2007. rate environment. Additionally, real estate provides an excellent hedge against Liquidity is being further squeezed as inflation, as rental rates, especially for office traditional banks are becoming increasingly and retail, usually incorporate CPI-linked selective regarding real estate lending due escalation clauses. Although inflation may to more stringent capital requirements not be perceived as an immediate global and a need to reduce overexposure to threat, the unprecedented scale of monetary the sector. This is severely impacting the Estimated value of Matteo Stefanel global commercial real estate Real estate has become more attractive as Partner, The Abraaj Group $26 trn+ it gives investors exposure to an incomeproducing asset with yields well above current treasuries in a low-interest rate environment. Growth markets especially are witnessing attractive investment and development opportunities across all sectors. The Abraaj Group has been an early investor in the real estate sector, and combined with its presence in 31 countries, is in a unique position to capture a range of opportunities, which are increasingly available. 75 sector expertise The confluence of capital available for real estate investments markets, whereas over half of commercial favorable demographics, and developments, particularly in growth real estate in the United States and the rapid urbanization, markets, as Western banks retrench to United Kingdom is estimated to be held and strong economic national markets under intense political by institutions. This provides an attractive activity across growth pressure to focus capacity on supporting investment landscape. markets act as strong fundamental demand their domestic private sector. This has drivers for real estate. resulted in less competition and an Secondly, positive regulatory reforms improved risk-reward balance for real (such as the new mortgage law in the estate investments. Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and relaxation of foreign ownership restrictions in Turkey) Supportive trends and characteristics are changing the landscape for real estate The confluence of favorable demographics, investment by improving transparency and rapid urbanization, and strong economic the ease of doing business. activity across growth markets act as strong fundamental demand drivers for real estate. Thirdly, the historical underinvestment coupled with the rapid rise in pent-up Growth markets are undergoing a wave demand, has created undersupply across a of rapid urbanization at an unprecedented number of sectors, for example: 44,000 sq.km speed and scale. It is estimated that 423 New office and emerging cities will account for over 45% Affordable housing residential space needed of global GDP growth from 2007 to 2025, There are chronic shortages of affordable in growth cities by 2025 including 20 mega cities (such as Istanbul in housing in a number of markets including Turkey, Sao Paulo in Brazil and Lagos 500,000 units in the Kingdom of Saudi in Nigeria). Arabia, 1.5 million units in Egypt, 3.2 million units in Nigeria, 3 million units in Mexico As a result of these trends, cities in growth and 7.5 million units in India. This provides markets are estimated to require over a compelling opportunity for investors who 44,000 square kilometers of new office can partner with the right stakeholders and residential floor space by 2025, (public and private) and create sustainable requiring real estate to be developed at a business models that deliver profit while staggering rate. providing opportunities for scale. The real estate opportunity in growth In 2008, The Abraaj Group invested in markets is underpinned by three main Regimanuel Gray Limited (RGL), a company characteristics. that operates across the construction value chain in the rapidly growing West African Firstly, the asset class has historically real estate sector including affordable witnessed low levels of institutional housing and other residential segments. ownership and investment. Institutional To date RGL has successfully developed ownership is negligible in many of these eight master-planned communities in Ghana (which has a shortfall of 1.5 million units) and another one in Sierra Leone. As part of the strategy to address the housing shortage and come up with an economically viable model, RGL has pioneered expandable starter houses, which 76 Capturing the Real Estate Opportunity T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 were delivered for as low as US$ 25,000. There are currently 58,000 dormitory beds Real estate investing These housing solutions allow potential available for 385,000 students studying in requires local knowledge homeowners to purchase two-bedroom Istanbul, most of which are 100% occupied supported by local units and add additional rooms at their own despite being of poor quality. This is a space presence to fully understand crucial factors pace, thereby transforming communities. in which Abraaj has a keen interest in and is such as the quality of considering investment opportunities. the location, shifting preferences and city Growth opportunities trends, and to efficiently Office The real estate trends and characteristics assemble and execute The rapid expansion of local companies within growth markets are creating a transaction. and the increasing importance of growth investment and development opportunities markets to multinationals, is resulting in an across all sectors. Strong pent-up undersupply of high quality office space in demand where lack of supply exists will certain cities like Jakarta, where rents rose lead to robust rental growth and capital an astonishing 36% in 2012. Indonesia appreciation. Furthermore, continued is estimated to be the seventh largest improvement of economic fundamentals, contributor to global commercial real enhancement of transparency and estate growth from 2011 to 2020 adding increased investment activity, should result US$ 563 billion. in yields trending downwards (i.e. multiple expansion) increasing valuations. A similar trend in Grade-A office space under-supply is prevalent in Egypt, where Real estate investing requires local Abraaj leveraged its local presence and real knowledge supported by local presence to estate network to acquire a high quality fully understand crucial factors such as the office building in Cairo. Since acquisition, quality of the location, shifting preferences proactive management by the Real Estate and city trends, and to efficiently assemble Investment Team has driven the occupancy and execute a transaction. Selection and up to 96%, significantly increasing the management of local partners are also asset value in US$ terms, despite a volatile essential and require strong networks economic environment. and experience. Student housing The Abraaj Group has a strong presence Higher education penetration in Turkey across its network of 31 country offices, has increased from 10% to 33% in the which are staffed with experienced last ten years driven by demographics and local investment professionals, and is increasing wealth, a trend expected to therefore in a unique position to capture continue as Turkey moves towards a the real estate opportunities, which are service-based economy. Supply of student increasingly available. housing on the other hand has severely lagged this growth. In addition, given the deficit in key sectors prevalent in growth markets, and to capture attractive risk-reward opportunities, the Group’s Real Estate Investment Team also expects to participate in select development opportunities in under-supplied sectors where there is demonstrable end user demand. 77 building sustainable communities building sustainable communities 78 building sustainable communities T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 We have built our stakeholder engagement efforts within an innovative framework that encourages strategic partnerships, thought leadership, academic engagement and community outreach. 79 SHAPIN G T HE STAKE H OL DER M ODEL T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Shaping the Stakeholder Model At The Abraaj Group, our culture and one which the ASSET team is Our 5+5+5 model 5 stakeholder approach to doing responsible for driving through the ranks of business lies at the core of our our employees and partner companies. values and culture. Over the year in review, ASSET projects Since inception in 2002, we have evolved continued to be resourced through our 5% net management fee 5 strong models focused on youth education, 5+5+5 model. This represents 5% of net community upliftment projects, employment management fee revenue that helps finance generation programs and nurturing our initiatives, the five days per year that entrepreneurship. We have built The Abraaj each employee sets aside for volunteering Group with the conviction that financial value in the community (three days of which are Each employee volunteers 5 days per year paid for by The Abraaj Group) and 5% of the 5 creation is primary and can be achieved while creating sustainable and positive annual bonus we encourage each employee change in the economic landscape of to donate. Over the past three years, over our markets. 8,000 hours of volunteering time have been invested by our employees. 5% of the annual bonus Over the last four years an increasing we encourage each focus of the Abraaj Strategic Stakeholder In the context of the private equity industry, employee to donate Engagement Track (ASSET) programs has we know ASSET to be unique. It goes to the been related to nurturing and supporting the heart of our original ambitions of evolving entrepreneurial ecosystem in the markets in our own model, to be different and to create which we are present. We accomplish this our own path for the development of our either through collaborative platforms or by global operations. Embedding stakeholder initiating our own projects. engagement programs into business models will increasingly be the norm for any We believe that businesses have the business operating in developed or growth responsibility to help shape the markets markets. In private equity, this will become in which they operate. We have been an industry standard very quickly and more consistent in this belief since inception as importantly models will evolve, as indeed it represents an integral part of our Group’s will ours, as the world around us changes and as the future shape of the private equity industry emerges with greater clarity. Volunteering Frederic Sicre hours invested ASSET aims to engage all employees and by Abraaj companies in which we invest to be actors of employees over the past Managing Director, The Abraaj Group positive social change in the communities in which we are operating. three years 8,000 81 building sustainable co mmunities Engagement Tracks Global Sustainability Initiatives The Abraaj Group Sustainability Council The independent advisory body comprises ten eminent We established The Abraaj Group Sustainability Council figures and experts from industry, academia, government, to provide strategic insights to the Board of Abraaj and global institutions and the corporate sustainability field. to the Group Chief Executive in global best practices, Each member has been appointed for their personal and operational excellence, impact measurement, performance professional integrity, superior insight and expertise. The benchmarking and innovation with regards to sustainability Council members are: Graham Wrigley, Jose Maria Figueres, in our Group and our partner companies. Jane Nelson, Ian Goldin, Dr Nathalie von Siemens, Linda Rottenberg, Helene Gayle, Joe Wanjui, Sev Vettivetpillai and Frederic Sicre. Global Impact Investing Network The GIIN Investors’ Council itself is an exclusive leadership In 2012, we were accepted as a Member of the Investors’ group for active large-scale impact investors. Comprised Council of the Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN). GIIN is of asset owners and asset managers with diverse interests a non-profit organization dedicated to increasing the scale across sectors and geographies, the Investors’ Council and effectiveness of impact investing. GIIN is a sponsored provides a forum for experienced impact investors to project of the Rockefeller Philanthropy Advisors and offers strengthen the practice of impact investing and accelerate The Abraaj Group the ability to participate in the ever learning about new areas in the field. As leaders, Investors’ increasing debate around sustainability in investments. Council members also participate in field-building activities such as infrastructure development and research to advance the broader impact investing industry. Philanthropy Age basis to philanthropists and influential leaders who might The Abraaj Group and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation be considering philanthropy, philanthropic organizations, have launched a new initiative designed to change the government bodies, foundations, and other individuals nature of philanthropy in the Middle East, North Africa and interested in the concept of giving. South Asia region. Philanthropy Age is a quarterly publication in English and Arabic intended to move people into changing Philanthropy Age is a call to action, widening the regional the nature of their giving and to think about how and debate about philanthropy and encouraging thoughtful giving where they are giving. It is distributed on a highly targeted that delivers a demonstrable return. Bill Gates and Arif Naqvi at the signing of a framework partnership agreement United Nations Global Compact business, civil society, labor and employers’ organizations by The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic United Nations Secretary General, Ban Ki-moon. He joined policy initiative designed to mobilize businesses that share 13 other business leaders from around the world. At the a commitment to ten universally accepted principles, Global Compact’s Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum, which encompass human rights, labor, environment, in connection with the UN Conference on Sustainable sustainability and anti-corruption. In 2012, our Founder Development, The Abraaj Group was invited to share its and Group Chief Executive Arif Naqvi was appointed to unique models and experiences in effective stakeholder its Board, the UN’s highest level advisory body involving engagement practices. 82 SHAPIN G T HE STAKE H OL DER M ODEL T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Pearl Initiative The research report Accountability and Transparency, The Pearl Initiative, developed in collaboration with the the first in the Pearl Initiative Series on GCC Corporate United Nations Office for Partnerships in 2010, is a GCCGood Practices, was launched in November 2012 and based, private sector-led, not-for-profit organization set up to demonstrates that there are integrity-related and reporting foster a corporate culture of transparency and accountability good practices within companies in the GCC. Eight case in the Arab world. studies are highlighted, including one on The Abraaj Group’s responsible investment principles. The case studies are being used as benchmarks by the business community and as teaching material in universities across the region. Strategic Platforms Abraaj Annual Forum Paul Krugman, the 2008 Nobel Prize Winner for Economic Every year we invite our key relationships and stakeholders Sciences, and the closing was a memorable discussion for a one day retreat on the shores of the Bosphorus in with President Bill Clinton a few weeks before the U.S. Istanbul. The Abraaj Annual Forum provides a unique Presidential elections. Former Heads of State and Ministers opportunity for the senior management of the Group to of Finance from Asia, Latin America, Africa and MENA along interact with investors and international business leaders on with captains of industry participated in our 2012 Forum, the critical trends emerging over the forthcoming year. Our which is rapidly becoming a recognized “must attend” event discussions are led by eminent thinkers and economic on the yearly calendar of the Abraaj community. architects. In 2012, the Abraaj Annual Forum was opened by President Olusegun Obasanjo at the Abraaj Annual Forum 2012 The Abraaj Group Art Prize has grown to 21 works of art. In 2012, we exhibited the The Abraaj Group Art Prize is the flagship of our arts collection at Art Dubai of which The Abraaj Group is the patronage program. It is the world’s only art prize to Principal Partner. The exhibition called ‘Spectral Imprints’, reward proposals rather than completed works or previous was curated by art critic and curator Nat Muller from exhibitions. Every year, we invite promising artists to apply Holland. Works commissioned by The Abraaj Group Art Prize for a share of this award which is one of the world’s most were also requested over 2012 by leading museums and generous in terms of financial contribution. galleries throughout the world, including the Victoria & Albert Museum in London and the Smithsonian’s Museums of All of the winning pieces become part of The Abraaj Group Asian Art in Washington D.C. Raed Yassin’s prize winning exhibit ‘China’ Art Collection. Since launching in 2008, the collection at Art Dubai, 2012 Entrepreneurship, Education and Community Engagement Education for Employment entrepreneurs in North Africa and English language training Education for Employment (EFE) operates across the Middle for unemployed youth in Tunisia, ensuring EFE-Tunisia East and North Africa. The network of locally run non-profit continued its 100% job placement rate for graduates. Our organizations aims to provide youngsters with the skills and support also helped EFE reach a milestone in 2012, placing opportunities necessary to build careers. 3,000 young people in jobs and providing employability and entrepreneurship skills to 5,800 additional young men and In 2012, The Abraaj Group’s support for EFE had a women since launch. significant impact on young entrepreneurs and jobseekers across MENA. It provided boot camp training to 100 EFE alumna at a group training session 83 building sustainable co mmunities Endeavor Access to an extensive business mentor network is a key Our partnership with Endeavor a non-profit organization benefit for Endeavor Entrepreneurs. In 2012, 23 Abraaj dedicated to encouraging ‘high-impact entrepreneurship’ in executives served as advisors and mentors. We also growth markets entered its second full year in 2012. With participated in Endeavor’s Investor Network program, which our support, Endeavor opened a new office in the Kingdom brings high-impact entrepreneurs and investors together at of Saudi Arabia. events that help startups raise capital. In Asia, Endeavor‘s executive for global expansion works from our hub in In March, we hosted an Endeavor International Singapore with plans to open operations in Malaysia, the Selection Panel in Dubai. More than 100 business leaders Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam between 2013 and 2015. Endeavor mentors and entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs from growth markets attended at a ‘Global Connections’ session in the event, where they competed to be selected as Silicon Valley Endeavor Entrepreneurs. Wamda Visits to Wamda.com rocketed from 7,000 to hundreds Wamda is a platform designed to empower entrepreneurs of thousands per month between September 2011 and across the Middle East and North Africa. It aims to November 2012, with 220 Facebook fans, 33,000 Twitter accelerate the region’s entrepreneurship ecosystem by followers and 360,000 Google Plus members. With 3,000 providing entrepreneurs with the support they need to pieces of original content and growing, it is the largest survive and thrive. Wamda operates across four channels: entrepreneurship website in the Arab world. The Wamda Wamda.com, a site dedicated to content about starting and Capital Fund continues to source potential investments. By running your own company; the Wamda Capital Fund, which the end of 2012, it had reviewed more than 200 startups invests in early stage startups; a range of programs and and closed eight deals, with an average investment of US$ News and content on the Wamda site products designed to help startups set up, run and grow; 200,000. and a think tank that produces research papers about the state of the ecosystem. Mustaqbali Foundation demonstrating improvement in specific subjects such as In 2009, The Abraaj Group established and endowed the English and Mathematics. US$ 10 million Mustaqbali Foundation in Palestine, in partnership with the Welfare Association. The Foundation’s The Foundation also helped many young entrepreneurs mission is to empower the war orphans of Gaza through realize their business ambitions. It helped 42 startups over education so they can live a normal, fulfilling life. In 2012, the year in Gaza itself, ranging from bookshops to takeaway the Foundation enabled 274 children to attend kindergarten, restaurants. 1,068 pupils to return to school and 103 students to attend higher education classes. Just over 860 children Remedial classes conducted by the participated in its remedial education project, with 73% Mustaqbali Foundation Aman Foundation through AMANGHAR, started a community health worker The Aman Foundation was established in 2008 by our program targeting to cover 60% of Karachi’s low income Group Founder Arif Naqvi and his family with seed capital population, and established a modern vocational training of US$ 100 million. The Foundation is a social sector institute AMANTECH for 5,000 students providing technical enterprise that aims to champion dignity and choice for education and soft skills to Karachi’s youth. the underserved focusing on areas of health, education and nutrition. Since inception, the Foundation has made In 2012, the Aman Foundation signed a five year framework more than 400,000 interventions in healthcare through partnership agreement with the Bill and Melinda Gates the AMANAMBULANCE program, delivered over 2 Foundation, leveraging its on the ground knowledge in family million nutritious meals to low-income community schools planning and maternal and child health in Pakistan. 84 SHAPIN G T HE STAKE H OL DER M ODEL T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Dubai Cares of youngsters it has helped to 7 million. As a result of Dubai Cares was established in 2007 by His Highness its reputation in successfully developing and executing Sheikh Mohammed Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the Ruler of programs, other leading organizations, including UNICEF, Dubai, to give children access to quality primary education. have approached Dubai Cares for advice and assistance Dubai Cares works in countries with major deficiencies in in preparing their own initiatives. Gordon Brown, former primary education to implement development programs Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, has also called on that target the underlying causes preventing children from Dubai Cares to be one of seven organizations to sit on the accessing quality education. In 2012, the organization UN Secretary General’s Technical Advisory Group for the reached 1.5 million new children, taking the total number “Education First” project. Literacy classes held by Dubai Cares Injaz Al Arab (Junior Achievement) In Egypt, we provided seed funding and mentoring for the Injaz Al Arab provides education and training to students first student-led startup in the MENA region. RecycloBekia is across the MENASA region with the ambition of inspiring the brainchild of a group of students and is the first e-waste them to become entrepreneurs. In 2012, Injaz Al Arab recycling company in Egypt. Just one year into operation, the touched the lives of 289,450 students across 15 countries. company has 23 employees and is worth US$ 400,000. The Abraaj Group contributed to this work through three major developments. With our efforts, Injaz restructured its Tunisian chapter after the 2011 revolution. A new Chairman and interim Board With our support, Injaz Al Arab established a presence in were appointed and a MoU with the Tunisian Ministry of Injaz student winners at a ceremony Pakistan and, over the next three years, the organization Education gave the organization access to schools and in Cairo hopes to train more than 6,000 students there. vocational training centers. As a result, Injaz Tunisia reached 1,880 students across 20 universities. Shake the Net can write simple words. This program is piloted in Stabi In 2012, The Abraaj Group joined forces with partner Antar in Egypt, where residents live in extreme poverty and companies OMS and Spinneys to launch the ‘Shake the school drop-out rates are high. Net’ soccer program in Cairo, with the aim of helping underprivileged children develop educational and life skills. Since launching in October 2012, participants have completed 64 hours of football training and 64 hours of In Cairo, the community is already seeing the benefits. literacy classes, during which both their physical fitness and When the children, who range from eight to 11 in age, first their literacy levels have seen considerable improvement. attended the sessions, most were illiterate and able only to Students attending soccer practice as write their names. Now all of them know the alphabet and part of the Shake the Net initiative Ruwwad organization also has a strong focus on children offering Ruwwad is a non-profit community empowerment workshops in creative arts, sciences and sports where up to organization that helps disadvantaged communities 150 children are welcomed on a daily basis. overcome marginalization through youth activism, civic engagement and education, initially focused on Jordan. This model of taking a deep dive into a local community The Abraaj Group has been a major contributor to this and engaging with community leaders to undertake social organization since its inception and has provided many programming has proven itself in East Amman where basic hours of volunteering time to its various programs. services are lacking for more than 54,000 needy persons. Activities are now being scaled to other areas of Jordan as Ruwwad participants at a community Through the Mousab Khorma Youth Education and well as Cairo, Palestine and Lebanon. empowerment event Empowerment Fund, 170 students receive scholarships every year, and to date 659 students have had the opportunity to further their studies thanks to Ruwwad. The 85 building sustainable co mmunities Academic Engagement American University in Cairo In May 2012, we invested US$ 1.1 million in launching the Abraaj Group Professorship in Private Equity at the American University in Cairo’s School of Business. The Professorship will be the cornerstone of the University’s MSc in Finance, launched last fall. We also created a US$ 100,000 endowment fund to strengthen research in private equity, venture capital and investment management at the University. London School of Economics The Abraaj Group holds a longstanding relationship with the London School of Economics and Political Science (LSE). The Group has established and funds the Private Equity Professorship in the Department of Finance. Students of the Masters in Finance course also benefit from receiving guest lectures from senior Abraaj members, as well as case studies of the Group’s portfolio companies. The first Abraaj Group Reader in Finance and Private Equity is Dr Ulf Axelson, tasked with evolving the program into research on private equity. INSEAD In Singapore, we are partnering with INSEAD, the leading international business school, as a founding member of the Global Private Equity Initiative (GPEI). The initiative seeks to work closely with private equity firms to produce relevant, timely and thought-provoking research and insight for both Limited and General Partners. The GPEI’s research aims to enhance the productivity of private equity capital and facilitate the sharing of ideas and best practice within the sector. IMD We have been long-term partners with IMD, one of the leading schools in executive education in Europe. With the view of orchestrating change management and innovation, we have run a series of executive education programs for a selection of partner companies. The Abraaj Group is a learning partner of IMD and our Founder and Group Chief Executive, Arif Naqvi, sits on the Foundation Board of IMD along with 50 CEOs of the world’s best known companies. In addition to the above partnerships, we work very closely with leading universities such as Harvard, Stanford, MIT, Wharton, Duke and London Business School, among others, to jointly develop case studies on our partner companies across the growth markets in which we operate. A number of these case studies now form part of the teaching curriculum in the MBA programs. A recent example includes a case study prepared by Harvard Business School and Harvard Kennedy School on the Karachi Electric Supply Company, the first such joint case study to be prepared for a private firm. 86 SHAPIN G T HE STAKE H OL DER M ODEL T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 ASSET in Our Partner Companies Karachi Electric Supply Company (KESC) We are finding that our external Reporting Initiative (GRI) for its Integrated Under its Social stakeholders are increasingly Sustainability Report, making KESC the first Investment Program (SIP), attracted to working with us power utility in Pakistan to achieve such KESC has launched a because of the strong set of values a rating. unique “Empowerment Program” to provide we live by and our commitment to relief to social welfare creating positive change for the In recognition of its remarkable performance organizations in health long term. in corporate social responsibility (CSR), and education sectors KESC was awarded the ‘CSR Business by providing them free This commitment is enshrined in the way Excellence Award’ by the National Forum for electricity. we screen our investments for their fit Environment and Health (NFEH), a program with global ESG standards and monitor being run in collaboration with the United performance in these areas through our Nations Environment Program (UNEP). proprietary Abraaj Sustainability Index. People and planet To assist partner companies climb the In the environmental sphere KESC is index, we encourage them to create socially currently working on creating the world’s positive value. The Karachi Electric Supply largest bio-waste-to-energy plant near the Company (KESC), in Pakistan, is a case Landhi cattle colony in Karachi. The impact in point. Stakeholder engagement is an on the local environment including the integral part of KESC’s business strategy. water ecosystem will be tremendous. ESG value creation is an essential part of The plant, which will have the capacity to KESC’s economic value creation model. generate 22 MW of renewable energy, will daily use up to 4,200 tons of biodegradable Under its Social Investment Program waste and 4,000 tons of cattle waste from (SIP), KESC has launched a unique the local area. “Empowerment Program” to provide relief to social welfare organizations in KESC has also rightfully considered its health and education sectors by providing own employees and workforce as a key free electricity. The program is aimed at stakeholder. The company’s leadership extending support to various vital healthcare launched the AZM (Resolve) change and educational institutions serving over management program in 2012. The two million underprivileged people on purely program, arguably the largest such humanitarian grounds. undertaking by Pakistan’s corporate sector, has provided the much needed impetus Whether its grassroots football to KESC’s 11,400 employees. The AZM development, promotion of thought program has successfully instilled a sense leadership or even knowledge exchange of pride, direction and resolve among programs in partnership with leading KESC’s workforce to transform it into a educational institutions, KESC’s customer-centric power utility in line with commitment to ESG is unequivocal. This customers’ aspirations. was further reinforced in 2012 when it secured a level ‘A’ rating from the Global 87 Committees and B oard o f Directors Committees and Board of Directors Investment Committee Partner Council Arif M. Naqvi (Chair) Sev Vettivetpillai (Chair) Mustafa Abdel-Wadood Arif Naqvi Wahid Hamid Mustafa Abdel-Wadood Sev Vettivetpillai Ahmed Badreldin Ashish Dave ParCo Review Committee Tabish Gauhar Wahid Hamid Wahid Hamid (Chair) Mounir Husseini Mustafa Abdel-Wadood Tarek Kabil Ahmed Badreldin Jacob Kholi Ashish Dave Hanjaya Limanto Tarek Kabil Omar Lodhi Omar Lodhi Miguel Olea Erik Peterson Erik Peterson Hossam Radwan Hossam Radwan Waqar Siddique Purshotam Ramchandani Davinder Sikand Waqar Siddique Matteo Stefanel Davinder Sikand Sev Vettivetpillai Tom Speechley Selcuk Yorgancioglu Matteo Stefanel Selcuk Yorgancioglu Management Executive Committee Mustafa Abdel-Wadood (Chair) Board of Directors Wahid Hamid Sheikh Abdulrahman Ali Al Turki Mounir Husseini Chairman Emeritus Narayanan Rajagopalan Arif Naqvi Purshotam Ramchandani Executive Vice Chairman and Group Chief Executive Waqar Siddique Sev Vettivetpillai Hussain Al-Nowais Vice Chairman Sean Cleary Risk and Compliance Committee Independent Waqar Siddique (Chair) Fadi Ghandour Peter Grant Independent Jacob Kholi Badr Jafar Hanjaya Limanto Hilton McCann Sir Paul Judge Miguel Olea Independent Hossam Radwan Thomas Schmidheiny Mustafa Abdel-Wadood Executive Waqar Siddique Executive 88 Council Me mbers T H E A B R A A J G R O U P A N N U A L R E VI E W 2 0 1 2 Council Members Excellence Council Sustainability Council Hasan Arat Jose Maria Figueres Chairman of the Executive Board Capital Partners Former President of Costa Rica H.E. Shaukat Aziz Helene Gayle Former Prime Minister of Pakistan President and CEO, CARE USA Dr John Chipman CMG Professor Ian Goldin Director-General and CEO, The International Institute Founding Director, Oxford Martin School at the for Strategic Studies (IISS) University of Oxford Peter Foyo Collazo Jane Nelson President, Nextel de Mexico Director, Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative at Harvard Kennedy School H.E. Benedikt Count Eckbrecht of DürckheimMontmartin Linda Rottenberg Co-founder & CEO, Endeavor Nader Al Hariri Frederic Sicre Mounir Husseini Managing Director, The Abraaj Group Partner, The Abraaj Group Dr Nathalie von Siemens The Rt Hon Lord Lamont of Lerwick Managing Director, Siemens Stiftung Dr Tidu Maini Sev Vettivetpillai Executive Chairman, Qatar Science and Partner, The Abraaj Group Technology Park Joe B. Wanjui H.E. Amre Moussa Chairman of the Board of Directors, UAP Provincial Former Secretary General, Arab League Insurance, Bawan Limited Group of Companies Professor Heizo Takenaka Graham Wrigley Chairman, Pasona Founder Partner, Permira 89 Regional Hubs Dubai Dubai International Financial Center (DIFC) Gate Village 8, 3rd Floor PO Box 504905 Tel: +971 4 506 4400 Contact: Ahmed Badreldin Istanbul Visnezade Mahallesi Suleyman Seba Caddesi B2 Blok No:32, 2nd Floor Akaretler, Besiktas 34357 Tel: +90 212 381 4800 Contact: Selçuk Yorgancioglu Mexico City Monte Caucaso 915-604 Lomas de Chapultepec C.P. 11000 Mexico, D.F 11000 Mexico Tel: +525 591 789 010 Contact: Miguel Angel Olea Mumbai 405, 4th Floor, Ceejay House Shiv Sagar Estate Dr Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai 400 018 Tel: +91 99 23 693 238 Contact: Ashish Dave Nairobi 68 Kijabe Street, 2nd Floor, Norfolk Towers PO Box 19558-00100 Nairobi Tel: +254 20 220 6000 Contact: Davinder Sikand Singapore 10 Collyer Quay #39-04 Ocean Financial Center Singapore 049315 Tel: +65 6420 6363 Contact: Omar Lodhi 90 Offices Accra, Ghana Bogotá, Colombia Regimanuel Gray Head Office Cra. 9 No.113-52 Oficina 1404 No. 2 La By Pass, La, Accra P O Box 2617, Edificio Torres Unidas 2 Accra Tel: +571 637 2500 Tel: +233 302 770212 Contact: Daniel Wasserman Contact: Jacob Kholi Cairo, Egypt Algiers, Algeria Nile City Towers, North Tower 23 Rue Rouabeh Hocine (Ex Rue 17th floor, Corniche El Nil parmentier) 16035, Hydra, Algiers Ramlet Beaulac Tel: +213 21 484 557 Tel: +20 2 2461 9930 Contact: Alexandre Hamadouche Contact: Amr Helal Almaty, Kazakhstan Chennai, India 7 Al Farabi Ave, Nurly Tau 4A, Level 6, Chennai Citi Center, 10/11 Office 14 , Almaty, 050059 Dr Radhakrishnan Salai, Chennai 600 004 Tel: +7 727 311 02 87 Tel: +91 44 4221 8295 Contact: Talgat Kukenov Contact: GV Kumar Amman, Jordan Casablanca, Morocco 158 Mecca St. 3, rue Abou Zaid Eddaboussi Hijaz Towers, 7th Floor 20100 Casablanca Office 708, P.O. Box 923 Tel: +212 522 790 800 Zip code: 11821 Contact: Anas Guennoun Tel: +962 6 554 0079 Contact: Tarik Awad Ebene, Mauritius Level 12 NeXTeracom Tower I Bandar Seri Begawan, Brunei Cybercity Ebene Unit 2, Level 2, Tel: +230 464 9494 Bangunan Suria Contact: Davinder Sikand Lot 22076 Kampong Kiulap Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Bandar Seri Begawan BE1518 1st Floor, Somerset Chancellor Court Tel: +673 223 2400 21-23 Nguyen Thi Minh Khai Street, District 1 Contact: Ainadin Cader Tel: +84 8 3823 0328 Contact: Srisant Chitvaranund Bangkok, Thailand 193/104, 25th Floor, Lake Rajada Office Jakarta, Indonesia Complex Chase Plaza 2nd Floor Podium New Rajadapisek Road, Klongtoey Jl. jendral Sudirman Kav.21 Tel: +66 2 661 8899 Jakarta Selatan Contact: Srisant Chitvaranund 12920 Tel: +622 1 520 8380 Beirut, Lebanon Contact: Hanjaya Limanto Venice Center, 1st Floor Foch Avenue, Downtown Johannesburg, South Africa 1153 Marfaa’ 1st Floor, The Place Beirut 1 Sandton Drive, Sandton Tel: +961 1 983 640 Tel: +27 11 884 2066 Contact: Nina Nemr Contact: Ron Den Besten 91 Karachi, Pakistan Pasig City, Philippines Office number 117, Unit 1210 Prestige Tower, 1/F Bahria Complex III F. Ortigas Jr. Road, MT Khan Road, Karachi Ortigas Center Tel: +92 21 3520 2971 1605 Contact: Mazhar Ul Haq Tel: +632 637 4000 Contact: Danny Lizares Kolkata, India Level 6, Constantia,11. U. N. Brahmachari Marg Ramallah, Palestine Kolkata 700017 Ground Floor, Al Wa’ad Bldg. Tel: +91 33 4400 0639 49 Mob’adeen St, Al-Irsal Area Contact: Ashish Dave Tel: +970 2 241 6000 Contact: Hani Dajani Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Unit T3-6, Level 3 Riyadh, Saudi Arabia KPMG Tower 8 First Avenue Kingdom Tower, 25th Floor Bandar Utama P.O. Box 301052 Petaling Jaya Riyadh 11372 47800 Tel: +966 1 211 3044 Tel: +60 377 100 388 Contact: Hossam Radwan Contact: Chye Lin Loh San José, Costa Rica Lagos, Nigeria 200 Metros al Sur de la Esquina Block 12 Plot 3a Frajend Close Sureste de Multiplaza Osborne Foreshore EstateIkoyi, Lagos. Edificio Terraforte Tel: +234 1 764 4438 Piso 4 , Escazu Contact: Ravi Sharma Tel: +506 2201 9033 Contact: Erik Peterson Lima, Peru Av. Del Pinar 152, Oficina 605 Shandong Province, China Centro Empresarial, El Pinar III Room 1601, Site A Chacarilla, Surco Yihe International Building Tel: +51 1255 6300 10 Hongkong Middle Road Contact: Hector Martinez Qingdao Shandong Province 266071 Tel: +865 326 677 7161 London, United Kingdom Contact: Jack Bao 1 Grafton Street London W1S 4FE Tunis, Tunisia Tel: +44 203 540 1500 Imb Matrix-Bloc B -1er étage Contact: Sev Vettivetpillai Rue du Lac constance1053 Les Berges Du Lac Tel: +216 71 861 637 Contact: Adel Goucha 92 Disclaimer to The Abraaj Group Annual Review 2012 The information contained in this Abraaj This presentation includes descriptions Group Annual Review 2012 presentation of selected Abraaj investments, including is given, to the fullest extent allowed by details on the transaction, investment thesis law, without any liability whatsoever to The and events post-acquisition. The selected Abraaj Group, any of its affiliates or related investments are intended only to be entities or any of their respective members, illustrative of the types of investments made directors, officers or employees (collectively by Abraaj. In considering any performance “Abraaj”) for any direct or indirect losses, data contained herein, each recipient of damages (including special or consequential this presentation should bear in mind that damages), or other costs or expenses past performance is not indicative of future whatsoever arising from any use of, or results, and there can be no assurance reliance placed upon, this presentation that any future investment made by Abraaj or its contents or otherwise. This shall will achieve comparable results. Nothing not however limit any liability for death or contained herein should be deemed to personal injury resulting from any negligence be a prediction or projection of future of Abraaj. performance of any investment made by Abraaj. Unless otherwise indicated, the information presented herein is as of The information contained in this December 31, 2012. presentation does not constitute investment, legal, tax or accounting advice. Recipients No representation or warranty, express or of this presentation should conduct their implied, is made or given by Abraaj as to own due diligence and other enquiries in the accuracy, completeness or fairness relation to such information and consult with of the information or opinions contained their own professional advisors as to the in this presentation. In particular, no accuracy and application of the information representation or warranty is made that any contained in this presentation and for advice projection, forecast, calculation, forwardrelating to any legal, tax or accounting looking statement, assumption or estimate issues relating to a potential investment in contained in this presentation should or the regions described. This presentation will be achieved. There is a substantial does not constitute a recommendation likelihood that at least some, if not all, of the to invest in the regions described in this forward-looking statements included in this presentation or in securities of any vehicle presentation will prove to be inaccurate, investing in such regions and recipients possibly to a significant degree. should not rely on any information or opinions contained herein in making an Unless otherwise indicated, references investment or other decision. to “EBITDA” in this document represent revenues and earnings before interest, While Abraaj has used reasonable efforts taxes, depreciation and amortization to obtain information contained in this adjusted for one-time expenses and presentation from sources which it believes other adjustments where deemed to be reliable, Abraaj cannot guarantee the appropriate to better approximate accuracy of such information and has not business earnings growth. independently verified the assumptions on which such information is based. No representation or warranty is given by 93 Abraaj that the information or opinions any offer to purchase or subscribe for, any contained in this presentation are accurate, investments or securities, any investment reliable or complete. The information and advisory services or to engage in any other opinions contained in this presentation are transaction. Any such offer, subscription or provided by Abraaj for personal use and for solicitation by Abraaj will be made by means information purposes only. Each recipient of an independent offering document to of this presentation is solely liable for any be issued by Abraaj in connection with any use it makes of this information and Abraaj such offering, subscription or solicitation, disclaims any responsibility for any errors and any decision to purchase or subscribe or omissions in such information, including for such investments, securities, investment any financial calculations, projection, and advisory services or other transactions forecasts contained in this presentation. The should be made solely on the basis of the information is inherently subject to change information contained in such independent without notice and may become outdated. offering document. Each recipient should therefore verify any information obtained from this presentation By viewing this presentation each recipient before making use of it. agrees to be bound by the foregoing limitations and restrictions and, in particular, This presentation does not constitute or will be taken to have represented, warranted form part of, and should not be construed and undertaken that: (i) it has read and as, or relied upon in respect of, any offer agreed to comply with the contents of for sale or subscription of, or solicitation of this notice; and (ii) it will not subscribe for or purchase any securities of any vehicle managed or sponsored by Abraaj except on the basis of information in the offering document for such vehicle. 94 Abraaj Capital Limited, a business of The Abraaj Group, is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority. @abraajgroup The Abraaj Group www.abraaj.com
