Dated: January 23, 2013 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT As an active member of the UN Global Compact, PTC India Limited alongwith its group companies is committed to the Ten principles laid down by UNGC. The progress communication enumerates our support for protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Deepak Amitabh Chairman & Managing Director PTC India Ltd. New Delhi (India) PTC India Limited (Formerly known as Power Trading Corporation of India Limited) 2nd Floor, NBCC Tower, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi 110 066 Tel: 011-41659500, 41659128 Fax: 011-41659126 E-mail: info@ptcindia.com Website: www.ptcindia.com PTC INDIA LTD Commitment to protection of internationally proclaimed Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: PTC India Ltd. remains committed to support and respect internationally proclaimed human rights and follows the legal framework for guarantee of human rights through Fundamental Rights and Directive Principles as laid down in the constitution of India. Principle 2: PTC follows strict adherence of human rights in the company. There have been no instances of human rights abuse. Labour Principle 3: PTC upholds the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Other than the Human Resource Development department in the company which is committed to working towards the development of all employees and upholds freedom of association, there is an Employee Welfare Association in the company which undertakes various employee welfare and as well employee engagement activities. Principle 4: There is no forced or compulsory labour in the company. The company does not believe in or propagate such forms of labour. Principle 5: Employment of persons below 18 years of age is completely prohibited in PTC and its group companies. We do not practice child labour. Principle 6: There is no discrimination in terms of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: PTC and its group companies are actively involved in encouraging generation of energy through alternate/renewable energy sources and has a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PTC India Limited (Formerly known as Power Trading Corporation of India Limited) 2nd Floor, NBCC Tower, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi 110 066 Tel: 011-41659500, 41659128 Fax: 011-41659126 E-mail: info@ptcindia.com Website: www.ptcindia.com Principle 8: PTC and its group companies have undertaken initiatives in promoting greater environmental responsibility and has made equity investments in biomass and wind energy farms. PTC’s group company, PTC India Financial Services Ltd. (PFS) undertakes carbon financing transactions tailor made to meet requirements of the projects. Principle 9: PTC encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies especially through energy efficiency projects. PTC under the MoU with Bureau of Energy Efficiency (Nodal body for all Energy Efficiency activities in India) has successfully conducted Investment Grade Energy Audits (IGEA) of the prestigious Presidential Estate. Out of the seven BEE entrusted buildings seven Govt. buildings namely AIIMS, IGESI Hospital Jhilmil, ESI Hospital Rohini, National Archives, Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Safdarjung Hospital, two major utilities namely AIIMS, and IGESI Hospital, Jhilmil have issued Letter of Intent (LOI) to PTC for the implementation of energy cost saving measures, which are in different stages based on the ESCO concept, and are in different stages of Implementation. Steps to undertake energy efficiency measures for Urban Local Bodies (ULBs)/ Municipalities in the State of Gujarat are also in process. This model is proposed to be replicated on its success. Anti corruption Principle 10: There is complete transparency on our business practice and have a sound corporate governance framework under which we operate. We are against all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery. PTC India Limited (Formerly known as Power Trading Corporation of India Limited) 2nd Floor, NBCC Tower, 15 Bhikaji Cama Place New Delhi 110 066 Tel: 011-41659500, 41659128 Fax: 011-41659126 E-mail: info@ptcindia.com Website: www.ptcindia.com
