Sustainability Report 2012 Better Energy Better World Beyond LNG, Global KOGAS KOGAS About this Report Better Energy, Better World KOGAS, believing in a ‘Better Energy, Better World’, carries out ceaseless efforts to grow as the world’s leading energy company. This report, having been published since 2006 on a yearly basis, is devised to actively share our sustainability management efforts with stakeholders. C O N T E N T S Reporting Principles This report is in compliance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines and reflects the demands of CEO’s Message 02 the DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index). ISO 26000, an international guideline for CSR, has also been taken into KOGAS 2012 Highlights 04 consideration to further improve the quality of the report. Global KOGAS Reaching Out to the World 06 Reporting Period and Scope Company Profile 08 This report covers the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012, entailing information of the year’s Corporate Governance 12 sustainability activities and performance. Crucial data is presented with past records to help assess performance Management Innovation 14 trends more effectively with partial inclusion of the record of 2013 (indicated when used). The scope of the report Risk Control 16 encompasses the operations of our head office, 12 regional business locations, and KOGAS’ R&D center as well as Stakeholder Communication 18 providing a summary of the business performance of Korea Gas Technology Corporation (KOGAS-Tech). (Overseas office and equity-holding companies are excluded). Sustainable Value Korea’s Sustainable Energy 22 Stable Supply of Natural Gas 24 Report Assurance Building a Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain 26 In order to ensure reliability and objectivity of the overall content of the report, we have commissioned an Stable Facilities Operation 30 independent third party to provide verification and assurance which is indicated on page 63. Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit 31 Major Economic Performance 32 Green Value Clean Energy for the Planet 34 Environmental Management System 36 Environmental Management Performance 37 Addressing Climate Change 39 Green Partnership 40 Additional Information Efficient Use of Energy 41 Please contact us for more information or inquiries at: Shared Value Sharing for Society 42 Website http://www.kogas.or.kr Creating Customer Value 44 E-mail don@kogas.or.kr Human Resources Management 46 Phone 82-31-710-0208 Fair and Transparent Management 50 Fax 82-31-710-0899 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Address Management Strategy Team, Office of Management Strategy, Korea Gas Corporation, Win-win Management 54 Dolmaro 171, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea Social Contribution 57 Appendix History & Organization Chart 61 Affiliates & Subsidiaries 62 Assurance Statement 63 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 Eco-Design Glossary 71 In order to minimize environmental damage and waste of resources, the report has been produced with a number of Awards & Associations 72 environment-friendly measures such as, avoiding spot and background coloring, and using environment friendly paper and soy ink during publication while avoiding coating processes. KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report CEO’s Message Dear Respected Customers, Since its foundation in August 1983, KOGAS has been the wheel to improving the nation’s KOGAS’ Eco-consciousness quality of life and welfare by securing safe and stable supply of Natural Gas for the past In line with the vision of ‘Sustainable Future Energy Enterprise’, KOGAS has strategically 30 years. Our continued growth and excellent performance are the fruits of our tireless set and pursued 52 execution tasks and 7 key missions in 3 categories of ‘Addressing devotion and hard work to actualize our philosophy, ‘Better Energy, Better World’. climate change’, ‘Saving energy’ and ‘Securing future growth engines’. Accomplishment Embarking with only 3 storage tanks in 1986, we have emerged as a global LNG company of such strategies is operated by the establishment of intranet-based Environmental PolluKOGAS thrives to achieve with the world’s strongest LNG purchasing power (34.97 million tons at the end of 2012) and storage capacity (60 storage tanks, 8.86 million ㎘). With ceaseless efforts for further tant Emission Management System, complimented by the GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Inventory Guideline that enables the identification of emission sources and producing reduction global energy leadership growth we have extended and diversified our operation to overseas, ultimately building plans accordingly. Furthermore, KOGAS produces energy reduction activities execution a vertically integrated LNG value chain. We have penetrated the upstream business plan per operating site and has constituted a system of verifying the execution. Such with transparent and responsible through overseas resources development, the midstream business by liquefaction plant efforts have resulted into the acquiring the industry’s first energy management system construction and LNG trading, and the downstream business by entering overseas natural certificate, ISO 50001. management. gas infrastructure market. Our management, renowned for its responsible operation and the Grand prize recipient KOGAS’ Social Responsibility of the Korea Ethical Management Award, fulfills and serves the public responsibility of ‘Global KOGAS, Growing Together with Customers’ is our fundamental vision. Our appremanagement disclosure with strengthened anti-corruption activities. Our commitment to ciation of customers has been the basis to which we have practiced customer satisfaction environment is also demonstrated by being the first public enterprise to attain the EFS management with online customer support system, online customer support center, and (Environmentally Friendly Site) for Samcheok Terminal Division. BIZ portal, built upon the VOC (Voice Of Customer) analysis. Also, acknowledging the Such devotion to ethical and responsible management has led us to receive various awards significance of inclusive growth and reciprocal management, we have established the to heighten our reputation including being selected as the Korea's Most Admired Energy ‘SMEs (Small and Medium Enterprises) Growth Roadmap’ to support SMEs in a varied Company for 6 consecutive years, obtaining ‘Excellent’ grade in Customer Satisfactory and systematic manner to improve and increase competitiveness. Survey for Public Enterprise for 6 consecutive years, achieving No. 1 in DJSI Korea, Gas We have developed our own social contribution initiative brand, ‘Onnuri’ to actualize the sector for 4 consecutive years, and receiving Korea Management Award as first public goal of ‘making the entire world warm and peaceful’. The project consists of 3 initiatives energy corporation. the Onnuri Love Project, Onnuri Hope Project, and Onnuri Harmony Project. From such efforts, we have received President’s Prize from the National Sharing Award. KOGAS’ Bright Future KOGAS is flourishing beyond the Korean border, emerging as a global energy leader as KOGAS’ Global Presence manifested by the establishment of a vertically integrated LNG value chain and extended KOGAS is marching towards the global market beyond the Korean border. Whilst our path operation scope. might be rocky with new difficulties arising, our commitment in transparent manageKOGAS’ operation encompasses overseas exploration, development and production ment, priorities of safe and healthy operation and dedicated social contribution will not which are only within global energy corporations’ capacity. Some of our tangible results be compromised but rather pave our way to emerging as one of the world’s most admired include the operation of Akkas Project in Iraq, which is getting ready for production and energy company. in the success of the Mozambique exploration project, the reserve volume mounted up Thank you. to approximately 130 million tons on an accumulative basis in 2012. Also, currently there are LNG-related projects such as DSLNG Indonesia, GLNG Australia and etc. in operation. Based on our expertise in LNG terminal construction and operation, solidly rooted in our past experiences, we have successfully completed the construction of LNG terminal in Manzanillo, Mexico in June, 2012 and we are in charge of its operation for the next 20 years. Acknowledging the fact that stepping up as a competitive global energy company necessarily requires technological development, KOGAS has been dedicated to developing new technologies in related fields. To mention a few, our current operation includes the world’s largest LNG storage tank (270,000㎘) development, LNG ship cargo and marine terminal gas plant technology development, self-propelled gas pipe inspection robot Seokhyo Jang technology development, and hydrogen fuel cell & HCNG charging station development. CEO and President of KOGAS 2 3 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report KOGAS 2012 Highlights 01. 02 . Received President’s Prize from the First Public Energy Corporation to Accept 03 . 04 . 05 . National Sharing Award the Korea Quality Management Award Ranked No.1 at DJSI Korea for Changing the City Gas Trading Unit Developing the World’s Largest LNG Storage Tank KOGAS’ pursuit of community outreach activities, such KOGAS is the first public energy corporation who 4 Consecutive Years in Gas Sector as Onnuri thermal efficiency improvement project for received the 2012 Quality Management Award for its For the first time in the history of Korean public The calculation unit changed from volume (㎥) to calory (MJ), KOGAS has developed construction technology for the world’s the lower income class, has been highly regarded and excellent, effective, and socially responsible manageenterprises, KOGAS has ranked No. 1 for 4 providing cheaper natural gas supply and new and renewable largest LNG storage tank, applying to #10-12 tanks constructhus led KOGAS to receive President’s prize from the ment execution practices. consecutive years in the Dow Jones supply in the future. tion at Samcheok Terminal Division. From such development, National Sharing Award. Sustainability Index (DJSI) Korea Gas sector. the company can save costs on operational and maintenance costs as well as 7.27 billion KRW construction cost per tank. 06. 07. 08. 09. 10. Pyeongtaek Terminal Division, First to Topped Customer Satisfaction Survey for Manzanillo, Mexico LNG Terminal ISO 50001 Discovered a Supersized Gas Reserved in Achieve Zero-accident for the 24th times in Public Enterprise for 6 Consecutive Years Construction Mozambique and Commenced City Gas Project the Industry KOGAS’ continued efforts to improve the service Manzanillo, Mexico LNG Terminal construction signifies After Incheon Terminal Division obtained the first The Mozambique exploration has been preceded by Since the zero-accident movement commenced on the quality has resulted in achieving top grade far more than a mere construction as it is an outcome ISO 50001 in the energy industry, Pyoengtaek success after success and KOGAS will commence city gas 22nd of April, 1988, the Pyoengtaek Terminal Division (Excellence) in Customer Satisfaction Survey for of the first overseas LNG terminal built by cooperative Terminal Division and Tongyoung Terminal Division supply from February 2014. has achieved its 24th zero-accident record. 6 consecutive years, scoring at 98 points. network of private and public enterprises. have also obtained the certificate. 4 5 4 5 Reaching Out to the World KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Major Business Areas Sustainability Management Strategy Scheme 01 • Overview KOGAS’ business encompasses a variety of areas. The major business areas entail LNG KOGAS’ sustainability management strategy is molded by the vision of ‘Global KOGAS import and supply to city gas companies, LNG terminal and pipeline network construction with people, with the planet’, seeking to top the DJSI Asia Pacific, Gas category. In order to Company Profile and operation, LNG and LPG development, R&D of energy-related by-products. ● Production & distribution of natural gas and purification and sales of natural gas by products actively cooperate with the government’s CSR policies, we embody corresponsive strategic missions, of creating jobs, actualizing fair society as well as inclusive growth, and social contribution. ● Construction and operation of natural gas plant and distribution network  Global KOGAS with people, with the planet KOGAS’ upmost priority is to secure a safe and stable supply of natural gas nationwide. This has been an engine to facilitate ● Development and export/import of natural gas  Present Global Future national economic growth and the furthering efforts in the midst of globalization such as the direct involvement in overseas ● Development and export/import of liquefied petroleum gas  Development of new and renewable energies using natural gas or its by-products, clean Domestic-limited customer ●  Revenue increase through E&P business expansion ●  resource development has brought about significant energy security with reserves mounting to approximately 8.5 folds of Korea’s ●  base strengthening domestic influConsolidation of global ●  national consumption. Standing proudly as a public enterprise, we envision a well-balanced growth with a harmonious pursuit of synthetic fuels, and eco-friendly businesses ● L  imited overseas investence and overseas business position in LNG facility ment expansion operation business publicity and profitability. ● Execution of projects commissioned by national and local governments  ● Exploration and development of petroleum resources and relevant businesses  KOGAS High domestic corporate ●  Improving the global brand ●  Name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) recognition recognition (Awareness) ●  I nsufficient overseas KOGAS core values + Expan● T  echnology improvement Date Established August 18, 1983 KOGAS Vision 2017 recognition sion = Success Industry Production and Distribution of Natural Gas We have built KOGAS Vision 2017 to realize the mission of ‘Better Energy, Better World’. Head Office Dolmaro 171, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea We vigorously aim to boost our corporate value to 30 trillion KRW by 2017 by raising People Nurturing global talent ●  energy self-sufficiency to 25%, increasing the proportion of overseas profit share to 60%, Local community develop●  Organization 6 Headquarters, 1 Division, 21 Departments, 12 District/Terminal Divisions, L ack of global talent ●  Pursuit for sustainability manment in resource-rich 3,143 Employees (As of December 31, 2012) and doubling our productivity which is enabled by annual progress analysis. agement through employee countries ● Lack of overseas network motivation and stakeholder ●  M  utually beneficial particiIPO Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange in 1999 participation pation of stakeholders Better Energy, Better World 35 Planet ●   Environmental Global Management Standard ●  Management limited to Reduced environment ●  domestic workplace Cost reduction through pollution (GHG, Sewage, air ●  I nsufficient carbon environmental management Global KOGAS Growing Together With Customer pollution, etc. ) trillion KRW management system and reduced pollution 2012 Sales REXPECT MORE Strategic Missions Objectives Execution Plan Achieving Vision 2017 by respecting customers and pursuing for higher value, better growth, and greater compensation ● Extending supply to unreached areas Establishing the foundation for ● Extending Onnuri Heat Efficiency Improvement Creating Jobs 2017 creating overseas jobs project ● Overseas research to secure new growth engines 100% 2017 ● Building institutional infrastructure 60% 2012 Guarantee fair competition ● Reinforcing subcontract management 45% Fair Society through systematization/institu● Extend computerization 2017 2012 25% 34% tionalization ● Strengthening competitiveness traditional markets 2012 9% ● Extending direct bidding opportunities Strengthening SMEs’ ● Developing New technology & product through R&D Self Overseas Profit Productivity Inclusive Growth self-sufficiency through technical cooperation Sufficiency Share Enhancement development support ● Expanding support to liquidity ● Finding Excellent cases and wider application ● Pursuing 3 brand initiatives of Onnuri Securing Expanding Enhancing Upgrading the S trategic focus on representa● Spreading KOGAS’ sharing culture Energy Business Global Management Social Contribution tive social contribution ● Promoting energy welfare for the underprivileged Resources Networks Competencies System activities and extension ● Leading eco-friendly green management Implementing Organization Core Values The Management Strategy team serves as the primary wheel of systematic organization The 4 core values Trust, Responsibility, Challenge and Change bear a distinctive and operation for effective company-wide management. The team manages and assesses significance for KOGAS as the fundamental foundation, setting the frame for KOGAS’ the missions to encourage institutionalization and whole-application of Sustainability operation. These are the core principles in which we will continue to build our corporate management through spread of the commitment through stakeholder evaluation, culture with. publication of sustainability report and etc. 9 8 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Natural Gas Value Chain Natural Gas Value Chain is categorized into upstream, midstream and downstream operations, depending on the scope of activities. Domestic natural gas business operates in the following form: The wholeMOTIE (Ministry of Trade, Mayor/Provincial Upstream, which refers to pre-liquefaction operation, consists of activities as exploration and extraction, while midstream process refers saler, KOGAS, imports LNG and procures natural gas to power stations and Industry & Energy) Governor Policy to liquefaction and transport process and downstream process stands for the post-transport process of direct supply through pipeline city gas companies nationwide. The retailers, city gas companies, supply the ● Approval of wholeCooperation Approval of retail ●  sale rates rates networks to consumers. The focus of KOGAS has shifted from downstream operation (LNG imports and direct gas companies/customer gas directly to households and industrial sites to the end consumers. Administrative ●  Administrative ●  procurement) to upstream operation (exploration and development) to provide cheap and stable supply of gas. guidance and guidance and supervision supervision Wholesale Retail Gas Supply KOGAS City Gas Corporations Gas Supply Gas Supply Large-scale Buyers Retail Consumers Power Generation, Tankers UPSTREAM MIDSTREAM DOWNSTREAM Exploration Development Production Liquefaction Marine transport Re-gasification Supply Chain Sales Exploration Development/Production LNG-Related Businesses Gas Sales project 4 Fields East Timor ●  Reservoir of 100 million tons in Myanmar (A-1 & A-3) ●  Indonesia DSLNG ●  City gas and power generation LNG sales ●  Krung Mane Field in Indonesia ●  ● Horn River/West Cutbank in Canada Australia GLNG Annual Production of 7.8 million tons ●  6 berthing facilities, 8.86 million ㎘ of storage tank, main pipeline of 3,558km in place ●  ● Area 4 Field discovered in Mozambique ● Total production of 6.5 billion barrels of oil in Zubair, Iraq Australia Prelude Project (10% of KOGAS ownership) ●  2012 Sales: 36.547 million tons ●  with 1.8 billion tons of gas reserved ●  Total expected production of 800 million barrels of gas in Badra, Iraq Oman OLNG Annual Production of approximately 6.6~7.2 million tons (1.2% of ●  Diversification of consumers such as gas air-conditioning/heating supply expansion, ●  ● Uzunkui Field in Uzbekistan ●  Total production of 460 thousand tons of Gas & chemical products in Surgil, KOGAS ownership) LNG supply for ships and etc. ● Cyprus Uzbekistan Qatar Ras Laffan LNG Annual Production of 6.6 million tons ●  Overseas LNG Terminal Project ●  Mining lot in Akkas, Iraq Yemen YLNG Annual Production of 6.5 million tons ●  Manzanillo, Mexico LNG terminal project ●  ●  Total expected production of 38 million tons (20 years) in Mansuriya, Iraq Thailand PTT LNG terminal EPC project: annual LNG supply of 5 million tons ●  ●  Gas field in Umiac, North Canada Singapore LNG terminal testing and education project ●  ●  Cordova Field UAE LNG terminal technical advisory project ●  ●  Reservoir of 2.54 Tcf in the gas field of Senoro, Indonesia Zehjiang and Jaingsu in China LNG terminal technical project ●  KOGAS’ first overseas LNG terminal storage tank construction Overseas Pipeline Project Iraq Kirkuk~Baiji Pipeline EPC project (pipe length of 110km) ●  Maputo, Mozambique city gas project ●  Mozambique Area 4 Field Exploration East Timor Field Exploration Zubair, Iraq Oil Production Project Horn River/West Cutbank in Canada Australia GLNG Project Ras Laffan, Quatar LNG Project Thailand PTT LNG Terminal Project Manzanillo, Mexico LNG Terminal Project 10 11 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Composition of Shareholders Subcommittees 02 • Corporate Governance KOGAS’ shares are owned by public and private investors. Public entities such as the KOGAS’ BOD has three subcommittees Audit Committee, Planning ·Strategy Committee, Korean government, Korea Electric Power Corporation (KEPCO), and local administrations Overseas Project Committee under its wing to utilize the expertise of non-executive Corporate aggregately hold a stake of about 61%, leading to a stable management. Shareholder Shares (As of December 31, 2012) Proportional Ownership directors to examine the agenda in depth and improve checks and balances in management. Committee Agenda Composition Government 20,758,110 26.86% Governance Structure Operating and accounting audits ●  ● 2 non-standing Audit ● E  valuation of internal accounting management systems auditors Public KEPCO 18,900,000 24.46% Committee ● A  udit of directors’ actions ● 1 standing auditor Local Administrations 7,326,600 9.47% Long-term strategies and visions ●  ● 2 non-executive Planning & Strategy Private Investors 30,299,800 39.21% Major investment projects, budget (operation) schemes ●  directors Committee ● M  anagement assessment, PR ● 2 executive directors Total 77,284,510 100% Development and production of overseas resources ●  ● 3 non-executive Overseas Project Export of plants and technologies ●  directors With the aim to protect shareholders’ and stakeholders’ rights and pursue long-term growth, KOGAS endeavors to consolidate Committee ● P  rocurement of natural gas and other overseas projects ● 1 executive directors a BOD-centered management system. In order to build a governance structure with effective checks and balances function, Composition of BOD we enhance pragmatic checks and balances on decision-making by emphasizing the role of non-executive directors. Under the BOD, KOGAS believes in the strengthened power of the BOD’S decision-making and check and Transparent and Systematic Operation the Audit Committee, Planning · Strategy Committee, and Overseas Project Committee have been set up to facilitate efficient operation. balances power for effective operation. As KOGAS’ highest decision-making organization, An Executive Nomination Committee, with 3 non-executive directors and 2 external We realize the significance of feedback and thus have pursued various measures to hear the voices of associates. the BOD consists of 5 executive and 7 non-executive directors, while the role of chairman is members, is formed to ensure transparent operation of the BOD and appointment process. assumed by a non-executive director. Its area of concern ranges from strategies and policy The results are released to stakeholders through our website. Also, the PYCS (BOD working to providing managerial support and monitoring. With a composition that appreciates system) is in place to improve operational process in a systematic and effective manner. No. of Board Agendas Participation Participation of NonMeetings Executive Directors the significance of checks and balances function, manifested by emphasis on the role of 61 (Case) (Case) (%) (%) 98 non-executive directors, operational issues are handled by the board of non-executive Strengthening Non-Executive Director’s Role and Expertise 18 94 94 93 93 53 55 92 directors. Professional and experienced experts from a variety of fields are serving as non-executive 16 16 50 % directors at KOGAS. The company provides comprehensive and systematic support to Sr. Executive Sr. Executive General Manager improve their competencies and understanding of our operation by enabling them to CEO Standing Auditor Vice President Vice President of Support Proportion of Public (Management) (Technology) Division engage in field operations. Such efforts have been applied in the company policies and 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Shareholders nurtured improved business performance. 5 Executive Directors Management Performance Directed by Non-Executive Directors’ Management Advice Management Advice Application BOD Efforts for financial soundness needed ●  F inancial management measures such as ●  7 Non-executive Directors Efforts for capital increase needed ●  receivable securitization ●  P roviding appropriate countermeasure and ● Promoting rights issue (Securing government applying auditing advices received regarding funding) overseas resource development and communicat● M  ore proactive communication through Media Laboring with the public to demonstrate our stance PR and etc. to accurately present our stance ●  AdministraSecurity Energy Management ManageAccounting Economic I mproving of workplace environment in remote ●  R evision and Modification of overseas tive Expert Expert Expert Expert ment Expert Expert areas needed employees/expat guidelines ●  Expert Q uarterly business plans needed ●  S ystematic quarterly evaluation of performance ●  C ontinuous reporting on crucial pending ●  P erformance reporting through meetings issues needed Regular BOD Meeting: Every 4th Thursday Operation Agenda Prior DeliberaMeeting BOD Meeting Feedback Evaluation of Directors and Executives Submission D-14 tion ~D-7 Notice ~D-5 D D+ KOGAS has actualized an effective BOD operation by identifying needs and loopholes through objective assessments individual evaluation of directors’ and executives’ as well Annual Management Monthly PerforBOD Assessment and as the BOD overall. Remuneration for executives includes basic salary, incentives, and Execution Feedback Plan Establishment mance Monitoring wider application retirement allowances. The annual basic salary is determined by non-executive directors Feedback within the limits approved at the shareholders’ meeting. The CEO proposes specific management objectives to achieve KOGAS’ corporate mission and vision and award BOD Operation incentives according to the performance assessments pursuant to the management In 2012, a total of 18 BOD meetings were held to make decisions on 55 agendas which contract formed with the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy. The executive directors form were thoroughly examined and discussed. The BOD attendance rate was 93% and 94% performance contracts with the CEO and receive incentives according to performance of the non-executive directors attended, which is a 2% increase from that of 2011. assessments. 13 12 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report KOGAS' Innovation Brand : BnF 03 • Management Innovation In order to improve loopholes and enhance essential competitiveness, KOGAS promotes be applied to enterprise-level operation after a technical assessment. Also, by supporting BnF (Best & First) Campaign, our authentic innovation activities. KOGAS’ management patenting, KOGAS facilitates knowledge capitalization. Innovation System innovation necessarily requires employees’ participation in autonomous objective setting and practicing. This is a cornerstone of establishing a corporate culture that is built around innovation and autonomous participation. 2012 Company-wide BP (Best Practice) Competition KOGAS holds ‘KOGAS BP Competition’ in November every year to systematize our handson experience and accelerate our drives to improve work processes. In 2012, 6 out of BnF Activity Direction and Activities 537 CoPs and 4 out of 12 field BnF activities participated for their excellent operation KOGAS establishes 3 core activity directions and 9 core areas of improvement annually. and the grand prize was received by Incheon Terminal Division with ‘the World’s First The 3 core activity directions of 2012 are HR/Technology Value Creation, Information Intelligence Map Design Project’. The project was highly respected for its ability to Value Creation and Organization Value Creation. integrate approximately 51,000 maps into one 3D drawing, eliminating facility inspection deadzones and reduce accidents through swift and accurate use of the plan, which is 3 Core Activity HR/Technology Value Information Value Organization Value Directions estimated to lead approximately 4.4 billion KRW of production cost reduction in the Creation Creation Creation KOGAS understands the necessity of consistent innovations in emerging as a global leading energy company, and therefore have future. Strengthening Global Improving Information ●  Facilitating Open Organiza●  pursued the BnF (Best & First) Campaign, our authentic innovation activities. Also, the KMS (Knowledge Management System) ●  Competencies Productivity tional Culture and CoP (Community of Practice) have been established to collect employees’ knowledge and ideas efficiently and improve 9 Main ● Strengthening Professional ● I mproving Execution ● B  uilding a challenge and Areas of Technology Competencies Methods in Operation transformation-orientated problem-solving ability. Through the annual BP (Best Practice) competition, we select the best innovation activity and excellent Improvement ● Consolidation of Learning ● E liminating Unnecessary innovative culture Culture Tasks ● B  uilding a happy knowledge practice. Selected practices at the annual BP competition are applied company-wide after a technical assessment. workplace billion KRW BnF Activity Process Knowledge Management Performance In 2012, KOGAS’ knowledge management activity resulted in 184.5 billion KRW 184.5 billion KRW Develop Missions Set Missions and Set Up Plans Execute Missions Evaluate Performance Experience Sharing of financial benefits. In comparison to previous year, the company saw an increase of 16.97% with reduction of operating cost rating at 54.6% and major business expenditure rating at 45.4%. Financial Benefits of KMS-led Feedback (company-wide application of excellent practices) Operational Improvement Financial Benefits by Program Field BnF Rainbow Activity (Unit : million KRW) KOGAS is promoting field BnF rainbow activity which is a system where missions are selected autonomously by 12 regional divisions in accordance with their own unique BnF CoP Total characteristics. Like rainbow, the program appreciates the unique varieties of innovation 164,994 184,509 of district divisions. The system facilitates employees’ participation in a variety of activities 19,515 157,745 156,207 114,623 ranging from the mission identification to experience sharing. Moreover, best practices are 109,951 awarded through annual BP Competition and are spread at company-wide level after a technical assessment for field application. 4,672 1,538 Knowledge Management System 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Since 2009, an ERP-based KMS (Knowledge Management System) is in use at KOGAS. Any employee can easily access to register and share their experience and knowledge. Financial Benefits by Category CoP (Community of Practice) which is formed by three employees at least can present Operating Cost Cut (Unit : million KRW) their operational improvement ideas and results. All KMS-registered individual knowledge Reduction of Major Business Expenditures and CoP activities are assessed by approximately 170 experts of 44 knowledge categories, and are finally selected by 'Expert Evaluation TFT' at the end of the year. And the selected 7,604 20,033 100,780 ‘Excellent knowledge & CoP activities’ receive incentives. 2010 2011 2012 Community of Practice, CoP A system of autonomous learning, CoP (Community of Practice) creates excellent group 105,878 137,712 83,729 knowledge and ultimately improves organizational problem-solving capacity. In 2012, 537 CoPs were formed and operated. The exellent knowledge found from such activity is to 15 14 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Company-wide Risk Management System Risk and Crisis Announced 04 • Risk Control KOGAS defines risk as the dangers or crisis factors which pose uncertainties or cause the We had 36 cases of reported risk and crisis warning in 2012 and the situations were loss of opportunities to interfere with the accomplishment of strategic and business goals. effectively managed accordingly. Company Wide Thus, preemptive management of risk is crucial in KOGAS’ management and activities of value creation. Correspondingly, building on the risk factor analysis in 2010, we have constructed a company-wide risk management system in 2012. Categorization of Risks KOGAS categorizes risk factors into those under proactive monitoring systems and others under post-management. We sub-classified risk control into the management of Risk Management operation, overseas projects, and financial risks in establishing our own enterprise-wide Contribute to the management and business activities through proactive risk control system. The risk control areas consist of disaster, management, communication risk control activities and conflict category with further advancement. Company-wide Risk Management Steady Proactive Risk Control Crisis Control Management Executive Policies Engagement KOGAS has built a company-wide risk control system to minimize the potentials for crisis. Such system is not merely a measure to ● Operating Risk Control ●Disaster ●Communication ● Overseas Project Risk Control prevent accident or crisis but also a system of effective risk control due to its intrinsic link with performance and value creation. Clear Roles Consistent ● Financial Risk Control ●Management ●Conflict and and Effective Also, an integrated analysis, as a part of risk control process, is in place to assist the operational decision making which can prevent More Management Standards Effective Risk the occurrence of risk or crisis preemptively and minimize the damage in case of crisis. Controls Risk Control System Operating Risk Control We identify and monitor risk factors that are obstacles to our achievement of strategic missions and assignments. In addition, 43 KPIs have been set accordingly. Risk Management Organization Overseas Project Risk Control Risk control departments apply qualitative and KOGAS operates risk control organization in line with the ‘3 Lines of Defense’ model. The quantitative risk control methodologies respectively to monitor potential risk factors in Risk Control Committee, directly led by the CEO, is the highest decision-making institution overseas projects and prevent actual risks. that determines all issues related to risk controls. The CRO, as the responsible member Financial Risk Control The International Finance Team and Financing IR Team control 36 times of overall company-wide risk management, bears the responsibility of reporting to the Risk Control Committee. The committee holds regular meeting at least once a year to review the company’s risk control status and responses and make decisions on relevant financial risks as well as conduct assessment and manage the corporate financial indices on exchange rates, interest rates, and liquidity. Crisis Control System Risk and Crisis agendas. Announced Several departments supervise the management of 16 different crisis categories and compose reports on crisis management activities to strengthen countermeasures and CEO implement other government programs. Risk Control Chief of Chief of Chief of Chief of Committee Category Crisis Definition Division Division Division Division CRO(Vice Environmental Crisis Environmental contamination caused by leaks from facilities or LNG carriers Team Team Team Team President) Gas leaks and fire outbreaks caused by destruction of production or Manager Manager Manager Manager Facility Crisis distribution facilities Support Disaster Manager Manager Manager Manager Risk Control Audit Disaster Crisis Disruptions to natural gas supplies caused by earthquakes, typhoons or floods ManageCheck & CommitSystem malfunctions or operating disruptions caused by hacking attacks or Overseas Supervising Internal tee Information System Crisis Operating Financial Summarize ment Dept. audit virus terrorism Project Departments Risk Control Risk Control (ManageRisk Control (16 crisis Decrease of market presence due to appearance of new competitors Department Department ment Department areas) Office Regulatory Crisis Deterioration of business environment due to the suspension of variable Information Team of the pricings on fuel costs Overseas Operating Financial Crisis Auditor Project Risk Risk Risk Management Overseas Project Crisis Inevitable changes or suspension of overseas projects 2nd 3rd Disruptions to the achievement of management objectives due to failures to 1st Line Line Line Strategic Crisis procure resources for strategic implementations Check & Internal audit ManageSupply Crunch Decline in LNG inventories due to supply disruptions or demand hikes ment Deterioration of financial soundness or liquidity due to volatilities in Financial Crisis exchange rates, oil prices, interest rates, or credit ratings Social Accountability Crisis Negligence in social accountability Risk Management Performance Human Resource Crisis Lower employee satisfactions Operating Crisis Occurrence of internal corruptions Risk Control Crisis Control Type Total Marketing Crisis Bankruptcy of city gas supplier Attention Caution Alarm Critical Total Caution Warning Total CommuDeterioration of corporate image or reputation caused by the wrong or PR Crisis nication negative media coverage 2010 3 7 2 1 13 N/A N/A 13 Disruptions to gas supplies due to walkouts or other labor strife Labor Strife 2011 4 7 4 15 N/A N/A 15 (including illegal actions) Conflict Disruptions to operations caused by collective complaints over facility 2012 3 3 7 13 17 6 23 36 Collective Complaints operations or construction processes 17 16 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Determined by impact and responsive measure, KOGAS has identified 4 categories of Materiality Test 05 • Stakeholder Communication customers and depending on the managing channel and organizing body, the categories It is very important to accurately identify stakeholders’ interests and business impact are sub-divided into 7 groups. In order to effectively manage each stakeholder groups’ in writing sustainability report. KOGAS, with its own material test process established, Stakeholder unique interests, we offer a wide range of communication channels and manage the complaints through integrated reporting portal, including kind/unkind reports, budget waste, inconvenience, information disclosure request, irregularity report and illegal subcontracting report. produces the sustainability report with careful assessment to include all KOGAS’ core issues raised by stakeholders. 1. S ustainability 2. S takeholder 3. Business 5. Core Issues Communication 4. Stakeholder Management Interests Impact Identification Evaluation Value Creating Customer: Employees Issue Pool Research Analysis Those who create and transfer values to customers through cooperation Identification Core Issue: Communication Channel: P revious year’s ●  Media analysis ●  M  anagement ●  S takeholder ●   onfirm 8 core C ●  Business expansion/ Field briefing for managers / Data on major business Competency strengthenLabor-management conferences / Ombudsman / core issues Industrial core ●  performance survey issues ●  ing/ Remuneration/ Stable Strategy workshop C  SR Trend issue analysis Indices ● S takeholder Employees employment/Welfare Responsible Organization: analysis ●  orporate C ● M anagement interview benefits/ Health & safety/ KOGAS identifies its stakeholders and manage them accordingly. In 2012, in effort to strengthen our connection with stakeholders, Employment Relations Management Strategy Team/ Labor Cooperation Team responsibility Disclosure guideline ●  M anagement an ‘Integrated Stakeholder Engagement System’ has been established and we will endeavor to reflect further our pursuit upholding Value Delivery Customer: Partners, Suppliers analysis Evaluation transparent and open sustainability management system. ● E mployee Survey Those who heighten and enrich the values of both parties’ demand, leading to a mutually ●  S ustainability beneficial relationship. Management T/F Opinion Poll Core Issue: Communication Channel: Business expansion/ Joint workshop and sports matches/ Business SMEs Support/ Financial information sessions / Surveys on contract satisfaction 7 27 soundness / Discussion meetings Business Responsible Organization: Step 1 Sustainability Management Issue Pool Identification Partners SMEs Support Team / Inventory & Contract Team We built The issue pool using last year’s core issues, recent CSR trends and 2012 CSR Customers and Channels Core Issue: Communication Channel: performance analysis. Business cooperation/ English newsletter / Sustainability Report / Safe supply/ Supporting Local newspaper / Broadcast schemes Step 2 Stakeholder Interests Research Stakeholder, Customer Procurement Responsible Organization: and Channels Management Companies Global Relations Team Media Analysis: Domestic, regional and economic newspaper and TV broadcast news, internet newspaper, and domestic English newspaper have been the basis of media Value Demand Costumer: Direct Customers (City gas and power analysis that entailed 382 news articles on KOGAS. generation companies) Those who consume KOGAS’ produced value. Industrial CSR Issue Analysis: Core issues of 4 benchmarked companies in the industry Core Issue: Communication Channel: from websites, sustainability reports, and annual reports have been studied. Safe supply/ Facility Customer discussion meetings / Customer satisfaction soundness/ Customer survey / Pricing briefing technical / Information meetsupporting schemes/ ings / Customer service system Social Responsibility Guideline Analysis: Core issues have been identified from the Direct Billing Responsible Organization: UNGC 10 principles, which KOGAS complies to, and ISO CSR guideline as well as global Customers City Gas Sales Team / Power Generation Sales Team / LCNG Sales Team standards like the GRI G3.1 guideline. Value Effect Customer: Shareholders and investors, Government and Step 3 Business Impact Analysis authorities, Local communities The common issues demonstrated in management performance index, disclosure and Those who influence KOGAS’ value creation. evaluation as well the issues identification from internal survey regarding the factors that are highly influential on KOGAS’ management have been incorporated. Core Issue: Communication Channel: Stock price/ Investment/ IR Activities / Electronic posting (Alio, KRX, and FSS) / Security/ Growth potenNewsletter Shareholders tials/ Financial soundness/ Responsible Organization: Step 4 Stakeholders Evaluation Dividends/ Corporate and Investors Financing & IR Team governance While paying attention to the issues raised by stakeholders, we are also focusing on the corresponding measures as follow-ups. The reflection of internal and external stakeholders’ Core Issue: Communication Channel: Addressing climate Information disclosure request system / opinions are collected and reflected through annual stakeholder awareness survey. The change/ Corporate govBusiness reports / Congressional or BAI audits survey was carried out for 10 days between 22nd and 31st of May 2013 with 3,114 Government and ernance/ Safety of supply Responsible Organization: Authorities and demand External Cooperation Team employees and 2,439 external stakeholders, with return of 1,063 valid answers. Core Issue: Communication Channel: Step 5 Core Issue Identification Social contribution/ Campaigns and social contributions / Safety & environment Conferences / Newsletters / Web posting Whilst there was a minor difference among stakeholders regarding prioritization, management/ Sustainable Local Responsible Organization: 8 common core issues have been identified. management/ Ethical Communities management/ ISO 26000 Public Relations Team 19 18 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report KOGAS Sustainability Management Core Issues A majority of stakeholders manifested an interest in overseas resource development expansion/ securing new growth Stakeholder Interview KOGAS values stakeholder communication as a top priority in sustainability management. We heard from a wide range of stakeholders business partners, community, government, engines, stable energy procurement and advancement of industrial infrastructure, customer-orientated management employees and etc. to ensure that the diversity in stakeholder groups is also reflected in our feedback. We believe that continuous communication with stakeholders can greatly improve and integrated risk control and etc. This report will present all 8 core issues to be discussed here to accurately reflect our pursuit of sustainability management with such varied opinions and expectations especially for the future direction of our operation. We are here to share the stakeholder interviews the views of our stakeholders. We will endeavor to provide effective operation by offering tailored sustainability and will ensure to reflect your precious opinions in our operation. management activities empathized by the stakeholders and the performance will be recorded in the next issue of our sustainability report. External (0~100%) 100 A C B D 80 E F 02 03 05 G 01 H 60 Jinho, Ahn Chungho, Je Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, KOGAS, Executive Vice President of Adnan Rajab 04 Gas Division Corporate Planning Division Oman LNG CCO (Chief Commercial Officer) 40 Stabilization of Natural Gas Supply is Giho, Kim I will concentrate on strengthening Chanyoung, Song Vice President, Korea City Gas Important for Energy Security. organizational capacity in accordance Change and Innovation for SustainRepresentative of Gastron Association with swift environmental changes. able Alternative Energy It is through stabilization of natural gas KOGAS’ sustains its safe and stable supDevelopment. 20 supply that Korea can obtain energy secuply of natural gas in seek of assisting KOGAS is one of the leading figures of the Preparing the Future Inclusive Growth rity and further pursue with overseas rewith citizens’ life to enhance welfare world energy industry. It has established To Go Fast Go Alone, with Natural Gas. sources development operation. KOGAS, and convenience. Domestically, we are itself as a highly cooperative company to Go Far Go Together. seeking for such aim, should establish efconcentrating on the expansion of natuand this is a positive asset as it builds the Natural gas is the most realistic measure fective strategies to lower the price for the ral gas production/supply facilities and 0 20 40 60 80 100 kinship to comfort and treat the partners Africa is the land of infinite deserts and citizens, rather than pushing for quantitato addressing climate change and flow of internationally, we are carrying out variInternal (0~100%) as members of KOGAS. As an LNG prosands. For them, if one wished to go far, the gas will only increase as time passes tive expansion. I believe that this is also a ous projects exploration, development, ducer, OLNG greatly appreciates KOGAS’ there was always a companion. It’s not with rising popularity. Therefore, it is crugreat opportunity for KOGAS to enhance production and etc.all across the value Core Issues fair and solid cooperation. I believe that surprising that we can go further with a cial that KOGAS endeavors to enhance its global competitiveness. chain. Furthermore, built on our past exKOGAS should acknowledge the fact that companion to rely on. I believe that this its technological capabilities to develop a A Overseas Resources Development and Securing New Growth Engine perience, we hold a sustainable foundathe resources are scarce and further its efproverb can be applied to KOGAS and variety of equipment and machinery that tion for growth which will help with our B Securing Stable Energy Procurement and Advancement of Industrial Infrastructure forts to find high-efficiency, low cost and the SMEs’ relationship, too. The mutual uses natural gas. Also, considering the emergence as a global energy leader. C Customer-Orientated Management sustainable alternative energy. Therefore, growth of both parties should be the marketing to facilitate new demand (gas However, in order to achieve such goal, D Integrated Risk Control innovative and groundbreaking R&D, answer to resolving social inequality and air-conditioning/heating & transportation we ought to consider the significance of regarding resource usefulness and effisustainable development. I look forward fuel), KOGAS and wholesalers and retailE Globalization of Product, Customer, Capacity and Performance technology and information in the midst ciency, will be crucial in actualizing KOto seeing a great future where mutual ers should consider developing a system F New and Renewable Energy Supply and Industry Facilitation of swiftly changing environment. KOGAS, GAS’ vision. growth for KOGAS and the SMEs can coor supporting scheme to advantage in G Furthering Global Social Contribution to rise as a global leader in the energy inoperate in the global market for mutual competition with other energy. dustry, will continue its ceaseless efforts H Integrated Countermeasures to Climate Change growth. in strengthening our own organizational capacity. 20 21 21 Sustainable Value 01 Sales 2012 35 trillion KRW Storage Facilities 60/8.86 unit / million ㎘ National Pipeline Network 3,558 km Natural Gas Sales 2012 KOGAS is responsible for Korea's sustainable energy development and operation. We, through expanding our horizon to upstream operation, including resource exploration and development, and mid/downstream operation, such as overseas 36.55 Area 4 Field in Mozambique LNG terminal / pipeline business and etc., compliment and strengthen Korean initiative to develop self-sufficiency and secure stable supply. million tons 22 23 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Stable Supply of Natural Gas Stable Supply of Natural Gas B uilding a Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain 24 26 Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit Major Economic Performance 31 32 Stable Facilities Operation 30 Forecast on Natural Gas Demands Proportion of Natural Gas in Primary Efforts on Stable Supply Energy Consumption Higher Accuracy in Demand Forecast KOGAS is continuously working to upgrade its forecast model to better reflect the everThere are various means which KOGAS employs to ensure stable natural gas supply to households. Natural Gas, amounting to 17.2% 17.2 changing demand conditions. Considering the heightened abnormal climate conditions, such model is complementary in strengthening of Korea's primary energy consumption, is one of the main energy resources along with oil, coal and nuclear power with its supply flexibility of the model to facilitate the scenario-based demand forecasts accuracy. We produce an annual short-term supply and demand verging to 75% of households (14,990,000 households). With a target to reach 78% of supply by 2020, we will provide a stable supply plan in April every year with the past experiences with power generation shutdowns and other cases of demand fluctuations. % nationwide. Proportion of Households Establishing an Integrated Supply and Demand Management System KOGAS introduced an integrated supply and demand Improving the Winter and Summer Leading a High Quality Market Development with City Gas Supply management system, merging demand forecast, import, production, supply and etc. Its successful adoption, from October, 2012, has We employ various measures for natural gas demand development and national energy consumption rationalization such as grants, 75 Consumption Gap enabled realtime interactive data exchange between different departments, ultimately enhancing organizational capacity to provide 1.945 system improvement and R&D capacity building strategy such as gas equipment domestication and efficiency research. For mid-/ stable natural gas supply and procurement. long-term security of demand volume, the company has set a higher target of 4.63 million tons by 2022 by increasing the demands of % combined heat and power gas, air-conditioning, fuel cell, transportation and industrial gas supplies. R/3 Ship Master Overall Monthly/Daily Stock Estimates ●  External Data Management Procurement Notes on System Operation TDR (Top-Down Ratio) Improvement Managing Demand Gap In order to resolve the problem of demand gap, KOGAS builds short-term and winter supply and demand Contract Master ●  ● Weather information Daily Procurement (Workbook) ●  ● Fuel oil, LNG power generation costs (Unit: KRW/㎥) Passage Master program. The company has also been expanding storage facilities and setting price lower during summer, relative to that of winter, to ● Price trends of competing products ● International natural gas future price 2.037 Facility Rental 2.05 provide stable supply of gas. Furthermore, the supplies to the sources with less seasonal gap, such as air-conditioning, industrial and ● Power generation preventive mainte1.996 nance plan development 2.00 Amenities Facilities Master 1.95 1.994 1.945 combined heat and power gas, are encouraged by various means to increase the demand. The efforts range from institutionalization and ● Power Supply & demand Record East Sea Gas Plan System Connection Upload 1.90 a dedicated team for Demand development team, subsidies (9,904 million KRW), development of high efficiency facilities/equipments Passage Planning System Connection 2009 2010 2011 2012 and etc. As a result, apart from power generation and residential gas, we supplied 8.26 million tons (42% of city gas sales) in 2012, Volume Commitments which is an increase of approximately 1.03 million tons from 2011. The effective use of such system has led to an improvement to 1.945 Supply and demand plan, The maximum operating stock / ●  Optimal inventory / Safety stock ●  Daily portion Management of demand fluctuation in 2012, from 2.307 of that in 2011. current stock / Stock ratio management ● City Gas / development companies Production Unloading Record ● Power  Plant Maintenance Plan ● Weather  Information Management Supply Management ● Heavy  oil / LNG development unit ● East Sea gas / third-party gas Production Record ● Base  Maintenance Plan management ● In-house consumption Management ● Natural  gas / Oil price management Optimal inventory, Safety stock Developing Demand for LNG Ships KOGAS signed the LNG ship fuel supply contract as the first Asian corporation and the supply Base / Pipeline Examination ● Supply  and Demand ● Power  Supply Performance plan management, Base In-house Consumption Management Management maintenance plan management will commence from 2013. Rooted in the tightened environmental restrictions on gas emission of ship and marine industry, the LNG ships have risen as a blue ocean market for natural gas consumption with an estimated total value of the ship fuel market amounting to approximately 50 trillion KRW 20301). Standing as one of the leading figures in the ship building industry, KOGAS' LNG ship fuel supply will contribute significantly to not only LNG ship fuel supply industry (LNG bunkering) but also strengthening Korean shipbuilding LNG Supply Sources Timely Expanding Facilities LNG Quantities imported industry's competitiveness. Since the 2000s, the unreached areas of small cities where natural gas supply is hard or impossible to access have come to our (Unit: 10,000 tons) Southeast-Asia 32% attention. Correspondingly, KOGAS has constructed and expanded necessary facilities for effective production and supply in the areas 3,497 3,397 Securing Stable Procurement Others 11% with social needs and environmental changes for more scientific and systematic operation. 3,182 Applying Strong Purchasing Power and Market Knowledge KOGAS' negotiating power comes from its reputation of holding Eurasia 6% the world's strongest purchasing power and market knowledge, enabling the demands to improve import conditions. The company Expanding LNG Storage Capacity Despite having enlarged storage capacity by approximately 250,000 tons through the completion also ensures economic purchase in a timely manner by maintaining reciprocal relationship with other international players like Japan, of 3 LNG storage tanks in Pyeongtaek and Tongyeong Terminal Divisions, a drastic increase of approximately 3,000,000 tons in power the biggest buyer in East Asia. Australia 2% generation and industrial procurement, due to conditions like power plant shutdown and etc., has created the need for continuous 2010 2011 2012 Middle East Asia 50% production and further supply facility constructions. In response, KOGAS, made plans to build a total of 12 tanks including 3 world’s Securing Stability via Long-term Contracts Drawing contacts on the basis of ‘Long-term Natural Gas Supply Plan’, KOGAS largest storage tanks (#10~12) of 270,000㎘ capacity in Samcheok by 2017 to sustain stable gas supply to Gyeongnam Province. Also, secures the necessary volume through long-term contracts (usually 10 years or more) primarily for city gas, power generation and we are pursuing construction of three extra storage tanks in Incheon Terminal Division as well as in Aewol, Jeju by 2017 as a strategic industrial purposes. The company also uses more flexible short-term methods such as Cargo Swap, a result of cooperation with a foreign location to enable natural gas procurement to the 5th terminal division and Jeju area. LNG buyer, and spot purchases to preemptively prepare for unexpected abnormal climate, economic conditions and natural disasters. Expanding Pipeline Networks to Unreached Regions We, at KOGAS, are extending our distribution pipeline network to Drawing Shale Gas Contract Preemptively Shale gas, a cheap gas produced in the U.S. has brought a phenomenon of 'Shale Gas unreached regions to close the regional energy gaps and diversify energy source options for consumers. We have added 536km of Revolution', shifting the world energy market significantly. KOGAS was able to preemptively prepare and sign contracts in 2012 which pipeline by 2012, aggregating national pipeline network to 3,558km. Note 1) Gazprom, Russia will bring various benefits to our citizens from 2017. 24 25 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Building a Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain Stable Supply of Natural Gas  uilding a Vertically Integrated B LNG Value Chain 24 26 Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit Major Economic Performance 31 32 Stable Facilities Operation 30 Amount of Secured Resources A Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain Packaged LNG Resource Development In order to secure resources in a competitive global market, KOGAS has introduced 130 The natural gas industry always bears the risk of unstable supply and demand because it is dominated by a few hands. To counter Packaged LNG Resource Development to capture a competitive edge. The business refers to operating chemical plant project and such vulnerability, KOGAS produces natural gas directly in the overseas (Upstream operation), liquefies and transports the gas by ships infrastructure construction at gas field in an integrated manner. Support or provision of social infrastructure can better assist resource million tons made in Korea (Midstream operation) and supply the gas nationwide (Downstream operation) to build a vertically integrated LNG value development and thus have become a crucial advantage for KOGAS. Despite the initial involvement through equity ownership at the chain. Currently, KOGAS conducts exploration, development and production all over the world and aims to claim 60% of profit from beginning of upstream operation, the extended value chain involvement has become a means to build a vertically integrated LNG the foreign market. value chain as our role shifted by shared and leading operations. The Surgil project in Uzbekistan entails the comprehensive package that encompasses the whole value chain. We plan to extend this to Mozambique where we aim to not only explore gas fields, but KOGAS in Overseas also supply city gas, build infrastructure and pipeline networks in line with the local government's request. Beneficiary of the resource development package operation extends not only to KOGAS but also to other Korean firms, offering opportunities and a competitive edge in international market as effective means of inclusive growth and industrial strength. Cyprus Umiac Gas Field in Arctic Zone Development Project Surgil, Uzbekistan Gas Field Zehjiang and Jaingsu in China Enhancing E&P Project Processes Acknowledging the fierce competition in the E&P (Exploration & Production) business, KOGAS Zubair, Iraq Field Project Development Project Horn River and West Cutbank, Canada LNG Terminal Project has established a systemized investment process as a stepping stone to become a specialist company in the arena. Although we focused Uzunkui, Uzbekistan Field Badra, Iraq Field Project Thailand PTT LNG Terminal EPC Project Cordova Field, Canada Development Project on production and reserve augmentation in the beginning, the changing paradigm of resource development towards profit-center Singapore LNG Terminal Test orientation has emphasized on the significance of profitability which has highlighted the importance of raising the success rate of Mansuriya, Iraq Field Project Operating and Training Myanmar (A-1 & A-3) Field Development Project exploration and expanding operational projects. Akkas, Iraq Field Project Krung Mane Field Project Management Operation Investment Project Audit Operational Kirkuk ~ Baiji Pipeline EPC, Iraq Indonesia DSLNG Project Manzanillo, Mexico LNG Terminal Project Establish Investment Working Committee Committee's DecisionCommittee Examination Management making and Budgeting Senoro, Indonesia Gas Field Development Project 4 Field Projects in East Timor Best Practice Maputo, Mozambique City Gas Project A Success Story of Packaged LNG Resource Development Area 4 Field in Mozambique Oman OLNG Project Exploration Project Surgil Gas Field Project in Uzbekistan Yemen YLNG Project Australia GLNG Project Development/Production Project Surgil Gas Field Project in Uzbekistan is one of the representatives of the successful cases of packaged resource development. It is Uzbekistan's first and largest project financing and KOGAS will be in charge of developing the gas field located in Aral LNG-Related Businesses Qatar RasGas Project Australia Prelude Sea area, where the reserve of 130 billion ㎥ (liquefied natural gas of 96 million tons and crude oil of 810 million barrels) FLNG Project Overseas Pipeline Project rests at. We will also build and run a chemical plant (460,000 tons) with the gas produced. The cost of operation will be 500 UAE LNG Terminal Technical Advisory Project Overseas LNG Terminal Project million dollars for gas field development, 2 billion dollars for gas chemical facility construction and etc, totaling up to 3.9 billion dollars. KOGAS believes that this is a highly promising project as it accompanies a chemical plant project (downstream ▼ FID Signing Event for the Surgil Project in Uzbekistan operation). The project is a cooperative work of KOGAS and 8 other Korean companies like Honam Petrochemical Corporation, STX energy, GS Construction, Samsung Engineering, Hyundai Engineering and etc. We believe that this project is the forefront Promoting Upstream Resource Development of future projects in under developed regions, such as Central Asia and Africa, in the field of resource development. Increased Secured Reserves through Direct Participation The role shift from an investor to a direct participant in the resource ▼ Oil Prospecting Ship in Mozambique Area 4 development business is rooted in KOGAS' aim to preemptively increase the volume of secured reserves. As a result, the continued $ 500 million $2 billion success in gas field exploration and potential resource-rich mines excavation in places like Mozambique has increased the volume of Permission secured reserves substantially. In 2012, the reserve volume mounted up to approximately 130 million tons on an accumulative basis. Surgil Gas (UNG ▶ Uz-Kor) Annual Gas 3.8BCM $ 300 million Field Gas Chemical Plant Annual Gas 3BCM The success of the Mozambique project, which secured further about 100 million tons of reserves, is likely to lead to the total reserved resources of 240 million tons or more. Mozambique Field, commenced from 2011, is the biggest gas field taken part by Korean Condensate 70,000 tons Annual HDPE company, and we expect to see more benefits with further mine excavations. The company also successfully signed 3 shared marine Annual Gas 1.5BCM 380,000 tons mine contracts in 2012. We consider Cyprus as 'the 2nd Mozambique' with its promising potentials. As it can be seen, KOGAS is Verda Gas Field Annual PP $ 700 million Condensate 40,000 tons 80,000 tons devoted to creating stability by securing natural gas reserves by venturing in the development of overseas resources. 26 27 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Stable Supply of Natural Gas 24 Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit 31  uilding a Vertically Integrated B 26 Major Economic Performance 32 LNG Value Chain Stable Facilities Operation 30 Expanding Midstream and Downstream Businesses Nurturing Global Talent Midstream and downstream operations are relatively stable with guaranteed cash profit in comparison to upstream resource KOGAS is developing a system that nurtures a professional global talent pool, complementing the building of a vertically integrated LNG development operation that bears high-risks on return. Also, midstream and downstream businesses are seen as inroads to business value chain. In order to nurture a talent pool for varied sectors, we incorporate overseas field OJT, short commissioned training, on-site expansions in various other areas where upstream projects are already taking place such as Mozambique natural gas exploration, practices and etc. With an external specialist institution's help, we are currently running a comprehensive training program of global Australia natural gas production, Canada shale gas production, Iraq oil and natural gas development and etc. by exporting KOGAS' E&P company's standard. In 2012, 489 pupils of 5 sectors were trained in total with 18 pupils trained separately by long-commissioned plant technology. training in key areas of expertise (Global MBA, public policy, gas engineering, resource development, financing, legal and other overseas OJT). ▲ OJT Overseas Field Result Briefing KOGAS plans to expand further with a newly arising blue ocean, Floating Storage Regasification Unit (FSRU) design and operation. The company will also export new technology of large storage tank (200,000 ㎘) construction and expand trading business by LNG, OIL, Developing Core Natural Gas Technology unconventional gas, petrochemical products (PE, PP), PNG, DME, etc. We are also seeking trading business in OMAN LNG gas, and The World's Largest LNG Storage Tank KOGAS has developed construction technology for the world's largest LNG storage Development of the World's Biggest LNG petrochemical products produced in Surgil, Uzbekistan and crude oil productions in Iraq, as well as an opportunity to enter natural gas Storage Tank tank, applying to #10-12 tanks construction at Samcheok Terminal Division. The world's largest storage tank, in comparison to the charging and cylinder projects with other Korean firm cooperatively. In particular, in case of Mozambique, when the operation comes in former tanks of 200,000 ㎘ capacity, bears 35%-increased storage capacity. From such development, the company can save costs on full production (expected 2018), we will be able to work in the primary derivatives Industry worth more than approximately 25 billion dollars such as construction of Floating LNG plant and inland liquefaction plant, LNG shipbuilding and transportation, land and sea pipeline and gas processing facility (CPF) 270 thousand ㎘ operational and maintenance cost and 7.27 billion KRW construction cost per tank. LNG Ship Cargo and Marine Terminal Gas Plant Technology KOGAS developed Korean type of membrane and LNG ship cargo KC-1 to apply to inland LNG storage tank (200,000 m3) and LNG ship respectively. We are cooperating with shipbuilding companies R&D Investments Exporting Downstream Technology (Unit: 100 million KRW) to apply this technology to LNG ship in various ways and also developing offshore terminal (LNG-FSRU) gas plant technology for gas 1,076 Starting from technology import from France and Japan for terminal design, construction and operation, KOGAS is now able to design field business. LNG storage tanks, build and operate LNG terminals with our own technology. In 2012, KOGAS saw profit of 18.1 billion KRW from 421 downstream part such as Manzanillo, Mexico LNG terminal operation project, Thailand PTT LNG terminal project, Singapore LNG 383 Self-propelled Gas Pipe Inspection Robot Technology In order to scientifically assess and evaluate the safety of underground terminal test operation and training project, China LNG terminal and storage tank design and technical advisory project, and UAE LNG pipelines, we have developed an ILI (In-Line Inspection) method pigging self-propelled robot technology, where relevant testing ▼ The Construction Site of LNG Terminal in Manzanillo, Mexico terminal technical advisory project orders. Also, our work in Zehjiang, China design and test operation project, UAE technical advisory equipments are deployed inside the pipes. KOGAS believes that this is a great cornerstone to enter international market. ▼▼ The Dedication Ceremony of LNG Terminal in 2010 2011 2012 project as well as Jaingsu, China tank design project and etc. have also received orders worth of approximately 10 million dollars. The Manzanillo, Mexico with the President of Mexico company's operation is not confirmed to terminal projects, expanding to overseas natural gas pipeline network building and operation. Hydrogen Fuel Cell & HCNG Charging Station KOGAS is investing in new and renewable energy and eco-friendly technology in Such skills owe to the experiences and technology in the domestic industry, enabling to obtain orders like Iraq overseas pipeline EPC many directions, pioneering the future energy market. In particular, in order to build up a solid foundation in hydrogen energy area, the turnkey projects and Mozambique gas pipeline network project. company is developing catalyst for hydrogen manufacturing technology, a desulfurizing agent, residential fuel cell systems, hydrogen station control system and etc. Through this, we are also leading low carbon green growth with infrastructure building such as 30N㎥/h level hydrogen station construction and inspection and HCNG charging station building. Best Practice A Successful Korean Business Model with 20 Years of Guaranteed Dividend Income. Manzanillo, Mexico LNG Terminal Project The LNG terminal project in Mexico is a successful case of cooperative operation between public and private enterprises increasing a substantial added value. The hard work and collaboration of KOGAS and other Korean companies brought about such success through a Korean LNG business model. Samsung C&T Corporation was able to create dividend income, Korea Exim Bank led financial return while Samsung Engineering designed, purchased and constructed LNG terminal, strengthening ❶ ❷ ❸ competitiveness in the EPC sector of LNG terminal business. The terminal, completed in 2011, is under KOGAS' effective ❹ ❺ ❻ management for the next 20 years from June, 2012 which we hope to demonstrate an unparalleled competitiveness in LNG ❶ Design of the LNG Storage Tank 270 thousand ㎘ terminal and relevant plant sector. Deriving from successful record of terminal operation in the past, KOGAS plans to dive ❷❸ S elf-Propelled Gas Pipe Inspection Robot Technology further into overseas LNG terminal operation projects in the future. ❹ Catalyst for Hydrogen Manufacturing Technology ❺ Desulfurization Facility ❻ A Hydrogen Station & A Fuel cell car(Incheon) 28 29 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Stable Facility Operation Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit Stable Supply of Natural Gas B uilding a Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain 24 26 Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit 31 Major Economic Performance 32 Stable Facilities Operation 30 KOGAS considers stable and cost-effective supply as the upmost priority and ensures to carry out its responsibility despite various Implementation of the Calorific Value Range System interfering conditions such as natural disasters and abnormal climate change through effective and safe facility operation. For such, KOGAS' city gas trading unit has been changed to the calorific value range system from the standard calorific value system in an KOGAS has established a crisis response system, advancement of facility operation process, securing high-quality equipments, improving attempt to unburden the citizens with lower cost and to improve energy source competitiveness. Rooted in the decreasing number ▲ Gas Forecasting System quality and etc. to proactively respond. of large quantity of calory gas field, the world has opted to consuming low-calory city gas with peaking of high-calory city gas price. Therefore, KOGAS has changed from the standard calorific value system, where a certain level of high calorific gas supply is necessitated, Supply Capacity of Cheongna Supply Station Uninterrupted Gas Supply In spite of national energy crisis, such as a 20% increase in gas consumption in winter 2012 due to to the calorific value range system, where the gas can range from the lowest to the highest. Also, with such implementation, we have 1,100 power station failures and abnormally cold weather, KOGAS demonstrated uninterrupted and stable gas supply with effective operation changed out measurement unit from volume (㎥) to calory (MJ) to offer fair and accurate price. through increasing the send-out pressure of Tongyoung Terminal Division, operating Oe-dong pressure-boost facility and establishment ton/hour of gas forest system. The reliable supply of natural gas was also sustained, achieving no accident and no crisis condition through various measures of safety check by the ILI (IN-Line Inspection) in long-ran operation facilities, pipeline safety assessment system as well as ▼ Standard Calory (10,400 kcal/Nm3): Volume Rate ▼ Calory range (9,800 ~ 10,600 kcal/Nm3): Calory Rate LNG storage tank inspect with KOGAS-origin cryogenic camera. Total energy consumption: Total energy consumption: 104,000 kcal 104,000 kcal Advanced Equipment Operation Processes KOGAS has introduced the technology of Natural Gas Pressure Power Plant that = 10 Nm3 * 10,400 kcal/Nm3 = 10.2 Nm3 * 10,200 kcal/Nm3 produces power by using gas pressure energy for the first time. The world's largest integrated station(Cheongna Supply Station : 1,100 Current: Sustaining 10,400 After improvement: the volume ton/hour) is being operated efficiently. Through development of intelligent map for terminal drawing management, efficiency of terminal kcal/Nm3 leads to extra costs of low-calory usage increased by with high-calory LNG import lower an indicated line, but the cost per operation system is being improved and optimized. and LPG mix calory decreases leading to lower price price. Efforts to Secure High-quality Equipments KOGAS holds a specific management system for 8 major equipments (Valve and others) that is directly related with the safety of natural gas supply. For the 8 major equipments, we ensure to do our best in securing only high-quality equipments by comprehensively assessing the suppliers' ability to comply with the proposed standards indicated in Reduced Costs by Improvement of City Gas In order to minimize the potential inconvenience due to the system change, we have lowered city gas calory step by step from 1st of the contract prior to signing. Also, the company actively encourages the SMEs' involvement by extending 2012 registered assessment Trading Unit in 2012 July, 2012. Also, we supply with 'Notification of calorific value in advance', to maintain the calory range within ±2%. 130 to occasional ratings and separately assesses the companies in different sizes. Object Standard for Major Material Number of Registered SMEs Expected Benefits of the Calorific Value Range System About billion KRW (Unit: ea.) 110% Increase From 2011 (Unit: ea.) Compared to the pre-existing system, KOGAS can offer natural gas with large quantity of calory at cheaper price. The system change 25 also provides an environment where city gas can be produced from various other gas sources in overseas (coal gas, bio-gas and etc.). 55 Estimate of Cost Savings in the Next 12 Years As the addition of pricey LPG is no longer necessary in natural gas production, we can see the benefits of production cost savings. From 5.7 14 11 46 50 the change, we expect to see an estimate of 130 billion KRW, leading to approximately 5.7 trillion KRW in the next 12 years. About trillion KRW 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ▲ Generating Equipment Using Gas Pressure Welding Defects Rate Reinforcing Onsite Quality Control Having achieved the target of less than 3% welding defects, KOGAS has also been able to 1.06 S W identify the underlying reasons and communicated with poorly performing companies to improve the quality. Furthermore, KOGAS' Enhancing Strengths Improving Weaknesses commitment in high quality management, demonstrated by activities like quality assessment at construction sites with a specialist, has • Establishing consumer response measures towards the •Responding effectively to global calory flow changes % globalization of low calory consuming city gas trend • Natural gas revenue diversification and quality translated to receiving Grand prize of 2012 Quality Management Award <Management Quality> sector. • Competitive price advantage standards establishment Welding Defects Rate (Unit: %) 2.06 T 1.99 O 1.61 1.45 Leveraging Opportunities Eliminating Risk Threats 1.06 • Improve city gas trading system •Eliminating cost-raising factors due to calorific • Following the low calory consuming trend of the management (added LPG) world LNG market • Improving LNG competitiveness for low-calory adoption 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ▲R eceiving Grand prize of 2012 Quality Management Award 30 31 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainable Value Major Economic Performance Stable Supply of Natural Gas B uilding a Vertically Integrated LNG Value Chain 24 26 Improvement of City Gas Trading Unit Major Economic Performance 31 32 Stable Facilities Operation 30 Domestic Operation Natural Gas Trade Financial Performance Major Financial Performance Performance LNG Procurements (Unit: 1,000 tons) Natural Gas Sales (Unit: 1,000 tons) Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 36,547 34,970 Sales 100 million KRW 227,405 284,298 350,313 33,974 33,570 Profit 100 million KRW 9,701 10,232 12,666 31,816 31,202 Borrowings % 52.0 55.7 59.9 AAA (Domestic) AAA (Domestic) AAA (Domestic) Credit Level A1 (Moody's) A1 (Moody's) A1 (Moody's) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * The K-IFRS Consolidated Reporting Standards Key Financial Indicators LNG Storage Gas Supply Pipeline (Unit: km) Unit : Proportion of storage (%) Category Content 2010 2011 2012 Stored Volume (10,000 ㎘) 11.3 11.3 3,558 Current Ratio (%) 138 147 116 10 886 3,022 Safety Debt Ratio (%) 288 348 116 832 712 2,879 Interest Coverage (Ratio) 1.65 1.41 116 Return on Assets (%) 0.9 0.5 116 Profitability Return on Equity (%) 3.6 2.2 116 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Operating Margin (%) 4.3 3.6 3.6 Revenue Growth (%) 25.3 23.2 Tangible Asset Growth (%) 6.6 7.7 11.9 Growth Operating Profit Growth (%) 5.0 23.8 Overseas Operation Overseas Resources Development Total Asset Growth (%) 4.9 19.9 12.8 Performance Secured Reserves (Unit: 10,000 tons) Direct Development (Unit: 10,000 tons) Economic Value Creation and (Unit: 100 million KRW) 2012 15,827 2012 168 Division Local Communities I Donation Customer I Sales Revenue 2011 13,347 2011 122 Government I Tax Employee I Salary etc. 2010 10,420 2010 74 121 350,313 2,526 801 Overseas Business Dividend Profit (Unit: million dollars) Investment (Unit: million dollars) Partners I Commission Payments Creditor I Interest Shareholder I Dividends 2012 109 2012 2,926 2011 134 2011 1,906 243 8,573 2010 97 2010 449 450 32 33 Green Value 02 Environmental Investment 27.6 billion KRW First in the Energy Industry to Obtain ISO 50001 Certification ISO 50001 certified In fulfilling the promise to preserve the mother earth, KOGAS is committed to environment activities as a global energy New and Renewable Energy Facilities Installment company with eco-consciousness. Under the vision of 'Sustainable Future Energy Company', we operate the low carbon management strategies, which consist of ‘Addressing climate change’, ‘Saving energy’ and ‘Securing future growth engines’, to effectively uphold social responsibility and prevent global warming with company-wide energy management 867 A Bird's Eye View of the New Eco-Friendly Headquarter system in an effective and integrated manner. million KRW 34 35 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Green Value Environmental Management System Environmental Management Environmental Management System Environmental Management Performance 37 Addressing Climate Change 36 39 Green Partnership Efficient Use of Energy 40 41 Performance Environmental Activities Expenditure Eco-Friendly Infrastructure Through a computerized environmental management system, KOGAS manages air, water quality and usage, hazardous chemicals and KOGAS Environmental Management Strategy Acknowledging the intrinsic necessity of green growth in pursuing companies' waste in an effective and integrated manner. 27.6 billion KRW survival and sustainable growth, KOGAS, as Korea's eco-friendly energy corporation, has established the Environmental Management Strategy. Under the vision of 'Sustainable Future Energy Company', we have established 52 action plans and 7 missions in 3 categories of 'Addressing climate change', 'Saving energy' and 'Securing future growth engines' which are bestowed as a company-wide practice. Air Pollutant Control Primary air-polluting production and distribution facilities include submerged combustion vaporizers (SMV), gas heaters, cogeneration facilities, boilers, and air conditioners at KOGAS. In order to minimize emission of containments, the facilities are managed with specific VISION Sustainable Future Energy Enterprise instructions. The SMVs are managed to not exceed 75ppm in pollutant density, which is half of the domestic emission standard of Proportional Environmental Activities 150ppm. We also monitor and control NOx density and emissions by using the TMS (Tele-Monitoring System) installed at stacks on a Expenditure by Category Objectives real-time basis. The green gas emission mounted to 650,862 tCO2eq in total with 308,957 tCO2eq and 341,911 tCO2eq for direct 1. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy 2. Create new growth engines 3. Increase reputation as a future energy consumption by 2014 as targeted by commercializing green technologies enterprise Greenhouse Gas (GHG) and indirect Greenhouse Gas emission respectively in 2012. 90% 9% Key Missions [7 Missions in 3 Categories] Natural Gas Sales GHG Emissions NOx Emissions SOx Emissions Dust Emissions 0.6% (Unit: thousand tons) Unit requirement (tCO2eq/thousand tons) Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) 0.245 0.230 0.123 0.116 1. Integrate the controls of GHG emissions Emissions (kg) 0.238 0.101 Emissions (tCO2eq) Addressing Climate Change 2. Strengthen activities and networks in addressing climate change Compliance with Regulations 17.8 8,319 4,252 0.3% 3. Raise the associate’s awareness of eco-friendly practices 16.8 18.6 14.87 14.05 4,135 8,216 36,547 7,438 3,161 33,570 650,862 12.16 Contamination Management 4. Realize low-cost green management practices through saving energy conservation 622,750 Saving Energy Cost Reductions 31,202 524,894 513,544 5. Apply green practices and technologies to actual operating locations 499,111 Contamination Prevention 379,612 Stakeholder Communication Securing Future Growth 6. Research and develop green technologies Creating Opportunities Engines 7. Commercialize green technologies Regulatory Compliances 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ※ E stimated on the autonomously recognizable level, applied IPCC_GL 1996 emission factor Computerized Environmental Control System The intranet-based ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system has been established ※ Unit requirement : Value of the necessary investment (material, fuel or consumed time) for natural gas production as a part of a company-wide environmental management system, assisting to improve data accessibility. Water Pollutant Control Environmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) In order to enhance the effectiveness of environmental management, KOGAS has KOGAS' commitment in minimizing water pollution is demonstrated by various activities and facility improvements. Also, effective established the EPE (Environmental Performance Evaluation) system in December 2007 for systematic indices management. We also management of water consumption is facilitated by the integrated management of tap water and underground water since 2009. The monitor environmental performance indices through annual evaluations to enable quantitative controls of environmental management total amount of water usage mounted up to 431,973㎘ with 411,953㎘ of tap water and 20,020㎘ of underground water 2012. performance. Sewage Control Pyeongtaek and Incheon LNG Terminal Divisions, located near shores, hold sewage treatment facilities which discharge water into seawater after purification. The sewage from Tongyoung Terminal Division and distribution stations are sent to Environmental Crisis Control System KOGAS has compiled the 'Ocean Pollution Management Manual' in December 2007 to local sewage treatment plants for processing. The pollutant concentration of wastewater effluent is strictly controlled so that it does not cope with maritime disasters in a fast and efficient manner. We also continuously train our staff and prepare more anti-disaster supplies exceed the legal limit of 20ppm. than legally required as the contingencies to minimize the environmental damages in the aftermath of such crisis. Wastewater Control In spite of the fact that the KOGAS' natural gas production bears limited damaging potentials owing to minimal Environmental Cost Control water use, we still operate a strict system of water management for comprehensive system. Incheon LNG Terminal operates its own KOGAS has developed its own environmental cost standards to manage expenditures on environmental programs under 4 different water and waste oil treatment facilities, while other plants recycle the water supply for all the processes within their facilities to prevent activity categories contamination prevention, contamination management, stakeholder communication, and regulatory compliances. the discharge of contaminants. The seawater used for LNG vaporizers is discharged into the ocean without any harmful effects after In 2012, the preventative environmental activities cost scaled up to around 27.6 billion KRW in the order of contamination prevention, being used for heat exchanges. contamination management, stakeholder communication, and regulatory compliances respectively for the cost. (Unit: million KRW) Annual Environmental Activities Expenditures BOD Emissions COD Emissions SS Emissions 33,346 2010 28,314 913 Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) Unit requirement (kg/thousand tons) 2011 3,485 24,865 Emissions (kg) Emissions (kg) Emissions (kg) 23,136 27,224 27,593 2012 2,255 2,475 688 2012 104.6 0.0029 2012 82 0.0022 2012 182.6 0.0050 920 859 2011 201.6 0.0060 2011 61 0.0018 2011 295.7 0.0088 176 77 Contamination Contamination Stakeholder Regulatory Total ▲▲ Incheon Terminal Division Sewage Management Facility 2010 111.9 0.0040 2010 56.1 0.0018 2010 155.7 0.0050 management prevention communication compliances ▲ Incheon Terminal Division Waste Oil Management Facility ※ Natural gas sales which is considered as the standard is 31,202 thousand tons in 2010, 33,570 thousand tons in 2011 and 36,547 thousand tons in 2012. ※U  nit requirement : Value of the necessary investment (material, fuel or consumed time) for natural gas production 36 37 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Green Value Addressing Climate Change Environmental Management System Environmental Management Performance Addressing Climate Change 36 37 39 Green Partnership Efficient Use of Energy 40 41 Hazardous Chemicals Control Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tCO2) Establishing the GHG Inventory Control System Caustic soda (NaOH) and hydrochloric acid (HCI) are the major hazardous chemicals used in KOGAS' production processes. These KOGAS has been successful in constituting effective GHG controls through the foundation of GHG Inventory Control System. The less than 814,762 substances are applied to control the acidity of the contents in the tanks of submerged combustion vaporizers (SMV), which are 20% system, by identifying the sources of direct and indirect Greenhouse Gas sources within our operating sites, eases the assessment of the Additional LNG gasification facilities. KOGAS is carrying out research on the measures which we can use to reduce the use of such chemical 650,862 Reduction respective emissions to clearly track GHG data. In addition, we plan to build an IT system for effective emission and energy consumption counteragent for submerged combustion vaporizers. controls. Waste Control Target Result Carbon Disclosure Project KOGAS applies stricter standards to the management of our waste production than legally required standards and we perform routinized In conjunction with the global response to climate change, KOGAS has been disclosing its carbon footprint since 2008. We provide accurate periodical inspections on waste management service providers for effective containments handling. KOGAS data to financial institutions and investors across the world to help them clearly assess the investment risks and opportunities related to climate change through the data disclosure project. The project's ultimate goal is to help minimize the relevant investment risks. Energy Consumption(TJ) Unit requirement Hazardous Chemicals Usage Waste Discharges (kg/thousand tons) 10.07 GHG & Energy Target Management System Usage/Discharge (kg) 9.16 22.3 less than 15,880 8.89 14.12 17% GHG & Energy Target Management System is a management support system in which the government imposes the target for Additional 13,130 Greenhouse Gas Emission as well as Fossil Energy Use to designated companies with GHG emission and energy consumption in 337,945 325,047 10.72 Reduction 285,808 695,718 474,008 large volumes respectively and by which the government checks on and manages the achievements of those companies. Performance 391,778 assessments are then used, along with incentives and penalties (instructions, fine and etc.), to manage and support the corporations' Target Result effective improvement. KOGAS has submitted GHG & Energy statement relevant statement and received the reduction target for 2013 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 from the government. The pursuit of such targets was actualized by the submission of detailed execution plans drawn per division in ※ Natural gas sales which is considered as the standard is 31,202 thousand tons in 2010, 33,570 thousand tons in 2011 and 36,547 thousand tons in 2012. December 2012 and all reduction-related activities are executed diligently. ※ Unit requirement: Value of necessary investment (material, fuel or consumed time) for natural gas production Guidelines for GHG & Energy Management ▼P hytoplankton Collection Biodiversity Control ▼▼ Sediments Traction We, at KOGAS, apply strict standards to preserve and maintain biodiversity as a part of our dedicated environmental management. Announce the designated corporations ▼▼▼ Marine Sediment Measurement (Late June) In order to minimize topographic and ecological damages, it is compulsory to conduct environmental impact assessments prior to Select corporations to be managed Determine reduction targets construction of production plants and distribution stations with regular post-environmental impacts assessments. In cooperation (Late April) (Late September) with local communities and environmental organization, we have organized and operated environmental monitoring committee and environmental watchdog. The findings are shared through various measures of communication, like conferences, with the residents. on performances and statements Reducti ha ll b e verified by independent agencies s . KOGAS Biodiversity Control System Evaluate and order 1. Environmental Impact 2. Post-Environmental 3. Environmental Assign reduction corrections Assessment Impact Assessment Monitoring targets to divisions Submit action plans (Late October) Report performance (Late December) (Late March) Perform post-environmental impact Operate environmental Society / Natural Living assessments monitoring committee Economy Best Practice (Monthly·Quarterly) Operate Low Carbon Green Production/Consumption Support System Identify measures to reduce environenvironmental watchdog mental impacts Set up schemes to handle First in the Gas Industry to Achieve a Carbon Emission Certificate violations of environmental regulations or corporate policies Manage KOGAS’ Pyeongtaek Terminal Division has obtained the gas industry's first Carbon Emission Certificate. The certificate program Select and evaluate measures environmental database calculates the carbon emissions generated from the entire production and service processes, and then affixes labels with this carbon data to products. The certificate program aims to promote low carbon production and consumption practices as part Report the outcomes of post-environCommunicate Establish the optimal plan mental impact assessments with local communities of the efforts to address climate change. The system operates at carbon emission certification (1st grade) and low carbon product certification (2nd grade). 38 39 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Green Value Green Partnership Efficient Use of Energy Environmental Management System Environmental Management Performance Addressing Climate Change 36 37 39 Green Partnership Efficient Use of Energy 40 41 Green Credit Program Establishing Energy Management System (ISO 50001) At KOGAS, we fulfill our social responsibilities as a public enterprise by carrying out the Green Credit Program. The program encourages In pursuit of effective use of energy, KOGAS operates a company-wide Climate Change & Energy Saving Committee. Our environmental large corporations to provide financing and technical support to help SMEs reduce Greenhouse Gas emissions and on the other hand, management entails annual company-wide energy saving targets for each 14 operating sites which is complemented by regular receive a portion of credits for emission cuts in return for such support. From such, both parties can benefit as large corporations can assessment and analysis of Energy Technology Team, the responsible department. The sites with excellent energy saving performance are reduce carbon emissions cost-effectively while SMEs can cut their Greenhouse Gas emissions and raise energy efficiencies through encouraged further with incentives. 3 terminal divisions (Pyeongtaek, Incheon and Tongyoung) have obtained the energy management support received. ▲ Energy Management System (ISO 50001) Certificate system certificate, ISO 50001. We will continue to fulfill our social responsibility and contribute towards global warming prevention by perfecting the integrated energy management system by 2014. Environmental Control Training New and Renewable Energy KOGAS commissions a professional education service institution to provide environmental management education to all our employees, Facilities Investment New and Renewable Energy Facilities Installment leading to improved environmental management performance by raising awareness of the values of environmental protection. KOGAS is adopting low carbon energy facilities as a measure to enhance its energy efficiency. We invested 867 million KRW in installing Environmental Control Education Curriculums Course Trainee Agency Contents Note 867 million KRW renewable energy facilities at our 6 district divisions and 1 terminal division in 2012 alone to produce 138.63kW of electricity. We also pursue not only solar power but also wind power for diversified measures to ensure effective environment preservation. 2012 New and Renewable Energy Facilities Installments GHG Action Plan GHG Managers KOGAS GHG Data System Submission In-house Training Location Type Capacity (kW) Investment (1,000 KRW) Power Generation (kWh) Writing Session Tongyoung Terminal Division Solar 18 62,945 2,037 Env-Info System Registration Env-Info System KEITI Registering Environmental Information Commissioned Seoul District Division Solar 0.1 48,000 46 Expert Session Managers Solar 48 258,818 23,083 GHG & Energy Target GHG & Energy Target Management Gyeongin District Division GHG Managers KOGAS In-house Training Management Expert session Expert Session Wind 3 18,000 2,628 Chungcheong District EnMS Energy Management System Introduction Solar 3 21,000 339 Energy Managers KEMCO KEMCO Division Expert Session Calculating GHG Emission Jeongnam District Divison Solar 6 38,272 1,358 Regular CDP Managers CDP KOREA CDP Introduction Commissioned Solar + Wind 0.52 11,020 233 Official Training Gyeongbuk District Fuel cell 1 56,000 1,460 Solar 53.1 317,338 20,034 Involvement in Local Environmental Activities Gyeognam District Solar 6 36,000 8,147 Aware of the importance of autonomous practices and contributions in preventing global warming, KOGAS actively engages in local environmental activities with corporations, social partners and local communities. Energy Consumption 2012 In 2012, KOGAS has consumed 13,130TJ of energy, 6,081TJ, directly and 7,049TJ indirectly. This is an 8.25% of increase from that of Gas Science Museum KOGAS runs the Gas Science Museum at its LNG terminal base to promote the environmental benefits and 2011 which was 12.129TJ and we also consumed 0.359 (TJ/1,000 tons) of energy for each unit of natural gas sales. values of LNG for environmental protection. The museum is one of the major cultural attractions in the region, receiving a cumulative Energy Consumption total of 1.3 million visitors. About 100,000 visitors come to visit this museum annually, serving as a local cultural space. Category 2010 2011 2012 ECO School with KOGAS KOGAS operates an educational program, catered to elementary and middle school students, called Eco Natural Gas Sales (Thousand tons) 31,202 33,570 36,547 school. The program is consigned by 3 environmental organizations, including Seongnam Green Consumer Network. Direct Energy 4,562 6,000 6,081 Energy Emissions (TJ) Indirect Energy 5,636 6,129 7,049 Cultural Heritage Preservation KOGAS inspects the safety of gas facilities, repairs any malfunctioning facilities, and cleans the Total 10,198 12,129 13,130 environments of cultural heritage sites to contribute to the preservation of local heritage and enhance its reputation as a communityEnergy Emissions per Unit 0.327 0.361 0.359 (TJ/Thousand tons) friendly corporation. ※ TJ : Terajoule, energy consumption unit (1012) Saving Energy in Commuting Beach Cleaning Day We collect garbage and trash on beaches and roadways along the seas near Terminal Divisions to help protect ▲▲ Joint Event with Seongnam Green Consumer Network KOGAS procures residual heat from heat producers neighboring its distribution stations to reduce fuel consumption for gas heaters. ▲ Joint Event with E-Green Network the clean and beautiful environments on Beach Cleaning Day. KOGAS also operates commuter shuttle buses and an alternating driving day program to encourage our associates to reduce energy consumption and carbon emissions caused by commuting and business travel. 40 41 Shared Value 03 Topped the Public Enterprise Customer Satisfaction Survey 6 consecutive years SMEs Products Purchase 439.2 billion KRW Gas Discounts for Socially Vulnerable Groups 34.9 billion KRW Contribution Expenditure With a keen interest in social development, KOGAS has been at the forefront of social contribution, fulfilling our social responsibility as a global energy corporation. We are committed to ensuring both customers’and associates’ happiness as our top priority. In particular, we are listening to the voices of shareholders, customers, 48 employees, partners and local communities for balanced growth, bringing forward a better future for all through sharing mindset and heart-felt caring attitude. billion KRW 42 43 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Creating Customer Value Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Customer Satisfaction Management Strategy Customer Satisfaction for Public Corporation Strengthening Customer Communication Value Value 6 Creating Delivering Determined by service value, KOGAS identifies 4 categories for customers Value Creating (employees, procurement companies), Interactive Communication with Partners KOGAS pursues field explanatory meetings to ensure that customers' needs are Customer Customer Value Delivering (contractors and partners), Value Consuming (30 city gas companies, natural gas power stations, direct procurement heard and solutions are found. In particular, running a call center in 2012 meant that the company was able to actively communicate KOGAS' Customer contractors, production/pipeline facility customers, small and institutional investors) and Value Impact (government, local communities, Topped for consecutive years with the customers regarding city gas heat trading system adoption. We also listen to the voices from our major clients, including Classification citizens and customers) customers. Also, a means to pursue such goal is the customer satisfaction strategic network, which, based on city gas suppliers, electric power companies, and direct suppliers, through a wide variety of direct communication channels such as Value Value the analyses of category-based core demands and the VOC (Voice Of Customer), uses customer support system, online support system, joint workshop with customers, Wednesday Development Conference, Pricing Policy Public Hearing, Customer Meetings, Technical Consuming Impact Customer Customer BIZ portal and etc. to effectively monitor customer support on a real-time basis. Information Seminar and Day of Field Operations events. Through such, we were able to build a solid foundation for extension our natural gas supply by effectively communicating and allocating CS Vision KOGAS Pursuing Customer Values for More Happiness dividend responsibility to both local municipalities of unreached areas of natural gas supply and city gas companies. Also, areas like Strategic Upgrade CS organization Customer-oriented system and Jeju Island, where energy is not readily available, a natural gas supply contract has been signed to expand our operation and effectively Strengthen pre-civil complaint Improving Expertise in CS Orientations and system service improvements serve the nation. ● Changing natural gas supply contract Strategic ● ustomer service best practices C ●S trengthen CS field organization ● Improve incentive payment ●Increase On-site sessions contest Missions ● Improve online CS support system instructions ● Improve billing and payment options ●Run Consumer complaints call center ●Increase KOGAS CS School KOGAS CS School KOGAS CS School has been popularly received by partners. In particular, targeted at city gas volume control managers, Demand Prediction Training (5.29-31) which handled exchanges of demand estimation data with partners and enhancing CS Service Organization KOGAS is establishing CS service networks CS Decision CS Management Organization accuracy on a shared platform, and CS Manager Training (6.23~26) was a great platform to facilitate CS capacity for the growth of city Making Body (City Gas Sales Team) throughout our organization with the City Gas Sales Team. There are gas industry. This was complemented by another crucial training course of natural gas measurement training. KOGAS will not cease to Executive Committee Establishing CS Strategies and Action Plans dedicated team for each category of city gas · power generation · direct Supreme Decision-Making Customer Satisfaction Survey extend the scope of CS School education to further strengthen its CS capability. Organization customers as the center of the overall network. The onsite service team CS Implementation Committee of 8 district divisions and 2 terminal divisions is responsible for customer Making Decisions on Customer Support Advancing Customer-orientated Energy Marketing In order to resolve the problem on regional energy consumers imbalances, Front Line CS System satisfaction network operation and in the field, customer commissioners are Customer Meetings we have built new procurement locations to accelerate the natural gas supply on the basis of early-supply needs of municipalities' Customer directly involved through CS Service Committee. Working Meetings Customer Service and residents', deriving from the development of industrial complex and cities. Improving subsidies to enable gas heating and airCenter on Website conditioning meant that we were able to see 25-60% rise in the available finance and the subsidies for combined heat and industrial Customer Support System KOGAS is strengthening customer purposes comply to with National Energy Efficiency Policy. Gas discounts are also on offer as an extensive welfare system to cater for CS Support Frontline Field Organizations management and service systems through various means. The efforts range Organizations CS Organizations the socially vulnerable groups. from monitoring the voices of customers on a real-time basis and improving Services of Development, Resolving customer the statistical and analytic functions over VOCs through promoting customer Promoting Natural Gas Power Generation Sales complaints about the Establishing Pricing Policy Team, operations and services support system to revamping our web-based customer service center. CS Training Transportation Business of 8 district divisions Team, IR Team and 2 terminal divisions Online CS Support System KOGAS is strengthening our bilateral communication through advanced IT-based customer management Best Practice and service systems which entails VOC real-time monitoring, statistics and analysis. In 2012, we enhanced accessibility by improving the ▼ Natural Gas Street Campaign ▼▼ Pricing Policy Public Hearing login process of the BIZ portal system while extending the scope of online information provision such as offering necessary information Tailored Customer Service regarding city gas bill calculation. Furthermore, the online website's function varies largely from grant/subsidy application for gas Highest Rating in Customer Satisfaction heating/air-conditioning, heat combined power generating system and etc. and the information regarding its process is also available for Public Corporation Service for Six Consecutive Years online. We plan to extend this further in 2013, where we will provide a web-zine service to relevant personnel in customer management with a variety of information such as natural gas market trends. We also plan to facilitate real-time service of natural gas information Public-CSI, organized by the Ministry of Planning and Finance, is a typical survey that evaluates customer satisfaction (sales volume, daily/monthly customer category-orientated analysis of supply and revenue) enabled by BIZ portal advancement with regarding publicity, social happiness, and social contribution with public institutions. This survey is held once a year targeting online contact network with customers can be established. approximately 170 public institutions. The result of the survey is reflected in assessment of management performance ▼ BIZ Portal System Important BIZ Portal Changes for customer-oriented management and improvement of service quality and is communicated to public through a public announcement. KOGAS, since the research started in 1999, has been selected 9 times as the best institution until 2012 and Real-time Natural Gas Sales ● City gas companies, power generation companies' volume commitments, Information Disclosure sharing daily / monthly supply and sales data have been selected as an excellent institution for 6 years in a row. We believe that this is the result of our extended effort to ● Customer (City gas companies, power generation companies, relevant organizations) contacts shared, improve customer service in many ways for natural gas quality improvement (e.g. Gas trading and etc.) and energy welfare Internet-based Operational extended online communication with SMS and e-mail functions Contact Network ● Sharing necessary documents and templates (e.g. Extending supplies of natural gas at unreached regions, gas discount for the underprivileged and etc.) that is tailored to ● Alarm function when an issue is raised, leading swift responses KOGAS’ unique characteristics. Facilitating VOC Management ● Operational standard establishment with FAQ 44 45 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Human Resources Management Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Socially Fair Recruitment Increase Executives and Employees Duration of Training Per Employee Human Resource Development Infrastructure 137 136 A total of 3,143 associates were in service as of the end of 2012. The wage for newly employed college graduates amounts to about Upholding our core value, KOGAS has built ideal employees, who possess a harmonious balance of organizational and personal 244% of the legal minimum wage with no gender gap. The numbers and proportions of female, disabled, and veteran associates are competences, to build the human resource development infrastructure. In accordance, we are also implementing customized human % increasing due to the successful operation of socially fair recruitment. hours resource development roadmaps and providing educational programs. Open Employment Opportunities Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers KOGAS, actively encouraging the transition of temporary employees to full-time employment, contributes to job creation largely. Also, ●People taking on new challenges and leading the trends socially fair recruitment and open employment procedures have facilitated the increasing number of disabled, veterans and high school Core Values Trust Change Challenge Responsibility Role Model ●People pursuing to be the top in their respective fields ●People seeking to demonstrate reliability and succeed in collaborations graduates, as a great source of diversification and competitive advantage. Socially fair recruitment has increased by 137% in a year and such efforts have translated to being selected as 'the most desired employer in Korea' by the KMAC. HRD Missions Providing HRD infrastructures Providing human performance solutions Establishing performance-oriented organizations Women's Empowerment We currently have 302 female employees, amounting to 9.6% of all employees. With affirmation action Reinforcing organizational competitiveness (OD) Strengthening individual competencies (SD) HRD System system to encourage female recruitment in place, we have seen a substantial increase of the number of female employees for the past ●Basic Competences ●Leadership ●Vocational Competences Global Competences ●  3 years. However, considering the nature of work that with a large number of employees involved in maintenance and repairing and construction, the number of female applicants is not impressive. In the future, we plan to counter this problem by improving working HRD Strategies Strategy-oriented Creating performances Self-initiated Field-oriented conditions and systems and promote such to attract more application from women. HRD Infrastructures Competence-based educational system, e-HRD system, Self-development Planning, Institutional Support for Education and Development Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total Employees Persons 2,862 2,947 3,143 Employment Full-time Persons 2,830 2,915 3,112 Customized Competence Development on Career Development Planning KOGAS is focusing on nurturing the professional Type Temporary Persons 32 32 31 workforce for overseas business core areas (finance, HR, G&G and resource economy), enabled by long and short term overseas Female Associates to Full-time Employees % 8.1 8.2 9.6 commissioned training and overseas field OJT training. By establishing a system where different levels of certification are available, we Gender Equality Female Managers to Full-time Employees % 0.03 0.03 0.03 have built a career development planning guide that provides the necessary experience, education level, requirements and necessary Socially Disabled Associates to Full-time Employees % 2.3 2.4 2.5 Underprivileged training in demand determined by the pursued areas of expertise. This is complemented by overseas talent pool standard which enables Former Veterans to Full-time Employees % 8.84 8.72 8.62 Turnover Number of turnover Persons 44 35 38 prompt selection of professional talents when required. Socially Fair Recruitment Diversification of workforce and socially fair recruitment have been thoroughly carried out at KOGAS Providing Curriculums on Employees' Needs In order to encourage better understanding of training and explain further about as it can be seen from the rising numbers of veterans, disabled and former interns. A wide range of efforts to such commitment the changing training system and curriculum, KOGAS organizes management training workshop for training managers of teams and Proportion of Local Talent Joiners has been demonstrated by the rise in employment by 2.4~2.5%. For instance, veterans receive 5~10% additional points at socially divisions. Also, various training courses and sessions are built on the basis of employee training demand survey. In 2012, we operated in All Employees 1,272 courses with 39,917 graduates. 47 fair recruitments and have been selected with Veteran Eligibility Screening Test and blinds are provided with a special location for ▼ e-HRD System ▼▼ Training Managers Workshop recruitment. For disabled people, 5% of additional points will be added for them by each area. Also we have designated examination hall only for visually handicapped people. The socially fair recruitment is also present in the internship recruitment which saw the Curriculums (Unit: case) No. of Trainees (Unit: person) Training Hour Per Employee (Unit: hour) % combination of 43% of women, 53% of local talents, 6% of high school graduates, and 6% of veterans. 1,272 39,917 136 Competency-orientated Recruitment In order to actively pursue competency-orientated recruitment that upholds the principle of 875 122 102 affirmative action and equal opportunity, the unnecessary barriers to employment ,such as age, education level and major, have been 723 18,651 18,593 withdrawn from application requirement and personal background (name, place of origin and universities) is kept private. As a result, KOGAS was able to see that the proportion of local talent joiners soared at 47%. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 High School Graduates KOGAS hires high school graduates to expand job opportunities to the socially underprivileged class and promote competence-based corporate cultures. We have gone through system changes to eliminate biases, tailored for high school Particularly, the establishment of e-HRD system, an educational portal, opened in March, 2013 to effectively manage training in an graduates. For instance, we have waived the language certificate submission during application, which was a problem for high school effective manner. The portal manages educational history, competency measurement, career development planning, training registration, graduates, and prevented the university graduates' to apply for high school graduate-specific recruitment sessions. Also, we started to assessment and educational support in an integrated manner. accept the applications from those who have not attended or finished military service. 46 47 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Creating Customer Value 44 Win-win Management 54 Human Resources Management 46 Social Contribution 57 Fair and Transparent Management 50 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Strengthening Fair Human Resource Management System Reasonable Welfare System KOGAS' human resource management system entails competency and performance-based foundation with incentives to motivate the KOGAS has employed a variety of welfare measures to ensure that employees' voices are heard and the problems regarding health employees further. We are leading workforce motivation and competency strengthening through field-centered HR management. management, child bearing, hobby and self-development are supported. We are doing our best to maintain a fine balance between improving quality of life and managerial efficiency with limited resources available. Enhancing Fairness in the Promotion System KOGAS heightens fairness in promotion to allow our associates to better accept Post-retirement life security Personal and family quality of Facilitating active and compassionate personnel management decisions. Candidates are examined by multiple evaluators to test their qualifications while organizational with life planning support life improvement organizational culture and personal performances are assessed at the same time to more clearly identify the better candidates. We have also raised the ● Personal New Life Start course (online ● Childbirth subsidies and selective point system ●Gym, anti-obesity and no smoking programs transparency in evaluation processes by disciplining the candidates involved in unfair behaviors related to promotion, applying strict Labor-Management Relations education, reading, entrepreneurship school, (more than 3 children) are in place to ensure healthy workforce Continuing Education &professional consulting ● Workplace welfare facilities (4 divisions) and standards to the nomination and management of evaluators and reinforcing the qualification reviews of auditors. Satisfaction Survey (Unit : Score) support) ●Health checkups for the employees with shifts maternity vacation (examination, giving birth, and construction-based work. (obligatory) ● Retirement pension plan partner's labor) 71.2  ●Support for healthy hobby through social ● Relaxing facilities allocation(selective/rational) Providing Curriculums Based on Employees' Needs KOGAS has built a Self-directed Career Development System where 68.0 ● Employee's association to facilitate clubs(134 in place at the moment) communication with junior employees (health, culture, relaxing and etc.) welfare system ▲ Employee Discussion on HR Management Improvement employees can identify their weaknesses and compensate such through the support provided for careers development planning and ● Family sick leave and expatriate spouses leave ●Joint sports activities for departments 63.3 to prevent family segregation ●Legal and accounting counseling execution. Also, a logical relocation standard has been established and shared, facilitating predictability and the self-directed career ● Support for further education for selfCareer Satisfaction Survey development management. This is also complimented by operation of core businesses talent pool for strengthened professionalism development. (e.g. academy fee, language 2011 2012 where important posts of domestic and overseas businesses are filled through internal vote. exam application fee and etc.) 70.4 2010 2011 2012 63.0 68.0 64.7 64.2 66.3 57.8 57.5 59.0 61.3 58.6 53.7 57.6 53.5 Personnel Management Satisfaction on the Rise for 5 Consecutive Years KOGAS conducts annual personnel management Coexistent Labor Relations satisfaction surveys of our associates to evaluate our personnel management and operations and identify measures to continuously Labor Relations Promotion Strategy Labor-Management Relations Committee has been built to encourage interactive 4.4 2.4 4.1 7.1 4.0 5.2 4.0 improve the personnel management system. Acquiring feedback about human resource management and operation and proactive communication in labor relations. As a joint committee of both parties employees and the company representative the committee is reflection of the raised issues in the system have contributed to the continuous increase in the satisfaction rate. at the core of building labor relations management and strategy and identifies detailed execution missions for each 13 sites. Overall RecruitRelocaEfficiency PromoReward DiscipliLevel of ment tion Rating tion nary SatisfacAction Harmonious Balance with Work and Family Life Labor Relations Key Performance The operation of labor-relations committee has resulted in positive outcomes. The committee tion KOGAS supports personal welfare through various family-friendly programs and welfare schemes to lead happier and more productive enabled reasonable control of welfare fund, unattended supply management office, company-wide application of flexible shifts and operation. extension of essential core services requirements. Also, with the expanded performance-based pay scheme, we have established an incentive system with the scheme in mind and we have cooperated to carry out voluntary works for the underprivileged and local Flexible Shifts The flexible shifts scheme is a system where an employee can determine her/his working time determined by personal communities. needs. Therefore, since its establishment, children's commuting, personal development and long-distance commuting have been popular Percentage of Employees Covered By Collective Bargaining Agreements reasons to use the scheme to adjust the schedule accordingly and work flexibly. Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 ▼ Joint Labor-Management TFT Meeting Number of Workers Subject to Unionization Person 2,862 2,947 3,143 Proportion of Parental Leave Used Return to work and retention rates after parental leave ▼▼ Labor-Management Conference Number of Unionized Workers Person 2,525 2,610 2,701 100 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of Unionized Workers % 88.2 88.5 85.9 Male 100 100 100 Parental leave rates(%) % Female 100 100 100 Minimum Period of Notice for Important Operational Changes KOGAS is obliged to abide by the following rules when Male 100 100 100 Return to work after parental leave(%) notifying discharge. In case of restructuring where layoffs for management purposes occur, the notice should be given 50 days in Female 100 100 83 advance. In case of modifications of incorporation articles, organization and capital, transfers of operating of key assets, restructuring Male 100 100 12 Month retention rate after parental leave(%) and privatization, this should be notified promptly upon the occurrence of such events. Also, in case of adopting new machineries and Female 100 100 technologies and renovation of work process, discussion is required prior to notifying on the occurrence of such events. Family Satisfaction Management KOGAS runs a varied range of activities for family involvement, believing a happy personal Grievances Management Process Labor-Management Conference, with CEO and the head of trade union serving as members, and family life can lead to a more productive and excellent performance. The company has been at the forefront of building an works to resolve inconveniences to employees and protect their rights. The conference also receives suggestions regarding work organizational culture with high quality of life and excellent performance through various means such as communication between environment and human rights issues that are handled by the Ombudsman Committee. Associates can file complaints over their rights the CEO and expatriate families, employee children's summer camp, voluntary with families, support for various cultural activities, through KOGAS' website and intranet without any restrictions. We also have counselors to handle sexual harassment for employees at professional speeches and etc. our operating locations. No lawsuit related to human rights issues have been filed in 2012. 48 49 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Fair and Transparent Management Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Number of Ethical Management Transparent Management System Strengthening Anti-corruption Practices Training Graduates Transparent Management Strategy We, at KOGAS, establish and execute 4 ethical management strategies under our ethical vision Reinforcing Anti-corruption and Governance Innovation Task force KOGAS sets up and operates the Anti-corruption 2,777 of becoming a 'Clean KOGAS', a socially accountable enterprise based on transparent management. We also periodically examine the Transparency Committee (Chairman : Standing Auditor) as part of our efforts to prevent corruption and build transparent organizational strategic progress and update our strategic initiatives and reflect feedbacks through KPI(Key Performance Indicator). cultures. Under this committee, the Transparency Action Committee (Chairman : Chief Auditor) and domestic/overseas field subcommittees (Chairman : Field Operating Director) are established to promote ethical management practices. KOGAS Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers Category Contents Definition of Ethical ‘Clean KOGAS’ complies with transparent and environmental management practices and fulfills social responsibilities Management as a global energy enterprise in pursuit of customer trust and sustainable growth •Overseas anti-corruption law compliance system (October, 2012) International Guideline -Ethical standard and partner risk management to reduce breaching Ethics Vision ‘Clean KOGAS’ fulfills its social responsibilities through transparent and fair management •Travel expenses rule change Budget Transparency Promoting -Domestic business trip improvement (2nd grade  all employees) Upgrading the Ethical Reinforcing the Monitoring Heightening Anti-corruption Establishing a Foothold for Management System and Feedback System Controls Social Accountability System Change •Corporate card rule change 4 Key Initiatives for -Real-time SNS notice (manager) Enhance associates’ compliance with Promote voluntary practices on sites Ethical Management Establish an anti-corruption system ethics codes -Establish a constant monitoring Develop and manage KOGAS Reinforce partnerships with •Subcontract fee confirmation system established (preventing outstanding or unpaid fee) Reinforce awareness and system to check ethical practices Business partners by assuming ethics performance •Integrity ombudsman system strengthened execution of ethical practices more social responsibilities Fulfilling Social Responsibility -Systematic unpaid fee resolution -Complainsts of subcontractor's unpaid fee Compliance with Number of regulatory Participation Organizational transparency ethics codes violation reports in Cheongyeon Fund •Retiree database establishment (November, 2012) Ethical Management -Contact record monitoring for righteousness and transparency (November, 2012) Compliance with data ‘Partnership Ethics Camp’ Community service Anti-corruption Prevention Performance Satisfaction with contracts disclosure duration rules with customers hours per associate •Solicitation registration system (May, 2012) Indicators (KPI) -Facilitating institutionalization of anti-solicitation culture Satisfaction with online training •Expanding the scope of integrity pledge e.g. interns Integrity Pledge -112 integrity pledge (March, 2012) Implementing Organization The External Cooperation Team is in charge of the company's ethical management, supervising the Autonomous system improvement •Voluntary system improvement areas identified (56 cases) and executed establishment and revision of ethics codes and the establishment and operation of our ethical management practice programs. This and execution -ACRC selected 7 issues (0 out of 112, in 2011) team also periodically monitors the progress to enhance its executions and ethical standards as well. Based on the close collaborations •Obligatory training Others with the Executive Committee, Office of the Auditor, and field organizations, the team acts as KOGAS' ethical management hub to •Public Private Partnership expansion improve the company's ethical management practices and standards ▼ Online Anti-Corruption Reporting Center Ethical Education for Associates KOGAS provides ethical education sessions for all associates every year. Our company aims to ▼▼ Integrity Pledge •Setting up Ethical Management Orientations after a educate them about the negative impact of corruption and train them to appropriately address such corruption to better cope with Discussion with the Executive Committee The CEO: Determines the directions for ethical •Ethical Management Education and Supports ethical dilemmas and enhance overall ethical standards. (Unit: person) management and spearheads practices •Monitoring Ethical Management Practices and Feedbacks Determining the Directions for Ethical External Operating Locations Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 Management Consultation Cooperation Support Team KOGAS Ethical Management Education 2,622 2,600 2,711 2,777 Practice Committee at Headquarters Executive Committee Online Ethics (Code of Conduct) Education 2,672 2,680 2,733 2,787 (Chaired by the CEO) Ethics Practice Leader E-Clean Ethical Education 2,700 2,777 •Establishing an Enterprise-wide Cooperation Ethics Officer Ethical Management System Upholding Integrity as Culture KOGAS appreciates and institutionalizes the culture of integrity through external independent Office of the Auditor(prevents corruption/ex-post audit) irregularity report center, coexisting ethics camp, and integrity pledge of all employees. PR Team (public relations through corporate newsletters and mass media) Aftermath Management In 2012, there was no case of irregularity report through online irregularity reporting center and bribery. External Cooperation Team (operates management There was one case which was handled with suspension. (Unit: person) information disclosure program) Accounting & Tax Affairs Team (operates Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 transparent internal control system) Corruption Reports 6 15 15 0 Bribery Reports 0 0 1 0 Progress and Impact Assessment KOGAS upholds the value of human rights and fairness by conducting Integrity survey for all Dismissal 0 1 0 0 sites under its operation regarding anti-corruption practices and partner relationships, and carry out regular assessments of ethical Follow-ups Pay Cut 0 0 1 0 management. From such, we have been recognized as an exemplified case for our operation by ACRC in 2012. Others 0 1 0 1 50 51 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Safe and Healthy Workplace Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 KOGAS & MOTIE (Ministry of Trade, Industry & EHSQ Operation System 2012 Safety Culture Level Accident-free Work Environments 5.75 Energy) B.H Network KOGAS manages safety, health and the environment on an integrated basis through our EHSQ (Environment, Healthy, Safety & Quality) Safety Culture Institutionalization Given the commitment of our CEO to promote safety practices throughout our company, ※ MOTIE : Previously MKE System to minimize accidents and enhance productivity since 1997. The system has been certified by ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS KOGAS proactively brings attention to safety practices through the joint efforts between labor and management. In 2012, we held B.I (National Crisis 18001, manifesting its global standard. KOGAS has established a training roadmap to nurture the adequate professionals for the EHSQ Level Joint labor-management safety practice event where our efforts to prevent accidents in the field had been communicated and the Management Office) Management System with specialized courses. Our company's efforts do not cease here but extends to the development of safety establishment of the company-wide safety level strengthening mid-/long-term roadmap contributed towards heightening our guidelines, building an organizational culture that is centered on safety. employees' safety awareness. MOTIE VPN INTERNET MOTIE Disaster Safety Management Team Continuously improve activities and assess performance According to DNV, a commissioned third party, assessment on safety culture at DNV Safety Culture Level (Unit: Level) Adjust Plan KOGAS, it indicated that the KOGAS' institutionalization of safety culture has improved KOGAS 5.75 Disaster Information Analyze gaps, determine compared to the year before. (Level 5.75 in 2012). Fulfill expectations EHSQ priorities, and assign human and 4.8 System Server * DNV Level of Safety Culture Result : Operation financial resources 4.1 KOGAS System 2010(Level 4.1)  2011(Level 4.8)  2012(Level 5.75) National Communication Check Do System Develop and execute Audit EHSQ documents (procedures) 2010 2011 2012 Occupational Health Management System KOGAS started operating a newly established occupational health management Integrated Crisis Management System KOGAS has a company-wide crisis management system, entailing disaster and safety system in September 2011. This system covers the safety control area including personal protection gear, material safety data sheets system, cooperation network with related institutions, case-by-case contingency manuals, regular emergency drills, to promptly handle (MSDS), and health exposure assessments and the health management area including the management and reservation of medical disasters, and maintain a fast and systematic crisis control program. In order to handle the national electricity crisis, we operated Practical examinations, surveys, and management of patients. We aim to maintain comfortable work environments and ensure compliance with Response Manual for power cut and 'Safe Korea Exercise' and run. In the same line with the measures, we have institutionalized Gas regulations and restrictions such as the Occupational Safety and Health Act by identifying safety and health risks and then controlling Fire Training Center at Pyongtaek Terminal Division as a preemptive and effective management of potential gas fire, which trains around and removing these risks by using this system. ▼ Joint Labor-Management Safety Practices Rally 500-700 trainees with a total of around 5,000 graduates so far. ▼▼ Gas Fire Training Center ▼▼▼ Management's On-site Safety Inspections Safety and Health Expenditures The EHSQ expenditure is raised every year as the preventative means to counter natural disaster, Preemptive Risk Control KOGAS' effort to preemptively handle the potential risks in the field operation varies widely. In particular, fire and explosion-induced human and material damages as well as minimization and restoration. We expect to see the continued trend we thoroughly assess risk factors prior to any facility changes such as construction and further installation via safety assessment which of increasing expenditure in the coming years. then is followed up with mitigating measures. We have institutionalized the risk factor inventory system, built upon the foundation of the 10 years of occupational safety assessment data, enabling company-wide sharing and prioritization of the core issues. EHSQ Operation System Expenditure (Unit: 100 million KRW) 2012 EHSQ Management Expenditure 235.2 Category 2009 2010 2011 2012 Changes Onsite Safety Management Accident and disaster free work environment bears a crucial value to KOGAS which has led its efforts Sales 193,918 226,113 282,548 345,167 for safety management practices for field operations. Our company holds the enterprise-wide 'Safety Inspection Day' program, thorough Investment Expense (Health and Safety) 878 1,445 2,196 2,352 156 management of field operations pursuant to approved procedures, near-miss case identification and reward, safety assessment of billion KRW Expense to Revenue (%) (Health and Safety) 0.45 0.64 0.77 0.68 △ 0.09 crucial facilities every 5 years and etc. to eliminate potential risks in advance and proactively carry out safety practices. Also, we publish Annual EHSQ Management Expenditure safety education casebook for both domestic and overseas as well as ordinary accident cases to build an effective crisis management Product and Health Safety Promotional Activities (Unit: billion KRW) system such as embodying safety management standard for overseas business sites. 219.6 235.2 250 Phase Major Activities 200 144.5 Conduct safety, health and environmental safety assessments for the installation and modification of gas facilities, Safety Awareness Events Reflecting upon the enterprise's commitment towards safety, KOGAS has held company-wide Joint labor150 subsidiary equipment, construction, and new instruments to systematically identify potential risks and establish 100 87.8 Manufacturing and management safety practices rally on 16th of November, 2012 to form pragmatic safety culture. The field offices (Seoul, Gyeongbuk countermeasures. 50 Production District Division and Incheon Terminal Divisions) maintained the no accident & no disaster record for 15 years, since 1995, and which Perform a job safety analysis (JSA) and hold a tool box meeting (TBM) before commencing works on site to identify 2009 2010 2011 2012 potential risks in advance. has been celebrated by 3 events for continued maintenance. Perform safety checks on pipelines older than 15 years at least every five years. Storage, Transport, and Supply Industrial Safety & Health Committee KOGAS has set up the Industrial Safety & Health Committee co-chaired by the representatives Conduct safety assessments on the storage tanks at terminals every five years. of labor and management to discuss and determine the major safety and health agenda as part of our efforts to ensure disaster-free Attach the material safety datasheets (MSDS) for materials in use at operating locations to prepare for problems Usage and Service like leakages. work environments. Each committee has the same number of members, representing employees and employers equally. They hold Review the EHSQ management plans submitted by waste management companies, and inspect the service providmeetings at least once a quarter at the company's 12 district/terminal divisions. Disposal, Reuse, or Recycling ers to check whether they legally and properly manage wastes semiannually or more frequently. 52 53 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Win-win Management Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Number of Inclusive Growth and Reciprocal Inclusive Growth Infrastructure SMEs Product Purchase Heightening the SMEs' Competitiveness 439.2 Partnership Committee Inclusive Growth Strategy KOGAS established 4 strategic missions of strengthening inclusive growth infrastructures, expanding procurements R&D Cooperation with SMEs KOGAS has been a dedicated supporter of inclusive growth and such commitment is demonstrated 43 from SMEs, promoting collaboration over technology developments, and building fair trade practices, as well as 16 action programs to by various support schemes for technology development for those who develop natural gas equipments and core parts and encourage ensure inclusive growth and reciprocal partnerships with SMEs. In particular, the action programs constitute the 'KOGAS Inclusive Growth billion KRW localization of core technology. We have set 10 tasks in technology development project and once completed successfully, we expect to companies Execution Plan' which reflects opinions offered from internal and external associates and partners on our pursuant path. see a substantial change for the SMEs' operation with increased sales revenue and competencies like self-sustainability, entering new domestic and overseas market. Vision Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers Mission Build a sound business ecology in Korea’s natural gas industry to enhance the competitiveness of KOGAS and SMEs by seeking inclusive growth with SMEs Core Technology Development Action Programs Strategy Promote social investments through inclusive growth initiatives and reciprocal partnerships Support Area Technology Development Support (Within 75% per project, max. 0.5 billion KRW), Priority Purchasing If Completed Successfully Strengthening Inclusive Growth Expanding Procurements from Promoting Collaborations on Establishing Reciprocal Cooperation Infrastructures SMEs Technology Developments and Fair Trade Practices SMEs Development Task (Total Cost) Period Expand technical project bidding Strategic Management's determination on DNGV GHP Gas Engine (2.6L) 0.6 Billion KRW 12.4 ~13.12 Expand opportunities for SMEs’ opportunities for SMEs inclusive growth Missions direct engagements Establish and operate joint technology Help SMEs enhance competencies Promote the Inclusive Growth Major Samgong Pier berthing / Mooring equipment management system 0.59 Billion KRW 12.4 ~13.1 & Action Execute public procurement program development institutions Heighten cooperation between large Committee Programs Expand inclusive growth missions more effectively Finance technology development corporations and SMEs Performance Expand procurements from SMEs projects from both private investors Expand field support to SMEs Kangwon NTS Development of high-performance seawater heater 0.93 Billion KRW 12.5 ~13.3 and incentives Expand purchases of technological and the government Execute fair contracting practices Promote reciprocal partnerships and Shinwoo FA Natural gas heat measurement device 0.67 Billion KRW 12.4 ~14.3 developments Promote technology development inclusive growth cultures projects Sungrim Industiral Co. Development of conbined method and equipment for pipeline construction 1 Billion KRW 12.4 ~14.3 Inclusive Growth Mid-/Long-term Road Map We have established a visionary roadmap, necessary to systematic planning of SME's competitiveness strengthening and growth beyond mere support by facilitating technology development. Government-funded Public-private Co-invested Technology Development Action Programs Support Area Raising Cooperation Fund with Small and Medium business Administration (5 Billion KRW) and Technology Development Support (Within 75% per project, max. 1 billion KRW) 2014 2013 Promoting Reciprocal 2012 Expanding Inclusive Growth Development SMEs Development Task (Total Cost) Period 2011 Potential Support local and overseas joint marketing Strengthening Cooperation Building Trust Help improve overseas competitiveness Younggook Electronics LNG Storage tank low heat observation camera 1 Billion KRW 11.12 ~13.11 Provide customized support by business Diversify cooperation systems Promote cooperation on technology phase Help SMEs become global competitive Major Correl Technology Electric remote monitoring and control system 0.39 Billion KRW 12.6 ~14.5 developments Expand technology transfers and players ▼ Management Doctor Scheme Set up a new taskforce Help SMEs enhance their competences support commercialization Performance Operate a reciprocal partnership Promote fair trade practices and ▼▼ SMEs Occupational Training WK Electech Development of the Arc detector for the power distribution system 0.27 Billion KRW 12.6 ~13.11 Promote fair trade practices Help SMEs enhance competitiveness strengthen collaborations committee Operate technology development Strengthen fair trade practices ▼▼▼ Public Procurement System Workshop Expand procurements from SMEs Ground Direct current blocking device 0. 14 Billion KRW 12.9 ~13.8 committees with SMEs Strengthen fair trade practices Beeryong Electronics Remote supervisory system for the outer security equipment 0.2 Billion KRW 12.12 ~ 13.11 Implementing Organization In cooperation with 43 companies, KOGAS has set up the Inclusive Growth and Reciprocal Partnership Expanding Procurement from SMEs and Market Support In pursuit to (Unit: billion KRW) which ensures that their voices are heard and visionary discussions regarding inclusive growth are held. Such is also dealt by Reciprocal SMEs Product Purchase expanding procurement volume from SMEs, KOGAS launched 'Main Contractor Joint Management Conference, Reciprocal Management Action Committee and Public Procurement Management Committee which assist Subcontracting Program' and ‘Order Splitting Order for SMEs' Competition Promotion’ 439.2 the embodiment of inclusive growth culture in an integrated manner, enabling horizontal communication among partners. ▼ SMEs Advisory and Training Support Agreement Ceremony which led to the purchase worth of approximately 439.2 billion KRW, a 130 billion KRW 328.4 301.8 ▼▼ Inclusive Growth and Reciprocal Partnership Committee Inclusive Growth increase from 2011 (301.8 billion KRW). We also managed to sign 29 private contracts at Committee purchase fairs. Revitalization of local economy has also been a matter of consideration for Reciprocal Management • Composition: representatives from Reciprocal Management KOGAS and this has translated into hiring local SMEs for 24% (approximately 16.5 billion 2010 2011 2012 SME and KOGAS Committee • Responsibilities: policy deliberation Action Committee KRW) of the construction in Gyeonggido's extra-high voltage gas piping construction. • Chairman: Chief Director of Support • Chairman: Director of General Affairs Dept. Also, Samcheok Terminal Division actively encourages SMEs' participation by splitting SMEs’ Technological (Unit: billion KRW) Division • Commissioner: Managers of related Product Purchase • Commissioner: Directors and general and allocating the project orders within SMEs' capacity, which amounted to 72% of the 14.2 departments at head office managers of related divisions and SME Support departments Team • Responsibilities: Action plans on project, for the grassroots local economy revitalization. 9.2 reciprocal cooperation • Responsibilities: Major inclusive growth policies Support for SMEs Self-Sustainability and Vitalizing Inclusive Growth Culture 2.9 KOGAS believes that heightening SMEs competitiveness necessarily involves strengthening Public Procurement Manager Committee Reciprocal Management Conference (on site) 2010 2011 2012 of capacity, finance and HR and has provided various channels of communication to • Chairman: Director of General Affairs Dept. • Commissioner: Managers of related teams at head office and • Composition: Orderer, contractor, subcontractor vitalize international and external inclusive growth culture. Particularly, there are some educational supports, such as natural gas facility branches • Responsibilities: Field reciprocal cooperation schemes • Responsibilities: Support public procurements field technological training and KOGAS occupational training program, an offer to SMEs' employees to enhance their competencies. The liquidity problem, one of the major issues for the SMEs, has been handled by advance payment and collective purchase. 54 55 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Shared Value Social Contribution Creating Customer Value Human Resources Management Fair and Transparent Management 44 46 50 Win-win Management Social Contribution 54 57 Safe and Healthy Workplace 52 Transparent and Fair Trade Received President Prize from the National Social Contribution Strategy Fair Trading Relationships KOGAS has formed the 'Inclusive growth and Fair Trade Pacts' and we ensure full compliance with antiSharing Award In order to institutionalize customer-orientated management through global-standard CSR activities, KOGAS is in pursuit of developing trust and fair trade regulations. We will make further efforts to promote fair trade practices and raise the awareness of inclusive growth a representative brand of KOGAS, promoting sharing culture and establishing the foundation for social trust as our strategies. as a public enterprise. VISON 2017 Global KOGAS Growing Together with Customers Fair Profit Allocation In promoting the improvement of working environment and leading fair profit allocation with the SMEs, we Mission Love Humanity Sharing Happy Society have constituted a computerized system for pragmatic execution, paving the way towards actualizing a fair society with fair division of Strategic Task Customer-orientated Management Through Global-standard CSR Activities profit with the employees in construction and physically demanding fields. Action Plan Heightening KOGAS' Brand Value Fulfilling Corporate Social Responsibilities Establishing Subcontracting Payment Verification System KOGAS has set up Subcontracting Payment Verification System to Action Strategies Developing a Representative Brand of KOGAS Spreading Sharing Culture Establishing the Foundation for Social Trust fight against illegal subcontracting and to assist the embodiment of fair trade culture and fair subcontracting market. We have simplified Onnuri Love Project Heightening Employee Integrity the administrative work to minimal level to ensure that the practices are easily conducted. Volunteer Business Areas Onnuri Hope Project 5UP Energy Welfare Infrastructure Building Movement KOGAS Original Contractor Subcontractor Onnuri Harmony Project Human-oriented Eco-friendly Management Subcontract permission after confirming Register subcontractor's details in case of subcontract details subcontracting Social Contribution Brand, Onnuri Prepayments and off-the-shelf price payment Receive fee and subcontractor payment Receive subcontracting fee We at KOGAS have developed our own social contribution initiative brand, ‘Onnuri’, to establish a social contribution model customized SNS or email confirmation for public energy enterprises. ‘Onnuri’ is a combination of 'On', which means warmth, and 'Nuri', which means the world. This term Statement comparison and verification Register subcontract fee payment Register subcontract fee recipient statement carries the meaning of 'Making the entire world warm and peaceful'. We are currently running three key initiatives the Onnuri Love confirming statement Project, Onnuri Hope Project, and Onnuri Harmony Project. Onnuri Love Project KOGAS carries out thermal efficiency enhancement projects and offers gas utility discounts to help the low Social Enterprise Participation (Unit : case) Support for Social and Women's Enterprises 18 income class improve their quality of life and gain more energy sufficiency Leading energy industry with excellent social contribution projects like Onnuri heat efficiency improvement project, we have invested 15 7 1.33 billion KRW for 18 enterprises in 2012 to support and facilitate their standing in the markets. In pursuit to lead inclusive growth • Renovate the heating systems of low income households and welfare facilities (floor heating, insulation, wall, window replacement) and fair competition market with women's enterprises, KOGAS has changed the qualification standard to give additional points when • Improve the environments of local childcare centers around operating locations (facility improvement) 2010 2011 2012 the enterprises participate to offer equal opportunity. • Install and support city gas pipelines to low income households and welfare facilities (New in 2012) Onnuri Hope Project KOGAS contributes to a better future and better public welfare through its 'Onnuri Hope Project' in a variety of ways. Purchase from Women's Enterprises Social and Women's Enterprises Product Purchase (Unit: million KRW) 12.6 ▼ Onnuri Thermal Efficiency Enhancement Project • Medical: Execute 「Onnuri R-Bank Pact」,providing rehabilitative assistive devices to disabled children and teenagers suffering from brain lesions (36 patients, 200 million KRW) Category 2011 2012 Note ▼▼ Onnuri Enhancement Project Voluntary Activity • Scholarship: Provide scholarships to 100 low income high school students and 43 university students around operating locations (total of 270 million KRW) billion KRW Social Enterprise 495 548 10.7% ↑ • Cultural Heritage Preservation: Inspect safety and clean the environment (semiannually / 29 heritages nationwide) • Blue sky: Has been conducting environmentally responsible programs as a movement to give clean environment to our next generations (approximately 100 million Women's Enterprise 1,871 12,576 572% ↑ KRW) • Traditional Market Sponsorship: Each operating location forms a partnership with nearby traditional markets and holds a Traditional Market Day Event (monthly), Onnuri Coupon Purchases: 826 million KRW KOGAS' Partnership with Traditional Markets • Government Support: Running Saturday Schools due to 5-days school schedule (Taekwondo and craft classes) Traditional Market Sponsorship Songhwa Alley Market Moran Traditional Market KOGAS is also pursuing government's efforts to revitalize traditional and domestic Onnuri Harmony Project KOGAS runs the 'Local Community Relations' projects to build reliable relations with local communities and Incheon Okryeon Wonju South Market Market markets. To transform Korea with income equality, traditional and domestic expand customized support. We also push for 'International Community Relations' projects to help successfully carry out overseas projects and Ansan Citiziens' Market markets have formed partnerships with KOGAS and led continued interactive fulfill our responsibilities as a global corporate citizen. Deajeon Indeung Market communication to create fair competition and inclusive growth with a wealth of Anjug Market activities. • Local Community Relations Gyeongsan Market - Rural Town Sponsorship (1 location, 1 village) : Each 13 operating location provides customized support to a village under the program Daeya 5 Day Market Hope Town Sponsorship (1 location, 1 hope village) : Provides heaters to low income households to Dongdaemoon jjokbangchon Gimhae Market Love Embracement: Supports 13 local childcare centers across the country in partnership with the subsidiaries of the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy (facility Usan Wolgok Market renovation, cultural programs, educational tools and materials, etc.) • International Community Relations Seoho Market Global Fellowship (Scholarships to students from countries in which KOGAS runs resource development projects) 56 57 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Social Promoting KOGAS' Sharing Culture Contribution KOGAS has set up a customized social contribution system to facilitate internal spread of sharing culture movement. Through Volunteer 5up Mileage Campaign, our social contribution mileage is increasing by 5% per employee every year. In order to actively carry out the movement, our company Onnuri Matching Volunteer has prepared matching grants, Onnuri volunteer team, employee involvement programs, 'Social Contribution Day' as main activities which have Grant Volunteer 5UP Team resulted to receiving the President's Award from Korea Sharing Awards. Movement Social Employee 48 Billion KRW Investment in Social Contribution Expenditure KOGAS’ social contribution expenditure of 48 billion KRW, ratio to Contribution Involvement pre-tax profit, 9.3%, is substantially higher than FKI (Federation of Korean Industries) average of 3.2% or Japanese average of 2.73% (2011). Day Programs 溫 2012 Pre-Tax Profit 518,526,989,540 KRW 2012 KOGAS Social Contribution Expenditure 48,070,000,000 KRW Social Contribution Expenditure 48 billion KRW 2.6 Billion KRW from the SROI Through heat efficiency improvement project, we saw SROI of approximately 2.6 billion KRW leading to positive outcomes of recruitment of the underprivileged, retrenchment of energy. 34.9 Billion KRW Gas Discount for the Underprivileged KOGAS carries out thermal efficiency enhancement projects and offers gas utility discounts to help the underprivileged. 500,000 basic livelihood security benefit households receive 15% discount on their gas bills and 300,000 next higher level households receive 5% discount, amounting to 31.7 billion KRW in total. In 2012, we supported 18,000 social welfare institutions by granting 3.2 billion KRW worth of gas bill discount. Onnuri A combination of 'On', which means warmth, and 'Nuri', Gas Discount for Socially (Unit : billion KRW) Vulnerable Groups which means the world. This term carries the meaning of 34.9 33.5 'Making the entire world warm and peaceful.' 26.6 Best Practice 2010 2011 2012 Mozambique Educational Environment Improvement Project (Unit : million KRW) Cooperating with Korean Food for the Hungry International, KOGAS signed the 'Mozambique Educational Environment Job Creation Improvement Project'. We have also built, with 210 million KRW of investment, a new school near the capital city to offer 762 644 good education. Meaning abundant life, Vida Abundante is the name of the school with 5 classrooms, 2 teachers' room and a 573 toilet. KOGAS has gone further to improve the quality of life for the children by offering 60 million KRW for school food. 2010 2011 2012 Medical Support Business in Developing Countries At KOGAS, the scope of welfare system encompasses local communities in our foreign locations. Considering the unfortunate (Unit : %) Social Investment conditions of poor medical infrastructure and economic reasons, KOGAS provided medical support for children from the Profitability 27.32 27.99 overseas with free operation. We invited 10 Mongolian and Cambodian children to be treated and supported 2 heart surgeries 26.94 for 2 Iraqi children in cooperation with Inje University Seoul Paik Hospital and Bundang Seoul National University Hospital respectively. KOGAS will be leading such international welfare system to ensure that not only the children can live a healthy life but also a life where their hopes can flourish. 2010 2011 2012 58 59 Appendix Appendix History & Organization Chart History & Organization Chart Affiliates & Subsidiaries Assurance Statement 61 62 63 Glossary Awards & Associations 71 72 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 2010~ 2012. 11 Ranked excellent among public corporations in the customer satisfaction survey for sixth consecutive years (Ministry of Strategy and Finance) 2012. 9 Ranked No.1 in Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Korea (DJSI KOREA) in the gas sector for fourth consecutive years 2012. 3 Nominated as Korea’s Most Admired Energy Company for 5 consecutive years 2011. 3 Ranked 4th in the World’s Most Admired Energy Company category by Fortune 2010. 10 Selected as an operator of the Akkas, Mansuriya Gas Project in Iraq 2010. 3 Ranked 6th in the World’s Most Admired Energy Company category by Fortune 2010. 1 Landed development and production rights in the oil and gas fields in Zubair and Badra, Iraq 2000~ 2009. 12 Selected as a target organization for public enterprise self-management 2009. 7 Extending supply to unreached areas and pipeline network construction 2008. 9 KOGAS-Gaszprom Natural Supply MOU signed 2008. 7 Confirmation of natural gas pipeline enlargement 2007. 7 Declared Vision 2017 : Global KOGAS, Growing Together with Customers 2007. 6 Daegu~Tongyoung major pipeline construction completed 2004. 1 Natural gas demand 10 million households reached 2002. 11 Gangwon area natural gas supply commenced (Nationwide natural gas supply infrastructure established) 2002. 10 Tongyoung Terminal Division construction completed 2000. 6 Natural gas bus operation commenced 1990~ 1999. 12 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange, KORAS founded 1999. 10 Natural gas supply commenced in West Sea area 1997. 10 Incheon Terminal Division completed 1997. 1 KOLNG founded 1996. 12 Natural gas supply commenced in Busan area 1996. 3 Announced a second foundation of KOGAS 1995. 11-12 Natural gas supply commenced in Youngnam and Honam Area 1994. 6 Placed a national flag carrier for LNG transport in service 1993. 7 Commencement of city gas supply to the mid region (Daejeon, Cheonan and Chungju) 1993. 5 Established Korea Gas Maintenance & Engineering Co., LTD. 1980~ 1987. 4 Pyeongtaek Terminal Division and procurement facilities construction completed 1987. 2 Commenced city gas supply to Seoul metropolitan area 1986. 11 Commenced terminal and distribution facilities at Pyeongtaek 1986. 10 First national supply of LNG 1983. 8 Korea Gas Technology Corporation founded Organization Chart CEO Sr. Executive Corporate Planning Division •Office of Planning & Public Relations •Office of Management Strategy •Office of Technology Planning •Office of Legal Affairs Vice President (Management) Support Division •General Affairs Dept •Human Resources Dept •Finance Dept Board of Directors Resources Business Division •LNG Procurement Dept •LNG Business Dept •Sales Dept •Russia Project Group Audit Sr. Executive R&D Division Committee Vice President (Technology) Resources Development Division •Resources Development Dept •Project Management Dept •Resources Technology Dept •Office of the Auditor •Office of EHSQ •Terminal Operation Dept •Terminal Construction Dept •Pyeongtaek Terminal Division •Office of Central LNG Terminal Division •Incheon Terminal Division •Tongyeong Terminal Division •Samcheok Terminal Division System-Control Trunk Line Division •Trunk Line Operation Dept •Trunk Line Construction Dept •Seoul District Division •Gyeongin District Division •Gangwon District Division •Chungcheong District Division •Jeonbuk District Division •Jeonnam District Division •Gyeongbuk District Division •Gyeongnam District Division 60 61 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Appendix Affiliates & Subsidiaries Assurance Statement History & Organization Chart Affiliates & Subsidiaries Assurance Statement 61 62 63 Glossary Awards & Associations 71 72 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 Related to Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS)’s Sustainability Report 2012, for the calendar year ending 31st December 2012 Country Company Business Establishment Ownership (%) This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS). Affiliates & Subsidiaries Korea Korea Gas Technology Corporation Maintenance & Engineering 1993 100 Terms of Engagement KOGAS Iraq B.V. Development & Production of Oil and Gas 2009 100 Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by KOGAS to assure its Sustainability Report 2012 for the calendar KOGAS Badra B.V. 2010 100 year ending 31st December 2012 (“the Report”). The Report relates to the sustainability performance data and information for KOGAS’s Iraq KOGAS Akkas B.V. 2010 100 activities in Korea. KOGAS’s overseas branches and subsidiaries were not covered by this Report. KOGAS Mansuriya B.V. 2010 100 KOGAS’s activities in Korea are their headquarters, twelve domestic business locations and KOGAS’s R&D Centre. An excerpt from Overseas Australia KOGAS Australia Pty Ltd. Exploration & Development · Liquefaction 2008 100 Canada KOGAS Canada Ltd. Development & Production of Oil and Gas 2010 100 KOGAS-Tech’s audited annual financial report has also been included; it is a summary of the business performance of KOGAS’s only Mexico KOGAMEX Investment Manzanillo B.V. Construction & Operation of LNG Terminal 2009 100 domestic subsidiary, Korea Gas Technology Corporation (KOGAS-Tech). Oman KOMAN ENERGY LNG Trading 2008 50 Russia KOGAS Vostok LLC Gas Exploration & Inspection 2009 100 KOGAS-Tech Profile and Category Description Management Responsibility KOGAS’s management was responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data and Performance Company Korea Gas Technology Corporation information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance with our contract Establishment May 27, 1993 with KOGAS. Head Office 1227 Daedeokdaero, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon, Korea Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of KOGAS. Inspection and maintenance of gas facilities Renovation and repairs of gas facilities and related businesses Businesses Safety inspections and maintenance of gas pipe networks Plant engineering services and plant facility maintenance LRQA’s Approach Our verification has been conducted against: Employees 1,090 (As of Dec. 31, 2012) AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000 AS), where the scope was a Type II engagement. Capital: KRW 10.6 billion Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3.1, 2011) and GRI’s oil and gas sector supplement. Investment KOGAS Ownership: 100% Mission Service Customers with Leading Energy Technologies and Contribute to the Society Vision The World’s Leading Energy Technology Company The objectives of the assurance engagement were to: Review adherence to the AA1000 AS Accountability Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness and evaluate the reliability 2017 Management Objective · Top 300 million KRW in revenue · Raise R&D investments (3%) · Top 210 million KRW in revenue per employee · Raise customer satisfaction (80 points) of specified sustainability performance data and information. 4 Strategic Reinforce Business Develop New Growth Enhance Technology Upgrade Management Confirm that the Report meets the requirements of GRI G3.1’s application level A and GRI’s oil and gas sector supplement. Orientations Competitiveness Engines Leadership System 1. Improve the productivity of 1. Reinforce strategic management Validate KOGAS’s self-declaration for GRI’s application level A+. 1. Establish technology development maintenance operations 1. Expand overseas projects system 8 Strategic Missions system 2. Enhance the competitiveness of 2. Diversity business lineups 2. Redesign performance oriented 2. Develop global talent engineering businesses personnel management system To form our conclusions the assurance was undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: 22 Action Plans Reviewing the stakeholder engagement process and related information. B enchmarking KOGAS’s material issues against our own independent analysis of stakeholder issues by reviewing other sustainability Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 reports written by KOGAS’s peers in comparable industries. Sales 100 million KRW 1,467 1,605 1,890 Finance Net Profit 100 million KRW 80 66 85 Understanding how KOGAS determine, respond and report on their material issues. Current Ratio % 180.4 170.6 165.6% Interviewing management of KOGAS to understand KOGAS’s reporting processes and use of sustainability performance data within Debt Ratio % 55.2 58.7 54.3% their business decision-making processes. Management Revenue per Employee 1 million KRW 147.1 153.8 178.2 Interviewing key personnel to understand processes of KOGAS for setting performance indicators and for monitoring progress made Value Added per Employee 1 million KRW 83.1 92.8 93.3 Labor Cost per Employee 1 million KRW 62.7 76.3 67.4 during the reporting period. Quality of Maintenance Suspension of Gas Supply Case 0 0 0 Verifying KOGAS’s data and information management processes and reviewing supporting evidence made available by KOGAS at their Piping Damages Case 0 0 0 head office Korea in 171, Dolmaro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, 463-754, Korea in accordance with our contract for the Facility Repairs Case 3,104 2,519 2,330 Education & Investment in Education & Training 1 million KRW 1,713 2,068 2,366 verification of data and information disclosed in the Report. Training Note 1: No source data was sampled for its accuracy and completeness. Investment/Revenue % 1.17 1.29 1.3 Note 2: Economic performance data was taken direct from the audited financial accounts. Overseas Sales 1 million KRW 10,448 12,262 43,623 Growth Potential R&D Investment 1 million KRW 436 444 497 Checking that the GRI index allows stakeholders to access sustainability performance indicators. R&D/Revenue % 0.3 0.3 0.3 Korea Investors Service P-AAP-AAP-AACredit Rating Korea Ratings P-AAP-AAP-AALevel of Assurance and The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a moderate level of assurance and at the materiality Korea Enterprise Data AAAAAAMateriality of the ‘professional judgement of the Verifier’. 62 63 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Appendix GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index History & Organization Chart Affiliates & Subsidiaries Assurance Statement 61 62 63 Glossary Awards & Associations 71 72 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 ● Complete ◑ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ISO 26000 Level of LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Report has not been produced General GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page The principle of stakeholder inclusion 6.8.3 Community involvement ● based on AA1000 AS’s Principles. It should be noted that for the Principle of: Promoting social responsibility in the Boundary Protocol 6.6.6 value chain ● Inclusivity KOGAS has processes in place for identifying and engaging with its stakeholders across all of its activities and we are not Vision and Strategy 1.1 CEO statement Organizational governance ● 2-3 aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded. KOGAS also demonstrated that they have incorporated stakeholder 1.2 Risks and opportunities ● 8-11, 16-17 concerns into their management approach and decision-making processes in order to develop a structured approach and response Organizational Profile to sustainability issues. KOGAS emphasized the importance of the stakeholder engagement in the Report through addressing the 2.1 Name of organization Organizational governance ● 8 stakeholder interviews. 2.2 Primary brands and products ● 10-11 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 ● 8, 61-62 Materiality KOGAS has a process in place for identifying and evaluating material issues. The Report provides a balanced reflection of ● 2.4 Location of head office 8 KOGAS’s material issues and we are not aware of any material issues that have been excluded. 2.5 Country where the organization operates ● 24 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 12-13 Responsiveness KOGAS has processes in place to respond to employees, subcontractors, suppliers, customers, shareholders and 2.7 Markets served ● 8-9, 24-27 investors, government authorities, local communities. KOGAS has demonstrated how they responded to these stakeholders’ needs 2.8 Size of organization ● 8-9, 32-33 and concerns. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period ● Unchanged regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received ● 72 It is also our opinion that nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the specified performance data and Report Scope information is not reliable. 3.1 Reporting period ● About this report Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Report does not meet GRI’s 3.2 Date of most recent previous report ● About this report 3.3 Reporting cycle ● About this report application level A+ or GRI’s oil and gas sector supplement as we found nothing that would cause us to contradict this conclusion. Contact point for questions regarding the report or its ● 3.4 About this report contents 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 18-20 LRQA’s Recommendations KOGAS should consider: 3.6 Boundary of the report ● About this report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report ● About this report Establishing sustainability targets and monitor progress against them. Basis for reporting that can significantly affect ● 3.8 About this report Including overseas branches and subsidiaries in future Reports. comparability Omitted techData measurement techniques and the bases of 3.9 niques and bases calculations Dated: 24th July 2013 on some data 3.10 Re-statements of information provided in earlier reports ● About this report Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measure● 3.11 Unchanged ment methods 3.12 GRI Content Index ● 65-70 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking ● 3.13 7.5.3 Investigation 63-64 external assurance Hee-Jeong Yim LRQA Lead Verifier Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 6.2 ● 12-13 On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Indication of whether the Chair of the Board of Directors 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea 4.2 6.2 ● 12-13 is also the CEO 4.3 Structure of Board of Directors 6.2 ● 12-13 LRQA Reference: SEO6018049 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide ● 4.4 6.2 12-13 recommendations to the Board of Directors Linkage between compensation for members of the 4.5 Board of Directors and senior managers, and the 6.2 ● 12-13 organization’s performance Processes in place for the Board of Directors to ensure ● 4.6 6.2 12-13 This document is subject to the provision below: conflicts of interest are avoided This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board of Directors for guiding ● Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and 4.7 6.2 Organizational governance 12-13 the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd’s Register'. Lloyd’s Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance and social topics on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register entity for the provision of this information 4.8 Principles of management 6.2 ● 9 or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. Procedures for the Board of Directors for overseeing Due to the inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was 4.9 the organization’s identification and management of 6.2 ● 9, 12-13 not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout economic, environmental, and social performance the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the Processes for evaluating the Board of Director’s own processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. 4.10 performance, particularly with respect to economic, 6.2 ● 12-13 The English version of this statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. environmental, and social performance 64 65 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Appendix History & Organization Chart 61 Glossary 71 Affiliates & Subsidiaries 62 Awards & Associations 72 Assurance Statement 63 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 ISO 26000 Level of ISO 26000 Level of General GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page Explanation of how the precautionary approach or ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 41 4.11 6.2 16-17 principle is addressed by the organization Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Externally developed economic, environmental, and The environment/Sustainable EN6 energy based products and services, and reductions in 6.5/6.5.4 resource use ● 41 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 6.2 ● 70-72 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives the organization subscribes Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Memberships in associations and national/international EN7 ● 39-41 4.13 6.2 ● 72 reductions achieved organizations Water 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 6.2 ● 18-21 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 37 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 6.2 ● 18-21 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ● N/A 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 6.2 ● 18-21 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ● N/A Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization 6.2 ● 18-21 Biodiversity has responded Location and size of land owned, leased, managed EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ● N/A biodiversity value outside protected areas ISO 26000 Level of Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiEconomic Performance GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page EN12 versity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas ● 38 3, 10-11, Indicators DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 22-25, 32-33 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5/6.5.6 The environment/Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of ● None Economic Performance natural habitats Strategies, current actions, and future plans for manag6.8/6.8.3/ Community involvement and developEN14 ● 38 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ment/Community involvement/Wealth ● 32-33 ing impacts on biodiversity 6.8.7/6.8.9 and income creation/Social investment Number and percentage of significant operating sites in OG4 ● N/A Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Climate change mitigation and which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored EC2 6.5.5 adaptation ● 36-41 for the organization’s activities due to climate change Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservaCoverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EN15 tion list species with habitats in areas affected by ● N/A EC3 6.4.4/6.8 ● 49 obligations operations, by level of extinction risk EC4 Financial assistance received from government ● None Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Market Presence EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 37 Conditions of work and social The environment/Climate change Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6.5/6.5.5 mitigation and adaptation ● 37 EC5 6.4.4/6.8 protection/Community involvement and 46 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation development Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Promoting social responsibility in the EN18 ● 39-40 reductions achieved value chain/Community involvement Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally6.6.6/6.8/ ● Not our key issue, EC6 based suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.8.5/6.8.7 and development/Employment creation 55 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances ● and skills development/Wealth and planning to investigate income creation EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions ● 37 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Community involvement and development/ EC7 management hired from the local community at loca6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 Employment creation and skills develop● 46 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination ● 37 tions of significant operation ment/Wealth and income creation OG5 Volume of formation or produced water ● N/A Indirect Economic Impacts EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5/6.5.3 The environment/Prevention of pollution ● 38 Economic, social and cultural rights/ Community involvement and EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● 38 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6. Development and impact of infrastructure investments development/Community involvement/ ● Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated EC8 8.4/6.8.5/6.8.6/6. Education and culture/Technology 31, 55-56, 57-59 and services provided primarily for public benefit waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel 8.7/6.8.9 development and access/Wealth and EN24 ● N/A Convention Annex l, ll, lll, and Vlll, and percentage of income creation/Social investment transported waste shipped internationally Economic, social and cultural rights/ Promoting social responsibility in the value Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of The environment/Sustainable resource use/ 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ chain/Respect for property rights/Access to EN25 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity ● N/A Understanding and describing significant indirect essential services/Community involvement 24, 31, 54-56, the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff and restoration of natural habitats EC9 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/6. and development/Employment creation and ● economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 57-59 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon ● N/A 8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 skills development/Technology development and access/Wealth and income creation/ Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and Social investment OG7 ● N/A strategies for treatment and disposal Reserves Products and Services OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production ● 24-25, 26-27 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 6.5/6.5.4/ The environment/Sustainable resource use/ EN26 Promoting social responsibility in the value ● 36, 39-41 and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.6.6/6.7.5 chain/Sustainable consumption Percentage of products sold and their packaging materiThe environment/Sustainable resource use/ ISO 26000 Level of EN27 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 Sustainable consumption ● N/A als that are reclaimed by category Environment Performance GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels ● N/A DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 3, 34~38 Indicators Materials Compliance Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monEN1 Materials used by weight or volume ● 37 EN28 etary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental 6.5 The environment ● No occurrence laws and regulations EN2 Percentage of use of recycled materials ● N/A Transport Energy Significant environmental impacts of transporting products The environment/Sustainable resource EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 41 EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 use/Promoting social responsibility in the ● 41 operations, and transporting members of the workforce value chain EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source ● 41 Overall OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy ● 41 OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source ● 41 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 6.5 The environment ● 36 66 67 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Appendix History & Organization Chart 61 Glossary 71 Affiliates & Subsidiaries 62 Awards & Associations 72 Assurance Statement 63 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 ISO 26000 Level of ISO 26000 Level of Social Performance GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page Social Performance GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page Labor conditions and its current status Child Labor/Forced and Compulsory Labor Indicators DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 46-49, 52-53 Indicators Operations identified as having significant risk for inciHuman rights/Due diligence/Human rights 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6. risk situations/Avoidance of complicity/ Employment HR6 dents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ ● 46 3.5/6.3.7/6.3.10 the elimination of child labor Fundamental principles and rights at work Total workforce by employment type, employment Labour practices/Employment and LA1 6.4/6.4.3 employment relationships ● 46 Operations identified as having significant risks for contract, and region incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Labour practices/Employment and HR7 ● 46 LA2 6.4/6.4.3 employment relationships 46 to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory group, gender, and region labor Labour practices/Employment and employBenefits provided to full-time employees that are not Security Practices LA3 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 ment relationships/Conditions of work and ● 48-49 provided to temporary or part-time employees social protection Human rights/Avoidance of complicity/ LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave ● 48 Percentage of security personnel trained regarding 6.3/6.3.5/ Discrimination and vulnerable groups/EmployHR8 ment and employment relationships/Promot● 51 human rights 6.4.3/6.6.6 Labor/Management Relations ing social responsibility in the value chain Labour practices/Employment and employIndigenous Rights Percentage of employees covered by collective bargain6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ ment relationships/Conditions of work and LA4 social protection/Social dialogue/Funda● 49 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human rights/Resolving grievances/Dising agreements 6.4.5/6.3.10 HR9 crimination and vulnerable groups/Civil and ● No occurrence mental principles and rights at work indigenous people and actions taken 6.3.8/6.6.7 political rights/Respect for property rights Labour practices/Employment and employ6.4/6.4.3/ Operations where indigenous communities are present LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operation changes ment relationships/Conditions of work and ● 49 6.4.4/6.4.5 social protection/Social dialogue OG9 or affected by activities and where specific engagement ● 57-59 strategies are in place Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Percentage of total workforce represented by joint Labour practices/Health and safety LA6 6.4/6.4.6 at work ● 53 Percentage and total number of operations that have management-labor health and safety committees HR10 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact ● 50 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 ● 4, 53 assessments absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities Labour practices/Health and safety at Assessment Programs in place to assist workforce members and 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ work/Community involvement and Number of grievances related to human rights filed, LA8 development/Communityinvolvement/ ● 49, 57-59 community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.3/6.8.4/6.8.8 HR11 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance ● 49, 51 Education and culture/Health mechanisms LA9 Health and safety topics covered in agreements with trade unions 6.4/6.4.6 Labour practices/Health and safety at work ● 49, 52-53 Society Training and Education DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 3, 42-43, 50-51, 54-58 Average hours of training per year per employee by Labour practices/Human development LA10 6.4/6.4.7 and training in the workplace ● 47 Local Communities employee category Economic, social and cultural rights/ Programs for lifelong learning that support the Labour practices/Human development Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs that Community involvement and developLA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 and training in the workplace/Employ● 47, 49 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ SO1 assess and manage the impacts of operations on comment/Employment creation and skills ● 38, 57-59 managing career endings ment creation and skills development 6.8.7/6.6.7 development/Wealth and income munities, including entering, operating and exiting creation/Respect for property rights Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Labour practices/Human development LA12 6.4/6.4.7 and training in the workplace ● 48 Operations with significant potential or actual negative and career development reviews S09 ● None impacts on local communities Diversity and Equal Opportunity Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ S10 ● 38, 57-59 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of 6.3.7/6.3.10/ Fundamental principles and rights at operations with negative impacts on local communities LA13 work/Labour practices/Employment and ● 13, 46 employees 6.4/6.4.3 Number and description of significant disputes with employment relationships OG10 ● None local communities and indigenous peoples Discrimination and vulnerable groups/ Number of sites that have been decommissioned and Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ Fundamental principles and rights at OG11 ● None LA14 work/Labour practices/Employment and ● 46 sites that are in the process of being decommissioned category 6.4.3/6.4.4 employment relationships/Conditions of Corruption work and social protection Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Human Rights SO2 6.6/6.6.3 Fair operating practices/Anti-corruption ● 50 for risks related to corruption DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 46-51 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3 ● 51 Investment and Procurement Practices corruption policies and procedures Percentage of significant investment agreements that Human rights/Due diligence/AvoidS04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 51 6.3/6.3.3/ HR1 include human rights clauses or that have undergone ance of complicity/Promoting social ● 0% Public Policy 6.3.5/6.6.6 responsibility in the value chain human rights screening Public policy positions and participation in public policy Human rights/Due diligence/Avoidance S05 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 ● 39, 46, 54-56 Percentage of suppliers and contractors that have 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ of complicity/Employment and employdevelopment and lobbying HR2 ment relationships/Promoting social ● 0% undergone screening and human rights 6.4.3/6.6.6 Total value of financial contributions to political parties responsibility in the value chain S06 ● No occurrence and politicians Total hours of employee training on policies and HR3 6.3/6.3.5 Human rights/Avoidance of complicity ● 51 Illegitimate Competitive Behavior procedures concerning human rights Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, Non-Discrimination S07 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 ● No occurrence anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Human rights/Resolving grievances/DiscrimTotal number of incidents of discrimination and actions 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ ination and vulnerable groups/Fundamental Compliance HR4 principles and rights at work/Employment ● No occurrence taken 6.3.10/6.4.3 Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary and employment relationships S08 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 ● No occurrence sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, Human rights/Due diligence/Human rights OG12 the number of households resettled in each and how ● No occurrence 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ risk situations/Avoidance of complicity/Civil their livelihoods were affected in the process The right to exercise freedom of association and collecHR5 6.3.5/6.3.8/6.3.10/ and political rights/Fundamental principles ● 49 tive bargaining and rights at work/Employment and 6.4.3/6.4.5 OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity ● 53 employment relationships/Social dialogue 68 69 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Appendix Glossary History & Organization Chart Affiliates & Subsidiaries Assurance Statement 61 62 63 Glossary Awards & Associations 71 72 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 65 ISO 26000 Level of Social Performance GRI G3.1 Description ISO 26000 topic and key issues Disclosure Page Terminologies Term Definition Product Responsibility Indicators DMA (Disclosure of Management Approach) 42-45, 52 BOD (Biochemical Oxygen Demand) The amount of dissolved oxygen needed by aerobic biological organisms in a body of water to break down organic material present in a given water sample at certain temperature over a specific time period. Customer Health and Safety Economic, social and cultural rights/PromotA global project that collects and analyzes the greenhouse gas emission data of major public companies across the Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ ing social responsibility in the value chain/ CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) PR1 Consumer issues/Protecting consumers' ● 52 world on behalf of global investors and financial institutions. products and services are assessed for improvement 6.7.4/6.7.5 health and safety/Sustainable consumption Total number of incidents of non-compliance with CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) Natural gas compressed under high pressures at normal temperature (14.5℃ ~ 15.5℃) to be used as vehicle fuel. 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ PR2 regulations concerning health and safety impacts of ● No occurrence 6.7.4/6.7.5 products and services Commonly used to indirectly measure the amount of organic compounds in water. Most applications of COD determine Product and Service Labeling COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) the amount of organic pollutants found in surface water (e.g. lakes and rivers) or wastewater, making COD a useful Consumer issues/Fair marketing, factual and See the material measure of water quality. unbiased information and fair contractual safety data sheets Type of product and service information required by 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ practices/Protecting consumers' health and PR3 safety/Sustainable consumption/Consumer ● (MSDS) for procedures 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 DJSI Korea A Dow Jones social responsibility index for domestic corporations only. service, support, and complaint and dispute natural gas on resolution/Education and awareness website Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ Dimethyl ether (CH₃-O-CH₃, DME) is produced by extracting and synthesizing compound gas (CO, H₂) from natural gas, PR4 ● No occurrence DME (Di-Methyl Ether) concerning product and service information and labeling 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 coal, and biomass. It is available as an alternative to LPG (liquefied petroleum gas). 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/ PR5 Policies and practices related to customer satisfaction ● 44-45 6.7.6/6.7.8/6.7.9 EPC (Engineering Procurement An acronym that stands for engineering, procurement and construction. It is a common form of contracting arrangeMarketing Communications Contruction) ment within the construction industry. Consumer issues/Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contracEnterprise resource planning (ERP) systems integrate internal and external management of information across an entire Policies and programs for marketing communications, 6.7/6.7.3/ PR6 tual practices/Consumer service, support, ● N/A including advertising, promotion, and sponsorships 6.7.6/6.7.9 and complaint and dispute resolution/ ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) organization—embracing finance/accounting, manufacturing, sales and service, customer relationship management, Education and awarenes etc. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regu6.7/6.7.3/ PR7 lations concerning marketing communications, including ● No occurrence 6.7.6/6.7.9 A device that can alternate for heating or air-conditioning purposes according to the season. Gas(LNG/LPG) is transadvertising and sponsorship GHP (Gas engine-driven Heat Pump) ferred through indoor and outdoor refrigerant pipes where repeated procedure of liquidization and evaporation occur. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Consumer issues/Consumer data PR8 6.7/6.7.7 protection and privacy ● No occurrence The world's largest global corporate citizen initiative under the United Nations that provides the framework of the ten breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data UN Global Compact principles for corporations to apply to their strategies supporting human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Compliance Monetary value of fines for noncompliance with laws Consumer issues/Consumer service, HCNG (Hydrogen blended CNG) A fuel, mixture of natural gas and hydrogen, burns faster than natural gas and extends the flammable limit significantly. PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of 6.7/6.7.6 support, and complaint and dispute ● No fine paid products and services resolution Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting A government-driven national development paradigm that develops new growth engines and jobs with green technoloOG14 ● None Low Carbon Green Growth gies and clean energy sources to ensure sustainable growth by cutting greenhouse gas emissions and environment sustainability criteria pollution. UN Global Compact OJT (On the Job Training) Instructions and education given by the field managers or direct superiors in the field. In 2007, KOGAS became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. A pipeline system to provide natural gas supplies in gas form from a production plant to users without any liquefying The UNGC principles have been engrained in our approach to corporate responsibility and business practices for many years. PNG (Pipeline Natural Gas) processes. Percentage of resources developed by domestic corporations in the annual resource imports. Self-sufficiency is calculated •The Declaration of Human Rights Self Sufficiency •'Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work', International Labor Organization (ILO) by dividing the total imports by the combined stakes of domestic companies in overseas production. •The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development •UNCAC (United Nations Convention against Corruption) SMV Facility that heats water through the combustion of fuel in the water. Using tubes installed in the water tank, the LNG is (Submerged Combustion Vaporizer) pumped into the tubes to be gasified. Global Compact requires enterprises to support, adopt, and enact core values in four areas human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. LNG trading market that ensures free trade between producers and buyers without any medium to long-term contract Spot Market terms. Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 Business should ensure that they are notcomplicit in human rights abuses. Small solid particles which remain in suspension in water as a colloid or due to the motion of the water. It is used as one Human Rights SS (Suspended Solid) indicator of water quality. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 Business should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5 Business should support the effective abolition of child labour. Tcf (Trillion Cubic Feet) Volume unit equivalent to 1 trillion cubic feet. Labor Standards Principle 6 Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. A method to estimate the maximum loss which can be caused by the variability in the portfolio value in normal market Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Unconventional Gas Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. circumstances for a specific period in accordance with a specific confidence level. Environment Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. A promise of value to be delivered and a belief from the customer that value will be experienced. A value proposition Value Proposition Anti-Corruption can apply to an entire organization, or parts thereof, or customer accounts, or products or services. 70 71 KOGAS 2012 Sustainability Report Awards & Associations Awards Awards Organization Ranked No. 1 for 4 consecutive years in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Korea Gas sector. Korea Productivity Center Earned the top grade (Excellence) in the customer satisfaction survey for public enterprises for 6 consecutive years Ministry of Strategy & Finance Received President’s Prize from the National Sharing Award Ministry of Health and Welfare Achieved top grade(excellence) in Self-management evaluation for 2 consecutive years Ministry of Strategy and Finance Won the Presidential Human Resource Development Award at the 2011 National Quality Competition Korea Standards Association Won the Ministerial Award for advanced labor-management relations Ministry of Employment & Labor Social Contribution Award (Ministerial, Chungcheong Regional Headquarters) Ministry for Health and Welfare Social Responsibility Award (Ministerial, North Gyeongsang Regional Headquarters) Ministry of Public Administration & Security Won the Disaster Control Award from the Prime Minister Ministry of Public Administration & Security Won the Ministerial Anti-Disaster Safety Management Award Ministry of Knowledge Economy Earned the Excellence grade in the Transparency Survey Anti-corruption & Civil Rights Commission Nominated as Korea’s Most Admired Energy Company for 5 consecutive years Korea Management Association Associations Organization Key Activities Note IUNC Biodiversity Support UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights Human Rights Support Overseas Compliance with the Global Code of Ethics & UN Global Compact Member COP Reporting Analysis of Global Economic Trends and Major Institute for Global Economics Member Economic Issues, etc. Energy & Mineral Resources Development Energy Resource Development Planning, etc. Member Association of Korea Accomplishment of the Low-Carbon Green Growth Domestic Green Company Council Member Vision Korea Environmental Preservation Research, development, education, and PR on environMember Association mental preservations Activities of the CEO and working groups for ethical Ethical Management SM Forum Member management practices Past KOGAS Sustainability Reports 2006 2007 2008 Scan QR code for more information at 2009 2010 2011 This report was printed on environment friendly paper with soybean oil ink. KOGAS' homepage. 72 Korea Gas Corporation, 171 Dolmaro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea TEL +82.31.710.0114 FAX +82.31.710.0117
