The Ten Principles United Nations Global Compact Human Rights  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Equality in health, civil, social and political rights along with the right to freedom of express; should be taken into consideration and applied in each work environment with regards to the Human rights standards and methods. Along with providing a forth legal protection for these rights. Ensure that people are receiving decent, humane treatment. Y2Ad considers the work as a value, anyone education is an added value to the company and to the company client’s and overall to the society. Our staffs are allowed to continue their post education at universities, institutes or at any education party. Y2Ad supports the staff aiming to continue their post education either by using the company expertise and resources or by supplying the staff with books, references that will enhance their education. In addition to that; the company allocates a proper time needed for this. In respect to human rights, Y2Ad urge its employees to constantly develop themselves and does not stand in the way of their personal success. Providing constant training and coaching and by attending seminars and conferences held internally and externally. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; People and groups have no right to engage in any activity or perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms. Therefore, business must not violate human rights ethics and should act responsibly with regard to human rights issues. Y2Ad commit to social responsibility and do not accept to operate neither with any party nor with any organization complicit in human rights abuses. Y2Ad workers are committed to our principles. All relationships inside the company are built on mutual respect, tolerance and human dignity, and being implemented in all of our work activity inside the corporation and in every detail of its connections and relations with relevant stakeholders, partners as well as clients. Labour  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Y2Ad guarantees the freedom of speech to the employees; this is affected on the company clients, suppliers and partners. Anyone has the right to be a part of an organization based on their orientations and personal opinions without any implementations that may prevent it. Work democracy is an essential part of the company structure. Y2Ad business principles ensure the freedom of collective bargaining with no involvement or intrusion of any kind.  Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; No human being shall be required to perform any kind of slavery or forced labour. Therefore no one shall be subjected to torture or to inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment in a work environment. Y2Ad labor laws, secure the rights and the responsibilities for all employees. No employee is forced to perform or practice their work services against his/her will. Y2Ad strict laws ensure the ideal work place. Working hours, lunch break are set to be identical to universal work standards. Any employee has the right to apply for vacations in addition to the right of sick leave, maternity leave or any leave in case of death cause.  Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; It is strictly a forbiddensince establishment of Y2Ad -or at any of its branches to hire or use the child force at workplace. Employment of minor age ( age 5-14) is illegal at Y2AD nor its clients and relevant stakeholders. Child labours under the competent legal age are not allowed to perform any tasks or missions whatever their types are. Y2Ad barred child force involvements and it considers using it as abusing to human rights.  Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; Eliminating discrimination starts with ensuring equality between workers with different races, religions, political opinions and others. Y2Ad regulations impose the commitment and responsibilities towards the employees. The employees’ rights are granted regardless the social region, sex, color and religion. Capabilities, education, expertise, self-improvements classify their hierarchy. Work promotions, incentives, staff training and education is accessible to all with no regard but to their efficiency and qualifications. Work laws are equally implemented on all staff without any elimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; We believe that with just a few simple changes we can save a lot. Thus; we are taking steps to create a more energy efficient workplace approaching the protection of environment and natural resources. Many Eco-friendly actions are being applied in the workplaces of Y2AD; starting from using environmentally friendly products along with minimizing the use of electricity, computers and ending up with recycling and paper saving which has an extremely high effect on the environmental challenges and saving the cost as well. Listing below some environmental actions that have been undertaken in Y2Ad through the past years up till today:  Using natural lighting long hours a day and turning off official light.  Replacing current light with LED light  Unplug cell phones and laptops once they are charged  Switch off all unnecessary lights and equipment such as computers,LCD screens and printers.  Use email instead for day to day correspondents instead of sending memos and faxing documents  Increase awareness: email signatures are assigned with phrase “Please consider the environment before printing this email”  Special boxes are made to collect papers for recycling  Setting air conditioners on 24 degree which is Japanese approach to save energy  Collecting cans in special boxes for recycling  Ensure outdoor lighting is off during daytime and turning off all the office and building lights at the end of the day  Recently: Pprinting only what we need and using the second side of paper. .  Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Corporations must make sure that its activities do not hold any harm to the environment. It also needs to generate environmentally responsible behavior among other firms and relations. Y2Ad carries out individual and group initiatives supporting the environment. The company believes that any social initiative undertakes the environment should start from within the companies. Therefore Y2Ad and stakeholders work together to launch quality environmental campaigns starting from internal seminars in order to create awareness among staff then circulating them to public. Y2AD has come up with many environmental approaches, such as promoting the usage of plastic bags. To get the full support, private, governmental sectors and NGO’s are involved in such initiatives, appreciation letters and incentives had been given to participants according to their contribution.  Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; Including the application of green science to illuminate the negative effect of technology on our lives. This also includes not only using these technologies in the workplace, but spreading this kind of science and recommending the use of it for business relations and stakeholders.  Y2Ad supports friendly technology by using internet to send files instead of using Cd’s  Reduce business travel meetings by web conferencing  Credit facilities are being granted to staff to encourage buying friendly products. Y2AD clients promote Eco-friendly products such as; Eco-bubble washing machines and Doctor Virus air conditions (Samsung 2010-2011). Anti-Corruption  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery; Y2Ad believes that the clean business is always the good business; incorporation with stakeholders we advocate for a stronger and more effective anticorruption environment in order to sustain the good possible standard of ethics and good practice. We believe that corruption is a strategic business risk and fighting corruption is a strategic imperative for everyone. Corruption destroys the integrity of a corporation and has a negative impact on society as a whole. Roles and responsibilities are agreed between employees themselves, employees and their clients, employees and the supervisors, and between the firm itself and the stakeholders, to insure that transparency is applied in all manners of relation.
