Communication on Progress (COP) The United Nations Global Compact Reporting Period: 2012-2013 Bedag Informatik AG Engehaldenstrasse 12 CH-3012 Bern Switzerland Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 Contents 1 Bedag Informatik AG ...................................................................................................................... 3 2 Statement of Support of CEO Peter Schmutz.............................................................................. 3 3 Bedag Code of Conduct ................................................................................................................. 3 4 Principles of the Global Compact ................................................................................................. 4 5 Annual Report: Social Responsibility .......................................................................................... 5 Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 2-6 1 Bedag Informatik AG Bedag has a turnover of over 100 million Swiss francs which makes it one of Switzerland's leading information technology service companies. With a workforce of 470 – 20 of whom are young trainees – Bedag disposes of a broad, well-founded knowledge of data processing. Its core business is the development, maintenance and operation of information technology solutions crucial to business operations. Bedag's expertise ensures customers can enjoy the benefits of information technology in an economic and trouble-free manner. The company has a strong presence in Switzerland's regions with a network of secure data centres and business premises in Bern, Aarau, Delémont, Geneva, Lausanne and Wettingen. Its customers are mainly public administrations and public services, companies in the health and insurance fields, and UN organisations. Bedag was founded in 1990 and is owned by the Canton of Bern. Services offered:  Scalable data centre services for system management, operation and maintenance of servers and networks using a number of technologies, as well as security services that meet the highest standards.  Decentralised services, such as desk top services and local support supplemented by a multi-lingual user help desk.  Software development with the main focus on specialised solutions and individual developments.  Integration of standard products.  Integrated solutions and services: Full outsourcing or computing on demand and/or Software as a Service (SaaS). Thanks to the quality of Bedag's services, customers can work better, faster, more securely and economically. On the basis of cost leadership Bedag demonstrates a high degree of service and customer orientation responding flexibly and proactively at all times to customers’ needs. By means of its decentralised sites all over Switzerland, the company maintains proximity to customers and thus good personal relationships. Bedag conducts its business solely in Switzerland. Bedag has been certified to ISO 9001:2008 and ISO/IEC 27001:2005 standards and also as an “EcoEnterprise” for operational sustainability. 2 Statement of Support of CEO Peter Schmutz “As Switzerland's leading technology company wholly owned by the State, Bedag Informatik AG expressly undertakes to observe the principles and objectives of the U.N. Global Compact. The foundation for our business is strict adherence to the laws of Switzerland and to international standards, such as those contained in the U.N. Global Compact. By means of our Code of Contact, we draw our values to the attention of our employees and show how these values should be reflected throughout the company into the business community.” 3 Bedag Code of Conduct Through the fundamental values of commitment, integrity and professionalism our firm has a distinctive profile which is perceived by all other groups with which we engage – customers, proprietors, suppliers, business partners, the cantonal government and supervisory authorities, the media and society as a whole. Implementation of these fundamental values builds trust, and this is the requirement for sustainable success in business and for long-term securiBedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 3-6 ty of employment. We want to further maintain and build up this trust with our Code of Conduct. The fundamental values defined in the Code of Conduct of commitment, integrity and professionalism and the principles of behaviour based on such are the hallmarks of our daily routine and our corporate culture. These values are actively supported and adopted by the Board of Directors, the Management Board and all employees. All who work for Bedag in any capacity undertake to achieve the company's objectives. Implicit to this is the responsibility to adhere to the three fundamental values of commitment, integrity and professionalism established in the Code of Conduct, the three values with which Bedag will achieve its objectives and guarantee its long-term success. 4 Principles of the Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  Bedag is expressly committed to the principles of same work, same pay and of gender equality and is a pioneer in Switzerland in this respect. As the first company in Switzerland Bedag had an independent agency audit its company-wide salary structure with respect to equality and salaries are checked annually as part of the certificated human resources processes. Bedag does not issue contracts to partners in other countries where it is unable to check whether wage equality prevails. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses.  Through the institution of the staff council, Bedag ensures that the rights of its employees are protected. Ombudswomen are elected to represent female staff to ensure the rights of women, and respect for women in general, are respected. The most recent election for this position was held in April 2012. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Bedag expressly adheres to the recommendations of branch associations and has established a transparent compensation system as a result of its equal wage policy. Equality of salary for men and women is checked annually. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  There is no compulsory labour in Switzerland or at Bedag. Bedag does not place contracts abroad. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour.  Child labour is classified as work performed by children who are under the legal minimum age of 15. In Switzerland the minimum age for employment is determined in labour legislation, legislation on domestic employment and the obligatory education requirement, which is nine years. Today, child labour is no longer a problem in Swiss society. Bedag does not issue contracts to partners in other countries where child labour could be used.  Bedag adheres to the strict legal framework regulating vocational training and to the agreement “Fair Play bei der Lehrlingsausbildung” (Fair Play in Apprenticeship Training). Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 4-6 Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  The fundamental values and principles of conduct laid down in the Code of Conduct are a fixed component of our corporate culture. Both management and employees are under obligation to apply these fundamental values in their daily routine and to implement them actively and responsibly.  Adherence to the Code of Conduct is checked during the annual employee assessment. Bedag does not tolerate any form of behaviour that contradicts the company's fundamental values. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Bedag's commitment to environmental protection is certificated. This certification takes place on the basis of the “Nachhaltige Entwicklung EcoEntreprise” (EcoEnterprise Sustainable Development) check list established by the Ecoparc Association in Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Certification was carried out by the Swiss Association for Quality and Management Systems (SQS) and an annual audit is made to check compliance with the conditions of certification. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  When purchasing standard hardware for employee workplaces, Bedag takes heed of the ecological rankings established by Greenpeace when evaluating the various products. The ranking list is drawn up taking into consideration such factors as the use of environmentally friendly materials and the availability of a worldwide recycling system. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  As part of its certified management system, Bedag carries out an annual assessment of suppliers which includes checking the environmental friendliness of supplier's deliveries. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.  The fundamental value of integrity contained in the Code of Conduct prohibits Bedag from engaging in any such conduct.  Bedag informs suppliers in writing that they should not give gifts or presents to employees and thus combats even smaller manifestations of corruption. 5 Annual Report: Social Responsibility As in the previous years, Bedag devotes an entire chapter of its current annual report to the theme of “Social Responsibility”. Thus, Bedag publicly and expressly states its agreement with the United Nations’ Global Compact. Bedag places great value on meeting its own high demands and those of the Global Compact by implementing suitable measures and initiating new projects. In this manner Bedag passes on the company's knowledge and experience to other companies and organisations as well as to the interested public. As part of its corporate strategy Bedag is committed to using economical methods of operation to save energy, and also procures goods and services that conserve resources by emBedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 5-6 ploying a sustainable supply process. Bedag’s commitment to environmental protection is certificated. This certification takes place on the basis of the “Nachhaltige Entwicklung EcoEntreprise” (EcoEnterprise Sustainable Development) check list established by the Ecoparc Association in Neuchâtel. By implementing the EcoEnterprise programme, within its field of activity Bedag undertakes to adhere to the principles of sustainable development and to train employees to make them aware of the sustainability objectives set by the company. Among such are reduction of emissions to the atmosphere, efficient use of raw materials and energy, and application of the principle of sustainability in procurement. At the end of 2012, Bedag completed a two-year project in the course of which four chilling machines in the data centre were replaced. The older two-phase piston machines had been in operation since 1987 and consumed very high amounts of energy, especially each time they were started up. The performance of the four new chillers can be controlled in detail, which leads to significantly lower energy consumption. In addition, 100 percent of the electricity purchased by Bedag from the utility for the data centre is now generated from natural sources. This green electricity is mainly generated in Switzerland; 98 percent of the electrical energy originates from hydropower plants and 2 percent from biomass. Bedag has been supporting the “Kantha Bopha Children's Hospitals” foundation run by Dr. Beat Richner for many years. Once again, in 2012, Bedag donated a substantial sum to the foundation. By means of this long-term commitment, Bedag supports the most valuable work which the staff of the Kantha Bopha Hospitals have been doing to help ease the suffering of people in Cambodia. Link: http://www.bedag.ch/portrait/geschaeftsbericht_d.php Bedag Informatik AG Communication on Progress / 01/07/2013 6-6
