SESA GOA LIMITED Value Beyond Business Sustainability Report 2012-13 SESA GOA LIMITED Our Vision To be one of the top four iron ore mining companies in the world Our Mission ? To maximise stakeholder wealth by exploiting core skills of ? To continue to maintain a pre-eminent position in safety, iron ore mining, coke and iron making environment and quality control management in the respective industry sectors ? To constantly seek high levels of productivity and technical efficiency; to maintain technological superiority over ? To contribute to the development of the communities that competitors the Company operates in or has influence on its business activities ? To aggressively seek additional resources ? To uphold human rights in the workplace and communities ? To maintain costs in the lowest quartile globally surrounding our operating areas ? To be an organisation with best-in-class people and a performance driven culture by attracting and retaining quality manpower Values ENTREPRENEURSHIP EXCELLENCE SUSTAINABILITY We foster an entrepreneurial spirit Achieving excellence in all that we do is our We practice sustainability within the throughout our businesses and value the way of life. We strive to consistently deliver framework of well-defined governance ability to foresee business opportunities projects ahead of time at industry leading structures and policies and with the early in the cycle and act on them swiftly. costs of construction and within budget. demonstrated commitment of our Whether it is developing organic growth We are constantly focused on this and management and employees. We aim not projects, making strategic acquisitions or aspire to achieve a top decile cost of only to minimise damage to the creating entrepreneurs from within, we production in each of our businesses. To environment from our projects, but also to ensure an entrepreneurial spirit at the achieve this, we follow a culture of best make a net positive impact on the heart of our workplace. practice benchmarking. environment wherever we work. GROWTH TRUST We continue to deliver growth and The trust that our stakeholders place in us generate significant value for our is key to our success. We recognise that we shareholders on a sustainable basis. must responsibly deliver on the promises Moreover, our organic growth pipeline is we make to earn that trust. We constantly strong as we seek to continue to deliver strive to meet stakeholders' expectations significant growth for shareholders in the of us and deliver ahead of expectations future. We have pursued growth across all without compromising our other values. our businesses and into new areas; always on the basis that value must be delivered. CONTENTS Overview Nurturing People About SESA 3 Our People 37 Managing Director’s Statement 8 Health and Safety 43 Year in Review 10 Environmental Stewardship About our Report 11 Strategy and Governance Regenerating Resources 45 Product Responsibility 52 Our Sustainability Approach 12 Empowering Communities Our Stakeholders 14 Economic Performance 19 Risks and Mitigation 24 Corporate Governance 27 Reaching Out to Community 55 Appendix Ethics and Human Rights Way Forward 63 Ethics 31 Assurance Statement of DNV 64 Human Rights 33 UNGC Guidelines 66 Sustainable Supplier Relations 35 GRI Content Index 67 Memberships and Associations 77 Glossary 78 Feedback 81 www.sesagoa.com Pg 2 OVERVIEW Overview Strategy And Governance ABOUT SESA Ethics And Human Rights Nurturing People SESA GOA LIMITED Sesa has acquired the remaining 49% stake from Western Cluster Limited taking its total holding to 100%. Sesa also Sesa Goa Limited (Sesa) is India's leading producer and holds 20% interest in Cairn India Limited, India’s second-largest exporter of iron ore in the private sector with operations in the private sector upstream oil company (by reserves). states of Goa and Karnataka in India and a project site in Liberia, West Africa. Founded in 1954, it has about six decades of Sesa is listed on the Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and expertise in the exploration, mining and processing of iron ore. National Stock Exchange (NSE) Environmental Stewardship Sesa is a part of Vedanta Resources Plc., the London-listed FTSE With a commitment to create a world-class enterprise through 100 diversified global metals and mining group with operations high quality assets and competitive costs of production, Sesa is in the core business sectors of zinc-lead-silver, copper, pursuing a consistent strategy of owning and operating lowaluminium, iron ore, oil and gas, across India, Australia, UAE, cost, expandable, upstream assets and delivering more Zambia, Liberia, South Africa, Namibia and Ireland. predictable business performance over time which, in turn, underpins the creation of value for our shareholders, Sesa also produces pig iron and metallurgical coke and provides customers, employees and, importantly, the communities in proprietary environment-friendly met coke making technology, which it operates. along with power. The Power Plant, Met Coke Division and Pig Empowering Communities Iron Division operate as independent business divisions. Appendix Pg 3 www.sesagoa.com OVERVIEW Overview OPERATIONS Map showing Sesa’s operations in India. Operations in Liberia are not depicted in the map since they are not in the boundary of the report. Strategy And Governance Ethics And Human Rights Nurturing People Environmental Stewardship 3 5 6 7 2 1 4 Empowering Communities India Iron Ore Operations Pig Iron and Met Coke Operations 1. South Cluster, Goa 5. Pig Iron Complex, Goa 2. Central Cluster, Goa 6. Met Coke Plants, Goa 3. North Cluster, Goa 7. Power Plants, Goa 4. Chitradurga Mine, Karnataka Appendix Map not to scale www.sesagoa.com Pg 4 OVERVIEW Overview Table 1 indicates Sesa's major divisions and operations covered in the report and their certification details. The table also indicates which operations or projects are outside the boundary of this report, and the certifications to each unit / operations. Table 1: Certifications by operations Strategy And Governance OHSAS 18001 SGL # Iron Ore Operations, Goa Codli Group of Mines P P P P P Gaval Sonshi Mine* P P P P P Bicholim Group of Mines P P P P Surla Sonshi Mines P P P P # Iron Ore Operations, Karnataka Ethics And Human Rights Sesa Goa Mine, Chitradurga P P P P P Pig Iron, Met Coke & Power Operations, Goa Pig Iron Plant, Amona P P P P P Pig Iron Expansion, Navelim Met Coke Plant, Amona P P P P P Met Coke Expansion, Navelim P Power Plant Expansion, Navelim P P P P GEL Power Plant, Amona P P P Nurturing People PCertified Not Certified * SGL is a raising contractor at Gaval Sonshi Mine (Cosme Costa and Sons) #The certification also includes the support services and ancilliary activities like beneficiation, logistics, etc. The operations that are not covered, as above, in the current SD Report, are either recent acquisitions made by the Company during the reporting period, or are projects that have been commissioned / undergoing commissioning during the reporting period. These projects and units will be covered, from the reporting period, when they start operations during subsequent years. Environmental Stewardship Note: No artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) operations take place either on or adjacent to any of our Company's mining sites. All mining operations present adjacent to our mines in Goa and Karnataka are run by major mining companies. Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 5 www.sesagoa.com OVERVIEW Overview SHAREHOLDING PATTERN Table 2: Shareholding Pattern of Sesa Goa Limited as on March 31, 2013 Sr. No. Category March 31, 2013 Strategy And Governance No. of shares held Percentage of shareholding Face value `1/a. Promoter’s holding 479,113,619 55.13 Banks, Mutual funds, Financial Institutions, 36,885,170 b. Insurance Companies (Central / State Govt. 4.24 Institutions / Non-Govt. Institutions) c. FIIs / Foreign Corporate Bodies 236,632,096 27.23 Ethics And Human Rights d. Private Corporate Bodies 11,966,235 1.38 e. Indian Public 99,700,705 11.47 f. NRIs / OCBs 1,975,576 0.23 g. Trust 628,431 0.07 h. HUF 1,505,213 0.17 I. Clearing Members 694,378 0.08 Grand Total 869,101,423 100 Nurturing People Paid-up capital as on March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2013 was `869,101,423 Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 6 OVERVIEW Overview AWARDS Sesa was awarded with the following prestigious awards during Strategy And Governance « Sesa's Pig Iron Division was the winner in the the year 2012-13: “Manufacturing process Metallurgical Medium Scale Industry” category and Met Coke Division was the runners « “Commendation Certificate” in IMC Ramkrishna Bajaj up in the “Manufacturing process Non Metallurgical Ethics And Human Rights National Quality assessment in the Manufacturing Medium Scale Industry” category. These awards, given at Category for the year 2012. Sesa is the first and only mining the national level, have been instituted by Srishti company to get this recognition since the award's Publications. inception in 1996. « Silver Award in the category of Best Strategy at the 3rd « Sesa Goa Limited ranked among the Top 30 Best Practices Annual Greentech HR Excellence Awards, 2013, given by in Corporate Governance by 2012 IR Global Rankings. the Greentech Foundation, which presents these HR Excellence Awards to companies that demonstrate the « Sesa Goa Limited, has been conferred the Diamond Edge highest level of commitment to HR practices. Award 2012, for its RFID Based Logistics System at the EDGE (Enterprises Driving Growth and Excellence through « Sesa's Met Coke division won two prestigious National Nurturing People IT) Awards 2012 in Mumbai on 10 October 2012. Safety Awards in New Delhi in September 2012. « Sesa was declared the winner of “Manufacturing Supply « Achieving maximum man-hours without any fatal / nonChain Awards” in the category of “Supply Chain fatal / PTD accident in the performance year 2010 for Technology Advancement” for its RFID implementation factories working less than one million man-hours but across Goa and Karnataka iron ore operations. These more than half million man hours per year. awards were given as a part of the 2nd Asia Manufacturing Supply Chain Summit (AMSCS). Environmental Stewardship « Sesa Mining Corporation Limited (SMCL) was awarded the CR Excellence Gold Award in the Education Category « Sesa Goa Limited was awarded the Best Custom Solution by the Green Triangle Society on 21 December 2012. Award in SAP Logistics category for Customisation of Ore Trucking Logistics at the SAP Localisation Forum India 2013. « “CSR Initiative of the Year” award at Business Goa Corporate Excellence Awards given by Business Goa, a business magazine in March 2013. Empowering Communities « First place for the Best Practices adopted and implemented in Environment Technology for initiatives on “Energy Conservation” given by the Goa State Pollution Control Board (GSPCB) on the occasion of World Environment Day. Section 06 Appendix Pg 7 www.sesagoa.com OVERVIEW Overview MANAGING DIRECTOR'S Strategy And Governance MESSAGE It is more important than ever before for mining companies to focus on sustainable mining practices for their long-term success and for the benefit of their stakeholders. Ethics And Human Rights It is a pleasure to present Sesa's eighth Sustainability Report. The Value Addition Business achieved a new landmark in August 3 Being India's largest, and most credible, mining company in the 2012 when the new 450m blast furnace was commissioned, private sector, the concept of sustainability has been enhancing pig iron production from 0.25 to 0.625 mtpa, making embedded in our systems, processes and activities. us the largest low phosphorous pig iron facility in India. A 0.28 mtpa metallurgical coke plant, a 0.8 mtpa sinter plant and a 30 In light of the developments that have impaired the functioning MW power plant were also commissioned as part of the project. of the mining sector, I believe it is more important than ever before for mining companies to focus on sustainable practices for their long-term success and for the benefit of all their ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Nurturing People stakeholders, including the community at large. It is imperative for mining companies and regulatory authorities, to work Faced with extraordinary challenges in the form of suspension together, with sustainable mining practices, to restore the of mining operations in Goa since September, 2012 (in any case confidence of all stakeholders. That is the only way out of the the business is always at very low level during June to current impasse. September, being monsoon months) and continued suspension in Karnataka for the full year, volumes declined significantly Our iron ore operations in both Goa as well as Karnataka have during the year. Iron ore production and sales were 3.7 and 3.1 been at a standstill for several months now and during this mt respectively in 2012-13 compared to 13.8 and 16.0 mt respectively in the previous year. Gross sales revenue from iron Environmental Stewardship period we have been engaging closely with our stakeholders to dispel myths about mining and to reiterate our deep and ore decreased by 77%, from ` 7,516 crore in 2011-12 to ` 1,697 abiding commitment to responsible—and sustainable—mining crore in 2012-13. practices. In the spirit of transparency we have in this report described the measures taken by us to minimise the effect of Pig iron and met coke production increased by 24% and 29% to the suspension of mining on our stakeholders. Notwithstanding 307,775 and 331,000 tonnes respectively due to new capacities the various challenges confronting us, we have made significant commissioned during FY2013. Sales volume for the pig iron progress towards becoming a diversified global resource business increased by 10% from 250,571 tonnes in 2011-12 to champion. 275,119 tonnes in 2012-13, while sales revenue grew by 7% to ` 784 crore in 2012-13 from ` 730 crore in 2011-12. Sales volume for met Empowering Communities The proposed merger of Sterlite Industries (India) Limited with coke also went up by 20% to 301,889 tonnes in 2012-13 from Sesa Goa Limited, along with associated companies will make 251,264 tonnes in 2011-12. Gross sales revenue remained even at the new entity one of the world's largest diversified natural ` 558 crore in 2012-13, as against ` 551 crore in 2011-12. resources company with a world-class, low-cost asset base in close proximity to high growth markets. The proposed new Sesa's net income from operations fell by 69% from Rs. 8,310 entity will have exposure to aluminum, copper, iron ore, oil & crore in 2011-12 to ` 2,554 crore in 2012-13. Operating cash profit gas, zinc-lead-silver, and commercial power with assets located (PBDT) declined by 99% to ` 23 crore from ` 3,235 crore in 2011-12. in India, Australia, Liberia, South Africa, Namibia, Ireland, UAE PAT (including associate income) decreased 15% from ` 2,696 and Sri Lanka. crore in 2011-12 to ` 2,280 crore in 2012-13, and diluted earnings per share were ` 26.24 in 2012-13. We increased our equity in WCL Liberia to 100% by acquiring the remaining 49% stake. These moves help us diversify both Appendix geographically as well as resource-wise making Sesa Sterlite one of the largest diversified resource majors in the world. www.sesagoa.com Pg 8 OVERVIEW Overview mining engineering in Goa, something that was hitherto ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE unavailable in the state. The course has been accredited by the Goa University as well as the All India Council for Technical Even though operations remain suspended, we have continued Education (AICTE). to implement environmental measures, which include rehabilitation of overburden dumps and treating run-off water Strategy And Governance before discharging outside the premises. To minimise the effect of iron ore stockpiles on the environment they are EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING covered with tarpaulin/silpaulin during monsoons. We have been ranked on the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) We have been transparent in our interactions with employees for the past three years consecutively. about the challenges facing the business and they have been extremely understanding. All of our unions have been A notable feature of our performance this year has been the cooperative and have understood the initiatives we have taken completion of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) during this tough period. Senior employees have agreed to documentation (policies and procedures). We have integrated take a pay cut. The management has kept employees and Ethics And Human Rights these guidelines with our existing Integrated Management unions regularly informed and updated on the current Systems of ISO 14001 EMS, ISO 9001 QMS and OHSAS 18001 situation. Safety and Occupational Health and implementation is in process. Sesa has also adopted international best practices by To engage with our employees we have conducted various conducting an Environmental and Social Impact Assessment internal training programmes, motivational workshops and (ESIA) for WCL, Liberia, based on IFC guidelines. quality improvement projects. On an average, our employees received 11.08 hours of training during the reporting period. We have also outlined a detailed restart strategy across both operational and enabling functions. This will help us rapidly get SOCIAL PERFORMANCE operations restarted once the judicial and regulatory hurdles are overcome and mining operations resume. It is also a matter Nurturing People The prolonged suspension of mining operations has had an of pride that women currently constitute 17% of the executive impact on the entire eco-system in which a mining company like category, up from 14% over the last three years. ours operates. It has especially hurt those involved in allied mining activities like transportation, including trucks and Health and safety is a top priority for us. In 2012-13, our overall barges, automobile repairers, and small restaurant owners. On Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) reduced from 0.81 in our part, we have kept our high impact community relations 2011-12 to 0.54 per million man-hours worked. I am also happy to projects going in the important areas of health, livelihood and report that, during the year, the shipbuilding, met coke, pig iron education. and energy divisions achieved a zero-accident record. Environmental Stewardship The Sesa Community Development Foundation (SCDF) projects I would like to thank our stakeholders especially our employees like the two technical schools and residential football and shareholders for reposing their faith in us and standing by academies have not been allowed to be impacted. Our us during these tough times. We hope that this Sustainability approach to Community Relations (CR) has had to change Report will underline our focus on building value beyond because of the difficult circumstances in which we are business. In this report we have showcased our efforts, operating. We have deferred infrastructure jobs under CR in the learnings, failures and successes in an effort to communicate community like community halls, gardens, etc. The focus now is openly and transparently with all our stakeholders. Should you on employee volunteerism and engaging with the community. have comments on this report, please write to: sesa.corporatecommunications@vedanta.co.in Empowering Communities Sesa has completed construction of a building of Department of Mining at the Goa College of Engineering. The state-of-the-art mining department has been set up by us in collaboration with Prasun K. Mukherjee the state government. Not only have we created the Managing Director infrastructure but we have also committed to meeting operational expenses for the department for five years. This initiative provides Goan students an opportunity to take up Appendix Pg 9 www.sesagoa.com OVERVIEW Overview YEAR IN REVIEW Strategy And Governance Table 3: Performance Parameters 2012-13 Parameter Performance Target Performance Units Economic 11-12 12-13 12-13 Ethics And Human Rights Production (Iron Ore) million tonnes 13.8 19.78 3.73 Safety LTIFR Per million 0.81 0.54 0.44 man-hours worked Environment Specific Water Consumption SGL Mining kL / Ton 1.348 5-10% reduction on 1.082 previous year's SGL PID 2.038 achieved targets 2.237 Nurturing People SGL MCD 0.799 0.883 Specific Energy Consumption SGL Mining GJ / Ton 0.150 3-5% reduction on previous 0.172 year's achieved targets SGL PID 0.666 0.664 SGL MCD 0.144 0.104 Environmental Stewardship LCA studies for all the products Social High Impact Projects 2 completed 11 8 to completed 7 completed 5 ongoing on-going Workplace Betterment Completed & SA 8000 Surveillance audit SA 8000 Surveillance Audit Certificate obtained to be completed Completed successfully from Bureau Veritas Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 10 OVERVIEW Overview ABOUT THIS REPORT Strategy And Governance This is the eighth sustainability report of Sesa Goa Limited The report is based on the GRI G 3.1 Guidelines and GRI's Metals (Sesa), an organisational report that discloses our economic, and Mining Sector Supplement, and we report/respond against environmental and social performance. This has been a all applicable core and additional indicators. The data points challenging year for Sesa and we hope to outline the steps reported cover economic, environmental and social Ethics And Human Rights taken to endure adversity throughout our operations while performance indicators as per the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. In minimising the impact on our stakeholders. Our sustainability addition to this, the report also include responses aligned to reports are published annually and this report covers the fiscal United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. Specific year 2012-2013. Sesa published its first sustainability report in reference to each indicator is indexed in the GRI Content Index the year 2005-06. which is located at the end of the current report. Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions are addressed in this report and also in This report covers all our Indian operations, including Goa and disclosures to the CDP. Sesa has also responded to CDP Water. Karnataka, where we have 100% operational control. The table in the previous chapter on “About Sesa” indicates the units and The report is organised into broad dimensions of the divisions that are covered in this report. It covers the following Company's sustainability performance and the content is companies, including subsidiaries and their units. based on the concerns voiced by our stakeholders, both Nurturing People ? Sesa Goa Limited internal and external. We follow a structured process to collect ? Iron Ore Division, Goa inputs for our report. Our stakeholder and materiality sections ? Iron Ore Division, Karnataka outline critical issues, as well as our focus areas for the ? River Fleet and Shipping Office, Goa following years. ? Shipbuilding Division, Goa ? Pig Iron Division, Amona, Goa In continuation of our previous reports, this year too, we have ? Metallurgical Coke Division, Navelim, Goa subjected our report to an independent, third party ? Sesa Resources Limited verification, ensuring credibility and improving acceptance. Environmental Stewardship ? Sesa Mining Corporation Limited We have engaged Det Norske Veritas AS (DNV) to independently verify and assure the report. The scope of DNV's The report does not cover the iron ore projects in Liberia, which assurance engagement includes the verification of the content, are in the project stage. It also does not cover the power focus, and quality of the information presented in the report, business, Goa Energy Limited, (GEL) and expansion project of covering the Economic, Environmental and Social information pig iron complex in Goa. We will endeavor to include reporting for the period of April 2012 to March 2013 including GHG on these entities in future reports. emissions. The engagement process also includes review of stakeholder engagement and materiality determination The data presented has been recorded and reported by various process. departments within the organisation for the period between 1 Empowering Communities April 2012 and 31 March 2013. The data and figures in the report Sesa has prepared this report in line with the GRI G3.1 guidelines are actual numbers based on the methodology and standard for meeting requirements for Application level A+. For the management systems followed by our Health, Safety, convenience of the readers of this report, we have provided Environment & Community Relations (HSEC) and other the GRI Content Index mapping GRI G3.1 indicators including departments, in line with industry practices. Our performance MMSS indicators and the ten principles of the UNGC at the end is reported on a year-on-year basis (YoY), comparing the current of the report. Sesa has already published the Business year's performance against the previous year, and therefore, Responsibility Report as required by SEBI on page 50 of the targets are not reported where they are not specified. There Annual Report 2012-13 has been no significant change from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. Appendix Pg 11 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview OUR SUSTAINABILITY Strategy And Governance APPROACH Sesa's vision is to be one of the top four iron ore mining companies in the world, by volume, with impeccable safety practices and low cost operations NURTURING PEOPLE In its approach to sustainable mining, Sesa has been focusing on Ethics And Human Rights four core areas: Our employees are our most valued assets and we constantly strive to provide all of them a challenging and rewarding work ENVIRONMENTAL environment. From creating avenues to sustain and enhance STEWARDSHIP performance, to providing continuous learning opportunities, and empowering and engaging employees, our HR teams at units put practices and procedures in place for a happy workforce. With the help of our dedicated HSEC team, we have been trying Nurturing People to minimise the impact our operations have on the environment. From energy efficiency initiatives, reducing our OCCUPATIONAL carbon footprint, to the latest land reclamation technologies, HEALTH etc., we continuously strive to champion best practices in all our AND SAFETY environmental initiatives. In consideration of the precautionary principle, we are developing a more robust risk assessment and sustainability Environmental Stewardship The health and safety of our people is of utmost priority for development framework by incorporating issues relevant to all Sesa. The Company continues to take a proactive role in stakeholders and the business. We recognise the importance providing employees a safe working environment, providing of such a framework towards our approach to sustainable training, and implementing and monitoring the best safety and mining. As a step towards achieving a robust framework, we environmental practices across all locations. have developed policies and procedures in line with IFC guidelines aligned with Vedanta Sustainability Governance System to address overall sustainability issues. Environmental Stewardhip Read more details about our environmental management plan Empowering Communities and mitigation initiatives in our Environment section of this report. Empowering Sustainable Nurturing People Communities Development Health & Safety Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 12 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Environment Management System EMPOWERING Sesa has a well-developed Environmental Management COMMUNITIES System (EMS), which helps manage operations' compliance requirements, control environmental issues and identify Strategy And Governance mitigation strategies. Sesa provides greater emphasis on implementation and certifications of EMS, the details of its Sesa units which are compliant and certified with the EMS Sesa firmly believes that sustainability of its operations is only management are detailed in Table1 possible in tandem with the development of the communities in and around which it operates. The Company, through its Occupational Health and Safety Management System Community Relations (CR) team, interacts with the community on a continuous basis, engaging stakeholders to understand All our units, excepting, the expansion projects in their needs, identifying solutions, formulating plans, and Amona/Navelim, the project site in Liberia, have been certified implementing community development initiatives. Sesa also for OHSAS 18001, an international occupational health and Ethics And Human Rights has embarked on evaluating the impact of these community safety management system specification. The system has initiatives, which will further reinforce its commitment to the helped us in managing and mitigating risks related to development of these communities. occupational health and safety, thus ensuring a safer workplace for our employees. STANDARDS Workplace Standards AND MANAGEMENT In line with Company's philosophy and policy on workplace SYSTEMS improvement, Company has implemented and has been certified for SA8000 during 2011. SA 8000 is an international social accountability standard for management and improving Nurturing People workplace standards. The standard is based on a number of We translate our commitment towards sustainable mining into existing international human rights' standards including the action by adhering to the highest standards and setting-up United Nation's Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the robust systems in each of the above focus areas. We were the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The parameters of first iron ore Company in the world to be certified for ISO 14001 the standard include practices related to child labour, forced in 1996, and we are the first iron ore company in the world to be labour, health and safety, discrimination, remuneration, certified for SA 8000 in 2011. working hours, etc. The certification has been awarded to the Environmental Stewardship units of Sesa Goa Ltd, including the mining divisions of Goa and Karnataka, the Corporate Office in Goa, the Pig Iron Division, Met Coke Division and Shipbuilding Division. Units which are currently not covered as indicated in Table 1, are proposed to include in a phased manner Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 13 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview OUR STAKEHOLDERS Strategy And Governance In line with Company's philosophy and policies Sesa carries out the stakeholder analysis every year to capture the emerging stakeholders and issues. Accordingly, during the beginning of this year the stakeholder mapping and identification exercise was carried out taking into consideration the risks and opportunities and stakeholder influence on the business decisions. Based on the this, the key stakeholders, the issues and the engagement mechanism / process has been identified and implemented and detailed as under; STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Ethics And Human Rights Table 4: Stakeholder Engagement Modes Stakeholder Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Concerns Initiatives by the Company and Significance Shareholders: Statutory AGM Profitability and growth Announcing and publishing Owners, Providers Need Based quarterly results of the of Capital company through websites and newspapers (mainlines & regionals) Nurturing People Posting information related to shareholding pattern, compliance with corporate governance norms, etc., on the company's website Quarterly Communication Governance for Sesa Goa's website is a Need Based sustainability comprehensive source of Environmental Stewardship information on our portfolio of business, social responsibility activities and environment, occupational health and safety performance: a. The entire Report and Accounts, as well as quarterly and half-yearly financial results, are now available in downloadable formats under the section ‘Investors Relations’; Empowering Communities b. The ‘News & Media’ section provides press releases from the company c. Clarifications as and when provided to institutional investors and analysts, including presentations (if any), are also posted on the company's website Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 14 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Stakeholder Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Concerns Initiatives by the Company and Significance Shareholders: Need Based Shareholders/ Dividend, Results and The committee reviews Owners, Providers Investor Grievance any other issues investor-related issues and Strategy And Governance of capital Committee recommends measures to improve investor services. Government: As and when required Regular meetings Regulatory Compliances 1. Proactively and periodically Regulatory Bodies and structured and community fulfilling all formalities and and Policy Makers communication interest, Environmental procedures. on key parameters pollution a. economic; 2. Compliance with applicable laws, conditions of clearance/ consents/ licence/ permits etc. Ethics And Human Rights b. environment, health and safety; c. social issues; Clean technology Technologies implemented to and reduce GHG emissions and CERs accrued d. regulatory Participation in emissions trends trade in domestic market Employees: Regularly Communication, Health and safety 1. Organising EHS, behavioural Main resource to Workshops and and technical training undertake Nurturing People Training programmes. sustainable development 2. Periodic health check-ups initiatives Union and workmen 1. Conducting awareness 2. Navjyoti for workmen wellness also extended to their family Environmental Stewardship Employee grooming GOLD initiative helps in and development creating a talent pool of successors to operational leadership positions through multiple interventions Guidance to fresh Mentorship programme recruits guides new recruits to ensure their smooth on-boarding and acclimatisation to our organisation culture Empowering Communities Employment opportunities 1. Sesa Technical School (STS) to Locals pass outs are employed. 2. Sesa partnered with the Government of Goa to start a Degree course in Mining Engineering Maintaining morale during 1. Sesa partnered with the Suspension of operations Government of Goa to start a Degree course in Mining Engineering Appendix Pg 15 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Stakeholder Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Concerns Initiatives by the Company and Significance Employees: Main Regularly Idea Mela Employee participation Implemented 302 ideas of the resource to in improving business 600 feasible ideas, which Strategy And Governance undertake operations collected in Idea Mela. Cost sustainable savings amount to ` 2.5 crore development after implementing these initiatives ideas. Surveys Attracting and retaining talent Connect'an employee engagement survey measures employee satisfaction across diverse parameters Ethics And Human Rights Participation in Benchmarking & Improvisation Participation in global external studies employee engagement studyHewitt Best Companies to Work and Great Places to Work, to receive unbiased independent feedback, which helps formulate action plans for further improvement Grievance Redressal Employee Rights 1. Established a Code of Committee Conduct Nurturing People 2. Publishing Staff Handbook 3. Grievance Redressal Policy Trade Union 1. 57.4% of employees are covered under collective bargaining. 2. Periodic meetings have ensured smooth functioning and zero incidences of strikes & lock-outs Environmental Stewardship Community Regularly Surveys through Community Welfare 1. Need based interventions our CR Team, NGOs & Relations in the areas of Education, Health, Infrastructure development, women and youth empowerment through livelihood projects. 2. Sesa Technical School for employability of local youth in mining sector. 3. Contribution to Mineral Empowering Communities Foundation of Goa (MGF) Meetings with Community Engagement 1. Conducting public community & Communication awareness programmes on representatives EHS for communities. through BDC & FGDs 2. Periodic engagement with village panchayats Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 16 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Stakeholder Frequency Mode Key Sustainability Concerns Initiatives by the Company and Significance Community Regularly Need-based Land availability and 1. Reclamation of mined out discussions/written Management lands, e.g.; Sanquelim. Strategy And Governance communications; 2. Planning & seeking approval for all other Biodiversity Management plans for other mines. 3. Obtaining necessary clearances. Transportation of iron ore 1. Widening of roads. by road 2. Cleaning of roads to reduce dust pollution from ore transport. Ethics And Human Rights 3. Supporting government initiativesrailway corridor, studies to understand impacts of mining Mine Closure and Exit Plan 1. Creating livelihood opportunities training SHG women in income generation activities, Back to Farming, Gerbera Cultivation. 2. Systematic land reclamation Nurturing People Suppliers: Regularly Formal Policies and Practices 1. Supplier's code of conduct. Providers of communication related to Suppliers 2. Issuance of letters as a contract labour, through letters and formal communication machinery, and online web updates emphasising on human consumables on policies and rights following SA 8000 practices certification. 3. e-Procurement Environmental Stewardship Customers: Regularly Survey Customer satisfaction, 1. Customer Satisfaction Source of revenues product quality Surveys. and future growth 2. Test Certificates issued to customers for each product consignment delivered. 3. Monthly operational review meetings and management Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 17 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview MATERIALITY A materiality determination exercise was conducted to identify the most material issues to Sesa, in line with the Company's Vision, Mission and Values, National and International Strategy And Governance standards, IFC Guidelines, ICMM Principles, GRI Guidelines, etc. The aspects/issues were identified by following these steps: 1. Organisational Perspective: Assessment of the Company's existing policies and systems, business performance – global industry outlook and challenges, examining the Company's initiatives in sustainability aspects as defined by GRI namely the economic, environmental, social, labour and people practices. Mining sector related benchmarks and frameworks like International Council on Mining and Metals Ethics And Human Rights (ICMM) were also taken into consideration. 2. Stakeholder Engagement: An independent study with multiple levels of interactions was conducted with key stakeholder groups to gain their perspective on sustainability related issues. It included interviews with senior leaders of the company, discussions with internal employees, union representatives, and interactions with external stakeholders including local community groups, NGOs, and other partners of the company. Perspectives Nurturing People were also gauged from existing internal stakeholder feedback processes like customer satisfaction surveys, vendor meets, and employee engagement mechanisms as well as the Carbon Disclosure Report. Chart 1: SIGNIFICANT MATERIAL ISSUES Impact to stakeholders Impact to Company Score Environmental Stewardship 25 •Dividend 25 25 •Local employment opportunity •Increasing price of input material (Pig iron) 20 15 25 •Child and young labour in value chain 15 •Overburden management 15 10 5 5 5 3 5 5 5 3 •Profitability GHG emissions Empowering Communities 16 25 4 5 0 4 5 16 54 5 •Living conditions (security) 5 5 •Traffic– noise and fugitive emissions 25 •Fugitive dust emissions 20 •Traffic in convenience 25 •Working capital •Unfavourable government policies eg. ban on mining and export Appendix 25 25 www.sesagoa.com Pg 18 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Strategy And Governance The biggest impact on our economic performance this year is consolidates information, reconciles large transaction volumes the cessation of mining operations in Goa and Karnataka. This and interfaces with SAP. Further, interface with the National has undoubtedly affected our performance but we are using Informatics Centre (NIC) and (n)-code websites ensures linking this time to strengthen the Company's plans and strategies for to forest passes and department of mines and geology. Sesa Ethics And Human Rights future growth. This also solidifies our vision to be a global also customised existing SAP modules to incorporate unique diversified mining major. We are pursuing three-dimensional procurement practices in iron ore mining, enabling handling of growth – across scale, diversity, and operational efficiency. Our large number of trucks and trips. acquisition of the remaining stake in WCL is a step towards diversifying geographically. The proposed merger of Sterlite This is one such initiative among many taken by the Company and associated companies will help us diversify commodityduring this period to strengthen its internal systems and wise while also increasing our scale. We are targeting processes, which will enable it to resume its operations with operational efficiency through technological improvements in greater efficiency and effectiveness. internal processes. PRODUCTS AND BUSINESS SEGMENTS Enduring in challenging times Nurturing People Chart 2: Share of Sesa's Consolidated Segment Profits by % In August 2011, the Supreme Court ordered a ban on mining and Share of Sesa’s Consolidated Segment Profits exports from Karnataka, which impacted Sesa's operations there. In September 2012, the State Government of Goa placed a ban on mining operations in Goa, followed by a Supreme Court order, which brought Sesa's India operations to a grinding halt. These challenges were unprecedented and unforeseen in the Environmental Stewardship six decades of its operations. Despite the long-term irreversible impact on current operations, future markets and the Indian iron industry's global presence, Sesa continued to invest in various measures aimed at improving operational efficiencies. Keen to utilise such an opportunity, various teams have worked Iron ore: 97 Pig Iron: 2 Met Coke: 1 towards strengthening internal systems, as one more step towards overall business excellence. Chart 3: Share of Sesa's Consolidated External Revenues by % In its endeavour to streamline logistics value chain, Sesa Share of Sesa’s Consolidated External Revenues completed the rollout of its unique RFID based logistics tracking Empowering Communities system, which seamlessly integrates vehicle movement across its operations, reconciles transactions, interfaces with the enterprise databases, but also interfaces with regulatory and government systems, which are essential. Sesa is the first mining company in India to implement automation using RFID technology to streamline its supply chain. The system, which improves productivity by reducing transaction time and human errors, identifies the vehicle Iron ore: 89 Pig Iron: 9 Met Coke: 2 through RFID; links all touch points (security gates and weighbridges) across the Goa and Karnataka operations, Appendix Pg 19 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Iron Ore PID adheres to the best standards of quality, environment, health and safety, with an exemplary record of two-years of zero-accident operations. It is certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 This is Sesa's core business segment and contributed to 62.3% of and OHSAS 18001 systems for quality, environment and safety consolidated external revenues in 2012-13. The Company has a respectively, through a third party certification agency, Bureau niche positioning with cost competitive iron ore mines that are Strategy And Governance Veritas Certification (India) Pvt. Ltd. relatively nearer to ports with part of the distance covered by waterways, to support the global seaborne iron ore trade. The The pig iron market was adversely affected during the year due Company produced 3.7 mt of iron ore, 73% lower than 13.8 mt to increased supply of pig iron by major steel mills in India due to last year. depressed steel demand. Further, the PID was impacted by the scarcity (and irregular supply and resultant high prices) of highSesa's Indian iron ore operations continue to be curtailed by grade iron ore from Karnataka, due to the Karnataka mining ban regulatory restrictions. While the Karnataka operations have since August 2011 and suspension of Goan iron ore operations. been stopped since August 2011, the Goa mining operations were stopped in September 2012, by the orders of State The PID's R&D activities have resulted in reduction in operating Government of Goa, followed by order from Supreme Court of Ethics And Human Rights costs, improvement of product quality and development of India. While this has led to curtailment in exploratory drilling in new products for downstream industries. It has developed India, the Company's strong focus on exploration, and its special grades of pig iron to cater to the fast growing niche activities in Goa during the period prior to September 2012 and market of ductile iron castings in India. those at the Liberia project, has yielded significant positive results. Driven by the commissioning of new capacities, the Pig Iron production increased by 24% from 2,48,729 tonnes in 2011-12 to Sesa's focus on exploration has yielded another year of 3,07,775 tonnes in 2012-13. The pig iron sales volume increased significant reserves and resources accretion in Goa and by 10% from 2,50,571 tonnes in 2011-12 to 2,75,119 tonnes in 2012Karnataka, with a net addition of 59 mt of reserves and 13, while sales revenue grew by 7.4% to ` 784 crore in 2012-13 resources during the year. Driven by the strong focus on from 730 crore in 2011-12. Nurturing People resource addition over the last 5 years, the total reserves and resources in Goa and Karnataka have been increased by 3.6 times, net of depletion. Total reserves and resources in India as Met Coke on March 31, 2013 stands at 433 mt as compared to 374 mt as on March 31, 2012, implying +20 years of mine life. Sesa's Met Coke Division (MCD) is operated as an independent business unit. The MCD at Amona produces a range of coke fractions from over 70 mm for foundries, 20 mm to 60 mm for Pig Iron blast furnaces, and 6 mm to 25 mm for the ferrous alloy Environmental Stewardship industries. The product is mainly low-ash coke. The principal The Company's Pig Iron Division (PID) commenced its input, low-ash coking coal – both hard and semi soft coking operations in 1992, and was the first to introduce low coals – is imported and to ensure stable raw material supply, phosphorous foundry grade pig iron in India. The PID's facility Sesa enters into long-term procurement contracts. Coking coals consists of two blast furnaces; each having a working volume of of different types are carefully blended with precision controls 173 m3. to produce the desired high-quality low-ash met coke, using the cost-effective, eco-friendly proprietary Sesa Energy Recovery PID contributed 30.6% to total external revenues in 2012-13. The Coke Making Technology. This process produces high quality business focuses mainly on the domestic Indian market, met coke, and has the lowest pollution levels among especially foundries and steel mills in western and southern comparable technologies. Empowering Communities India. It has also extended its reach in the exports market to the Middle East and South East Asia. MCD is primarily a backward integration initiative to support the pig iron business, with 70% of its sales to the Pig Iron Division, With the commissioning of its third blast furnace of 450 m3 and the balance is sold externally. During The metallurgical coke capacity, Sesa's PID has become the largest producer of low production increased by 29% to 3,31,000 tonnes in 2012-13 due to phosphorous pig iron in India with an installed capacity of 0.625 new capacities commissioned in Q2 FY2013. Sales volume of mtpa. PID produces several grades of pig iron, including basic, metallurgical (met) coke increased by 20% to 3,01,889 tonnes in foundry and spheroidal (nodular) grades that cater to steel mills 2012-13 from 2,51,264 tonnes in 2011-12. External sales revenue and foundries in India and abroad. PID also produces slag as a increased by 1.4% to ` 558 crore in 2012-13 from ` 550 crore in by-product, which is sold to the cement industry. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 20 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview 2011-12. During the year 2012-13, MCD contributed 6.5% to total growth rates averaged around 17% (CAGR), this is still an external revenues. absolute increase of about 40 mt, or over 50% of India's steel production. Chinese iron ore import growth has accelerated Sesa has developed a technology for non-recovery coke since 2001 and then averaged an impressive 24% for 10 years. making, which is environment-friendly, characterised by low Strategy And Governance capital and operating costs, high levels of energy recovery, and The acceleration in Chinese demand resulted in a considerable has the capability to produce high quality metallurgical coke. degree of tightness in the seaborne iron ore market, as We have received a European and an Indian patent for this suppliers struggled to raise output growth to match that of technology. In addition, we have introduced a German demand leading to a 10-fold price increase between the late technology for densification of coal charge, employing vibro90's and the 2011 high. However, the expected fall in steel compaction for producing stable coal cake with bulk density. production growth rates is expected to lead to a deceleration in MCD has also set up a state-of-the-art coal carbonisation iron ore imports, a fall in pricing, and a contraction in margins laboratory for coal characterisation and evaluation of coke partially mitigated by the exit of marginal capacity. quality. Over the next decade, Chinese economy is expected to evolve Ethics And Human Rights from one driven by Fixed Asset Investment (FAI) and exports to MARKET OUTLOOK one supported by domestic / consumer spending, with a long term crude steel demand at approximately 800 mt/annum. As Global Scenario China's requirements for further infrastructure, manufacturing capacity and real estate begin to moderate, the Fixed Asset The global economic activity continued to remain soft in 2012. Investment (FAI) will decelerate, which will negatively impact Fiscal consolidation and a still-weak financial system continue the growth in steel demand, in particular the long-products to weigh on the growth prospects in the advanced economies, steel market (re-bar, beams, etc.), though the demand for flat balanced to some extent by an accommodative monetary products might still be moderate. policy. Low growth and uncertainty in advanced economies are percolating to the emerging market and developing The iron ore price forecasts continue to be pressured by two Nurturing People economies, through both trade and financial channels, adding challenges; firstly, the demand supply situation as the demand to home grown weaknesses. IMF projects global growth to moderates and supply accelerates, and secondly, the evolution increase during 2013, as the factors underlying the soft global of the Chinese steel scrap market and Electric Arc Furnace (EAF) activity are expected to subside. As per IMF estimates, the capacity in steel production eroding demand for iron ore. global economy is expected to grow at 3.5% in 2012 primarily driven by growth in the emerging market economies, mainly Indian Context China. The economic recovery, however, remains fragile. Environmental Stewardship World crude steel production reached 1,548 mt in the year 2012, The decline in iron ore exports from India has been driven by a up by 1.2% over to 2011. This is another record for global crude simultaneous implementation of regulatory restrictions on key steel production. The growth came mainly from Asia and North iron ore producing regions, Karnataka, Goa and Orissa, which America while crude steel production in the EU (27) and South together contributed approximately 80% of India's iron ore America decreased in 2012 compared to 2011. production before regulatory restraints. Indian iron ore exports have declined to a 15-year low. Indian iron ore exports declined Asia's annual crude steel production was 1,012.7 mt in 2012, an by 73% during April 2012 March 2013. The outlook of Indian iron increase of 2.6% over 2011. China's crude steel production in 2012 ore exports remains clouded under regulatory uncertainty. reached 716.5 mt, an increase of 3.1% on 2011. China's share of When it emerges out of the current quagmire, through a process of weeding, the Indian iron ore mining industry is Empowering Communities world crude steel production increased from 45.4% in 2011 to 46.3% in 2012. Japan produced 107.2 mt in 2012, a decrease of expected to emerge stronger and more robust with better 0.3% from 2011. In 2012, South Korea's crude steel production environmental and stakeholder management practices and was 69.3 mt, a 1.2% increase compared to 2011. streamlined regulatory environment. However, in the medium term, its role in the seaborne iron ore market has dwindled. In 2013, China's crude steel output is expected to be roughly Moreover, Indian iron ore is also faced with possible additional 745-755 mt, or 5-6% higher over 2012. While this represents a regulatory cost pressure from royalty increase and provisions in considerable deceleration from the previous decade, where the new enactment on the anvil. Appendix Pg 21 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE During the year, Sesa made strategic investments into acquisition of 49% stake in Western Cluster Limited at an In 2012-13, Sesa's operating profit was ` 465 crore. Amidst the acquisition cost of ` 184 crore. As on March 31, 2013, Sesa's tough operating conditions significantly impacting the iron ore balance sheet has a net debt of ` 4,299 crore and cash / cash business, Sesa delivered a PAT of ` 2,280 crore mainly accrued Strategy And Governance equivalent of ` 203 crore. from income from Cairn India Limited. Economic Value Added Table 5: Economic Value Generated & Distributed ` in Crore, except as mentioned Direct Economic Value Generated (A) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Ethics And Human Rights Net turnover (net of ocean freight) Iron Ore 8,384.23 7,380.26 1,602.07 Metallurgical coke * 154.99 210.31 175.09 Pig Iron * 736.89 799.81 873.50 Energy 1.82 15.86 Other Income ** 532.55 231.34 42.43 Total 9,808.68 8,623.53 2,708.95 Nurturing People Economic Value Distributed Cost of materials, goods and services 2,772.80 2,187.22 705.82 Personnel expenses 207.08 268.43 249.52 Interest Charges 86.90 433.26 474.65 Taxes and royalties 2,447.63 3,517.92 1,187.54 Environmental Stewardship Dividends 304.18 173.82 8.69 Community Contributions 24.77 30.99 26.47 Total 5,843.36 6,611.64 2,652.69 Economic value added (A-B) 3965.30 2,011.89 56.26 Production by principal commodities Iron ore (million tonnes) # 18.8 13.77 3.73 Empowering Communities Metallurgical coke (tonnes) 2,63,269 2,56,574 3,31,000 Pig iron (tonnes) 2,76,117 2,48,729 3,07,775 Sesa Community Development Foundation (Donation) 3.29 5.29 3.94 * Includes amount of excise duty ** Includes income from investment and profit / loss on sales of investment 2011-12 figures have been restated in line with financial statement in Annual Report 2012-13. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 22 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT this same philosophy our technical school started the second STS in South Goa at Panchwadi during the reporting period, to The mining industry has played an important role in the meet the growing needs of the communities around our economic development of the state of Goa. It has created operations. Even our SFA has two campuses: the Sanquelim employment opportunities for many qualified individuals Academy continues to deliver high quality young footballers Strategy And Governance directly, and also other avenues for employment in logistics and and the Sirsaim Academy is focused on developing a team of ore transportation for both skilled and unskilled labour. As the young senior players. predominant market for our products is exports, our operations generate valuable foreign exchange for the Sesa has partnered with the Government of Goa and the Goa country. Sesa is one of the largest taxpayers in the country. In Engineering College at Farmagudi, Goa to start a graduate this process, Sesa indirectly contributes to the overall socioprogramme in mining engineering (BE), targeted to meet the economic development of the country. critical need for mining engineers in the country. Sesa has a long-term comprehensive approach to community To further gauge the impact of our activities, an impact relations. This is achieved through stakeholder engagement assessment was conducted. The community section of this Ethics And Human Rights and consultation, socio-economic baseline studies and need report provides additional information about specific assessments, and partnering with like-minded organisations, programmes and the number of beneficiaries. including government agencies, NGOs, local communities and panchayat bodies in the implementation of developmental Mining Closure Provisions projects. Sesa is committed to the systematic rehabilitation and Initiatives nurturing community development continue to be restoration of the environment and land, both during the life of implemented through Sesa Community Development the mine and after the closure of the mines. All its operations Foundation (SCDF), which runs the Sesa Technical School (STS) have a plan that takes into account various reclamation and and Sesa Football Academy (SFA). STS has become a leading rehabilitation activities such as land backfill, afforestation, and Nurturing People vocational training institute in Goa and has a reputation of specific biodiversity plantations. identifying and nurturing potential excellence of young Goans. Growth is something which we aim in everything we do; with Table 6: Mining closure provisions in ` Crore Nature of obligation 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Opening carrying amount 2.7 3.5 3.5 Environmental Stewardship Additional provisions made during the year 0.8 0.1 Amount used during the year Unused amounts reversed during the year Closing carrying amount 3.5 3.5 3.6 Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 23 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview RISKS AND MITIGATION Strategy And Governance REGULATORY CONCERNS Court orders. The Ministry of Mines, Government of India, had constituted the Shah Commission for inquiry into aspects of compliances The iron ore mining industry continued to face increasing for iron ore mining across India in FY2011. Post the submission of challenges with social licensing, as a result of the competition Ethics And Human Rights Shah Commission report, in September 2012, the State for resources, especially land. Moreover, as mentioned above, Government of Goa, temporarily suspended the mining and the actions to tackle illegal mining and an overhaul of regulatory transportation of iron ore across the State of Goa. This was regimes for mining, environment and forests in response to followed by an order from the Ministry of Environment and increased activism continue to throw up new and Forest (MoEF) putting into abeyance the environmental unprecedented challenges. Further, the high mineral prices clearances for iron ore mines in Goa. Subsequently, a review by continue to exacerbate social pressure on the extractive a High Powered Committee appointed by the State industries to share more and more benefits with the society for government was also ordered. In October 2012, the Honourable earning and retaining their “Social License to Operate.” Supreme Court suspended mining and transportation of iron ore across the State of Goa and ordered a review by the Karnataka Operations Centrally Empowered Committee (CEC). In view of the Nurturing People foregoing, operations at the Company's mines in Goa have On August 26, 2011, the Honourable Supreme Court of India remained suspended. The Company has filed an application ordered a ban on iron ore mining operations in Chitradurga and before the Supreme Court seeking modification or vacation of Tumkur in Karnataka. The Court also ordered the sale of existing the aforesaid order. The hearing in the Court is yet to inventory by e-auction through Government appointed agency. commence effectively. As a consequence of this ban, the mining operations of Sesa's unit in Karnataka were suspended. Following the submission of Stamp Duty the Central Empowered Committee report to the Supreme Environmental Stewardship Court in February 2012 and subsequent court orders, the The State government of Goa has imposed a stamp duty on the Company has implemented the CEC approved rehabilitation renewal of mining leases (due since 2007) in the State of Goa and Resettlement (R&R) plan on a fast-track, which has been equivalent to ` 10 per tonne per year at approved capacity of completed. A revised capacity of 2.29 mtpa has been approved environmental clearance for the period of the lease. The by CEC for Sesa's mine in Karnataka. In April 2013, the Supreme estimated impact of the stamp duty which needs to be paid Court allowed Sesa's mine to resume operations subject to the upfront is about ` 300 crore. grant of statutory clearances. The Company is the process of securing appropriate approvals to resume the operations at the earliest. Export Duty Empowering Communities Export duty had been increased in the previous year to 30% Goa Operations effective from December 30, 2011. The duty continued to remain at this historical high level. The Company's Goa operations operated only for about 2 full months during the year, with 3-month restrictions on monsoon Mines and Minerals Development Regulations Act transportation being imposed from June 2012, which reduced further the volume during monsoon months. The monsoon The Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation Bill has restrictions were followed by a complete suspension of been proposed to replace the existing Mines and Minerals operations in Goa through State Government and Supreme Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 24 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview number of changes to mining regulations, including the supply–demand scenario and raw materials prices. Commodity introduction of auction for allocation of leases, and a proposed prices may fluctuate widely for all products affecting revenue imposition of additional cost in terms of social contribution and earnings. We strive to maintain our operational costs at equivalent to the royalty (currently 10% ad valorem). Levies of globally competitive levels in order to sustain through the export duties, social contribution levies, royalties, etc., commodity price cycles. Strategy And Governance continue to pose significant cost challenges to the iron ore mining industry, affecting its competitiveness on the global Regulatory Risks front. Sesa has exposure to the regulatory uncertainties facing the DEMYSTIFYING RISKS mining sector in India. In the last few years, the Company has been exposed to several changes in the regulatory As with any enterprise, Sesa too faces several risks. Our risk environment including increase in export duty on iron ore to mitigation process constitutes a formal process of 30% for iron ore lumps and fines. Periodically, non-tariff identification of inherent risks and root causes related to restrictions such as export bans, mining ban are applied to Ethics And Human Rights various aspects of our Company (its processes and the various ores, such as the one in vogue in 2012-13 in the State of environment) and identifying actions to reduce these risks. A Karnataka and since September 2012 in Goa. Environmental thorough and intensive enterprise risk management process regulation policies also remain unclear and prone to change / involves identification and monitoring of mitigating factors and change of interpretation, and case-to-case administration of evaluating the residual risk after action plans are implemented. such regulations leads to uncertainty and risk in mining The senior management and the Board of Directors are activities. involved in monitoring the progress on these action plans. Further, audits, incident investigations, and routine reporting The Company's Liberia operations are exposed to the provide management with information to monitor regulatory regime in Liberia. While the execution of Mineral performance on risk mitigation. Some broad risks are detailed Development Agreement with the Government of Liberia below. provides stability especially with respect to fiscal regime, the Nurturing People Company remains exposed to the regulatory changes in Liberia and to delays in requisite approvals for the project. Market Risks Sesa exports over 81% of its iron ore production. Being a player Operational Risks in the global seaborne iron ore market, our business is exposed to adversities in demand and supply. Moreover, with 81% (as Our Company is exposed to the risks of delays in obtaining final against 67% in the previous year) of sales being exported to government clearances for increasing our current production China, any slowdown in that economy can affect the Company's capacities. Besides, delays in allocation of new mineral leases or Environmental Stewardship business. There are two mitigating factors. First, Sesa's share of changes in the policy on allocation of such leases in favour of total Chinese iron ore imports is small and there continues to be captive steel companies could affect our future plans. Our various opportunities in China for Sesa to increase its market operations are also exposed to a number of factors which are presence. Second, Sesa's low operations cost also acts as a outside our control, such as unusual or unexpected geological significant assurance of its ability to ride out short-term adverse features, ground conditions, climatic conditions such as market conditions. flooding, interruptions to power supplies, congestion at logistics facilities, industrial action or disputes, environmental Sesa continues to work towards diversifying its customer mix. hazards, technical failures, fires, explosions and other incidents In terms of our geographic market spread, in the past few years, at a mine, processing plant, or related facility. Empowering Communities we have been continuously reducing our exports to China (excepting in 2012-13, due to low volume which was caused by Project Execution Risks mining ban). Our aggressive growth plan is contingent upon the successful Commodity Price Risks completion of investments in several developmental projects, including investments in the underlying infrastructure to Sesa's revenue and earnings are dependent on prevailing iron support the logistics of ore extraction. These new investments ore and pig iron prices, which are determined by the require project management skills, and have exposure to project execution risks. Our projects are exposed to technical Appendix Pg 25 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview delays in erection and construction, delays in acquisition of Currency Risks land, escalations in costs, etc. We rely on our strong project execution and extensive mining experience to assess and With a majority of its iron ore being exported, Sesa's revenues mitigate identified project risks. are primarily quoted in US dollars. This exposes us to foreign exchange fluctuation risks, particularly in relation to the US Strategy And Governance Health and Safety Risks dollar. We place special focus on EHS-related risks and managing them because of the industry in which we operate. In an extractive industry, health and safety are of paramount importance, and Climate Change Risks our safety and health programmes focus on reducing this risk. Global warming is an increasing risk for us since a large part of Environment and Biodiversity Risks our operations are concentrated in Goa, which is located on the Mining is a process of extracting and processing mineral western coast of India, and, as such, are vulnerable to rising sea resources and by its very nature, has an impact on the levels and adverse weather. Our management committee environment. We take utmost care in ensuring compliance with assesses physical risks to our various facilities and develops Ethics And Human Rights related regulations. We also adhere to regulations stipulated by detailed plans for minimising impact of such risks. Emergency the Pollution Control Board and have measures in place to preparedness training has been provided to employees to deal prevent pollution due to spillages, overburdens and runoffs. with such extreme physical calamities. Further, we also invest in a long-tenure restoration programme to restore land to pre-mining levels. In order to protect MANAGING COMMUNITY EXPECTATIONS biodiversity, we have in place many biodiversity plans. The sustainability of an organisation is not possible without the Transport and Logistics Risks in-tandem progress of the community and this is a firm belief at Dust, noise and congestion are some of the concerns arising out Sesa. Our dedicated community relations department of ore transportation by trucks carrying ore from the mines to continuously engages with our stakeholders, assesses needs the jetties. They cause discomfort to the community, and also Nurturing People comprehensively and focuses on initiatives that benefit the affect the efficiency of our operations. Congestion on roads community. We undertake various interventions related to and restrictions on timings for movement of trucks cause healthcare, education & training, livelihood, agriculture and delays in transportation of the ore. This also leads to storage of infrastructure development. We continue to proactively ore in the mine, which creates a bottleneck for production. We address the concerns of the community and also respond are working with the Government of Goa to mitigate these risks transparently to all agencies that seek to know more about our through the construction of mining corridors. For additional Company, its activities or their impact on society. We also details, please see the brief on Transportation in the ensuing endeavour proactively to address issues such as emissions, etc. sections of the report. Environmental Stewardship We are focused on reducing our emissions by using waste heat for energy, and planting trees in the mining area. Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 26 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Strategy And Governance Sesa is committed to executing sustainable business practices CODE OF CONDUCT and creating long-term value for all its stakeholders. To pursue this objective, we remain steadfast in our value systems that Sesa has adopted the Sesa Goa Code of Conduct for Executive incorporate integrity, transparency and fairness across all our and Non-Executive Directors, Senior Management Personnel Ethics And Human Rights business activities. and other executives of the Company. The Code of Conduct covers aspects like conflict of interest, human rights, bribery, Sesa has a robust governance framework. Our approach is to insider trading, whistle-blowing, gifts, confidentiality, etc. All entrust authority and accountability to business managers, our employees are required to reiterate their adherence to the who have the optimal skills and information to respond to Company's Code of Conduct annually. We have received business challenges and opportunities. Our business strategy, confirmations from the executive and non-executive directors, policy and performance standards are set by the Board and as well as senior management personnel, regarding compliance Executive Committee, and are aligned with international best of the code during the year under review. We target 100% practices and standards. employee awareness on our Code of Conduct through classroom-based training. Regular communication from senior Our auditing and assurance processes ensure that our business management is also sent to all employees, informing them Nurturing People principles and standards are being upheld at each operational about our Code of Conduct and the implications of having any level and project. We also aim to facilitate the sharing of good vested interest in Company operations. practices across the Vedanta group companies and provide examples of best practices from outside our organisation. All Directors and senior management are committed to the Company's Code of Conduct, compliance to which is We continue to focus on our commitments towards the periodically reviewed. Additional information can be found in development of the community where we operate. We have our Annual Report, which is also available on our Company adopted best practices towards preserving the environment website at http://www.sesagoa.com/attachments/article/115/ Environmental Stewardship and adherence to the highest safety standards remains a focus sesa goa ar 2012_web.pdf. The Code of Conduct is also posted area across all operations. Our value systems are based on the on our Company website at http://www.sesagoa.com/images foundation of fair and ethical practices in all our dealings with /stories/sesagoa/pdf/codeofbusiness conductandethics.pdf. stakeholders, including customers, vendors, contractors, suppliers and all others who are part of our business value chain. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board is responsible for Sesa's stand on public policy As on March 31, 2013, the Company had six Directors on its lobbying and donations to political parties. Our senior Board, of which two are Executive Directors and four are Nonmanagement team looks after the business operations and we Executive Directors. All four Non-Executive Directors are Empowering Communities have a structured process in place to evaluate their independent. Four Board meetings were held during 2012-13 performance. All senior members have performance and the gap between two meetings did not exceed four scorecards in place at the beginning of the year. Scorecards months. focus on financial as well as customer and sustainability perspectives. Performance is reviewed half-yearly on these The Board periodically reviews compliance reports of all laws parameters. applicable to the Company. Steps are taken by the Company to rectify instances of non-compliance, if any. During 2012-13, Sesa did not have any material pecuniary relationship or transactions with Non-Executive Directors. Appendix Pg 27 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview DIRECTORS' PROFILE engaged in Industrial and Services activities such as Tourism, Infrastructure, Cooperative Finance, Mining and Minerals Exploration. He initiated measures in amendments in Labour Mr. Kuldip K. Kaura is a Non-Executive Laws. He shaped the new National Mineral Policy in 2008 and Director of Sesa. Mr. Kaura retired as the piloted its passage. He is widely travelled internationally, having Chief Executive Officer of Vedanta in Strategy And Governance led delegations to multilateral bodies and conventions to September 2008 and was appointed as participate in global conferences, workshops, seminars and Director of Sesa on 30 October, 2007. He conventions. He has conducted bilateral and country-specific holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Hons) in discussions to further joint economic activities with South Mechanical Engineering from Birla Institute Africa, Australia and Indonesia. of Technology & Science, Pilani in 1968. Prior to his appointment as Director and Chief Executive Officer of Mr. Ashok Kini is a Non-Executive Vedanta in March 2005, Mr. Kaura was Chief Operating Officer independent Director of Sesa. He holds a of Vedanta Resources plc. and Managing Director of Sterlite Postgraduate from Madras Christian Industries (I) Ltd. During his tenure with the Vedanta Group, Mr. College, Chennai. He retired as MD of State Ethics And Human Rights Kaura was also the Managing Director of Hindustan Zinc Bank of India in December 2005, after Limited from April 2002 to March 2004. Mr. Kaura is currently serving the Bank for 38 years. He was Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of ACC Limited. responsible for the Bank's IT plans, from Before joining the Vedanta group, Mr. Kaura served at ABB concept and RFP to execution and vendor management, India for 18 years and was the Managing Director and Country domestic distribution, retail business, consumer banking, Manager from 1998 to 2001. He has served as a member of the marketing/brand management, etc. He is currently on the National Council of Confederation of Indian Industries and is Board of IndusInd Bank Limited, Gulf Oil Corporation Limited, office bearer of such professional bodies. UTI Asset Management Company and Financial Inclusion Network & Operations Limited. Mr. Gurudas D. Kamat is a Non-Executive independent Director of Sesa. Mr. Kamat Mr. Amit Pradhan is a Whole Time Director Nurturing People retired as Chief Justice of the Gujarat High of Sesa, currently responsible for the Court in January 1997. He is engaged in Group's value addition business including judicial work relating to arbitration and Steel, Pig Iron, Met Coke and Power. Mr. conciliation. Mr. Kamat was appointed as Pradhan joined Sesa in January 1990 as Director of Sesa on 23 December, 2005. He Manager Purchase. He holds a has over 47 years of experience in the field Postgraduate in M.Sc. (Physics) from the of legal practice and judiciary, having practiced in Mumbai as Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi. Mr. Pradhan was well as in Goa in various branches of law. Mr. Kamat was appointed as Director of Sesa on 01 July, 2000. He has 35 years Environmental Stewardship prosecutor for the Government of Goa from 1967 to 1969. From of experience in materials/project management with a stint in 1980 onwards, Mr. Kamat was an advocate for the Customs and Business Development. Mr. Pradhan was appointed as Whole Central Excise Departments of the Government of India. He was Time Director of the Company effective from 01 May, 2006. He a member of the senate and faculty of law of Mumbai University was also distinguished and listed by the International Who's from 1978 to 1980. Mr. Kamat was appointed as a judge of the Who Professionals in 2007. Bombay High Court on 29 November, 1983. Mr. Prasun K. Mukherjee is the Managing Mr. Jagdish P. Singh is a distinguished civil Director of Sesa since April 2006. Mr. servant with over 38 years of executive Mukherjee holds a Bachelor of Commerce experience in key positions in the Union and Empowering Communities (Hons) degree from Kolkata University. He State Government. He is an alumnus of is a fellow member of the Institute of Harvard University, where he attended the Chartered Accountants of India and an Kennedy School of Government as a Mason associate member of the Institute of Cost Fellow. He also holds a Masters degree from and Works Accountants of India. He has around 34 years of the University of Allahabad. Mr. Singh has occupied varied experience in finance, accounts, costing & taxation, legal and positions in his career, such as district and divisional general management. Mr. Mukherjee was rated as one of administrator, later working as Chief Executive and Chairman of India's Best Chief Financial Officers (CFOs) in the year 2005 by the Board of numerous corporate bodies. He was responsible Business Today magazine and in 2009, Business World for turning around several State and Central corporations magazine declared Mr. Mukherjee as India's most 'Value'able CEO. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 28 STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Table 7: Board of Directors Structured multi-tier internal business reviews along with our Management Assurance Systems (MAS) function, which Name of the Director Category oversees the internal audit process carried out by reputed thirdMr. Kuldip K Kaura Independent Non-Executive party auditors, ensure that business performance is assessed, Mr. Gurudas D Kamat Independent Non-Executive monitored for improvement and our business and sustainable Strategy And Governance Mr. Jagdish P Singh Independent Non-Executive development policies and guidelines are followed across the organisation. The structured internal review process consists Mr. Ashok Kini Independent Non-Executive of the following committees, other than the statutory Mr. Amit Pradhan (Whole-time Director) Executive committees for works, safety and welfare. Mr. Prasun K Mukherjee (Managing Director) Executive ? Executive Committee (at the Vedanta group level) ? Business Management Group GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE ? Operations Review Committee ? Compliance Committee ? Sustainability Core Committee The organisational structure and governance framework Ethics And Human Rights ensure a strong system of authority and accountability to The Company also endeavours to constantly upgrade its own operational management, within the purview of the business knowledge and processes in reference to the best-in-class strategy, policy guidelines and standards laid down by the practices around the world. Board of Directors. The executive team constituting the operational (divisions and units) management and other corporate functions ensures that Company's sustainability development standards are maintained and operations are aligned to these standards. Nurturing People Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Investor Grievance Committee Other Committees Executive Team as of 31 March 2013 CEO – Mr. P K Mukherjee Iron Ore Goa Iron Ore Karnataka Liberia Projects Value Addition Business Corporate Functions Environmental Stewardship COO – Mr. P Unde Head – Mr. V Mishra Executive Director – Whole Time Director – Director Finance – Mr. Mr. A Mittal Mr. A Pradhan S L Bajaj Dy. COO – Mr. S Mazumdar Pig Iron – Mr. N L Company Secretary & Vhatte Legal – Mr. C D Chitnis Infrastructure & Logistics – Mr. S K Met Coke – Mr. G P Corporate Finance – Rathi Kamat Ms. Lalita CorreiaAfonso Commercial – Mr. M L Projects – Capt. C A Empowering Communities Kothari Manuel HSEC – Mr. M K Patil Asset Optimisation – Marketing – Mr. S Corporate Affairs – Mr. V Rajendran Netravalkar Mr. A N Joshi Marketing – Mr. A Steel Projects – Mr. N Corporate Ranjan P Sardar Communications – Mr. R Krishnagopal Exploration – Mr. P Buckley Appendix Pg 29 www.sesagoa.com STRATEGY and GOVERNANCE Overview Remuneration Compliance At Sesa, remuneration is linked to sustainability performance. Sesa has complied with all the requirements of regulatory The Remuneration Committee of the Board of Directors authorities. No penalties or strictures were imposed on it by the reviews the performance of the Company and all its operations stock exchanges or SEBI or any statutory authority on any Strategy And Governance on the dimensions of safety, business, financial and other matter related to the capital market during the last three years. sustainable development parameters. This is used as the basis for setting the annual performance payments and incentives Contributions to Political Parties for the senior management. The variable performance system for executives is linked to company and unit performance on During the reporting period, Sesa has made contribution of ` 0.3 profits, safety performance and other key drivers of crore to the Bharatiya Janata Party. The details of the same are performance. Safety performance also is a factor applied to reported transparently in the Annual Report of the Company. individual performance in the evaluation and reward of final The donations made by Sesa to political parties for the past two incentive. years are detailed on page 90 in our Annual Report 2012-13. Ethics And Human Rights Financial Assistance GOVERNANCE COMMITTEES The company availed a custom duty saving of ` 1.28 crore on import of capital goods under the Export Promotion Capital The details of various committees constituted at the level of the Goods Scheme, a custom duty saving of ` 1.10 crore on import of Board of Directors of the Company, for various aspects of capital goods and spares under the Duty Entitlement Pass Book governance of the Company are listed in the corporate Scheme and duty drawback of ` 0.37 crore has been availed governance section of the Company's Annual Report for the during the year 2012-13. Besides the above, the company has year 2012-13. not received any other government subsidy, tax break, government benefits, etc, during the reporting period. DISCLOSURES Means of Communication Nurturing People Subsidiary Companies The revised Clause 49 defines a “material non-listed Indian All financial disclosures are available on the Company's website subsidiary” as an unlisted subsidiary, incorporated in India, www.sesagoa.com. Sesa has formal and informal meetings whose turnover or net worth (i.e. paid-up capital and free with media and institutional investors. Authorised persons of reserves) exceeds 20% of the consolidated turnover or net Sesa also respond to queries telephonically and by letters. A worth respectively, of the listed holding company and its Management Discussion and Analysis statement is a part of the subsidiaries in the immediately preceding accounting year. Company's Annual Report. Sesa has a common grievance cell for all shareholder grievances. For each of its policies Sesa has Environmental Stewardship Materially Significant Related Party Transactions put a grievance redressal in place including supplier code of The Board has received disclosures from key managerial conduct and human rights. Each of the policies and its grievance personnel relating to material financial and commercial redressal address can be viewed in our website transactions where they and/or their relatives have personal www.sesagoa.com. interests. The quarterly, half-yearly and annual results are published in the Transactions with related parties are disclosed in note no. 45 of national and regional dailies. The results, along with official the Financial Statements in the Annual Report. In the opinion of news releases, are also posted on the Company's website. the Board, the transactions during 2012-13 between Sesa Goa Empowering Communities Limited and its subsidiaries, Sesa Resources Limited, Sesa Mining Corporation Limited and Goa Energy Limited, have been done at arm's length. As per this definition, none of the subsidiaries of Sesa, viz. Sesa Resources Limited, Sesa Mining Corporation Limited, and Goa Energy Limited are material non-listed Indian subsidiaries., are material non-listed Indian subsidiaries. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 30 ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview ETHICS Strategy And Governance For any business, it only makes sound business sense to ensure In addition to the regular conduct and misconduct rules, the that its conduct is right and is cognisant of the rights of the code also covers other aspects of business performance and others. Our conduct, integrity and behaviour, in all interactions individual behaviour, including compliance with the law of the with our stakeholders, enhance and strengthen our land, human rights and work environment, bribery and Ethics And Human Rights relationships and our respect for the interests of these corruption, conflicts of interests, disclosures, and other related stakeholders, ensures sustainability of relations over a longer aspects. An effective compliance system is in place to ensure period. and monitor the maintenance of these standards. The Company also has a formal Compliance Committee and designated Sesa is focussed on operating with utmost transparency in all Compliance Officer to ensure monitoring of the same. dealings, as possible, which is also reflected in all its reporting. Sesa continues to lay emphasis on improving its performance All employees are trained on the Code of Conduct and ethics on human rights, reflected in this year's endeavour to achieve policies. All new employees, as a part of the induction process and standardise workplace conditions through certification of need to be aware, read, appraise themselves and formally SA 8000. acknowledge that they will adhere to these policies when they join us. Significant contractors and workmen are also included Nurturing People in anti-corruption training. BUSINESS CONDUCT The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics govern all employees of Sesa. This code contains general guidelines for conducting the business of the Company consistent with the highest standards of business ethics. As stated in the policy, the code requires a higher standard than what is required as per Environmental Stewardship commercial practice or applicable laws, rules or regulations. The code adheres to the following guidelines: ? Zero tolerance in ensuring strict adherence to local and international laws and regulations, also including the Company's ethical standards ? Ensuring all business transactions of the Company are fully and fairly recorded ? Regular monitoring of ethical conduct and ensuring that systems are in place and accessible to all employees and others to report potential violations Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 31 www.sesagoa.com ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION WHISTLEBLOWER POLICY As an emergent global company it behoves us to have strong Amongst the other components of the code, we also have a anti-corruption policies in place. As a part of the Vedanta group, formal Whistleblower and Anti-corruption policy. The the UK Bribery Act of 2010 is applicable to us. All our business Company's Whistleblower policy outlines procedures and Strategy And Governance units were taken into consideration for assessing risks related policies to deal with any complaint relating to fraud and other to corruption. All executives of the Company have been briefed financial irregularities. on the Company guidelines against bribery and corruption and all executives are signatories to these guidelines, having read INSIDER TRADING POLICY and understood them as a part of their conduct rules. During the reporting period, no substantiated incidents of corruption As per the SEBI (Prevention of Insider Trading) Regulation Act, have been reported. 1992 Sesa has an Insider Trading Policy, which all the designated employees are required to abide by. Any designated employee Table 8: Percentage of employees trained in organisation's antiwho trades in securities or communicates any information for Ethics And Human Rights corruption policies and procedures trading in securities, in contravention of this code of conduct may be penalised and appropriate action taken by the Company Employee Category Employees Percentage Trained which may include termination of services, suspension, Board / Senior Management* 50 100 ineligibility for future participation in employee stock option Executive 1,120 100 plans, or other such appropriate action. Non-executives 2,654 Not Covered Presently Trainees 33 100 *Board members and senior management include whole-time directors and executives with general managerial responsibilities in the Nurturing People 1 organisation. 1 Note: In data tables across this report, wherever it is mentioned as Board / Senior Management, it refers to wholetime directors of the Company and executives who have general managerial responsibilities in the organisation. Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 32 ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview HUMAN RIGHTS Strategy And Governance Ensuring basic human rights is the duty of any enlightened Security is an important requirement at our sites and we have organisation. As a signatory to the United Nations Global outsourced our security personnel to a third party vendor. Of Compact, Sesa has voluntarily made a commitment to our 980 security personnel, only 7 are on our rolls and they have guarantee basic human rights according to the UN Universal all been trained in the organisation's policies or procedures Ethics And Human Rights Declaration of Human Rights. Recognising the significance of concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to management of Human Rights and its impacts on the operations. These security personnel support us on a daily stakeholders, Sesa has developed a formal Human Rights policy basis to ensure the smooth flow of operations in the mines and and procedure in line with the Vedanta Sustainability production units. Sesa will continue to train its own and Governance system and the same is under implementation. contractual security personnel on organisation's policies and procedures, and training on human rights aspects concerning In accordance with the provisions of the policy, we ensure that its operations will be a focus area. our employees receive fair and reasonable remuneration and fair working conditions. The Company neither employs nor Table 9: Formal Training to Employees on Organisation's encourages forced, bonded or child labour and conducts Policies & Procedures Related to Human Rights Issues proper checks and audits to ensure that our contractors follow Nurturing People our example. In the course of the SA 8000 audits conducted, no Employees Category Employees % Trained operations have been identified as a source of significant risk Trained for child labour or forced labour. None of our operations are Board / Senior Management* 50 16 32% adjacent to areas inhabited by indigenous people and as such, Executive 1,120 61 5% no violations have been reported. Non-executives 2,654 132 5% Currently, there is no process to either include human rights Trainees 33 0 0% screening or a mandatory human rights clause in significant Total 3,857 209 5% Environmental Stewardship contracts agreements and investments. Having just incorporated a formal policy on Human Rights, we are working GRIEVANCE REDRESSAL on a process and plan to translate the policy into an effective action plan that will cover significant aspects of human rights in the day-to-day operations including major investments and our We have an official Grievance Redressal Policy to expedite the stakeholders. As per the Liberian legal requirements, we resolution of grievances of employees. The policy covers all included a mandatory human rights clause in our investment employees and staff (executives) working at various units. As agreement on the purchase of our 51% stake in Western Cluster per the policy, grievances must be reported within a month Limited. orally to the aggrieved person's superior. If unresolved within a week, the issue gets escalated to the Department head or Unit Empowering Communities HR head. If still unresolved, the issue is escalated to the HUMAN RIGHTS TRAINING Grievance Redressal Committee. During the reporting period, no incidences on grievances related to Human Rights have been Employees are provided training on significant aspects of reported. human rights as a part of the overall training plan of the Company. SA 8000 awareness training has been conducted throughout the Company and plans are underway to conduct training sessions for contractor workers also. Appendix Pg 33 www.sesagoa.com ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATION Act, 1947, wherein a minimum notice period of 21 days is required before any operational change is effected by the 57.4% (2,215 out of 3,857 employees) of our employees are Company. Health and safety policies are also covered under the covered by collective bargaining agreements. All the noncollective bargaining contracts. There have been no executive employees of Sesa are represented by independent lockouts/strikes exceeding a week during the reporting period. Strategy And Governance trade unions. The Company does not prevent any employee from exercising the right to freedom of association or collective bargaining. Sesa abides by Section 9A of the Industrial Disputes Ethics And Human Rights Nurturing People Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 34 ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview SUSTAINABLE SUPPLIER RELATIONS Strategy And Governance We at Sesa believe that our suppliers are an integral part of our Management (SRM) system, which will provide an interface to success. Our requirements are met through OCMs, OEMs, our Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and totally automated transporters, maintenance contractors and general traders – a transactions i.e., PR to pay. All the vendors shall be on board by diverse group of people that constitute our supplier base. All September 30, 2013. Vendors have started registering Ethics And Human Rights raw materials, equipment and spares are procured from themselves in the SRM platform which will help them update indigenous manufacturers; metallurgical coal (with low ash their systems and in turn their business with other customers. content) and specialised machinery are imported from offshore suppliers. Competent Indian contractors carry out construction DRIVING SUSTAINABILITY THROUGHOUT OUR and other services for upgrades. Besides our own iron ore mines in Goa and Karnataka, we also operate mines in Goa, SUPPLY CHAIN which are third party leases, and ore produced in these third party mines is purchased. Payments to suppliers for iron ore, Our focus on human rights encompasses our suppliers as well. goods and services are made as per agreed terms and Our procurement processes also reinforce our commitment to conditions. The value of imports on CIF basis is given in the human rights, related to minimum wages and child / forced adjacent table. labour, ethical behaviour to mention a few. We have a formal Nurturing People Supplier Code of Conduct that requires suppliers to stringently Table 10: Value of Imports on CIF Basis follow norms on child labour and forced labour, amongst other norms. We conducted an awareness session to update in ` Crore suppliers about our Supplier's Code of Conduct the signing of Particulars 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 which is mandatory before any purchase order is issued. Raw Materials 509.7 697.22 351.84 All the new vendors are scrutinised against a check list to Components and Spare Parts 20.84 17.49 21.03 ensure that no human right violations occur at our business Environmental Stewardship Capital Goods 154.57 84.67 112.93 partner's premises or during the work executed by a third party at our premises. We ensure good and safe working Total 685.11 799.38 485.80 conditions by incorporating relevant terms and conditions in The mining ban has had an adverse effect on our Suppliers and our purchase/service orders. Our employees are sensitised to Vendors because we found honouring our commitments report any human rights violation when visiting supplier difficult due to the ban and force majeure conditions. However locations. We have also started the practice of asking for we have strived to continuously dialogue with our suppliers to written undertakings from suppliers on various clauses of SA help them understand current realities and understand our 8000. So far, there have been no cases of discontinuation of struggle. To ascertain the concern our suppliers have for their contracts. future because of the mining ban a signature campaign was Empowering Communities undertaken. Senior Management meetings were also arranged Contractors who have deployed workmen at our sites have with key partners to explain our strategy and current business been audited under SA 8000 certification. We ensure that our scenario. contract labourers do not face any violation of human rights. Contractual labour age is verified and documents maintained Last year we introduced he Emptoris E-auction tool for reverse to prevent employment of child labour. We have not noticed auctions which greatly increased transparency in awarding any curtailment of freedom of collective bargaining at our contracts and enhanced our image. However, for an integrated suppliers. approach we have implemented a Supplier Relationship Appendix Pg 35 www.sesagoa.com ETHICS and HUMAN RIGHTS Overview As per company policy, we promote local sourcing. For material Sesa has recently joined hands with Hewlett Packard Company handling jobs within the plant, normally locals are awarded the for a green project. The HP Planet Partners Rewards (PPR) is a contracts. Further, all major community relations (CR) projects programme designed to encourage and reward the are executed in close coordination with local communities environmentally and socially responsible recycling of used involving local vendors / service providers from the local area. original HP Inkjet and LaserJet Print Cartridges. To reduce the Strategy And Governance Our local service sourcing is close to 40%. As an ethical practice, consumption of Lubricants, an initiative has been taken with we do encourage the fact that all segments of society have the Shell to study current usage so as to reduce the consumption opportunity to participate by demonstrating support for small, particularly at Transhippers /HEMM. disadvantaged and minority-owned businesses. Ethics And Human Rights Nurturing People Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 36 NURTURING PEOPLE Overview OUR PEOPLE Strategy And Governance While tough times may come and go, our commitment towards HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT our people remains steadfast. While other mining operations in Goa have laid off employees we have strived to minimise this. The Company's Human Resources department is entrusted Our people are our key assets and we hope to show that this with the implementation of HR policies and achieving business Ethics And Human Rights thinking is deeply embedded in our philosophy by standing by objectives. The core team operates from the Corporate Office them in the current situation. Sesa's employee strength in in Goa, while unit HR Teams handle the responsibilities at the FY2013 was 3,857 as against 4,696 in the previous year. With the respective operational units. Company's emphasis on improving diversity, the gender ratio in the executive category increased from 14% to 17% over the last 3 Table 11: Breakup of Employees years. The Company had offered a voluntary retirement scheme 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 during the year, and 214 employees availed the scheme. Due to Category Male Female Male Female Male Female mining suspension, 103 employees have been temporarily Board / Senior Management 32 1 45 1 49 1 seconded to other group companies. Executive 1,129 186 1,096 212 950 203 Non-executives 3,390 23 3,318 24 2,642 12 Health and safety continues to be a focus area as we take Total 4,551 210 4,459 237 3,641 216 Nurturing People measures to eliminate hazards at the workplace. Through 4,761 4,696 3,857 regular training and interaction between managers, workers and supervisors, we hope to limit accidents from taking place. As on March 31, 2013, the workforce at Sesa, in all its units and operations, constituted of 3,857 permanent employees, 38 part ENGAGING PEOPLE DURING TOUGH TIMES time employees and 2,154 contractual workforce (Male 2,040; Female: 114). (The contractual figure is a simple average of We have been transparent in our interactions with employees monthly contract workmen attendance in all units.) about the challenges faced due to the mining ban. Our Environmental Stewardship employees have responded by being very understanding. All of our Unions were very cooperative and clearly understood the As we continue to grow, we continue to infuse young talent into initiatives of the company during this tough time. Management the organisation and assimilating this talent into the has kept employees and unions regularly informed and updated organisation becomes an imperative. New recruits undergo a on the current situation. structured induction programme followed by an orientation specific to the units where they are posted. To improve the To engage with our employees we have conducted various engagement of our young trainees (Graduate Engineer internal training programme, motivational workshops, quality Trainees and Management Trainees), we are reinventing our improvement projects etc. We have also outlined a detailed induction process to incorporate a good mix of classroom and restart strategy across both operational and enabling field training. Further, special initiatives, like interaction with Empowering Communities functions. This will help us rapidly deploy post resumption of the MD, named Coffee and Conversations with MD, and a mining operations. The strategy draws upon nearly 400 ideas modified mentoring scheme, have been introduced to foster across 13 themes like short term and long term mine planning, interaction between senior management and new trainees. operations discipline, process improvements, technology, governance and compliance, cost planning and control and others. Appendix Pg 37 www.sesagoa.com NURTURING PEOPLE Overview Continuous learning is an integral part of the development boarding process is crucial for attracting and retaining the best process at Sesa. During 2012-13, a total of 42,757 -hours of talent from across the world. At Sesa, this objective is achieved training were provided to employees, from senior management with a fair and transparent recruitment process, supported by a to non-executives. In addition Company has also imparted focussed induction programme, followed by a continuous 14,443 hours of training to contract employees. learning and development process Strategy And Governance The Gen-next Operational Leadership Development (GOLD) Sesa encourages diversity in its people profile, while being programme, launched in 2009-10 to develop operational focussed on hiring local talent. Our management team is a leaders, continued to be in focus during the year. The diverse group of people with differing cultural affiliations, programme has been successful, both in identifying successors qualifications and backgrounds. While we recruit our for critical operational leadership positions and also management and graduate engineer trainees from across the accelerating the development of several managers. ACT UP best institutes in the country, all other officer trainees and (Acceleration Competency Tracking and Up gradation), a operational trainees (ITI graduates) are recruited from within structured process to identify and nurture high potential Goa. We visit all reputed educational institutes within Goa to employees (designated as “Stars of Business”), was introduced source this fresh talent. During the year, we have also Ethics And Human Rights this year. participated in job fairs. Also, in order to enhance the competence of local talent and thereby improve their suitability to meet industry manpower needs, Sesa engages with the Recruitment community to conduct various skill development activities. This year, we welcomed 264 new employees into our organisation. Sesa's mission is to be an organisation with best-in-class people and a performance-driven culture by attracting and retaining quality manpower. A strong recruitment philosophy and onTable 12: Number of Employees joining and Turnover in 2012-13 Nurturing People New joining in the current Financial Year Turnover Age Group Gender Age Group Gender Grade less Between Between Above less than 30 Above than 30-50 Male Female 30-50 50 Male Female years 50 Years 30 years years Years years BSc / JSO 51 36 15 3 1 2 Trainees Environmental Stewardship Below 50 63 1 113 1 7 2 8 1 M9 Grade M9 M8 3 3 GETs 76 56 20 12 9 3 MTs 10 7 3 M7 M6 1 1 1 1 Empowering Communities M5 1 1 M4 4 4 1 1 M3 1 1 M2 3 3 M1 P Total 190 73 1 224 40 23 3 0 19 7 264 264 26 26 Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 38 NURTURING PEOPLE Overview Local Hiring Diversity and Equal Opportunity Sesa's recruitment policy ensures attraction of the right mix of Diversity is the lynchpin of innovation. To achieve our goal of attitude, aptitude, knowledge and skills, experience and being the fourth largest iron ore mining company in the world, demographics. For this, the policy lays down specific guidelines and to be a world-class enterprise with a high performance Strategy And Governance on qualifications, academic performance, background, job culture, it is important to have a workforce that is diverse in its specifications, etc. Selection processes and procedures ensure skills, outlook and backgrounds. Our HR Policy clearly states fairness in the recruitment process, equal opportunity to all that the Company is an equal opportunity employer and all aspirants and the selection of meritorious and deserving employees will be treated with respect and dignity, and judged candidates. solely on their performance irrespective of their race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status or any other Sesa operates in more than one geographical location and the characteristic. management team comprises individuals from different backgrounds, cultures and regions, ensuring the right mix of Table 14: Composition of Governance Bodies strategic talent, operational leadership and requisite Ethics And Human Rights Composition of Governance bodies (As on 31 March, 2012) experience. The Company adopts a clear and unambiguous policy of meritocracy, which provides equal opportunities to Governance Bodies Age group From From Minority Non-Minority people from all backgrounds and capabilities. Group Group Sesa focuses on hiring capable, qualified, and meritorious <30 30-50 >50 Male Female Male Female years years years candidates from local and surrounding areas. Our senior management hiring policy is based on merit and often Board of Directors 0 0 6 0 0 6 0 encourages transfers from within Vedanta group companies. During the reporting period, the total number of senior In addition to the above, Sesa has various governance bodies management personnel hired was 3 (non-local). To aid local such as Business Management Group, Compliance Committee, Nurturing People hiring, we focus on ensuring that talent in the local area is Operations Review Committee, Management Review equipped with the requisite skills and knowledge through Committee (for IMS), Sustainability Core Group, Sexual various community development efforts. Sesa, along with Harassment Complaints Committee, etc., which look into Government of Goa, has started a degree course of Mining various specific aspects of business and governance Engineering at the existing campus of Goa College of performance. Composition of these governance bodies and Engineering. breakdown of employees will be reported in subsequent reporting periods. Women Employees Environmental Stewardship No incidence of discrimination has occurred during the Sesa has a target to achieve 20% women employees in the reporting period. As of now, Sesa does not have a specific policy organisation, and the HR team is working towards achieving in place to hire people with disabilities, due to the nature of the this goal. Women currently constitute 17% of the executive industry in which it operates. We do not discriminate on pay, category, up from 14% over the last three years. We offer equal and our minimum wages either meet, or are higher than, the roles and responsibilities to our women employees and do not statutory requirements. During the reporting year, 5 cases of discriminate on the basis of gender. The ratio of basic salary of sexual harassment of female employees were reported and men to women in all staff categories across all locations is 1:1. were substantiated. The Company has taken appropriate action and all the cases have been resolved. Table 13: Breakup of Employees by Age Group and Gender in Empowering Communities 2012-13 Employee Turnover At Sesa, we track our employee turnover in the following ways: Age Group Male Female Overall ?Total Attrition: all separations, which includes separations <30 915 166 1,081 due to resignations, terminations or retirements. 30-50 2,110 43 2,153 ?Voluntary Attrition: all separations by employee choice, such >50 616 7 623 as resignations Total 3,641 216 3,857 ?Forced Attrition: all separations for reasons of noncompliance, disciplinary action or terminations. Appendix Pg 39 www.sesagoa.com NURTURING PEOPLE Overview During the year 2012-13, a total of 522 employees (16%) left the ?Compliance framework organisation, by resignation, termination or retirement. ?Compliance to audit reports Table 15: Employee Attrition for Executives in 2012-13 The ban has helped to identify a number of Internal Trainers, who have volunteered for the training programme. We have Year Attrition Attrition % Male Female < 30 30– 50 >50 Strategy And Governance Nos. yrs yrs yrs conducted various training programme across levels on various topics such as skill building, behavioural, team work, 2010-11 106 7.8% 96 10 59 36 11 communication, interpersonal development etc. 2011-12 207 15.2% 183 24 154 30 23 2012-13 192 16% 151 41 152 28 12 Employee Retention and Engagement Training High employee turnover is costly for any organisation both in terms of time and loss of productivity. Hence it is important to Regular, relevant and timely training is essential for employees retain talented employees by motivating them and providing them a challenging job environment. Ethics And Human Rights to exercise their skills and perform efficiently. We have a systematic approach to training, with the annual training plan based on training needs identified in the various appraisal and In order to improve employee engagement at Sesa this year assessment processes. The annual training calendar ensures also, we conducted a survey called 'Connect', at our value employees get an opportunity to plan and undergo necessary addition business. The survey measures employee engagement training. Enhancing the skillsets and knowledge of our across many facets including, and not limited to, training, employees is important to ensure that the performance of the growth opportunities, facilities, benefits, etc. Our goal is to company keeps pace with the exponential growth of Sesa. On improve our satisfaction score year on year through a number an average, our employees received 11.08 hours of training of measures, small and big. In order to validate these during the reporting period. The reduction in training hours as assessments, Sesa also participates regularly in global compared to the previous year's figure of 20.76 hours is due to employee engagement studies, such as Hewitt’s Best Nurturing People mining ban. Companies to Work and Great Places to Work, to receive independent feedback, which helps formulate action plans for We have introduced an improved mentorship programme to further improvement. guide new recruits and ensure their smooth on-boarding and acclimatisation to our organisation culture. Our GOLD initiative To further enhance engagement and interaction of younger helps identify and create a talent pool of successors to employees with senior management, we have started events operational leadership positions and ensures planned like Coffee and Conversation with MD, where young trainees development of star performers through multiple and engineers get an opportunity to interact with the MD and Environmental Stewardship interventions, including challenging projects and assignments. understand the organisational context from a direct perspective. During the year, we also launched a series of Table 16: Training Data for 2012-13 personality-based training programmes, such as selfawareness psychometric toll based workshops (MBTI). No. of Personnel No. of Hours of Training Particulars Male Female Male Female In order to maintain a cohesive culture in the organisation, in Board / Senior Management 49 1 312 0 line with the growing organisation strength, Sesa has Executives 950 203 17,103 3,151 sponsored and supported the formation of Sesa Sports Club, a Non Executives 2,642 12 22,191 14 forum managed and sustained voluntarily by employees, which Total 3,641 216 39,606 3,151 conducts various sports and other co-curricular activities. Empowering Communities 3,857 42,757 Sports tournaments offer an excellent opportunity to encourage and engage employees. During the year, events To help our employees use this downtime productively we have conducted, such as the Women's Cricket Championship, conducted various internal training programs, motivational garnered great participation and appreciation from employees. workshops, various quality improvement projects like 5S, TPM, They also partake in social and cultural events and celebrations TQM etc. 28 projects were implemented during this phase with fervour. To promote a culture of employees wishing each focusing on areas like: other on joyous occasions, we have introduced birthday reminders. ?Process mapping and SOP's and aligning with IMS ?Voluntary involvement in CR Equity-based award plans, called Long Term Incentive Plans ?TQM projects (LTIP) of the parent group, Vedanta, are also offered by the ?Knowledge management Company to recognise key, high-performing employees. Appendix ?Vendor directory and vendor rating system www.sesagoa.com Pg 40 NURTURING PEOPLE Overview Equity-based award plans, called Long Term Incentive Plans the executive category undergo a formal, open and transparent (LTIP) of the parent group, Vedanta, are also offered by the appraisal process, which includes self-appraisal and employee Company to recognise key, high-performing employees. feedback as a critical component. Employees undergoing training and probation are also appraised to assess their level of ACT UP performance during these stages. Currently, non-executives Strategy And Governance (workmen) of the Company are not assessed through a formal ACT UP (Accelerated Competency Tracking and Upgradation open performance review mechanism. Program) is a structured process to identify and nurture top talent across the Vedanta Group. The employees identified Table 17: Performance Feedback for Executives in 2012-13 through this process are termed as 'Stars of Business' and are Performance Feedback – Executives 2012-13 put on Fast Track Growth. They are groomed to take up higher Male Female Total responsibilities and eventually key positions across the Group. The process consists of an aptitude test followed by an Total Number of Executives 999 204 1,203 assessment programme conducted by an empanelled 924 175 1,099 Total Number of Executives consultant agency. Participants are provided qualitative Ethics And Human Rights receiving regular performance feedback on their performance and potential. The Vedanta appraisals Competency Framework is the underlying basis of the Percentage 92.49% 86% 91.35% employees' assessment and ensures uniformity across the Group. The Framework assesses whether employees have Employee Benefits business acumen, think strategically, and have a drive to achieve. The competency framework also covers core Vedanta A comprehensive employee benefits package plays an attributes such as humility, commitment to Vedanta, cultural fit important role in the recruitment and retention of the best and integrity. Employees are informed of their selection either talent. Over the past few years, we have endeavoured to in the feedback session or subsequently. streamline and ensure uniformity in benefits to our full-time employees across various units and subsidiaries. Nurturing People ABCDi Apart from regular benefits, Sesa provides retirement schemes ABCDi is Sesa's way of avoiding disengagement of employees. to support the future of its retiring employees. The Company Criticism from a supervisor or being disregarded or ignored administers these funds through duly constituted and approved leads to an employee feeling disengaged. To eliminate this we trusts, except the Family Pension Fund, to which contributions have introduced ABCDi dialogues. The objective is to focus on are made through the Employees' Provident Fund Organisation. establishing periodic work dialogues between employees and Full-time employees of the Company are a part of benefit plans, supervisors. ABCDi stands for Achievement (A) of the employee where the contributions fall under certain statutory / fiduciary Environmental Stewardship in the recent past, Benefits (B) for the organisation and team, arrangements, such as the Provident Fund, Family Pension Fund Constraints (C) and hurdles being faced, Do Next (D) for the and Superannuation Fund, in the case of executives. Employees period – what the employee needs to do in the near future, i is also contribute to their provident and pension fund, equal to the the employees ideas to bring work effectiveness. These contribution made by the Company, while annuity fund dialogues improve employee engagement, build work contributions are made only by the Company. The coverage of relationships, help to resolve employee concerns and bring the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations is detailed focus on productivity. ABCDi is a monthly dialogue process that and reported in the Annual Report 2012-13 on page 90. helps monitor the ongoing work discussion and infuses required inputs and support in a timely manner. It builds a Table 18 indicates the coverage of organisation's defined benefit cooperative work atmosphere. plan and obligations, and shows the contributions made by the Empowering Communities Company towards various funds and the expenses made by the Company towards welfare expenses of the employees. Performance Appraisals Note: As opposed to the previous years' reports, the table Appraisals are a great tool to appreciate employees' indicates all employees on its roll and not just workmen. performance, address their concerns and provide them with the required support to improve performance. Sesa strives to ensure a high performance work culture and all employees of Appendix Pg 41 www.sesagoa.com NURTURING PEOPLE Overview Table 18: Payroll and Contribution to Benefit Plan work role of the employee. In 2012-13, 9 women employees availed maternity leave, and all 9 have resumed at the same Payroll and Contribution to Benefit Plan 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 position. As a part of its medical benefits policy, Sesa reimburses/covers the expenses of hospitalisation and Number of Employees (Self) 4,761 4,696 3,857 expenses incurred for the birth of the first two children. Strategy And Governance (in ` crore) Salaries, Wages, Bonus and Allowances 171.88 219.33 208.60 As part of the contractual obligations of any work order, it is 17.93 27.41 24.89 mandatory for contractors to comply, in all respects, with the Contributions to Funds (Provident Fund, Gratuity and Annuity) provisions of all statutes, rules and regulations applicable to the contractor and / or to the contractor's employees, including but Staff Welfare Expenses 17.27 21.69 16.03 not limited to, Minimum Wages Act, ESI Act, PF Act, Bonus Act Total 207.08 268.43 249.52 and, in particular, the Contract Labour (Regulation & Abolition) Act, 1970 and the Rules made thereunder, Factories Act, Sesa has a comprehensive medical benefits programme, in Workmen's Compensation Act, Payment of Wages Act and which the Company reimburses all medical expenses, including Contract Labour (Regulation) Act. As per labour welfare Ethics And Human Rights hospitalisation, to full-time employees. In some cases, Sesa legislations, the contractor/tenderer should have a separate insures the employees and families for their medical and code number under the Provident Fund and ESI schemes and hospitalisation requirements. Moreover, an employee is also such number should be furnished within seven days from the eligible to avail requisite paid leave for recuperation and date of awarding the contract. The contractor should also recovery. All permanent employees are covered under comply with the Contract Labour (R&A) Act and must be eligible Personal Accident Insurance for a minimum ` 7.5 lakh. These to obtain a license from the authority. The minimum wages paid benefits do not accrue to contract employees. by the Company are at par with the industry and are higher than those prescribed by the Government. There were no incidents Women employees have a provision to avail maternity leave of of delay in payment of wages during the reporting period. The three months, as per law, which can be further extended on current salary at entry level is ` 211.54 per day, for unskilled medical grounds, if needed, for a short period. As with any labour in Goa as per Government. of Goa Minimum Wages, Act. Nurturing People other paid leave, availing this leave does not impact position or Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 42 NURTURING PEOPLE Overview HEALTH AND SAFETY Strategy And Governance We are committed to providing an accident-free and safe UNSAFE CONDITION ELIMINATION PROGRAMME working environment to our employees, contractors and the communities in which we operate. This is an integral part of our Our aim is to achieve zero fatalities and to do so we have business philosophy and is laid down in our health and safety undertaken various initiatives to improve workplace safety. The Ethics And Human Rights policies, standards and working procedures. We have a well'Unsafe Condition Elimination Programme' was started to established and comprehensive Safety, Health, Environment identify, report and reduce unsafe conditions by taking and Quality Policy that underlines our commitment to create a corrective actions and ultimately reduce accidents. healthy, hygienic and injury-free workplace. All our operations Areas/elements such as Conveyor Safety, Ladders, Machine have achieved the OHSAS 18001certification (except the Guarding, PTW, Pressure Vessels, Gas cylinders, Welding smaller operations in Colomba and Curpem mines and Amona Machines, Lifting tools and Tackles, Electrical Safety Audit, Lock Power Plant, where the process is underway). Out Tag Out, Lighting levels and Working Platforms, PPE, Fire Fighting, Emergency Response Plans, Scaffolding, Traffic Safety is a collectively achieved state of well-being and we control mechanism and machineries are inspected and actions encourage participation of every individual employee in are taken for further improvement. contributing to ideation, implementation and monitoring of Nurturing People safe and healthy practices at the workplace. Safety is a core In 2012-13, Sesa's overall Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate value at Sesa and safety training is a primary and integral part of (LTIFR) reduced significantly from 0.81 in 2011-12 to 0.54 per our operations. Our entire workforce is represented in formal million man hours worked. joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor safety at the work place. Emphasis on safe production processes is laid down in our formal agreements with employee unions. These formal agreements also include provisions for proactive and remedial care, including benefits Environmental Stewardship such medical and accident cover. Table 19: Safety Performance Area Frequency Severity Index (FSI) Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Number of Lost Time Injury Accidents (LTIA) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Mining 0.594 0.477 0.076 1.02 0.79 0.38 19 19 6 Empowering Communities PID 0 0 0.29 0 0 1 0 0 3 MCD 0 0.243 0 0 1.64 0 0 2 0 Note: From 2011-12, LTIFR & FSI is calculated as per ICMM definitions Appendix Pg 43 www.sesagoa.com NURTURING PEOPLE Overview No injuries related to the women workforce were reported All our units are equipped to provide medical consultation and during the reporting period. examination facilities. Well-equipped consultation rooms are located at each of our units, with basic facilities such as Despite our best efforts, we suffered one fatality this year. examination table, weighing scale, height chart, apparatus to There was a fatal accident at Amona jetty when a truck reversed check blood pressure, glucometers for random sugar tests, and Strategy And Governance onto an employee who was working on unloading stacks. employees' health records are maintained at the unit. Doctors' Stringent measures were taken to avoid the recurrence of this visits are scheduled to ensure employees across all locations sad situation. A detailed standard operating procedures (SOP) and shifts get an opportunity to consult these doctors for their was made for the Ore Unloading activity and all labourers were issues. Sesa also provides cashless hospitalisation facility to all trained on it. The number of trucks coming in to Amona bunder its employees and families. Health weeks are observed during has been restricted. CCTV & PS System monitoring was which health check-ups and quizzes are conducted, along with restarted. We also initiated an unmanned ore unloading system talks by eminent doctors on ailments such as diabetes, at Amona and other jetties. computer vision syndrome, awareness campaign on the dangers of drinking and driving, etc. Suraksha Chetana Saptah Ethics And Human Rights To encourage employees to maintain a healthy lifestyle, some sports facilities (badminton courts & table tennis tables) and Suraksha Chetana Saptah was celebrated at all the units of Sesa gymnasiums are provided at various accommodations. Senior from 13th-18th August to reaffirm the company's commitment management employees are also provided with a benefit to to safety. It was started with safety pledge taken by all enrol in health clubs to keep healthy and fit. Various sports employees and led by top management at the units. Training events like Sesa Kreeda and other sports tournaments are programmes as well as competitions were organised to create regularly organised. awareness on safety among employees. 467 employees participated in a training programme on PPE (Personal Over the course of the reporting period, we conducted several Protective Equipment). 241 employees were trained on fire education and training, counselling and prevention / risk control Safety and life saving techniques. 171 employees attended a sessions to assist workforce members, their families and Nurturing People training on Hazard identification and Risk assessment (HIRA) community members regarding serious diseases. These with an objective to understand and carry out the HIRA of sessions covered diseases and issues such as AIDS / HIV, various activities. 116 drivers participated in a Defensive Driving diabetes, hypertension, vector-borne diseases like malaria and programme. Poster, poem and slogan competitions were also dengue, tuberculosis, substance abuse, waterborne diseases, organised to improve the enthusiasm among the employees respiratory diseases, infectious diseases, etc. Apart from these, about safety. awareness sessions on nutrition and anaemia, hygiene, RCH camps, tobacco usage, quality of life, ergonomics, stress OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH management and health & fitness for women employees were Environmental Stewardship also conducted. For us, sustainability implies ensuring employees follow sustainable practices in their personal lives too. This means Since most of the units of Sesa are OHSAS 18001 certified, we taking care of their health, practicing safety, and maintaining a have adopted a reporting system based on OHSAS 18001, for healthy work-life balance. At Sesa, we have introduced several recording and reporting all occupational accidents and diseases initiatives that help employees achieve this balance. To improve in the Units as per the provisions of The Factories Act, 1948, The awareness on stress and health, we have initiated programmes Mines Act, 1952, and Goa Factory Rules. All injuries are also like the Employee Assistance Programme that provides reported in the prescribed format with information on counselling for employees and their immediate families to department, section, nature of injury, time and date of resolve interpersonal issues; employee counselling for mental Empowering Communities accident, probable cause and unfit period. During the reporting well-being; and yoga and meditation sessions to help period, no cases of occupational diseases were detected. employees de-stress. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 44 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview REGENERATING RESOURCES Strategy And Governance The focus of the environment management team is to put in A notable feature of our performance this year has been the place an effective system that ensures the regeneration of the completion of the IFC documentation (policies and mined resources, by implementing the best practices for mines procedures). We have integrated these guidelines with our closure and environmental rehabilitation. We have 5 focus existing IMS systems (Integrated Management Systems of ISO Ethics And Human Rights areas for environmental management – Energy, Water, Land, 14001 –EMS, ISO 9001 – QMS and OHSAS 18001 – Safety and Air and Waste. Occupational health) and implementation is in process. Sesa's corporate Health, Safety, Environment and Community Land reclamation and rehabilitation of mined-out areas is a large Relations (HSEC) department & the Management Review part of our environmental efforts. Through the constant Committee frame the policy and guidelines on HSE; they also integration of new technologies, like the use of geo-textiles and review the effectiveness of the system periodically. Today, we nutrient-inducing plants, we aim to revitalise soil before have a well-defined policy in Safety, Health, Environment & planting trees that are indigent to the region. Water Quality ( SHEQ ) for all our operating units. The committee conservation, biodiversity, making land cultivable, reducing guides our sustainable development endeavour, sets annual waste and emissions, and optimising energy consumption are targets and monitors progress in line with our HSE and social just some of our other initiatives to minimise our impact on the Nurturing People policies with a clear focus on integrating HSE aspects in the environment and the community. decision-making process. Sesa's Karnataka operations have been stopped as per a Energy Supreme Court directive for closure of all iron ore mining operations in the state of Karnataka. Mining operations have been banned in Goa. We received a contempt notice sent by the High Court for allegedly violating court orders on transporting Waste Water iron ore. We replied to the show cause notice stating that we Focus Environmental Stewardship Areas have not violated any court orders. Subsequently the petition was withdrawn by the complainant since there was no substance in it. No fines have been paid during the reporting period. Air Land ENERGY Even though there is ban on operations, the Company has continued to implement environmental measures like Sesa Goa has a policy in place for energy and carbon rehabilitation of overburden dumps, treating runoff water management from FY 2012-13 developed in line with the IFC before discharging outside the premises, etc. To minimise the Empowering Communities principles/policy is available on our website effect of iron ore stockpiles on the environment they are http://www.sesagoa.com/images/stories/sesagoa/pdf/hseq%20 covered with tarpaulin/silpaulin during monsoons. This also policy.pdf. As we expand we seek to do so while minimising prevents wastage of resources due to run-off water carrying the resources that we consume and by steadily decreasing our the mineral non mineral particles along with it. Sesa has carbon footprint. We have established and implemented clear submitted the response to Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) objectives under environment management systems for where we have been ranked on Climate Disclosure Leadership energy conservation. The set energy conservation targets are Index (CDLI) index consecutively for past 3 years. No new 3% to 5% at all locations. This year our overall energy initiatives have been started during the reporting period due to consumption decreased due to the temporary closure of our the closure of operations. mines in Karnataka and Goa. Appendix Pg 45 www.sesagoa.com ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Table 20: Direct and Indirect Energy Consumption in GJ Consumption Mining PID MCD 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Direct Energy (GJ ) 21,05,254 19,33,460 6,51,229 23,012 30,298 25,673 17,894 19,511 14,754 Strategy And Governance Direct Sp. Energy (GJ/T) 0.1 0.140 0.158 0.083 0.122 0.115 0.069 0.076 0.045 Indirect Energy (GJ) 1,21,332 1,36,785 61,054 1,33,855 1,35,207 1,22,505 17,580 17,523 19,408 Indirect Sp. Energy (GJ/T) 0.006 0.01 0.015 0.485 0.544 0.549 0.067 0.068 0.059 Note: Sp. Energy is the energy consumed per unit of product In our Pig Iron Division we saved 412GJ of energy by fitting a treated. As part of our focus on sustainable mining, we make return water pump for recirculation and replacing existing sure that we keep a check on our water consumption, and at Ethics And Human Rights lights with LEDs. In our Met Coke Division, retrofitting our Sesa, we achieve this by harvesting rainwater in mine pits. This premises with energy efficient lighting saved 27GJ of energy. water is then used for beneficiation, spraying on the roads for We have also reduced our travel emissions by using dust suppression, watering plants that are growing on TelePresence and video calling instead of in-person meetings. reclaimed land, etc. Water after beneficiation is sent to settling Over the reporting period these technologies were used for ponds and is used again. On an average, our mining division, 676.25 hours. uses 19 million m3 of water in a year. At our major operations of Codli, Bicholim and Surla we have beneficiation plants that recycle and reuse water. The water recycled or reused at these WATER three mines combined amounts to 21,57,525 cubic metres (48% of total water used). Mining is a water-intensive activity and we recognise the social, Nurturing People economical and environmental impact of water. To combat the In Karnataka, ground water is used to meet partial growing global scarcity of water, Sesa has developed a water requirements. We have tried to supplement this by collecting management policy and procedure in line with the Vedanta rainwater in ponds during the monsoon. Since no water bodies Sustainability Governance system and the same is under near our operations have been impacted, no significant effect implementation. Aiming to become more efficient in water of withdrawal of ground water is seen. usage and conservation, we have carried out assessment of our water footprint across all our operations and reported in CDP We have a zero-discharge policy and there is no discharge Water. outside our operations, except during the monsoon. We are Environmental Stewardship trying to limit this further, with pipes to re-route rain water and After the ore is extracted, some of it needs to be washed with boulder walls to prevent run-offs. By employing these water to remove impurities and increase iron ore practices, we maintain a balance between what is needed for concentration. This process is called beneficiation. Care needs our business and what is good for the environment. to be taken that this water is not released without being Table 21: Water Consumption in kL Water Consumption Total Withdrawn & Consumed (kL) Specific Consumption (kL/MT) Empowering Communities Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Mining 1,54,31,417 1,85,56,795 44,71,854 0.732 1.348 1.082 PID 5,52,974 5,06,875 4,99,600 2.002 2.038 2.237 MCD 2,03,268 2,04,937 2,91,317 0.779 0.799 0.883 Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 46 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Effluent Discharge Our mines in Goa are not located in any ecologically sensitive areas, and our PID and MCD facilities are situated in an industrial While we try to maintain a zero discharge policy, during the belt. All necessary forest clearances / permissions have been monsoons, effluents, mostly suspended solids from the mining obtained to continue with operations and there is no significant operations, are generated due to dump run-off. Before this runimpact on biodiversity. No species, listed in the IUCN Red List Strategy And Governance off water joins any water bodies, we ensure that norms are met species or national conservation list species, are found in and as per statutory and regulatory requirements. The run-off around our areas of operation. A list of flora and fauna around water / effluents are monitored regularly and are well within the mining operations / buffer zones is obtained from the local prescribed limits of Fe (0.1-0.39 mg/L) and TSS (3-44 mg/L), as forest department and necessary measures implemented, as per statutory conditions. required. Sesa has developed a biodiversity policy and procedure in line LAND AND BIO-DIVERSITY with the Vedanta Sustainability Governance system and the same is under implementation. For new projects, it is being At Sesa, we try our best to set an example of maintaining bioimplemented from the beginning and for existing projects, its Ethics And Human Rights diversity. Our reclaimed mine at Sanquelim is an example of our applicability is being reviewed. At the Sanquelim group of ongoing effort to recreate the biodiversity of the area to the mines, a Biodiversity Management Plan has been approved and extent possible. We believe in systematically reclaiming minedimplemented. At Codli, Mareta Sodo and Botvadeacho Dongor out areas. At all our mines, reclamation efforts happen mines, the biodiversity management plans are awaiting forest concurrently with mining activities. There has not been any new department approval. resettlement activity in the reporting period. Table 22: Mining areas rehabilitated during the reporting period. Nurturing People Name of Operating Operating Area Trees Area Trees Area Trees Sites Site Size Rehabilitated Planted Rehabilitated Planted Rehabilitated Planted (Ha) (Ha) (Nos) (Ha) (Nos) (Ha) (Nos) Sesa Goa Limited 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Codli mines 299 5.2 8,272 6.4 15,866 6.54 15,030 consisting of 3 contiguous leases Environmental Stewardship Sanquelim mines 203 0.3 500 6.1 15,331 0.56 2,800 consisting of 3 contiguous leases Mareta Sodo mine 26 1.6 4,050 2.00 5,000 * Gawal Sonshi mine 62 3.3 5,331 2.0 5,050 8.90 22,400 Botvadeacho 24 0.22 560 Dongor Orasso Dongor mine 99 2.2 5,500 0.6 1,500 0.60 1,500 A. Narrain mine, 163 3.5 100,000 7.5 225,000 21.13 2,14,992 Empowering Communities Karnataka Sesa Resources Limited Surla Sonshi mine 253 4.2 42,000 3.6 35,570 7 49,800 Curpem mine 148 1.0 2,200 2.3 10,150 Colomba mine 98 1.8 6,829 2.5 20,000 Sesa Mining Corporation Limited Bicholim mine 479 8.0 65,544 3.7 34,329 16.8 48,993 consisting of 5 contiguous leases Appendix Pg 47 www.sesagoa.com ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Biodiversity offsets have been used for habitat protection and Director with all group directors and business managers restoration. For Karnataka, in consultation with forest reviews the environmental performance more specifically with department, a wildlife protection area of 19 Ha has been energy efficiency, status of CDM projects and water created to compensate forest area used for mining. In conservation. The Environment cell of the company is Sanquelim, working with a forest consultant and local forest responsible for monitoring and tracking of GHG performance Strategy And Governance department, 105 Ha of mined area has been reclaimed. of the operational units and year on year GHG inventorisation through external assistance wherever necessary. Table 23: Amount of Land Disturbed or Rehabilitated in FY 2012-13 As part of the carbon strategy organisation has long term vision of reducing its GHG footprint and of identification, Amount of Land Disturbed or Rehabilitated FY 2012-13 Ha development and monetization of GHG abatement projects A Disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (opening balance) 994 and energy efficiency improvement projects. Moreover the B Newly disturbed within the reporting period 0 company is also looking forward to utilise the domestic Newly rehabilitated within the reporting period to the schemes like PAT (Perform. Achieve and Trade) or energy C 24.81 agreed end use benchmarks currently under development by the BEE (Bureau Ethics And Human Rights Disturbed and not yet rehabilitated (closing balance) D (D=A+B-C) 969 of Energy Efficiency). CO2 Emissions and Reduction Initiatives AIR We have been participating regularly in the Carbon Disclosure We take the threat of climate change seriously. All business Project. (Our report is accessible online through units are responsible for identifying potential GHG mitigation www.cdproject.net). Climate change can have a severe and options both at the operational phase as well as right at the direct impact on our operations. We undertake various design stage for expansion/modification projects. The initiatives to reduce our carbon footprint, which are spread performance is monitored through the monthly review across various functions and activities of the organisation; our meetings at different levels such as unit level, business Nurturing People tele-presence described before, is one such initiative. In the management group level and executive committee of all past, we were successful in achieving this through our 'waste groups and HSE committee level. Operations review is headed heat recovery based power plant project' with UNFCCC. by director, business managers group where in Managing Table 24: Greenhouse Gas Emissions in TCO2E Environmental Stewardship GHG Mining PID MCD Emissions (TCO2E) 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Scope 1 73,566 77,060 31,238 3,94,088 3,62,330 3,07,561 2,46,015 2,32,139 2,49,725 Scope 2 36,135 34,572 16,421 27,244 30,227 29,424 3,577 3,920 3,863 Scope 3 74,500 59,302 18,133 1,405 1,903 1,472 965 1,130 1,004 Table 25: Specific GHG Emissions Empowering Communities Co2 Emissions Mining PID MCD 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Scope 1 / Direct 0.004 0.006 0.008 1.427 1.457 1.377 0.943 0.905 1.055 Scope 2 / Indirect 0.002 0.003 0.004 0.099 0.122 0.132 0.014 0.015 0.016 Scope 3 / Other Indirect 0.004 0.004 0.004 0.005 0.008 0.007 0.004 0.004 0.004 Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 48 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Table 26: Annual Carbon Dioxide Equivalent Savings Activity type Description of activity Estimated Annual CO2e Savings (tonnes Co2e) Process emissions reductions Waste Heat Recovery based Power plant which is 90,004 registered with UNFCCC as a CDM project Strategy And Governance Return Water Pump Recirculation for blast furnace 1 89.03 CB 1 Star Delta 4.27 Energy efficiency: Processes LED light replacement 1.34 Installation of Timer for Mancooler 1.45 Installation of voltage transformer for high mast tower 6.33 Ethics And Human Rights Air Emissions and Ambient Air Quality surrounding the mines, washing the wheel base of trucks carrying ore, preventing overburden and covering the ore with Maintaining good ambient air quality is as important as tarpaulin during transport, using truck mounted sweeping conserving water. Our mines, unlike manufacturing units, are machines to clear dust from the roads and covering our not a significant source of SOx and NOx, and these levels are dumps. We also use fuel efficient machinery and schedule well within the limits. (The SOx and NOx emissions from HEMM regular maintenance for them. source has not been calculated.) Our Pig Iron and Met Coke divisions in Amona monitor these levels and they have been Ozone Depleting Substance found to be within the prescribed limits, and are reported to the State Pollution Control Board. Annual average figures of As part of its process to manage ozone-depleting substances, Nurturing People Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) are well within the Sesa adopted a policy on ODS which entails purchasing prescribed National Ambient Air Quality standards, with PID equipment free from CFCs, halons and MCFs. reporting 0.921 tonnes and MCD levels being 6.777. Ambient Air Quality for our mines, in terms of RSPM, at Karnataka and Goa states has been well within the prescribed limits. Air pollution from mining usually is in the form of dust. We try hard to minimise this through various dust suppression Environmental Stewardship mechanisms like regularly wetting the roads within and Table 27: Ozone Depleting Substances Emitted in 2012-13 Unit Ozone depleting Quantity in MT Ozone Depleting CFC equivalent for Sources of emission substance Potential the year 2011-12 / area of usage MCD R 22 0.04 0.05 0.00201 Mobile car ACs & office installation ACs PID R 22 0.020 0.05 0.001003 ACs Empowering Communities Mining Division R 22 0.008 0.05 0.0004 Office installation ACs Appendix Pg 49 www.sesagoa.com ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview WASTE our focus on sustainable mining, we use exploration software to arrive at the most economical scale, to extract maximum Waste generation is an unavoidable part of mining operations resources while reducing waste. To minimise tailing pond and we endeavour to minimise its impact on our surroundings. volumes, we have added Wet High Intensity Magnetic As part of our regular operations, we produce mainly nonSeparation (WHIMS) units to the beneficiation plant. Rainwater Strategy And Governance hazardous wastes. Wastes like overburden, tailings, slag and is harvested in mining pits and used for beneficiation. This water other waste from plants are collected, stored and disposed off is then collected in settling ponds and reused. Once the ore is appropriately. None of the hazardous waste falling under the mined, we reclaim the land by covering dumps with geo-textiles terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III and VIII is to reduce soil erosion and grow plants to increase enrichment. transported, imported, exported or treated at any of Sesa's operations. The following table reports on waste generated during the reporting period. Generated waste gets disposed in a At each stage of operation like mining, beneficiation, metal sequential manner, in batches, whenever a substantial quantity extraction and coke making, we try to follow the '4R' waste of waste is accumulated, ensuring all regulatory requirements strategy model: reduce, recycle, reuse and reclaim. As part of are met. Ethics And Human Rights Table 28: Wastes Generated in 2012-13 in Mining Division Wastes Generated in 2012-13 in Mining Division Type of Waste Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Used Oil kL 308 319 152 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil soaked cotton waste MT NR 7.877 1.669 Incinerated in Met Coke ovens Paint tins Nos. NR 2550 1081 Sold to authorised vendors Nurturing People Non Hazardous Solid Waste Overburden MT 5,09,04,760 4,72,56,913 0 Back filling and step dumping Tailings MT 42,62,204 1,08,36,311 0 Tailing ponds Rubbish Scrap MT 4,607.3 47.16 473.81 Sold to Vendors MS Scrap MT 1,823 1,473 1,574 Sold to Vendors Vermicomposting; generated Environmental Stewardship Canteen waste MT 51 22 0 compost is utilised Table 29: Wastes Generated in 2012-13 in Met Coke Division Wastes Generated in 2012-13 in Met Coke Division Type of Waste Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Used / spent oil Litres 1,290 1290 3180 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil soaked cotton waste Kg NR 350 600 Incinerated in Coke Ovens Empowering Communities Used / discarded paint tins Nos. NR 216 756 Sold to authorised recyclers Non Hazardous Solid Waste Rubbish Scrap MT NR 33 0 Municipal solid waste Metallic Scrap MT 200 242 100 Sold to scrap vendors Canteen Waste Kg NR 3600 2.5 Disposed in pits Wood Scrap MT NR 65 0 Municipal solid waste Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 50 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Table 30: Wastes Generated in 2011-12 in Pig Iron Division Wastes Generated in 2011-12 in Pig Iron Division Type of Waste Unit 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Disposal Method Hazardous Waste Strategy And Governance Used / spent oil Litres 1935 2958 4695 Sold to authorised recyclers Oil soaked cotton waste Kg NR 725 780 Incinerated in Coke Ovens of MCD Used / discarded paint tins Nos. NR 497 0 Sold to authorised recyclers Non Hazardous Solid Waste Rubbish Scrap MT NR 10.28 8.791 Sold to scrap vendors Metallic Scrap MT 1016.7 413.697 544.738 Sold to scrap vendors Canteen waste Kg NR 3003 3000 Disposed in the vermicomposting unit Ethics And Human Rights NR: Not reported E-Waste Table 31: Oil Spills Spillage 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 A key part of our waste management practices was putting a process in place to deal with the e-waste regulations. E-waste Instances (nos.) 118 43 15 regulations in India started during 2009-10 when the Oil spilled (m3) 6.120 14.665 3.62 Government published guidelines for handling and (1 litre = 0.001 m3) management of e-waste. The writing was on the wall that in the future the same would fall under the regulatory requirements and companies, users and manufacturers would need to gear Nurturing People up accordingly to deal with them appropriately. Then during ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS 2011 under the provisions of Environment (Protection) Act, ` 12.79 crore was spent on various environmental initiatives 1986 the E-waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2011 was during the reporting period. The investments would include published making it effective from May 01, 2012. This provided prevention and control measures like dust suppression, an effective period of one year for meeting the requirements of water/waste water management and dump management. the law. At Sesa we believe in staying ahead of the curve when it comes Environmental Stewardship to compliance. In 2011-12 we carried out inventorisation of ewaste and identified an authorized agency, recycler, and dismantler approved by the Government to dispose of the accumulated e-waste. This process has been implemented from the time law has come into force. E-waste being hazardous and carcinogenic, managing it is equally important in the interest of everyone and the country. Spillage Empowering Communities Toxic oil spills can cause grave damage to the environment. To prevent this, Sesa has adopted measures like impervious flooring and dyke walls while constructing storage facilities for hazardous substances. Our environment management team conducts periodic audits to ensure that all precautionary measures are being followed. During the last year, no serious leakages occurred of oil or any other hazardous substance. However, there were 15 spillages of oil, of which 2 were minor 3 instances, i.e., 1 to 10m of spillage and 13 were negligible. Appendix Pg 51 www.sesagoa.com ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Strategy And Governance For our mining division, materials used are lubricants for heavy MATERIAL STEWARDSHIP earth moving machinery (HEMM) operations, steel for structural fabrication, paints and explosives for breaking hard As a mining company, our products are seldom used as they are, strata. Our shipbuilding unit uses steel and paint. Our pig iron and they usually form the basic raw materials or intermediates division uses iron ore, met coke and fluxes as raw materials. This for the manufacture of other products. Our principal products Ethics And Human Rights iron ore is supplied partly from the mining division and the are iron ore, pig iron and metallurgical coke. Some of our balance is purchased from the open market. Sesa's met coke products form raw materials for other divisions of the division supplies coke. Fluxes are purchased from outside Company. All our products are 100% recyclable and reusable. We sources. The Company makes continuous efforts to bring down do not have processes to reuse industrial waste as raw material, specific coke consumption. The met coke division uses but we do have processes in place to use tailings as a source of imported low ash coal as the major raw material. iron ore in some cases. Table 32: Production and Specific Material Consumption by Division Production – MT / Year 2010-11* 2011-12** 2012-13 Nurturing People Mining Production – MT 1,64,31,626 1,37,64,000 41,32,113 Pig Iron Production – MT 2,76,259 2,48,729 2,23,306 Met coke Production MT 2,60,995 2,56,577 3,29,733 Material Consumption – Mining Steel – MT 3,829 51,805 10,481 Environmental Stewardship Explosives – MT 171 349 175 Lubricants – MT 400 2132 90.47 Paint (Mining + SBD) – MT 68 77 37333.10 Specific consumption (per Ton) – Mining Steel – MT/Ton 0.000233 0.003764 0.002536 Explosives – MT/Ton 0.00001 0.000025 0.000042 Lubricants – MT/Ton 0.000024 0.000155 0.000022 Empowering Communities Paint – MT/Ton 0.0000041 0.0000056 0.009035 Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 52 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview Production – MT / Year 2010-11* 2011-12** 2012-13 Material Consumption – Pig Iron Coke 1,72,382 1,59,938 1,40,152 Cinter 0 0 69,932 Strategy And Governance Iron ore + Pellets 4,18,520 3,89,087 2,88,091 Limestone 33,545 37,625 25,370 Dolomite 24,663 26,361 17,533 Fe. Mn. 600 206 410 Coke rate 0.624 0.643 Specific consumption (per Ton) – Pig Iron Ethics And Human Rights Coke 0.62 0.64 0.63 Cinter 0 0 0.3 Iron ore + Pellets 1.51 1.56 1.29 Limestone 0.12 0.15 0.11 Dolomite 0.089 0.106 0.079 Fe. Mn. 0.002171 0.000828 0.001836 Material Consumption – Met Coke Coal 339,683, 335,554 433,748 Nurturing People Coke breeze 8,056 5,251 2,626 Fuel used in oven + CGDP (KL) 0 0 0 Coal Tar Pitch in MT 0 0 0 Specific consumption (per Ton) – Met Coke Coal 1.3 1.31 1.315 Environmental Stewardship Coke breeze 0.030866 0.020467 0.00796 Fuel (KL) 0 0 0 Coal Tar Pitch in MT 0 0 0 *Data figures only for Sesa Mining Division. Do not include SRL and SMCL. ** Data figures for Sesa Mining Division including SRL and SMCL. Since consumers never directly use our products, it is difficult to comprise information on physical dimensions and chemical predict their direct impact on the environment or on customers' compositions of the products being sold to them. We adhere health. To better understand the impact of our products on the to all applicable laws for all our exported goods, while catering Empowering Communities environment, we have initiated a life cycle assessment (LCA), to our overseas customer base. We have not encountered any which is currently underway. Based on the outcome of the copyrights issues. Our products do not require advertising on assessment, Sesa will embark on a materials stewardship the scale required by other consumer goods, as we do not programme to improve the processes and products. manufacture products that would require such levels of marketing or advertising exposure. Our operations are such The nature of our products obviates the need for packaging materials. The Test Certificates given to our customers Appendix Pg 53 www.sesagoa.com ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP Overview that we do not need to collect any data from customers that TRANSPORT may have privacy considerations. Iron ore is transported from the mines to loading points by During the reporting year, Sesa was not subjected to any legal trucks covered with tarpaulins to ensure there is no spillage or actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, or monopoly dust generation. In case of pig iron and met coke, by the nature Strategy And Governance practices. There have been no instances of non-compliance of the product, there is no significant generation of dust from with laws related to the use of the Company's products and the product during transportation. Transportation emerged as services, and there were no monetary or any other penalties a material issue during our discussions with stakeholders; levied upon us during the reporting period. specifically the dust, noise and congestion caused by the trucks. Increased constraints on transportation have affected our PROMOTION AND MARKETING COMMUNICATION operations as well. To combat these, Sesa is in the process of working with the government on a dedicated transport Sesa’s products do not require any form of advertising unlike corridor that bypasses residential locations and eases consumer goods. However, the Company follows all applicable congestion. Further, the Company has, by its own initiative and in partnership with other like-minded mining companies, Ethics And Human Rights laws for exporting its product (iron ore) to external customers. Sesa, through traffic signages, media coverage of its activities conducted a widening and de-bottlenecking exercise of certain and advertisements on important environment days, message routes. This is in addition to the Goa Government's initiative to boards, etc., maintains brand visibility across its facilities. create a dedicated mining corridor accessible to all mining companies. Dust suppression mechanisms have been employed wherever possible. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The Ministry of Environment and Forests, in association with Periodic customer satisfaction surveys are conducted every the Government of Goa, has commissioned the Indian School of year with the focus on product, services and customers. Efforts Mines, Dhanbad, to carry out a carrying capacity study to are made to capture customer perception on what they liked understand the overall impact of mining on existing and disliked about our contract performance. Feedback Nurturing People infrastructure. This study will also include transportationreceived on a scale of 1 to 10 points is evaluated vis-à-vis the related issues. The study is currently in progress. Once the intensity percentage, to calculate the customer satisfaction report is submitted, Sesa will strive to implement index. Minimum acceptable percentage to be achieved for any recommendations relevant to its operations. customer satisfaction index is 80%. This year we have not conducted a survey because of mining ban. Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 54 EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview REACHING OUT TO COMMUNITY Strategy And Governance Sesa believes that community relations (CR) is a long-term implemented. For example we have partnered with the Naandi involvement of the Company in the socio-economic foundation to provide safe drinking water in three villages. development of mining areas. The community is one of Sesa’s Apart from this Sesa's CR initiatives are implemented through key stakeholders and hence, its participation in the lives of the the following three channels: Ethics And Human Rights people who are impacted by its presence and operations is of ? Sesa Community Development Foundation (SCDF) paramount importance. Most of Sesa’s CR activities are ? Need-based interventions focussed around its operations in Goa and Karnataka. ? Mineral Foundation of Goa (MFG) Sesa's dedicated CR team plans and budgets its annual activities IMPACT OF THE MINING BAN ON THE COMMUNITY based on continuous engagement and consultation with community members, socio-economic baseline studies and AND CR need-assessments. Sesa has, over the years, partnered with other like-minded agencies, such as government bodies, NGOs, The mining ban has had an impact on the immediate local communities and representative bodies (village community. The ban has been especially bad for those involved panchayats), to implement its community development in allied mining activities like hotels, automobile repairs, truck Nurturing People projects. owners etc. Overall the impact can be seen in the villages as many contract workers and temporary mine workers have been Table 33: Community Investment* (in ` crore) retrenched. While we cannot control the impact that the ban has on the community we are making it a point to continue with CR Areas 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 high impact projects in the field of health, livelihood, and Sustainable Livelihood 2.158 3.829 1.11 education. Programmes like the running of Community Medical Centres in the mining belt, farm based livelihoods and Donation 4.046 0.628 2.40 entrepreneurship development, school bus transports, book Education 1.668 1.65 11.67 Environmental Stewardship distribution, Sesa scholarship programmes, and evening study Health 1.69 2.437 1.09 centres are continued. Women empowerment and Kishori Infrastructure 4.764 8.598 2.16 groups that involve adolescent girls are also continued. The SCDF 3.29 5.29 3.94 Sesa Community foundation projects such as two technical MFG 6.248 5.733 1.19 schools and a residential football academy is fully operational. Other socio-economic works 0.908 2.831 2.61 Our approach to CR has changed because of the circumstances. Total (in `) 24.772 30.996 26.17 The focus is more on stakeholder engagement including * Does not include donations to political parties. employees. Employee volunteerism program in community development initiated at larger scale. Our employees along Empowering Communities Sesa aspires to see sustainable growth of the community Sesa with the community participated in different activities like aspires to see sustainable growth of the community through its cleanliness drives at various religious places, crematoriums, initiatives and this is primarily achieved through targeted and awareness campaigns on various topics like – women health need-based interventions. In order to gauge the impact of its CR issues at home, safety tips on home electrical appliances/ fire activities of the past 5 years, Sesa has conducted an impact safety, career guidance in the schools, visits to old age home assessment study with TNS. The results of the study were and the cancer care centre, motivating the Self Help Groups reviewed and action plans were defined for each of the (SHG) for kitchen gardens, beautification of the traffic island in fourteen recommendations. The recommendations spanned and around the mines etc. We also engage with the youth from from setting up health interventions to providing community through sporting events such as football infrastructural support for drinking water. These have been tournament. Sesa's present spend is close to around 2% of its studied thoroughly and the action plans are currently being profits. We believe in inclusive growth and the CR cost is part of the project cost. Appendix Pg 55 www.sesagoa.com EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview SESA COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FOUNDATION and has 30 trainees in its four-year residential programme, with a batch of 15 trainees admitted every two years. It has a football (SCDF) turf maintained round the year by a professional agency, hostel facilities, in-house gymnasium, indoor sports hall, audio visual SCDF is a Company established in 1998 under Section 21 of the room and sauna bath facilities. Companies Act to focus on specific interventions of community Strategy And Governance development. Its main focus is to empower youth through Sesa Football School (SFS): SFS is a unique young talent vocational technical education and sports. Under SCDF, Sesa development programme launched by SFA in 2012, in line with runs the following two institutes: its objective of identifying and promoting young talent under the age of 14, from nearby schools. SFS provides non-residential Sesa Technical Schools (STS) football training to 28 boys, who have been selected. STS was established in 1994 on an old iron ore reclaimed mine in Sanquelim and provides youth, in and around Sesa's mining Quote from Mr. Rowlison Rodrigues operations, with technical skills and knowledge in the (Alumni of SFA – 2001 batch): vocational trades of Machinist, Fitter, Electrician and Ethics And Human Rights Instrument Mechanic and helps them secure employment in I come from a poor family at Madgaon. Since my childhood I various industries. Since inception, STS has produced almost have been playing football. I remember when I was 12 years 100% passing results. Until 2012, 869 students have passed out old one of my neighbours suggested me to join SFA. It was in from STS. All students are placed in various MNCs through then I joined in 2001 and passed in 2005. After graduating I campus interviews. STS is affiliated to National Council of joined Churchill Brothers in 2006 and from 2011-12 and 2012-13 Vocational Training through the Directorate General of I played for Dempo Sports Club. I am extremely thankful to Employment & Training (DGET), Government of India (GoI) in the coaches who have been always encouraging, supportive. the Ministry of Labour, New Delhi. I would like to thank specially Mr. Anthony D'souza, Assistant Coach and Mr. Vishwas Goankar, Head Coach of Sesa Football In 2011, Sesa started a second technical school in Panchwadi, to Academy. cater to growing needs of youth in South Goa. In addition to Nurturing People other trades, Panchwadi STS also offers diesel mechanic trade. NEED-BASED INTERVENTIONS Panchwadi STS is affiliated to State Council of Vocational Training through the State Department of Craftsmen Training, Sesa’s various interventions, in the areas of health, education, Government of Goa (GoG). agriculture, livelihood and infrastructure, are undertaken in a highly structured and process-driven approach. These Sesa Football Academy (SFA) programmes are evolved based on the community’s needs SFA started at Sanquelim in 1999 to nurture the talent of Goa's identified through consultative and intense stakeholder Environmental Stewardship young footballers. A further senior-level academy started engagement and as revealed in baseline studies. In the functioning from June 2008 at Sirsaim, Goa. implementation of these initiatives, Sesa has not received any complaints relating to land use or customary rights of local Sanquelim Academy: It houses 36 boys. Once in two years, boys communities. in the ages of 14 to 16 years are selected on merit and are provided with professional football training as well as a formal Education education. The team has won many championships and Sesa continues to focus on the overall development of students graduates play for top teams of our country. Till date, 93 for their brighter future. In the implementation of education trainees have passed out from this academy. projects, students, teachers and parents are involved. Wherever required, and possible, Parent Teacher Associations Empowering Communities Sirsaim Academy: To further nurture young talent along with (PTA), Village Panchayats, Government Education rigorous football training within a disciplined regime, new Departments and NGOs are engaged for effective infrastructure at Sirsaim was inaugurated on 14 February 2010 implementation and ownership. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 56 EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview Table 34: Education Initiatives in 2012-13 Activity Summary of the Activity Result/Outcome Department of Mining Engineering Sesa partnered with the Government of Goa (GoG) Every year, 40 students will be enrolled and will at Goa Engineering College, to start a Degree course in Mining Engineering at avail an opportunity to graduate in Mining Strategy And Governance Farmagudi the existing campus of Goa Engineering College. Engineering. This initiative will generate the necessary talent pool to meet the shortfall of mining engineers. Scholarships Sesa Dnyanjyoti Shishyavritti is a scholarship The programme has been implemented in 349 scheme intended at encouraging and motivating schools in Goa benefitting approximately 34,900 students of classes 5 to 12 to be competitive, and students. Sesa provided academic e-content, perform well academically. supporting software and computer books to schools. Vedanta Computer Education VCEP, collaborating with Sarva Siksha Abhiyaan of The programme has been implemented in 349 Ethics And Human Rights Programme (VCEP) Directorate of Education, GoG, aims to provide schools in Goa benefitting approximately 34,900 quality education by incorporating CAL (Computer students. Sesa provided academic e-content, Aided Learning) in teaching and learning, supporting software and computer books to increasing enrolments, reducing dropouts and schools. improving passing out. Manthan Manthan is a school-based intervention for The project covers 21 high schools, benefits 4,489 promotion of adolescent health and education. It is people and is run through NGOs, Sangath and Sai based on WHO's Global School Health Initiative, to Life Care. increase the number of Health Promoting Schools. Evening Study Centres Evening Study Centres, called Abhyasika, provide 36 such evening centres are running at different students personalised guidance for completing locations and 614 students are benefitting from 10 Nurturing People their homework, and a supportive atmosphere for village panchayats. 22 more study centres those with learning difficulties or lacking study established in 2012. skills. Child-friendly Learning To support primary education and to make learning These kits were distributed to 91 primary schools, easy for children, teaching and learning kits have benefitting more than 4000 students in Bicholim been developed with the help of primary school Taluka. teachers. Nurturing Scientific Temperament Nature club activities which involve educational Various competitions, poster making, essay writing, Environmental Stewardship tours, nature trails, celebration of Energy quizzes, were organised, which created awareness Conservation Day, Environment Day, Safety Week, among students on global issues and promoted Wildlife Conservation Week, etc. hidden talents. Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 57 www.sesagoa.com EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview Health Access to basic healthcare is a primary necessity of every human being. Sesa extends its support to address basic health needs of the community by creating healthcare facilities at the doorstep and promoting the overall health status of people across its areas of operation. Healthcare programmes constitute need-driven (requests from stakeholders) and proactive initiatives by the Company towards critical health issues. An important focus is contribution to achievement under the United Nation's Millennium Development Strategy And Governance Goals (MDGs) of promoting maternal, child health and eradication of diseases. Table 35: Health Initiatives in 2012-13 Activity Summary of the Activity Result/Outcome Community Medical Centres & Sesa operates, in association with NGOs, 11 Under this initiative, benefits extend to 15 villages Mobile Health Units community medical centres and 2 mobile health and in the year 2012-13, 56,736 people availed these units, each with a doctor and 2 nurses, offering free facilities. And from inception till March 2013 233,270 consultation and medication to nearby villages. people attended. Ethics And Human Rights Eye Check-up & Cataract Drishti project created mass awareness and Under the project 33 people have been treated for Treatment provided free eye check-up and treatment, cataract cataract free of cost operations and spectacles, where necessary, to people in nearby villages. Blood Donation Camp on World On World AIDS Day, Sesa organised blood donation 160 employees donated blood. Conducted role AIDS Day camps along with Goa State AIDS Control Society plays through school children on HIV/ AIDS (GSACS). Sesa also conducted an awareness awareness programme on HIV AIDS for migrant labourers and truckers. Nurturing People Nutritional Support to HIV + Children and TB Patients: Company has partnered with Positive People, an NGO working for people living with HIV / AIDS, to support their “Children's Wholesome Care Programme.” Under the programme, 150 children living with HIV / AIDS are supported with supplementary nutritious food. Similarly, Sesa has also partnered with the Directorate of Health Services in their Revised National Tuberculosis Program (RNTCP) to provide nutritional support to around 100 tuberculosis patients. Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 58 EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview Sustainable Livelihood Mining is a major source of income to the local community Case Study: Self Help Group (SHG) inhabiting the mining belts. Sesa believes that, as mining activities have a finite life span, it is necessary to create Mrs. Prajoti Naik has been a very active member of the selfcompetence in the community to engage in other forms of help group established under women empowerment project Strategy And Governance livelihood, over a period of time. This philosophy also forms the run in partnership with CDPR, a Pune based NGO. We support basis of our exit strategy. Sesa has encouraged agriculture, the SHGs every year by helping them establish stalls during watershed and women enterprise development as alternate the jatra. We learned from our unsuccessful attempt in 2011 options of income generation in the community. where we suffered a loss and applied those learnings to our stalls in 2012. The attempt was a great success where the SHGs earned ` 40,000 as profit. This was a great boost to the SHFs The CR team has engaged expert agencies to create awareness, and they have used this opportunity to make headway in mobilise the community and help establish alternative means of creating a market and investing in themselves. The only livelihood. Sesa works jointly with various farmer associations, support from our end was guidance and payment of fees for farmers' clubs, SHGs etc. Sesa has also engaged the Centre for stalls. Development Planning & Research (CDPR), Pune to conduct Ethics And Human Rights income generation programmes for women Self Help Groups (SHGs) in Goa while in Karnataka it tied up with University of Case Study: Gerbera Cultivation Agriculture Sciences, Dharwad for a four year Alternative Livelihood Opportunity Programme. “It would not have been possible from my end to make such a The 'Back to Farming' initiative is our partnership with the huge investment of 10 – 12 lakhs for the project, had it not been Sesa Goa there to make this project possible. I am really obliged farming community and the government agriculture to Sesa Goa to make such a huge investment both monetarily department to rejuvenate agriculture. Working with farmers and in terms of technology” – says Mr. Pritam Patil, Poly-house we motivate them to bring barren land into cultivation with the project beneficiary of Dullai, Dharbandora, Goa. supply of seeds, fertilisers, irrigation facilities, power tillers and Nurturing People ploughing assistance etc. In keeping with the need to provide The poly-house project was undertaken in collaboration with alternate means of employment we are working with the local the Agriculture Department, Government of Goa under youth to equip them with skills such as driving, computer National Horticulture Mission for commercial cultivation of operating, etc. Along with Vedanta foundation and local village Gerbera in several locations in Goa. The project was chosen to administrative bodies we have set up three computer training meet the demand for flowers in the market of Goa which were centres to provide free computer knowledge to the youths. previously met by adjoining states. Four farmers fromtwo Women empowerment is a key focus area with Sesa's CR team from mining belt and two from non-mining belt were selected organising and training women on income-generating by Department of Agriculture, Goa on the basis of their Environmental Stewardship enterprises like catering, paper / leaf plate making, beautician interest and readiness to take up the project services, tailoring, masala making, micro items, etc. entrepreneurship. While 90% of the investment is recoverable in form of a subsidy on the project, Sesa helped provide the initial set up cost which is quite high. We also helped appoint an expert agricultural consultant to provide technical know-how. The Poly-house yields 10,500 flower sticks per month during the season. The earnings in profit have shown an exponential Empowering Communities growth since the business has started. In 2013 farmers made a profit of ` 32,800 per month. Appendix Pg 59 www.sesagoa.com EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview Alternative Livelihood Opportunity Project (ALOP): Sesa Sl. No. Activities Achievements through its operations in Chitradurga has created many employment opportunities, directly and indirectly for the 14 Promoted Azolla cultivation In 8 families villagers in the cluster. However, majority of the people around practice the operations are largely dependent on farming with their very 15 Promoted Biomass stove 849 families benefitted Strategy And Governance small land holdings. There was a need to educate them on 16 SHG Promotion and training SHG Formed 20, No. of development possibilities in farming and alternative members – 283, Total saving opportunities for sustainable livelihood. In 2008, Sesa along – ` 67,905 with the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, took a women entrepreneurs 38 lead role in developing and implementing the ALOP project in a time period of 4 years. SESA Mahila Hitvardhini Table 36: Project Activities and Achievement We are working with Center for Development, Planning and Sl. No. Activities Achievements Research (CDPR), a Pune based NGO. The target groups are the Ethics And Human Rights SHGs in the villages who are being covered under the program 1 Watershed development for 2,333 acres area brought “SESA Mahila Hitvardhini” Around 382 SHGs are taken up under conservation of soil and under watershed and 549 water families benefitted the project. The women members are regularly being trained on the rules and procedures for running the SHGs. The activities 2 Established Medicinal 3 villages, planted 30 diff. that the SHG members are involved in are areca-nut cup-plates Gardens plants making, tailoring, cooking, organizing food stalls in village 3 Organized Capacity building 36 training programs jatras, etc. Stitching, knitting and embroidery classes, catering training programs for conducted & 823 people course, papad making, leaf plate and paper plate making farmers training programmes were organized for about 188 SHGs from 4 Conducted Farmer Field 75 camps conducted and the project villages. Schools to introduce new 1,715 people participated Nurturing People crop production technologies “Prerna Melavas” or motivational workshops are organized in 5 Established Artificial Facility created for 10 Insemination Center villages so far 712 animals different locations to bring together all the SHG members, treated motivate them, create awareness about the concept of SHGs 6 Animal health camps 23 camps & around 7,834 and encourage them to participate in group activities which can conducted in project villages animals treated bring about socio-economic upliftment. Around 850 women SHG members came in for the event. Guidance booklet on SHG 7 Organized Exposure visits for 464 farmers benefitted farmers formation, functioning, rules & regulation for operation etc is prepared and given to each of the SHG member. Environmental Stewardship 8 Introduced Integrated In 157 acre & 155 families farming system (IFS) benefitted Sesa Kishori Prabodhan 3,950 plants 9 Established Kitchen gardens 21 families benefitted This program targets adolescent girls and addresses all their 10 Introduced Twin model of In 88 farmer fields concerns with regard to health, hygiene, academic, personality Vermin compost units & social aspects. Various programs have been organized for 11 Girirani -improved poultry Provided to 52 families them like talks on important topics, festival celebration birds (Babusaheb Bandodkar Jayanti), Rangoli & Mehndi 12 Swarnadhara-Improved Provided to 155 families Competition, Rangoli Training etc. Around 434 girls from 25 Empowering Communities Poultry Birds Kishori Groups have been benefitted by these programs. 13 Introduced Improved crop 831 farmers benefitted production systems covering 911 acres of land Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 60 EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview Vedanta Foundation: The response to these centres has been overwhelming. At present we have enrolment of around 300 youth who are Vedanta Computer Education Programme (VCEP): VCEP is a undergoing training in batches. flagship education project of Sesa, which aims to provide quality education by incorporating Computer Aided Learning Employee Volunteerism in CSR: Strategy And Governance (CAL) in the teaching and learning process thereby increasing Need-based, and proactively, Sesa employees participate in enrolments, reducing dropouts and improving the passing out various community drives such as environment awareness, percentage in schools. This project is in collaboration with plastic reduction, cleanliness, health awareness, personality Sarva Siksha Abhiyaan, Directorate of Education, in Goa and development talks, organising community events, etc. In cases Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan in Karnataka. The of need, employees also contribute in terms of kind and cash. program has been implemented so far in 349 schools in Goa. Under employee volunteerism, around 3,303 hours have been This project helps over 34,900 students. clocked in the current year. Summer Vacation Computer Coaching Programme: Social Infrastructure: 15 days Summer Vacation Computer Training Course for the Infrastructure is the foundation of all progress and Ethics And Human Rights students of class VIII at state level was launched in the State of development. Sesa believes that infrastructure forms a part of Goa which was inaugurated by Honorable Minister for Sports, the basic need to build and sustain a community. A few of Sesa's Shri Ramesh Tawadkar. The camps were conducted in 11 talukas initiatives towards the development of infrastructure in the of Goa. This was a 15 days certificate course for rural children in communities around its operations are listed below. Many of partnership with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and implemented the projects undertaken by Sesa are need-based, stemming out through Vedanta foundation. Under the program 485 students of extensive engagement with stakeholders from the villages were trained. and communities around its operations. These projects range from providing primary amenities for community life, sanitation Computer training program for Jail inmates: and other basic necessities, supporting interactive The vocational training program is a part of Vedanta communities and networking, providing infrastructure for socio-cultural activities, to providing a holistic environment for Nurturing People Foundation's UMEED project, a pan-India project, working towards the objective of rehabilitation of prison inmates. children's development. Vocational training programme on Computer skills are conducted for the inmates, keeping in mind employment Requirements in schools located in the rural areas are opportunities available. Trainers for these programmes are predominantly infrastructural in nature. Lack of adequate groomed to understand the difficulties faced by inmates and school infrastructure impacts student interest, teacher importance of training. The inmates undergo training, followed motivation, and therefore, performance of the students. Sesa by the usual process of evaluation and certification on has always been in the forefront in ensuring and supporting the creation of this grass roots level infrastructure to support the Environmental Stewardship completion of training. We have started this program in Aguada and Sada, Vasco Jails of Goa. Currently 123 inmates are broader objective of education. undergoing training in these centres. ? Renovation of Government Primary School Khodgine Surla and Pre-Primary School Bhumika at Parye and at Maina Village Computer Literacy Programme: Navelim Sesa along with Vedanta Foundation has started its computer ? Green Fencing at GPS Piliem, Dharbandora training centres in Wade, Sanquelim & Bicholim. This is a ? 100 sets of benches to Immaculate School and 40 sets of collaborative initiative with respective local administrations benches to Gananath English School, Nirankal such as village Panchayat Wade, Sanquelim Municipal Council ? Supplied fixtures / focus lamps and tube lights to 24 village and Bicholim Municipal Council. The objective of the program is panchayats across operational areas. Empowering Communities to provide free computer and spoken English training to ? Providing CCTC Surveillance System to Gurdian Angel unemployed youth for enhancing their employment Church, Sanvordem Water cooler & filter for Chandrabhaga capabilities and securing their livelihood. The entire course has Tukoba High School in Sanvordem been divided into 2 modules; Module 1 is a three months ? Repair of houses at Codli program that includes contents like Basics of computer, ? Cleaning and repair work of 22 open wells at Lamgao, Windows, Office Applications, Internet and Spoken English. Goankarwada and Dabdaba. Selected candidates who perform well in Module 1 and possess interest in advanced computer learning graduate to Module 2 which is a three months program that includes Desktop Publishing and Financial Accounting. Appendix Pg 61 www.sesagoa.com EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Overview ?Renovation of Anganwadi at Dabdaba Bicholim ?Construction of footpath as well as Ganesh Visarjan Platform at Tirthbag, Mayem & ferry stand at Sarmanas ferry point in Piligaon ?Construction of foot path at Khodgini Surla Strategy And Governance ?Painting of Tagore High School, Kothambi Pale ?Renovation of Crematorium in Surla ?Constructed house for underprivileged family in Amona ?Construction of toilet block at Amona and in school of Betki Khandola village CONTRIBUTION TO MINERAL FOUNDATION OF Case Study: Safe Drinking Water Project GOA (MFG) Sesa has established safe drinking water units at three Ethics And Human Rights MFG is an NGO established in the year 2000 by the Goan mining panchayat villages in ANM-Chitradurga at Muttugaduru, Sirigere and Bommenahalli. In association with the Naandi industry, as a corporate non-profit organisation, to address Foundation, Sesa has signed an memorandum of social and environmental issues and improve people's lives in understanding to provide drinking water by installing reverse the mining belt of Goa. Sesa is the founding member and a osmosis plants in the three villages. majority stakeholder of the MFG. Every year, Sesa Goa contributes about ` 4 per tonne produced to the foundation. The project was funded at a cost of ` 37 lakh and benefits over a 1,000 families. Naandi was responsible for the installation MFG has specific mandate to work in areas around iron ore and commissioning of the plant. It will be responsible for the mines and road transport corridors. Towards this MFG working day to day operations and for the maintenance of the plant with partners services in nearly 80 villages distributed in 28 for a period of 5 years after which it can hand over the project panchayat. MFG projects contribute to one or more of 8 Nurturing People to the Gramapanchayat or to a committee. Post installation, Millennium Development Goals. Over one decade, the the plant is managed by a trained operator who belongs to foundation has created various assets for the benefits of the the community itself. The approach is an innovative Public general public and educational institutes ranging from Private Community Partnership involving the government, bhandaras, bandhs, irrigation channels, crematorium, community, NGO and technology providers. anganwadi, classrooms, toilets, libraries, laboratories, etc. These facilities will go a long way in serving the community in the The model relies on meeting the operations and maintenance mining belt. Women empowerment programmes have been costs through the levy of nominal user charges collected for well received by the community. Environmental Stewardship providing treated water (20 litres of safe water will be provided at ` 4). Initially the beneficiary has to pay ` 280 as advance for a 20 litre water can and a card valid for one As an extensive project for comprehensive development of month. The beneficiary can collect water for a month and village, Sesa partnered with MFG and the Government of Goa (in renew the card for the next month by paying ` 120. This a Public Private Partnership initiative) in a Gram Nirman project, initiative has expanded access to safe drinking water to a that was implemented in two village Panchayats namely wider section of society, especially people with lower Kirlapal-Dabal and Mayem. Gram Nirman aimed at integrated purchasing power, who in the past would not have had development of the villages. Key project undertaken were regular access to treated water. It has also enhanced watershed development-Bandharas, irrigation facilities, employment opportunities for the local youth. The locations Anganwadi centres, Village resource centres, Drinking water selected had myriad water quality issues and the safe drinking Empowering Communities project etc. water will help reduce cases of Fluorosis and pathogen linked health problems while improving the overall health of the Likewise round the year various developmental projects are communities. It will also increase school attendance through implemented across mining belt in Goa. a reduction of water borne diseases in children. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 62 APPENDIX Overview WAY FORWARD Strategy and Governance ?Implement Vedanta Sustainability Governance System, aligned with IFC standards. Strategy And Governance ?Ensure compliance with applicable legal requirements and strive for beyond compliance. Environment ?Aggressively pursue pollution prevention, energy conservation and waste reduction in our business operations. ?Benchmark and implement best in class environmental practices. Community ?Continue partnering with credible NGOs to implement high impact CR initiatives. Ethics And Human Rights ?Implement CR initiatives aligned with MDGs – thrust on health, education, employability, sustainable livelihood etc. Safety ?Drive safety culture and implement behavioural based safety systems /practices to achieve the goal of “zero harm” Health ?Implement new health initiate Screening of all employees for Diabetes. Nurturing People Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 63 www.sesagoa.com ASSURANCE STATEMENT OF DNV Overview INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Introduction Det Norske Veritas AS (‘DNV’) has been commissioned by the management of Sesa Goa Limited (‘Sesa Goa’ or ‘the Company’) to carryout Strategy And Governance an assurance engagement on the Company’s Sustainable Report 2012 -13 (‘the Report’) in its printed and web format. This engagement focused on qualitative and quantitative information provided in the Report, and underlying management and reporting processes. The engagement was carried out against DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustain)1 including verification of application level and adherence to principles of the Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version3.1 (GRI G3.1). The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of the Company and readers of the Report. The Company is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility in performing this work is to the management of Sesa Goa only and in accordance with terms of reference agreed with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and authentic. DNV disclaims any liability or responsibility to a third party for decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based on this assurance Ethics And Human Rights statement. This engagement was carried out during July to November 2013, by a multidisciplinary DNV team of qualified and experienced sustainability report assurance professionals. Scope of Assurance The scope of DNV’s assurance engagement, as agreed upon with the Company included the verification of the content, focus and quality of the information presented in the Report, covering the Economic, Environment and Social information over the period 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013. In particular, this assurance engagement included: ? Review of the policies, initiatives, practices and performance described in the Report as well as references made in the Report to ? the Annual Report and Business Responsibility Report 2012-13; ? Review of the Report against the requirements of VeriSustain with a moderate level of assurance; ? Evaluation of the adherence to the principles set out in the GRI G3.1 and confirmation of the Company’s declared application ? level; Nurturing People ? Review and assessment of the processes and tools for collecting, aggregating and reporting qualitative data inside the Report; ? Verification of the reliability of information and performance data as set forth in GRI G3.1 and presented in the Report; ? Verification of the Economic Indicator (EC1) in the Report, based on data from audited financial statements; The reporting boundary is as set out in the Report and during the assurance; we did not come across limitations to the scope of assurance engagement. Our assurance engagement did not include formal assessment of the adequacy or effectiveness of Company’s strategy or management of sustainability related issues. Verification Methodology Environmental Stewardship This assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting.The Report has been evaluated against the principles of Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Materiality, Completeness, Responsiveness, Reliability and Neutrality as set out in ‘VeriSustain’, and the GRI G3.1. As part of our verification we visited the Head office at Panjim, Goa, Pig Iron complex at Amona and Met Coke Division at Navelim, Goa, India. During the assurance engagement, DNV has taken a risk-based approach, meaning that we concentrated our verification efforts more on the issues of high material relevance to Company’s business and stakeholders. As part of the engagement we have challenged the sustainability-related statements and assertions made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. For example, we have: ? Examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available to DNV by the Company; ? Conducted interaction with senior management and other key executives of the Company, including data owners and decisionmakers Empowering Communities ? from different functions and site locations of the Company at Goa India; ? Performed sample-based checks of the processes for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data ? included in the Report; ? Reviewed the data management processes for completeness and reliability. This including assessments of methods, practices, tools and competence used in collection, aggregation and reporting of data as it is transferred and managed at different levels of the organisation; ? Reviewed the process of acquiring information and economic-financial data from the audited, annual report of the Company. Conclusions In DNV’s opinion, based on the work carried out, the Report is a fair representation of the Company’s sustainability-related strategies, management systems and performance. The Report, along with the referenced information in the annual report, meets the general content and quality requirements of the GRI G3.1, and DNV confirms that the GRI requirements for Application Level ‘A+’ have been met. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’: Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 64 APPENDIX Overview Stakeholder Inclusiveness: Though the mining operation was partial during the year, the Company had continual engagement with key stakeholders through various channels. The material issues emerging from the dialogue are collected and prioritised based on inputs from stakeholders, and the results are reflected in the Report. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Strategy And Governance Materiality: The materiality determination process is based on inputs from diverse stakeholders and organisational perspective. The materiality determination process captures the key sustainability topics; the inputs from materiality determination are used for sustainability performance management and reporting. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Completeness: The Report provides disclosures in response to GRI G3.1 disclosure requirements including the Metals and Mining sector supplement; the partial disclosures are denoted in the GRI index. Company acknowledges the need for continuous improvement and is committed to improving the reporting scope and boundary. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Responsiveness: The Report has adequately responded to identified key sustainability aspects and challenges in the local sustainability context including aspects related to Metals and Mining Sector, within the reporting boundary; In our opinion, the level at which the Ethics And Human Rights Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Reliability: The majority of data and information verified at head office and sites were found to be accurate. Some of the data inaccuracies identified during the verification process were found to be attributable to transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors have been corrected; Hence in accordance with the moderate level assurance engagement, we conclude that the specified sustainability data and information presented in the Report are generally reliable. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Neutrality: Overall the Report is transparent in discussing the challenges faced by the organisation and the information contained in the Report is presented in a neutral tone. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. Opportunities for Improvement Nurturing People The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported back to the management of the Company, however, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report, and they are indeed generally consistent with the management objectives already in place: ? Implement an analytics system to capture sustainability data/information to monitor and improve sustainability performance; ? Integrate the sustainability performance data verification as part of the existing system of internal audits of management systems ? to further improve the quality of quantitative and qualitative data for future reporting; ? Progressively expand the boundary of reporting, goals, targets and performance metrics for material issues and benchmark the sustainability performance with peers. DNV’s Independence Environmental Stewardship DNV is a global provider of sustainability services, with qualified environmental and social assurance specialists working in over 100 countries. DNV states its independence and impartiality with regard to this assurance engagement, while DNV did conduct other third party audits with Sesa Goa in 2012-13, in our judgement this does not compromise the independence or impartiality of our assurance engagement or associated findings, conclusions and recommendations. The DNV assurance team were not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV maintains complete impartiality toward any people interviewed. For Det Norske Veritas AS, Empowering Communities Vadakepatth Nandkumar Prasun Kundu Project Manager, Assurance Reviewer, Head – SBE & ACS Services, Det Norske Veritas AS, India. Det Norske Veritas AS, India. 11th November, 2013, Bangalore, India. Appendix Pg 65 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview UNGC GUIDELINES THE TEN PRINCIPLES UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Principles Statement Page No. Strategy And Governance Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 32 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 32 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 32, 33 to collective bargaining; 32, 33 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Ethics And Human Rights 32, 33 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and 36 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 42-49 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 42-49 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 42-49 Nurturing People Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 30 Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 66 APPENDIX Overview GRI CONTENT INDEX G3.1 Content Index Application Level: A+ Assured By DNV Strategy And Governance STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis Profile Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Disclosure not reported, reason and by when it will be reported 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. Fully 8 to 9 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully 24 to 26 Ethics And Human Rights 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Cover Page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 19 to 20 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating Fully 4, 11 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Fully Back Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with Fully 4 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Nurturing People 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 4 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of Fully 20 to 21 customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or Fully 3, 8, 9 ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 7 Environmental Stewardship 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully 11 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 11 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 11 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully 81 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 11 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Fully 11 Empowering Communities ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see Fully 11 completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Fully 11 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including Fully 11 assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Appendix Pg 67 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview 3. Report Parameters 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Fully 11 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or Fully 11 Strategy And Governance measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully 65 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully 11 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Disclosure not reported, reason and by when it will be Ethics And Human Rights reported 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest Fully 27 to 29 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Fully 27 officer. 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender Fully 27, 28 of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or Fully 30 direction to the highest governance body. Nurturing People 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, Fully 27, 29 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest Fully 30 are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Fully Annual Report members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any Page 39 consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Environmental Stewardship 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Fully 1, 27 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's Fully 27, 29 identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, Fully 27, 29 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is Fully 27 Empowering Communities addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or Fully 11 other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Fully 77 national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 68 APPENDIX Overview 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Disclosure not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Strategy And Governance 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully 14-17 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully 14 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by Fully 14-17 type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, Not 18 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Ethics And Human Rights STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) G3 DMA Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part not reported, reason and by when it will be reported DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC Fully 21-25 Aspects Economic performance Fully 21-25 Market presence Fully 33,36 Indirect economic impacts Fully 50-57 Nurturing People DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN Fully 42-49 Aspects Materials Fully 48-49 Energy Fully 42-43 Water Fully 43 Biodiversity Fully 43-44 Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 43, 45-47 Environmental Stewardship Products and services Fully 49 Compliance Fully 42 Transport Fully 49 Overall Fully 47 DMA LA Disclosure on Management Approach LA Fully 34-42 Aspects Employment Fully 34-35, 38-39 Labor/management relations Fully 32 Empowering Communities Occupational health and safety Fully 40-41 Training and education Fully 37-38 Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 36 Equal remuneration for women and men Fully 36 Appendix Pg 69 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview DMA HR Disclosure on Management Approach HR Fully 32,33 Aspects Investment and procurement practices Fully 32-33 Non-discrimination Fully 36 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Fully 32-33 Strategy And Governance Child labor Fully 32-33 Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Fully 32-33 Security practices Fully 32 Indigenous rights Not Not Applicable Sesa does not operate in areas inhabited by indigenous people Assessment Fully 13 Ethics And Human Rights Remediation Fully 36 DMA SO Disclosure on Management Approach SO Fully 50-57 Aspects Local communities Fully 50-51 Corruption Fully 30 Public policy Fully 26,29 Anti-competitive behaviour Fully 49 Compliance Fully 49 DMA PR Disclosure on Management Approach PR Fully 42, 48-49 Nurturing People Aspects Customer health and safety Fully 49 Product and service labelling Fully 49 Marketing communications Fully 49 Customer privacy Fully 49 Compliance Fully 42 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Environmental Stewardship Economic Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating Fully 22 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Empowering Communities EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's Partially 26 activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Fully 42 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully 30 Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum Fully 39 wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Partially 35 significant locations of operation. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 70 APPENDIX Overview EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management and workforce Partially 39 Proportion of hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Senior Management Hired Indirect Economic Impacts Strategy And Governance EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Fully 55-62 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the Fully 23 extent of impacts. Environmental Performance Description Reported Page No. If applicable, Indicator indicate the part not reported Ethics And Human Rights Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Fully 52-53 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Fully 52 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully 45-46 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Fully 45-46 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Fully 45-46 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Not Due to the services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Applicable nature of our Nurturing People products EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Fully 46 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 46 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Fully 46 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Partially 46 Environmental Stewardship Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Fully 47-48 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Fully 47-48 in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or Fully 47-48 extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Partially 47-48 Empowering Communities EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Fully 47-48 MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity Fully 47-48 management plans according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Fully 47-48 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Appendix Pg 71 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview Emissions, Effluents And Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 48 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 48 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Fully 49 Strategy And Governance EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Partially 49 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Fully 49 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Fully 46-47 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Fully 50-51 MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. Fully 50-51 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 51 Ethics And Human Rights EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous Fully 50 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Fully 47 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of Fully 49 impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Fully 49 category. Nurturing People Performance Description Reported Page No. If applicable, Indicator indicate the part not reported Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully 45 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Environmental Stewardship Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Fully 54 materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Fully 51 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by Empowering Communities when it will be reported Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken Fully 37 down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, Fully 38-40 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partFully 41, 42 time employees, by major operations. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 72 APPENDIX Overview LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. not 42 Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Fully 36 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including Fully 36 Strategy And Governance whether it is specified in collective agreements. MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by country. not 36 Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker Fully 43 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of partially 43 Absenteesim work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Fully 44 Ethics And Human Rights assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Fully 43 Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee Fully 40 category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Fully 41 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Fully 41 reviews, by gender. Nurturing People Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Partially 39 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Environmental Stewardship indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by Fully 39 significant locations of operation. Empowering Communities Appendix Pg 73 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview Social: Human Rights Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Strategy And Governance Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts Partially 33 Human Rights that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone Screening not human rights screening. covered. While our SA8000 Certification covers some of the parameters of Human Rights, we are yet to incorporate human rights screening into our Ethics And Human Rights investment process. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that Partially 35 Human Rights have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Screening not covered. Supplier Code of Conduct put in place. No monitoring or audit mechansim is in place yet to verify adherence to the code. Nurturing People HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of Fully 33 human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Fully 39 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom Partially 33, 35 Suppliers partially Environmental Stewardship of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and covered. Supplier actions taken to support these rights. Code of Conduct put in place. No monitoring or audit Child Labor mechansim is in place yet to verify HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Partially 33, 35 adherence to the of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child code. labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents Partially 33, 35 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Empowering Communities Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures Fully 33 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' Not No indigenous territories, and number and percentage of operations or sites where there are applicable communities formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. Indigenous Rights Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 74 APPENDIX Overview HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and Not No indigenous actions taken. applicable communities Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights Fully 13 reviews and/or impact assessments. Strategy And Governance Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved Fully 39 through formal grievance mechanisms. Social: Society Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Ethics And Human Rights Local Communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact Fully 55 assessments, and development programs. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights Fully 56 of local communities and Indigenous Peoples. MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating Fully 56 to land use, customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. Artisanal and SmallScale Mining MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating sites where artisanal and smallFully 5 Nurturing People scale mining (ASM) takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. Resettlement MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, Fully 47 No new land was and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. acquired Closure Planning MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. Fully 23 Environmental Stewardship SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Fully 55 communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Fully 55-62 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Fully 32 corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and Fully 32 procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully 32 Empowering Communities Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Fully 27 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and Fully 30 related institutions by country. Appendix Pg 75 www.sesagoa.com APPENDIX Overview Anti-Competitive Behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and Fully 54 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance Strategy And Governance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fully 54 non-compliance with laws and regulations. Social: Product Responsibility Performance Description Reported Page No. Explanation: Part Indicator not reported, reason and by when it will be reported Materials Stewardship MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Partially 52-53 LCA Study currently underway Ethics And Human Rights Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are Fully 53 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully 53 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Fully 53 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Nurturing People PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully 53 concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Fully 54 customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Fully 54 Environmental Stewardship marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Fully 54 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Not As per the nature and losses of customer data. of our industry we do not need to handle propriety information/data of our customers Empowering Communities Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Fully 54 concerning the provision and use of products and services. Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 76 MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS Overview Strategy And Governance Sesa Goa is an active member of various trade associations at local and national levels. Below is a list of the various organisations that Sesa Goa has an annual membership with Sesa Goa Limited Ethics And Human Rights ?FICCI ?ASSOCHAM (Associate Membership) ?Confederation of Indian Industry (WR) ?Federation of Indian Mineral Industries ?Employers Federation of India ?All India Organisation of Employers ?Confederation of Exports Units ?Computer Society of India ?Global Compact Network India ?National Safety Council Nurturing People ?British Safety Council ?The Baltic Exchange Corporate Membership ?Goa Chamber of Commerce & Industry ?Goa Mineral Ore Exporters Association ?Goa Mining Association ?Goa Management Association ?The International Centre, Goa ?Eastern Zone Mining Association Environmental Stewardship Sesa Resources Limited ?Goa Chamber Of Commerce & Industry ?National Safety Council ?The Marmagao Stevedores Association Sesa Resources Limited Mining Corporation Limited Empowering Communities ?Goa Chamber Of Commerce & Industry Appendix Pg 77 www.sesagoa.com GLOSSARY Overview ABC Antecedents/Activators, Behaviour & Consequences AC Air Conditioning ACT UP Accelerated Competency Tracking &Up-gradation AGM Annual General Meeting ANML A Narrain Mines Limited, Chitradurga Strategy And Governance ASSOCHAM Associated Chambers Of Commerce And Industry Of India AVP Associate Vice President BSc Bachelor of Science BDC Block Development Council BE Bachelor of Engineering BF Blast Furnace BMI Body Mass Index CAL Computer Aided Learning CB-2 Circuit Breaker – 2 CDLI Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Ethics And Human Rights CDPR Centre For Development Planning & Research CEO Chief Executive Officer CER Certified Emission Reductions CFC ChloroFluoro Carbon CFO Chief Financial Officer CIF Cost Insurance & Freight CII Confederation Of Indian Industry CIL Cairn India Limited CMO Chief Marketing Officer CO2 Carbon Dioxide COO Chief Operating Officer COP Communication on Progress Nurturing People CRT Cathode Ray Tube CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DG Diesel Generator DGET Directorate General of Employment &Training DNV Det Norske Veritas Dy. Deputy EHS Environment, Health & Safety EMS Environment Management System Environmental Stewardship ERW Electric Resistance Welded ESI Employees’ State Insurance Fe Iron (Ferrous) FGD Focus Group Discussion FICCI Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry FIMI Federation of Indian Mineral Industries FSI Frequency Severity Index FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange FY Financial Year GCCI Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry GEL Goa Energy Limited Empowering Communities GHG Green House Gas GJ Giga Joules GJ / t Giga Joules Per Tonne GMOEA Goa Mineral Ore Exporters‘ Association GoG Government of Goa GOLD Gen-Next Operational Leadership Development GRI Global Reporting Initiative GSACS Goa State AIDS Control Society GTS Green Triangle Society Ha Hectare Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 78 GLOSSARY Overview HEMM Heavy Earth Moving Machinery HIV/AIDS Human Immuno-deficiency Virus / Acquired Immuno-deficiency Syndrome HR Human Resources HRD Human Resource Development HSE Health, Safety & Environment HSEC Health, Safety, Environment And Community Relations Strategy And Governance ICMM International Council on Mining & Metals IFC International Finance Corporation ILO International Labour Organisation IMS Integrated Management Systems ISO International Organisation Of Standardization IT Information Technology ITI Industrial Training Institute IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources kg Kilogram kL Kilo Litres kL / t Kilo Litre Per Tonne Ethics And Human Rights kt Kilo Tonne ktpa Kilo Tonnes Per Annum LCA Life Cycle Assessment LCD Liquid Crystal Display LTIA Lost Time Injury Accidents LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan MSc Master of Science MAS Management Assurance Systems MBTI Myers Briggs Type Indicator MCD Met Coke Division Nurturing People MCF Methyl Chloroform MD Managing Director MDG Millennium Development Goals Met Coke Metallurgical Coke MFG Mineral Foundation Of Goa mg / L Milligram / Litre mm Millimetre MMDR Mines and Minerals Development and Regulation MMSS Metals and Mining Sector Supplement Environmental Stewardship mt Million Tonnes MT Metric Tonne mtpa Million Tonnes Per Annum MW Mega Watt NDT Neurodevelopment Treatment NGO Non-Governmental Organisation NICU Neonatal Intensive Care Unit NOX Oxides Of Nitrogen NVG National Voluntary Guidelines OCM Original Component Manufacturer ODS Ozone Depleting Substances Empowering Communities OEM Original Equipment Manufacturers OHSAS Occupational Health And Safety Assessment Series OPD Out Patient Department PAT Profit After Tax PF Provident Fund PHC Primary Health Centre PID Pig Iron Division PPP Public Private Partnership PTA Parent Teachers Association R&R Reserves & Resources Appendix Pg 79 www.sesagoa.com GLOSSARY Overview RCH Reproductive & Child Health RFP Request for Proposal RSPM Respirable Suspended Particulate Matter SA 8000 Social Accountability 8000 SBD Shipbuilding Division Strategy And Governance SCDF Sesa Community Development Foundation SD Sustainability Development SEBI Securities and Exchange Board Of India SFA Sesa Football Academy SFIO Serious Fraud Investigation Office SGL Sesa Goa Limited SHEQ Safety, Health, Environment and Quality SHG Self Help Group SIL Sesa Industries Limited SMCL Sesa Mining Corporation Limited SPM Suspended Particulate Matter Ethics And Human Rights SRI Systematic Rice Intensification SRL Sesa Resources Limited STS Sesa Technical School TFT Thin Film Transistor TSS Total Suspended Solids UAE United Arab Emirates UN United Nations UNFCCC United Nations Framework Convention On Climate Change UNGC United Nations Global Compact UV Ultraviolet VCEP Vedanta Computer Education Programme VFD Variable Frequency Drive Nurturing People WHIMS Wet High Intensity Magnetic Separation WHO World Health Organisation WSA World Steel Association YoY Year-on-Year ZAO Zonal Agriculture Officer Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix www.sesagoa.com Pg 80 FEEDBACK Overview We welcome feedback on any aspect of our performance or sustainability reporting. You can send in your feedback, by way of general comments in an email to sesa.corporatecommunications@vedanta.co.in, or by post to the address below, Associate Vice President – Health, Safety & Environment Strategy And Governance Mahesh K Patil +91-832 -6713710 mahesh.patil@vedanta.co.in Associate General Manager – Environment Krishna V Kulkarni +91-832 -6713712 krishna.kulkarni@vedanta.co.in Ethics And Human Rights Associate Director – Corporate Communications Sanjeev Verma +91-832-6713614 sanjeev.n.verma@vedanta.co.in Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Ghor, 20 EDC Complex, Patto, Panaji, Company address Goa 403 001 Nurturing People INDIA. Tel.: +91 832 2460 600 www.sesagoa.com Environmental Stewardship Empowering Communities Appendix This report is printed on <paper details, FSC certification etc. to appear.> In our continual efforts to limit the use of paper, we have printed this report in limited number only, and on eco-friendly paper. We continue to publish our report online for the convenience of all stakeholders concerned. www.sesagoa.com Sesa Goa Limited Sesa Ghor, 20 EDC Complex, Patto, Panaji, Goa 403 001. India. Tel.: +91 832 2460 600 w w w . s e s a g o a . c o m
