ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS REPORT 2012 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE CONTENTS 1. Foreword by Martin Lamb 2. The IMI Way 4. IMI’s Responsible Business approach 6. Health and safety 8. Customer engagement and supporting our customers’ responsible business priorities 10. Supplier risk management 12. Energy efficiency and carbon management CCI employees decorate a school in Bangalore, India. 13. Performance summary Cornelius volunteers pack school supplies for 1st and 2nd graders based at the 15 elementary schools within the Marquardt School District Illinois US. FOREWoRD by MARTIN LAMB This is our 2012 Responsible Business report in which we describe what responsible business means to us, what our responsible business priorities and targets are and importantly, how we go about delivering them. The report is not only our opportunity to highlight our progress over the last 12 months; including examples of our work that we are really proud of, but also the areas where we plan to accomplish much more. First and foremost, we provide an introduction to The IMI Way, our code of responsible business. This sets out our core values and standards and is part of our road map to becoming the most admired and innovative engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in the world. The IMI Way is the foundation of our approach to business; it guides us to pursue excellence, to strive for innovation and deliver results and above all else, to act with integrity. At IMI, we want to be admired, not just for our great products and services but also, for the way we do business. ‘‘ The report also sets out our four group-wide We believe we have a duty to responsible business priorities which are: behave responsibly towards all our health and safety; supporting our customers’ stakeholders including our employees, priorities; supply chain risk management; and our customers and suppliers, and the energy efficiency & carbon management. communities we operate in. We also Our businesses align their local responsible believe that sound ethical principles business objectives to Group priorities, set by and high standards of responsibility the Board, as part of their rolling three-year impact positively on profitability, strategic plans. returns to shareholders, reputation We are very proud of our achievements to ” and growth. date, however, like other organisations with a responsible business agenda, we recognise that it is very much a journey and we will discover new and smarter ways of doing business as we work towards our strategic goals. We welcome all comments and suggestions about our responsible business work, both to our email address; responsible.business@imiplc.com and via our corporate website www.imiplc.com Thank you Martin Lamb Chief Executive 1 THE IMI Way Code of Responsible Business Our commitment to responsible business The concepts enshrined within The IMI Way starts with the IMI Way, our code of conduct are so important to us that each year we which sets out our core values and dedicate a whole working day to developing standards; providing guidance in decision our understanding of The IMI Way. making and helping us to do business in This global shut down day incorporates four the right way. Importantly, this means we hours of face-to-face training on ethics and are focused on not only what we want to compliance together with further time achieve, but also on how we go about it. designated for employee team building and our community projects. The IMI Way sets a tone and a spirit for us to IMI is a global business with a local presence live by and helps our people engage in honest in many different regions. As an extension of dialogue and interactions with colleagues, the principles of The IMI Way and our desire customers, suppliers, investors and community to be admired not just for what we do but groups, so that you can be sure that whenever how we do it, we encourage our people to you meet an IMI person you will find someone volunteer and raise money for community who: organisations. This is our way of giving back • pursues excellence and delivers results; to the communities we share with local people • innovates and provides value to our and businesses. customers; Our way is The IMI Way and is something of • acts with integrity. which we are rightly proud. 2 Jackie Hu, Jo Morgan and Charles Fernald all receive 2012 CEO Special Awards, Jo’s is awarded ‘in recognition of her exemplary leadership of The IMI Way’. ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE Examples of our community work shoes, clothes, toys and stationery for every Award: ‘Reach Out’ Initiative student. The ‘Reach Out’ initiative has proved IMI Company: CCI Bangalore popular with employees and those involved hope to continue their work in education, and In 2012, our CCI business in Bangalore aim to promote the importance of educating launched a new responsible business action girls in a region where it is not deemed a priority. group for employees called ‘Reach Out’. The initiative focused on fundraising for and volunteering at local schools with poor infrastructure. As part of the ‘Reach Out’ initiative, a team of 25 employees from CCI volunteered to paint and decorate a school which educates students with acute learning difficulties and physical disabilities as well as children who may have suffered neglect or abuse. In addition, CCI employees raised money to provide basic materials such as sitting mats, Young student at school in Bangalore, India. Award: 2012 CEO Awards Individual winner: Amy Greer Amy is passionate about workplace wellbeing and as part of the IMI Way Day organised various workshops aimed at encouraging employees to be healthier. Activities included hand and back massages, fitness seminars, blood pressure and cholesterol tests. Amy has also encouraged colleagues to support a very special community, her son’s Amy Greer, 2012 CEO Award winner. US army regiment, serving in Kuwait. Cornelius employees rallied and provided Amy Greer is the HR Manager in our Cornelius care packages to the troops which helped business in Monmouth, Illinois and acts as the to boost the morale of the men and women single point of contact for employee training serving their country. which includes assuming the role of facilitator at the global IMI Way Day event. 3 IMI’s Responsible Business approach It is our desire to become the most admired and innovative engineering solutions business of our size anywhere in the world. ‘‘Our continued inclusion in both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Europe indices We want to be admired for what we do creating market leading products and is strong evidence of our solutions and for the way we do it being a responsible business progress responsible business. and continued commitment to the responsible business agenda. In the running of our businesses we have a duty to behave responsibly to all our stakeholders, including our employees, our customers, our suppliers and the communities and the ’’ environments we operate within. As a reflection of the values and standards that underpin The IMI Way, we have chosen four of these core values to prioritise in relation to our work as a responsible business: Health and safety promotes the importance Supply chain risk management provides of a safe culture which protects our people, an opportunity to work in partnership with the environment and adjacent communities. our suppliers to share best practice and Over the last five years we have continued drive improvement. In 2012 we added a new to improve our key lost time accident process to our supplier risk management measures. This year we launched our ‘From systems which is designed to ensure that Compliance to Competitive Advantage’ our suppliers remove ‘conflict minerals’ from campaign with the objective of reaching our supply chain. world class health, safety and environmental (HS&E) status by the end of 2015. Customer engagement and supporting our Energy efficiency and carbon customers’ responsible business priorities management support our growth drivers is essential if we are to continue to occupy of climate change, resource scarcity and leadership positions in global niche markets. urbanisation; all of which are central to We are committed to helping our customers delivering responsible solutions. Integral to meet their own responsible business this is managing our own facilities and we objectives just as they value the high ethical have various programmes in place to reduce standards set out in The IMI Way. energy consumption and normalised CO2 emissions across our locations around the world. 4 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE Local businesses are tasked with setting their own local responsible business agendas and aligning them to Group priorities. Evolving the responsible business agenda The responsible business priorities are reviewed All IMI businesses align their management annually to ensure we remain focused on the plans to the four priorities and set responsible most relevant and important areas given issues business objectives which are tailored to the such as evolving global trends, the views of issues most relevant to their operation and their our stakeholders and accelerating Group local community. performance in certain areas. During 2013, we will be undertaking a materiality assessment of Typical local objectives may include minimising our responsible business focus and priorities. waste, increasing recycling volumes or putting This is a process which captures company and steps in place to gain relevant health, safety stakeholder views which are most important and environmental quality accreditation in or material to the organisation. This will be an particular facilities. In all cases, our businesses opportunity to consult with key stakeholders are required to identify any possible future using interviews and surveys to gauge their risks and opportunities as well as to provide views on our priorities moving forward. regular updates on performance against objectives to ensure consistent reporting across the organisation. 5 Health AND Safety Improving our performance in health and safety is an important area of focus for IMI and is an area in which we have made great ‘‘ Since 2007 the incidence of >3 day lost time accident rates per 100,000 hours worked has improved by 78%. improvement, particularly in terms of identifying risk and accident avoidance. This performance demonstrates our commitment to providing a safe The responsible behaviour of our people lies working environment throughout the ’’ at the heart of that success which has been entire Group. ably supported by clear and consistent communication across the organisation. For instance, ‘Tool Box Talks’ are fifteen minute From Compliance to Competitive meetings held at the start of shifts and are Advantage’ becoming a more common tool to cascade health and safety messages to every employee IMI goal Becoming more pro-active at our manufacturing facilities. People led Improving the visual boards displayed around our workplaces are helping to reinforce Management IMI now and responsive key messages, showcase data and provide systems Compliance approach feedback to our people alongside our on-going only orientated programme of training sessions. In 2012, some 14,400 days of health and safety training were facilitated across the Group. Time 2015 Importantly, when accidents do happen, we manage the outcomes and learn from the experience. For example, we share lessons sending a Safety Alert to all Health Safety & learned from accidents around the Group by Environment (HS&E) managers following each lost time accident. From Compliance to Competitive Advantage In 2012, we launched an internal campaign called ‘From Compliance to Competitive Advantage’ with the objective of becoming a world class ’’ HS&E operation by 2015. Our goal is to promote exceptional behaviours and to move from a top-down management approach to a culture where our people not only look out for themselves but also watch out for their colleagues. As part of the campaign, we launched a standardised HS&E management framework and a set of group-wide targets. We also enhanced our 40 Artform employees attend a Fire Warden training HS&E web-based reporting tool to include simple day facilitated by the UK Mines Rescue Service which dashboard data and increased resource across the included a practical session in the safe use of portable fire fighting equipment. organisation from 50 health and safety professionals in 2011 to over 60 in 2012. 6 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE The high standard and consistency of HS&E reporting and feedback is driving considerable performance improvement. ‘‘ As we move into 2013, we are changing our reporting indicators from >3 day lost time accidents to >1 day For instance, all of our businesses are now required to track and report on hazards and lost time. >3 day accidents are now at near misses which has resulted in the increase such low levels that it is no longer a in reporting of such incidents from 9,500 in 2011 useful indicator on its own if we are to ’’ to 14,800 in 2012. continue to make improvements. In 2012, the campaign allowed us to focus on key safety initiatives but as we move towards estimate that we have saved approximately our end target date of 2015, we will focus on £600,000 over the last 12 months. other important health related initiatives such as Some of our locations are also subject to a workplace well being. risk-based ‘tax’ that can be much reduced by The wellbeing of our employees is our primary the demonstration of good health and safety concern in health and safety management but performance. We calculate that we have our financial performance also benefits from our made savings in excess of £1m per annum by investment in health and safety. By reducing the demonstrating our excellent safety record and number of lost time days commitment to continued improvement to local from 2,400 in 2010 to 850 in 2012 (a 65% regulators. improvement over two years), we conservatively Project: Safety training progamme IMI Company: Norgren Mexico Norgren’s manufacturing facility in Querétaro, Mexico runs an annual programme of health and safety training for employees with the aim of improving HS&E performance across the organisation. The Safety Actions and Risk Assessments programme is run by managers at the start Norgren employees practice CPR as part of the annual of June and offers a variety of courses health and safety training programme. including first aid workshops with CPR (Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation) training as better support the specific needs of their well as instruction in the use of a defibrillator. workers. There are also fun activities such as team Accidents have fallen by 35% and incidents soccer and safety and security themed have decreased by 56% compared to crosswords to promote health and wellbeing 2011 as a result of the campaign. in the workplace. Reporting of hazards and near misses has Importantly, the programme has given proportionately risen by 60%. managers greater ownership of budgets to 7 Customer engagement AND supporting our customers We place significant emphasis on helping also value the high standard of ethical business our customers meet their own responsible practices set out in The IMI Way, which is business commitments, which we believe particularly relevant in emerging markets where builds both long-term value and customer responsible business risks can be higher. loyalty. IMI’s Group Key Account Management process (KAM) is an important way for us to engage with Long-term global trends including climate our customers. Understanding the drivers of change, urbanisation and resource scarcity, our customers’ business and getting to grips together with related legislation, are driving with market trends is a fundamental part of customer demand for our products and services, our approach in gaining important insight into many of which are focused on achieving an our customers’ needs. energy efficient operation. Our customers Project: Energy Insights launch IMI Company: TA Hydronics Growth driver: Climate change In 2012, TA Hydronics launched an ‘Energy Insights’ campaign which was developed to increase the awareness of the benefits of hydronic optimisation and the part it plays in decreasing energy consumption and prices in the construction industry. • Up to 40% of the world’s energy Marketing collateral is developed as part of the Energy consumption occurs in buildings, 50% of Insights initiative. which is utilised in Heating Ventilation and Air Conditioning (HVAC) systems hydronic energy facts (each explaining how • HVAC systems therefore represent up to much energy can be saved through the 20% of the world’s energy consumption implication of particular specifications in a • Hydronic optimising can reduce the total system) and are supported by evidence from energy consumption of a building’s HVAC real case studies and independent studies. In system by an average of 30% addition, there is a three hour bespoke ‘Energy Insights’ is a joint venture which seminar with additional literature to support brings together the Marketing and Hydronic the global sales teams in talking the customer College teams. The campaign addresses the through the possible energy saving features. needs of our two main target groups; firstly ‘Energy Insights’ allows TA Hydronics to build the customers involved in large scale customer awareness of the products available construction projects and secondly, smaller to cut energy consumption in buildings and installation companies typically working on enable sales teams to enhance TA Hydronics’ domestic houses. reputation as the number one system solution Key elements of the campaign include the provider in the field of hydronic distribution. fact book which incorporates 20 separate 8 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE KAM Wheel The KAM wheel captures the five key stages of the process; from the initial customer selection, through to building appropriate solutions and ensuring the value that is identified is actually delivered. 1. Backing the winners competitive advantage for them, something we Our businesses use IMI customer filters and call ‘Engineering Advantage’ apply them to existing and prospective 4. Capturing the value customers to ensure we are operating in the To ensure that we have delivered the expected right market niches and working with those value and have met the demands of the customers which meet the identified criteria. customer, recommended solutions are critiqued Account Development Plans are written with and measured to capture the value to both the aim of delivering a long-term sustainable IMI and the customer. leadership position. 5. Execution ability 2. Insight Delivering on time and meeting the The commercial teams meet with the customer expectations of our customers is critical to to develop the insights and relationships our long-term success. Therefore, we actively necessary to thoroughly understand the source feedback from the customer using tools issues they face in order to build a long-term such as the Net Promoter Score to ensure that relationship with them. we are continually striving for improvement. 3. Engineering Advantage The Group KAM programme brings together We use our advanced technical and application highly talented and customer-focused people knowledge to create highly differentiated and from across our global business with one vision; innovative products and services to meet the to build long-term value for our customers. unique needs of our customers and create 9 Supplier risk management At IMI we want to be admired for In 2012, a total of 165 suppliers were audited what we do and for the way we do it. against an annual target of 128. Our very best Being a responsible business is important suppliers are benefiting from longer-term to us and we want it to be important to our contracts and are sharing improvement ideas extended supply chain too. via value engineering programmes,across the entire supply chain. Education is important to We source components, materials and services our strategy and in 2012 we trained over 100 for our manufacturing and sales operations people from our emerging regions of China, from all over the world and procure only from India, Mexico, Brazil and Eastern Europe, suppliers that meet or exceed a minimum set who we felt needed additional support. of standards. If our suppliers do not currently The programme focuses on skills in the areas meet those requirements, then they must of health and safety, environment, auditing and demonstrate progression towards them over conflict minerals. an agreed timescale. Moving forward, we plan to work with our supply Suppliers are subject to rigorous and on-going chain to develop their approach to sustainability audits by our Group Supply Chain teams to ensure our suppliers are as committed to as part of the Supplier Evaluation Process. reducing their carbon footprint, as we are. Each year we set clear targets for the number Last year, we extended our programme of work of supplier audits to be performed. This is an with our supply chain to incorporate a focus on important way for us to identify risk and the trace minerals used in products, known improvement opportunities as well as to as ‘conflict minerals’. These are minerals challenge our suppliers on a range of issues known to originate from illegal mines in the including labour standards, ethics, health Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), and safety and the environment. where the continuing conflict and the escalating ‘‘ IMI continues to be a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which establishes standards for human humanitarian disaster is part financed by the trade in the ores from which tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold (‘3TG’) are derived. Minerals known to originate in mines that are not rights, labour practices and operated or taxed by the warring factions, meanwhile, may be called ‘conflict-free’. anti-corruption. We also continue With long and complex international to hold the Investing in Integrity (‘IiI’) relationships, it is difficult to ascertain whether ” charter mark. our extended supply chain is conflict free. We have started to work with our suppliers to identify and remove any conflict minerals from our supply chain referencing the US DoddFrank Act. Although IMI is not subject to the US laws on conflict minerals, the source of our trace minerals is important to us, so by the end of last year we had identified 19 conflict-free supply chains across a pilot of 47. 10 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE To further address this concern, we asked them put in place their own audit procedures to all of our suppliers to identify and remove any ensure their own supply chains are conflict free. conflict mineral traces. To date no conflict It is also our intention that IMI will evaluate our minerals have been found in any part of our sourcing decisions based on our suppliers’ supply chain but we are sharing new legislation willingness to cooperate in this programme. and information with our suppliers and helping CASE STUDY IMI Company: Severe Service Supplier: Accutech Enterprises Accutech Enterprises, based in Bangalore, India, provides CNC (Computer Numerically Controlled) turned and machined components. Whilst the organisation already holds the ISO 9001 quality standard, it is their Employees at Accutech Enterprises benefit from a investment in on-going improvement which is conscientious employee welfare programme. most impressive. Over the last couple of years, Accutech has significantly improved health and safety in Accutech has a competitive wage structure the workshop and have impressed auditors and annual bonus scheme which combined with a conscientious employee welfare with performance based rewards and programme which helps Accutech attract and benefits such as free medical facilities and retain people in a very competitive region. subsidised food and transportation, are important motivating factors for people making decisions about where they would like to work. Auditors also praised Accutech’s investment in training and development, especially those which focused on technical skills and team building. Accutech Enterprise employees work in a clean and safe environment. 11 Energy efficiency and carbon management In 2010 we set a target to achieve a IMI’s key areas of control are: CO2 normalised (kWh/Labour Hour) improvement target of 10% by the end of • energy use and emissions within our buildings and processes; 2012 (relative to 2009 baseline). In order • energy use by some IMI products during to achieve that target we asked our their operational life; businesses to implement energy • IMI products and services that influence improvement and alternative low-carbon energy use and emissions while not using energy measures to reduce energy energy themselves. ‘‘ consumption. As we have achieved our 2012 target In 2012, we exceeded this reduction target we are moving onwards and have set and also reduced gross Group CO2 emissions our business an extremely challenging by 2,000 tonnes compared to 2011. target of a further 7.5% reduction by Energy use is a significant cost to the business ’’ end of 2015. (circa £20m in 2012) and it is our aim to reduce that cost as far as possible and further capitalise on the £700k savings made to gross Project 20:20 costs in 2012. We launched our umbrella site-based energy Climate change is a key driver for energy initiative ‘Project 20:20’ in 2011; a programme management as it influences our internal that continues to deliver valuable results. energy use as well as our product and service The aim of the project is to focus on our 20 innovation. As a result, IMI has an on-going largest energy-using sites, which account for commitment to reduce its CO2 emissions more than 70% of our energy consumption, and become more energy efficient in both identify 20 best practice projects to implement the manufacture of our products and the across IMI and to push for significant reduction in processes we use to engineer them. normalised CO2 emissions at these key locations. As a result of this drive we have achieved the following results: • a 10% reduction in our Group carbon KPI to 3.1 CO2 tonnes1 per 1,000 hours worked (against a 2012 target of 3.2) • a total investment in energy efficiency projects of £2m across Project 20:20 sites • implemented energy efficiency projects saving 5,000 tonnes of CO2 per annum • certification to ISO 50001 for energy management systems for two sites TA Heimeier has saved some 400 tonnes of CO2 and (TA Heimeier in Germany and TA in Poland) reduced site overheads by approximately £90k per annum simply by replacing existing lighting in the large facility 1 In GHG Protocol terms, our reported emissions with LED lighting which has also improved the quality of comprise our Scope I and 2 emissions; at present, we the light. do not include Scope 3. However, we are investigating Scope 3 emissions. 12 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE PERFORMANCE SUMMARY Each year, our businesses report against Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) so that our group-wide performance is reviewed and future plans for the organisation updated. Some of the headline data is published below. KPI 2010 2011 2012 Total CO2 tonnes 97,000 92,000 90,000 CO2 normalised 3.6 3.3 3.1 Scope 1 (tonnes) 28,000 25,000 25,000 Scope 2 (tonnes) 69,000 67,000 65,000 MWh total electricity 161,000 157,000 152,000 MWh total gas 83,000 77,000 75,000 Water used (tonnes) 537,000 545,000 540,000 Water used (tonnes per 1000 19.9 19.0 18.1 hours worked) Waste landfilled (tonnes) 5,300 6,800 6,700 Waste recycled (%) 78 77 78 >3 day LTAs – gross number 68 52 33 >3 day LTA – rate* 0.25 0.18 0.11 >1 day LTAs – gross number1 71 >1 day LTA – rate1* 0.24 H&SE training 1 14,000 days 1 In 2012 we identified and introduced a number of new KPIs that we will continue to report against annually. * LTA rate refers to the number of lost time accidents per 100,000 hours. We have Group targets for normalised CO2 and LTAs. The other KPIs are tracked for information only at this stage. Data excludes new subsidiaries acquired after the target baseline years so as to allow for tracking against 2012 targets. Future reports will include those subsidiaries along with the 2013-2015 targets. Including these new subsidiaries, our gross and normalised CO2 figures for 2012 are 95,000 tonnes and 3.1 respectively and the >3 day LTA rate is 0.16. Verification statement from Bureau Veritas UK Ltd “Bureau Veritas UK has been commissioned by IMI plc (IMI) to verify the methodology and calculations used to determine IMI’s 2012 scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions and Lost Time Accident Rate (LTA greater than 3 days) covering the global operating entities of the IMI group. Based on the scope of work agreed and subject to the limitations defined, Bureau Veritas concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the carbon dioxide equivalent emission (CO2e) and LTA (>3 days) assertions stated on page 11 of IMI’s 2012 Annual Report are not reliable or free from material error, mis-statement or bias.” The full verification statement including methodology, limitations and exclusions can be found on IMI’s website (www.imiplc.com/responsible-business). 13 ENGINEERING ADVANTAGE IMI Group HS&E/RB Department IMI plc Lakeside, Solihull Parkway Birmingham Business Park Birmingham B37 7XZ Email: responsiblebusiness@imiplc.com www.imiplc.com May 2013
