1. Introduction a. Corporate Profile With its central location in Abdali, Amman’s premier business district, the five star Landmark Amman Hotel and Conference Centre is at the heart of the city, offering easy access to Amman’s commercial, residential, tourist and shopping districts. The Landmark Amman’s 260 luxury guest rooms are amongst the largest hotel rooms in Jordan, each offering stunning panoramic views of the city. The hotel also boasts 17 versatile function rooms for up to 2000 guests, and a dedicated team of conference, meeting and banquet organisers, making Landmark the city’s leading business and conference destination. Hotel guest can enjoy from an array of dining, spa and recreation options, as well as an extensive range of additional services and facilities that are available and supported by our experienced staff, including: Airport Transfer Baby Sitting / Child Care Butler Service in Suites Car Rental Service City Shuttle Service Complimentary Shoeshine Service Conference Facilities Foreign Exchange Counter Gift Shop Hair/ Beauty Salon Laundry & Valet Service Non-smoking Rooms Parking Facilities Pastry Shop Photo Processing Service Safe Deposit Box Taxi & Limousine Service Travel Agency / Tour Desk Moreover, a comprehensive Business Centre at Landmark is operated by a professional and dedicated team offering the following services and facilities: 17 function rooms Courier services Secretarial services Translation Landmark is a Limited Liability Company (LLC) operating through one hotel in Amman – Jordan. During this reporting period the hotel has grown from 239 to 263 employees, all working on a full time basis, and no changes have occurred regarding size of operation, structure, or ownership. Proud to be establishing itself as a 'Landmark' in the hotelier industry in Jordan, during the reporting period the hotel has achieved the ISO 22000 for food safety. The hotel's CR work was awarded an international prize in sustainability; the Landmark Hotel was the only hotel from the 1 Private & Confidential MENA region to win a prize for being a leader in the Good Practice Completion on Responsible Business Conduct b. Why do we believe in Sustainability? “Our Corporate Responsibility is not just a catchphrase; it’s a cornerstone of our operation. We strive to be a model for a responsible hospitality business through taking our environmental footprint seriously, seeking new approaches to increase our guest satisfaction and engaging with our employees to positively impact our Community – Mary Nazzal-Batayneh, President of Landmark Hotels Company Our continuous support for the UN Global Compact The Landmark Hotel was one of the first hotels in Jordan to join the United Nations’ Global Compact (UNGC) – the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiative. We became a signatory of the UNGC in September 2008 and a supporter of all of its embedded principles. Ever since, we have been committed to improving our performance and impact throughout our workforce, community and sector and we have collectively endeavoured to remain innovative and proactive to effectively align our operations with the UNGC universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our holistic CR programs reflect our commitment to contribute to this global initiative and we look forward to improving even further. Such commitment is integrated throughout Landmark and managed and monitored from the highest authority within the organisation. c. Where did it begin Since its establishment, the Landmark Hotel has been active in nourishing a sense of social commitment among its employees and towards the community. Yet, those efforts lacked a sense of direction and sustainability, as they were mostly reactive to received social development proposals by different NGO’s and even the employees themselves. With an already established buy in from the top management towards taking the existing sense of social attentiveness to a higher level of strategized commitment that would result in a better impact on its people, the workplace, the community, and the environment, the hotel embarked on its relatively recent sustainability journey. In 2010, and while recognising that an integrated CR vision has to feed and add value to the business, we have created a long-term CR vision based on the direction that the hotel is already undertaking as follows: “To provide a hotel brand that is green and contemporary with a local twist that reaches beyond guest satisfaction, employee enrichment, and community engagement”. The hotel set CR as a key part of its corporate vision to be fully integrated by the year 2013. It committed itself to grow with its stakeholders to become the leading hotel in Jordan and the region in terms of CR and one of the leading companies at large in this respect. As part of Landmark's commitment towards sustainable development via Corporate Responsibility, the hotel has put serious effort to assess its sustainability performance and better strategize and plan for the future. One of the most tangible outcomes of this endeavour has been working collaboratively as a hotel throughout the process of sustainability reporting to 2 Private & Confidential be crowned with this report based on guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative (G3.1, level C) and the United Nation's Global Compact Principles. Maximise on business strategy Up until 2010, the impact of our corporate responsibility initiatives on our people and the society was very minimal considering the size of the operation and the potential for positive impact it can have. There has been also negative impact that could have been avoided on the environmental level. This we believe is due to the lack of alignment between our previous CR activities and our core business strategy. The lack of alignment was also accompanied with a lack of realisation of the risks that can arise from the potential of negative impact within our operation on the people and environment levels; such risks can ultimately affect our economic performance when it comes to reputation management, customer satisfaction, employees retention, to name a few. With an increasing awareness of such impacts and risks, we started exploring the many opportunities that CR can bring to Landmark through a collective and collaborative sustainable performance throughout our organisation. The more aligned our CR strategy can be with our business strategy, the better results we can harness for the business and our stakeholders. d. Report Content The content of this report reflects a process we have adopted to assess our past CR efforts, and identify the areas we want to focus on in line with a strategic vision and directions for Landmark's CR in the years to come. To accomplish that, thorough CR assessment and review of operations have been conducted, in addition to engagement with the hotel's stakeholders to collect information about their interests, concerns, and expectations. The results of these activities were incorporated in the formation of the CR strategy and directions for the hotel to follow henceforth. In compliance with GRI reporting requirements, this report and the sustainability framework at Landmark are based on identified issues that are of highest significance to the business and our stakeholders. Materiality tests have been applied to determine which aspects are 'material' for Landmark and thus to best choose the GRI performance indicators to report against. CR Assessment and Thorough Operations Review Since establishment, Landmark Hotel has always been aware of the importance of having a responsible role towards its people and the society. To assess the past efforts of the hotel, we undertook a CR assessment that covered the following areas:  CR in general, in matter of awareness, drivers and governance;  CR in the social community, in matter of investment strategy and social engagement;  CR in the marketplace, in matter of marketplace behaviour and supply chain management 3 Private & Confidential  CR in the Workplace, in matter of Human Resources policies, employee engagement, and internal communication;  Environment, in matter of environmental policies, and considerations in strategic decisions. All previous CR initiatives were identified and assessed; the plans and objectives of previous CR initiatives were reviewed; and heavy stakeholder engagement took place to analyse the achievement and impact of such previous initiatives. One of the main CR-related initiatives was a Social Committee that presented a group of employees from the hotel interested to enhance the social environment for employees at the workplace by providing activities and events which focus on socialisation, appreciation, wellness and recognition for all the employees of the hotel. It focused on planning and implementing social and outreach events that contribute to building a sense of community at the workplace. Stakeholder Engagement Landmark has always valued its stakeholders’ opinions and strongly believed that a systematic dialogue with stakeholders would assist in shedding clearer light on opportunities or conflict issues for the hotel. This approach during the reporting period enabled us to directly engage with different stakeholders, understand and consider their views, be accountable to them when needed, and use their feedback to drive innovation for Landmark's future CR projects. With the aim of engaging the hotel's stakeholders in the process of identifying our sustainability directions and opportunities, we identified and prioritised our direct and indirect stakeholders as in Figure 1. We embarked on engaging them in the best ways possible in matter of communication format, language, and approach. Direct Stakeholders Indirect Stakeholders Employees Local community Suppliers Employees families Customers Media and press Banks Representatives of the Tourism Industry Investors NGOs Figure 1: Landmark's Stakeholders Identification and prioritisation of stakeholders depended on how each stakeholders group influences or is influenced by the hotel's economic, social and environmental performance now and in the future. We also took into great consideration the influence of each stakeholders group on the hotel's business vision and objectives. Any sustainability direction to be identified should be well aligned with our business objectives to result in sustainability and shared values for both the society and the hotel's business as well. Identified topics within each direction also needed to take into consideration the level of interest stakeholders give to these topics and impacts. To engage with our stakeholders we utilized different communication tools including introductory direct correspondence, follow up phone calls, group discussions per 4 Private & Confidential stakeholder groups, semi-structured questionnaires, and one-on-one meetings when needed. We tried to obtain stakeholders' insights and thoughts on economic, environmental and social levels, where we also tapped into labour practices, human rights, society, and product responsibility while discussing social aspects. Collected input was further reviewed and filtered into what could be applicable or not applicable on short and long term basis, and most significant and relevant thoughts and insights were fed into the creation of the sustainability directions for the hotel. Most importantly, we engaged with senior management to understand the hotel's governance structure, and the current and next business priorities so as to make sure the resulting sustainability vision and directions are aligned with the business strategy of the hotel. This was accompanied by engagement with middle management and line employees to be able to assess their satisfaction and loyalty, and increase their awareness of the importance of CR and their contribution to it at Landmark. Customers and suppliers were an important part of our stakeholder engagement efforts to identify their expectations of the Landmark Hotel in matter of CR. We tried to assess what areas of CR performance they could be most interested in, and what would be the level of impact for such performance on customer satisfaction and better supplier services. We also looked at CR in the hotelier industry in Jordan and internationally to try to identify where we stand from competitors. It was found that no much have been achieved in the hotelier industry in Jordan in matter of sustainability efforts and strategies and that there is a lot of space for innovation and pioneering in this regard. We do keep an eye on initiatives and efforts by certain competitors and we do engage with competitors in events focused on the hotelier industry to look together at means and strategies to meet the opportunities for sustainable development in Jordan. The following table lists the main stakeholder expectations we identified per each stakeholder group and considered in our CR strategy formation: Stakeholder Group Expectations Customers High competitive quality of products and services; high value for money Reputation for social responsibility and good impact on the society Employees Career development Salaries and benefits Social investment with clear impact Local Communities Social investments to face local challenges such as unemployment, illiteracy, and poverty Minimising negative impact of our operations on the society and the environment Investors Positive progressing financial performance Sustainability considerations in the decision making process Good risk management and mitigation Suppliers Ethical purchasing policies and practices 5 Private & Confidential e. Outcome After reviewing the Landmark's operations in regards to human rights, environment, labour, and CR investment, assessing past CR performance, and engaging with different stakeholder groups, we were able to set a strategy for Landmark's sustainability. The CR strategy entailed the following five directions and we have set initiatives for each direction for the next 3 years, i.e. until 2013:  Employee Enrichment  Guest Satisfaction  Community Engagement  Green Working Environment  Responsible Marketplace f. CR Strategy Implementation With the CR vision and directions being set, the momentum was increasing at Landmark to identify an implementation strategy and start the practical work on the ground. We were aware of the challenges this would entail and accordingly tried to get the buy-in and support of top management. With a top management that has always been aware of the benefits of CR for any organisation wishing to grow sustainably, our mission was moving smoothly forward. The challenge mainly was in cascading a culture for CR throughout the organisational structure down to the bottom of the hierarchy, and across our ecosystem to achieve best engagement of and impact on all stakeholders. The CR strategy and directions were streamlined into the business by working with middle management and employees through workshops and discussion sessions to raise the general awareness of CR. Serious effort through internal communication was also put to educate all stakeholders on the importance and benefits of working together as a responsible organisation. The process of engagement with stakeholders as part of the implementation of the CR strategy is illustrated in Figure 3. 6 Private & Confidential Figure 2: Process of Engagement i. Governance The Landmark Hotel enjoys a horizontal organisational structure (see Figure 4) which allows to easily cascade down delegations and facilitates the decision making process. Most importantly, there is high buy-in towards sustainability from the top management. 7 Private & Confidential Figure 3: Landmark Hotel's Organisational Chart The composition of the governance bodies at Landmark also reflects its policy for equal opportunity when comparing broad workforce diversity to management team diversity. For example, in 2009, females formed 4.9% of the hotel's middle management and 9.1% of senior management and strategic decision makers, as opposed to 10.8% in junior posts. (Data for 2010 and 2011 is not available due to high turnover related to the political and economic conditions affecting the region). On the board level, females form 25% of board members. Diversity in the board of directors is also reflected in the different age categories on board, as follows: 50% of board members are above 50 years old; 25% are between 30 to 50 years old; and 25% are less than 30 years old. ii. Translation of commitments into actions With such a setup, the implementation of the sustainability strategy is managed and executed by dedicated sub-committees, each focusing on certain CR directions. Each sub-committee has a champion from senior management, which further enforces commitment across all levels of the organisation. Social Committee to Strategic Committee 1. Social and Communication’s Committee 2. Community Committee 3. Environmental Committee 4. Business Concerns Committee As part of a transformation in focus towards the wider concept of 'sustainability', and to ensure an effective management of a holistic long-term CR strategy of the hotel, 8 Private & Confidential the role of the Social Committee was extended to cover the environmental and economic performance of the hotel in addition to the social one. This extension of responsibility and focus resulted in the formation of a Strategic Committee acting as the custodian of the CR strategy and responsible for its implementation through four sub-committees, each focusing on one or two of the sustainability directions of the hotel. In its core structure, the Strategic Committee was formed in a way that serves sustainability on the social, environmental and economic levels. While the Social Committee used to comprise of: Events and external visits sub-committee Environmental sub-committee Sports sub-committee Best Idea sub-committee Newsletter sub-committee The Strategic Committee, comprising 15 employee representative of each business division, was structured into the following subcommittees: Social and Communication sub-committee (4 employees): focuses on all the initiatives related to strengthening relationships between employees and promoting a friendly internal culture, as well as increasing communication between all business divisions and enhancing engagement within the hotel’s CR programs; Community Programs sub-committee (4 employees): focuses on all initiatives dedicated to supporting local organisations and events that support the community and are aligned with the business values of the hotel; Environmental sub-committee (3 employees): focuses on all the environmental and greening initiatives of the hotel including recycling, waste management, carbon offsetting, energy consumption, etc.; Business Concerns sub-committee (4 employees): focuses on initiatives related to the improvement of the hotel’s hospitality services hence increasing guests’ satisfaction and working on building a responsible supply chain. Collectively, all committees have the following functions and responsibilities: 9 Private & Confidential Driving the hotel’s holistic CR strategy in coordination with top management including planning, budgeting, reviewing and execution; Ensuring an effective engagement and placement of employees within the CR initiatives; Measuring and reporting on the impact achieved from the CR initiatives and providing recommendations for potential improvements. Candidates for joining subcommittees are assigned based on a recruitment process of application and filtration of applicants. 2. Social and Communication Sub-Committee a. Scope of the Committee The Social and Communication Committee has been assigned to implement and progress with the Landmark's sustainability strategy in regards to the Employee Enrichment direction. We strongly believe that our employees are the core driver of our business; we are committed to providing an equitable and respectful working environment. We strive to go beyond regular trainings and recognition to ensure an enriching working experience to all our employees, hence strengthening their engagement and enhancing their commitment to the hotel not just as an employer but also as a way of life . This belief is reflected in our daily business operations and activities. b. Activities Towards maintaining a progressive performance in line with its Sustainability direction, the Social and Communication Sub-Committee has initiated and led a number of activities that have proven extremely effective with respect to employee enrichment. Some of these activities are highlighted below. Networking hour The Networking Hour is by far one of the most exciting activities that the Landmark Hotel's employees look forward to. Employees are invited for one hour to be hosted and served as guests over lunch in one of the hotel's restaurants. This activity is carried out at the end of each month for a different group of employees each time and with strong engagement from the management. So far and over the period of 4 months, 33 randomly-picked employees participated in this activity and a member of Management attended in each time. Though the initial objective for this activity was mere socializing and bonding between staff members, this activity achieved higher impact than expected; first, it allowed for social networking amongst employees from different departments and organisational levels on a nondiscriminative basis, and second, it allowed employees to experience some of the hotel's services from the client's side, bringing them closer to a more mature awareness of the importance of quality and tactfulness in the customer service they all eventually contribute to in their daily work. 10 Private & Confidential The Landmark Hotel has a clear non-discrimination policy towards its employees regardless of them being part of any form of collective bargaining, which allows employees to enjoy freedom of association if desired. However, trade unions are still limited in their outreach on a corporate or national level in Jordan, and although we have not so far received any request for collective bargaining, the hotel management is receptive to any such requests. We strongly believe that at the heart of any stakeholder engagement lies collective bargaining, which helps build institutional frameworks and contribute to the shaping of a stable society. In encouragement of non-discrimination, Landmark has union-neutral procedures in such areas as applications for employment, decisions on advancement, or termination of employment, emphasising the hotel's policy of evaluation based on performance. 1. Swap Jobs As part of our belief in the importance of exposure towards better job opportunities for our employees, the Social and Communication Sub-Committee has led job swapping activities as part of its programs for skills management, whereby employees can spend time in other job positions they are interested in. This activity has nourished the ambition of many employees towards progressing or branching out into other job positions at Landmark, and assured others that they are at the right place in matter of their career track. The activity has also built a wider sense of understanding of the duties and responsibilities of other colleagues and an appreciation of one's own challenges and responsibilities. This activity reflects our determination to invest in a more skilled and aware workforce which will immensely contribute to the hotel's human capital and build a sense of assurance for the employees towards the hotel's support of their career track up until retirement. It also develops the team-work spirit and provides employees with a better understanding of how business units collaborate to deliver efficient and successful services, and how each employee's job position forms a pivotal part in the overall operations. In the year 2011, 12 employees have swapped jobs for 3 hours each time, and we are aiming at increasing this number by 10% for the year 2012. Know I know how the work goes and the pressure at the front desk during Check Out and Check In times, and the challenge of handling all the inquiries from the Guests – Sales & Marketing Employee I've learned to appreciate my colleagues' work more and more and to learn from them what team work is all about. This experience has improved my internal communication skills with the kitchen team and developed my skills on personal level – Employee from the managing group This experience helped us learn new skills, get new ideas and have a different perspective which will benefit both of the company and the employees; it will also help enhance coordination and achieve a smoother operation . – Sales & Marketing Employee I never used to like cooking or anything related to the kitchen but after spending a few hours in the pastry department and in the general kitchen, I now realize that I really like baking and cooking! – Member of the Board of Directors 11 Private & Confidential 2. Empowerment Employee empowerment has been a pivotal part of our investment in human capital, which we believe is the driving force behind delivering best business services to our valued customers and motivating improvement at the personal and organisational levels. Empowerment of our employees has been demonstrated through training programmes and support of personal interests. Training Activities Throughout the past year and in line with our Human Resources capacity building strategy, we have provided our employees with an average of 60 hours of intensive training as follows:  Business-related training was provided to enhance the employee's skills and qualifications in his/her line of work, in support of continued employability and as a step towards career progress within a work environment of equal opportunities. Furthermore, as the nature of our business lies in providing hospitality services to clients from all over the world, having a work force that is capable to communicate in proper English language is crucial to our quality of service. To score both on the business and employee enrichment levels, Landmark has been also providing all its employees with English language courses that are fully covered by the hotel. The business-related training sessions for skills management included: o Reach Beyond Guest Service: 9 hours o Fire Fighting: 2 hours o Germ Buster: 3 hours o Male/ Female Grooming: 1 hour o Table and Business Etiquette: 3 hours (optional) o Basics Computer Skills: 12 hours (optional) o English Course: 30 hours (optional) CHART: Total training Hours per Each Employee 15 Hours Total hours males (2850) females (150)  Human rights issues and their relevance to employees work formed an integral part of the business-related training. Covering these issues aims at raising employees' awareness of their basic rights and supporting them fight for those rights if ever jeopardised.  In spite of the fact that we had 0% of corruption incidents in the past 3 years, we believe in adopting a preventive approach against corruption, by equipping our employees with the awareness needed and thus managing any reputational risks that can arise from corruption-related incidents. 100% of management and nonmanagement employees were provided anti-corruption training (which formed 5% of total training hours) towards communicating the Landmark's culture of zero-tolerance for corruption. Being committed to the development and transformation of its employees so as to provide equal opportunities for development and progress, the hotel has to date invested 50,000JOD in training and capacity building of its junior and mid-level employees regardless of their gender. 12 Private & Confidential 2.1. Support Personal Interests Jihad the Movie Guy Aside from their skills and expertise directly related to their field of work, our employees are a rich resource of innovation and imagination; two sources of excellence that the Landmark strongly believes in. We have been putting a lot of effort towards encouraging and empowering our employees to pursue any personal interests they have, as these endeavours will help them achieve a sense of accomplishment and add to their sense of satisfaction on the career and social levels. The Bellboy Jehad brings an exciting example of how the Landmark helped one of its employees create a real success story out of a simple interest in making movies. He started by doing his own simple movies and now Landmark supports him fully in every movie he creates. Sports Committee The hotel has been strongly promoting health and fitness amongst its employees and encouraging activities that would help raise awareness of the importance of sports in a healthy productive lifestyle, which would also positively reflect on work performance. With the full support of the hotel, the employees have voluntarily formed a Sports Committee that aims at building team work spirit, encouraging physical fitness, promoting a sense of positive competition and even promoting the hotel throughout the sports activities that the employees participate in. The hotel's support to the committee has been demonstrated by providing outfits to the team members and allowing participating employees to leave work earlier at days of practice. 3. Female Integration Albeit the fact that the hotelier industry in Jordan does not provide a balanced gender mix of employees, Landmark has been one of the leading hotels in the country to commit to nondiscrimination on all levels of its HR, be it founded on age, sex, religion or origins. We realise that the hotel ecosystem encompasses a community by itself, and the impact of our operations and working environment contributes directly to the overall economic development and sustainability of our workforce, and cascades through our employees into their local societies respectively. Landmark has been demonstrating healthy growth and turnover rates that reflect the hotel's strategy and ability to consider diversity in attracting employees of different age, gender and ethnicity groups within its best reach of the needed qualifications and skills in the Jordanian labour market. The hotel enjoys one of the lowest turnover rates in the market and is known for attracting and retaining talents that it invests in. Although women remain a minority in the organisation, the Landmark Hotel of 263 employees (in 2011) had, during the reporting period, the highest female employment rate (up to 9%) in the hotelier industry in Jordan with the objective of increasing annually at a rate of 2%. The hotel is taking progressive steps towards applying an equal pay policy for work of equal value, and as per this report date the ratio of salary for men and women at Landmark in each level of employment is 1:1. 13 Private & Confidential To face the challenge of low female employment rates, the hotel started by supporting the elimination of any sort of negative discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Landmark has a clear company-wide policy and procedures to guide equal employment opportunity practices; these policies and procedures ensure that qualifications, skills and experience are the sole basis for the recruitment, placement, training and advancement of employees at all levels and regardless of their gender. As an active agent of change, Landmark has also effectively pursued positive discrimination to create change in the workforce demographics in favour of women, and disadvantaged persons, amongst others. In addition, the hotel has realized certain opportunities to increase women's interest and engagement in the workplace and to break the barrier of social misconception of working women. The hotel opens its doors to the families of its female employees to visit the premises and get oriented on the work their female relatives are involved in. Also, and in cooperation with civil societies, our recruitment efforts have actively included women from poverty pockets in Jordan. In addition, since 2011 the hotel started calling the month of March 'The Women's Month' during which the hotel sponsors events relating to women empowerment in society such as The Women Festival in Jordan. Furthermore, throughout the reporting period, every single employee in the hotel received gender training on how to create a more gender balanced working environment with the aspects necessary to empower female colleagues. Year Total Number of Employees Males Females 2011 263 239 (91%) 24 (9%) 2010 259 241 (93%) 18 (7%) 2009 239 211 (88%) 28 (12%) *Landmark has no supervised workers to report on, and the only minority groups at Landmark are Christians for which no data was available to report on for this report Year Total Number of Permanent Contract Fixed Term Contract Employees Male Female Male Female 2011 263 234 21 5 3 2010 259 241 17 0 1 2009 239 206 28 5 0 *All Landmark employees work on a full time basis in the Landmark hotel premises in Amman, Jordan Landmark has proven a policy for high attentiveness to women's issues at the workplace. As part of the hotel's grievance policy, Women champions are assigned across the entire organisational structure to attend to any women complain or need for advice. The hotel applies a 12 hours response policy to incidents of discrimination, if any, with a goal of maintaining a 100% resolution of any such incidents. Year Total Number of Male Female Employees In Out In Out 2011 263 121 131 10 9 (46%) (50%) (4%) (3%) 14 Private & Confidential 2010 259 18 79 4 7 (7%) (31%) (2%) (3%) 2009 239 15 156 2 16 (6%) (65%) (1%) (7%) *No data is available for per age group Employee Category Males Females Junior Post 89.2% 10.8% Middle Management 95.1 4.9 Senior Management & 90.9% 9.1% Strategic Decision Makers *The above data is for the year 2009; no data is available for the years 2010 and 2011 due to instability and high turnovers during those years of political and economic unsettlement in Jordan. *Percentage of employees per employee category and age group is available Year Total Under 30 30-50 Above 50 Number of Male Female Male Female Male Female Employees 2011 239 142 8 98 13 10 3 2010 259 126 6 106 10 8 2 2009 263 138 4 90 8 7 16 4. Performance Review Understanding the importance of the progress of its employees and providing equal opportunities for career development, Landmarks has a solid performance appraisal policy that applies to all employees in all organisation levels. Every employee meets with his/her supervisor once a year to discuss the performance of the previous year based on pre-set goals and identified challenges and areas for development. Similar aspects will be discussed and planned for the year to follow. The performance review also covers the employee's adaptability, passion for service, professionalism, ethical behaviour, communication skills, and team spirit. Since 2011, CR has been increasingly incorporated in the appraisal process to incentivise employees to get more involved. Upon filling up the performance review form and discussing the covered aspects, the employee is given the chance to further discuss the review with upper management, and in all cases, all forms get concluded by recommendations from the General Manager. It is worth mentioning that the Landmark applies three types of performance review; Employee Yearly Appraisal, Exceptional Appraisal (when needed), End of Probation Appraisal, and Management Performance Appraisal. Up to the date of this report, 100% of all employees, males and females, have received a formal performance appraisal and review during the reporting period. 15 Private & Confidential 5. Health and Safety The Landmark Hotel is extremely committed to providing a healthy and safe environment for its employees and guests alike. This commitment does not only come in compliance to international hotelier and Health and Safety (H&S) standards; we strongly believe that the wellbeing of our stakeholders lies in the core of our business sustainability and we continue to develop in this regard by all means possible. Landmark has integrated policies and strategies committed to support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights, including rights for healthy and safe work environments. These policies also incorporate facilities and performance standards that insure H&S for all the hotel's guests. Such policies are available within the HR Department and Health and Safety Units, and rigid monitoring of such policies and their actual effective implementation is undertaken by senior and middle management on a regular basis. All Landmark employees are required to abide by the H&S policy on which they sign upon employment. The policy is communicated in all departments and referred to in the Employee Handbook, and the HR department acts as a reference point for any further inquiries the employees may have in this regard. Awareness sessions are regularly provided to communicate the H&S policies and discuss any challenges the employees may face while applying them. A first aid kit is provided in all departments and regularly checked for any missing items. All employees working in the Food & Beverage and Kitchen departments have to submit a valid health certificate issued by Amman Municipality before starting work at the Landmark, to be renewed every six months. Accordingly, and due to the clear communication and procedures implemented towards maintaining the health and safety of our employees, no H&S related incidents have occurred at Landmark (excluding minor first-aid-level injuries) and as a result of that, the rate of absentee is very low. The high health and safety measures at Landmark have contributed to the relatively low absenteeism days of employees. Year Total Number of Absenteeism Days Total Working Days Employees 2011 239 51 days 60,121.12 2010 259 76 62,932.20 2009 263 71 53,393.79 Absenteeism rates for the years 2009, 2010, 2011 were 260, 240, and 160 respectively. Being highly committed to H&S, the hotel has progressively invested in this area during the reporting period. For exempla, the hotel has revamped its Kitchen in 2011 with top-of-the-line construction, facilities and equipment that help increase work efficiency, save in energy 16 Private & Confidential consumption, and cater for a safe and healthy working environment and delivered food and beverage services. 6. Future Activities: Bring Your Child As part of our goals to keep growing with our CR activities, and as we believe that our employees are our link to society, starting with their families, a Bring your Child activity has been designed to be implemented in 2012. This initiative allows employees to bring their children to the workplace to have a better understanding of their parents' jobs and working environment. Parents in turn will also feel proud to introduce their jobs and organisation to their children, and open discussions to answer any inquiries they might have. Based on a survey we ran, 20 parents were interested to participate in this activity and to bring their children from age 3 years to 15. Today, employees' excitement is building up as preparations are taking place. 3. Community Sub-Committee a. Scope The Community Sub-Committee is responsible for the implementation of the sustainability strategy in regards to the Community Engagement direction. We are committed to using our core expertise to improve the quality of life in our community to support charitable and civic organisations and engage our employees as ambassadors to lead our community investment programs. b. Activities During the reporting period, the Community Sub-Committee has implemented a number of activities related to engagement with the local communities: 1. CR Investment Criteria As the hotel gets a lot of requests for sponsorships, we have set and Investment Criteria to standardise and de-centralise the process of selecting the initiatives and activities to sponsor. The criteria has a point system so that decision makers in the organisation can review the sponsorship proposals, rate them, and see how to focus the hotel's CR investment in alignment with its policies and the five directions for sustainability. The criteria scores any proposed social investment on core requirements including added value to the business and the community, marketing impact, meeting personal interests of the hotel's stakeholders, and possibility for measurable investment results. Furthermore, it allows for scoring the proposed investment in relation to basic requirements including sustainability, originality, hotel's leading role, environmental impact, the time expectation for results on short or long term, employee engagement, and type of investment required. During the reporting period, Landmark has invested in CR initiatives with a total of 56,640 Jordanian Dinars (JOD) combining in-kind and financial contributions as per the following table: 17 Private & Confidential Sponsorships Description Cost Nuqul Group Nuqul Group celebrated Quality Day in a Sustainable JD 2,390 Manner Save the Children's A nation-wide campaign to combat Anemia in mothers JD 2,910 'Combating Anemia' project and children in Jordan Tempo Dance Event for kids Raising money for kids with cleft palate JD 3,190 with cleft palate Palestine International Supporting PII `s efforts to set up a two-way link of JD 18,990 Institute (PII) Annual Event interaction between the Palestinian communities abroad and in Palestine. Also, establishing solid bridges among these communities to empower Palestinians in the West to join their efforts towards serving Palestinian national interests around the world. 'Eating in the Dark' event for Awareness-raising session of visual impairment and JD 2,300 blind people in Jordan trying to help less advantaged people. TEDx Ramallah Supporting a think tank that aims at raising creative JD 5,870 thinking and a culture of freedom of speech. Christmas BazaarAl Supporting the Habilitation/Rehabilitation of Physically JD 4,470 Hussein Society Challenged People Corporate Governance and Sponsoring a regional event that aims at raising JD 7,020 Responsibility (CGR) Forum awareness on CR and Sustainability through seminars, Schema workshops, and discussion groups. Berlitz Workshops English training for Landmark Amman employees JD 250 Tastings Party Saving Little JD 4,305 Hearts Orthodox School Football Supporting the youth football team at orthodox school JD 450 Competition Mother`s Day Sending out cakes to distinguished mothers in the local JD 500 community World Food Program (WFP) Landmark supported a project for fighting hunger in JD 4,000 collaboration with WFP Total Contributions JD 56,645 As it would be difficult in this report to elaborate on all initiatives held by Landmark in the years 2009-2011, we will shed the light on a selected number of those activities in relevance to the public and business benefits they helped us achieve. Save the Children's 'Combating Anemia' Project: Save the Children Jordan has started a nationwide campaign to combat Anemia in mothers and children in Jordan, and part of this program is raising awareness and education. Landmark Amman Hotel's own recipes were put in a small cookbook (Booklet) with recipes that are not costly to prepare. Those recipes are well known to our community and have good amounts of Iron. The booklet provides advice on the best way to prepare those recipes while making them more nurturing. This project aims to cover more than 80,000 mothers and children in Jordan. World Food Program (WFP): Landmark supported WFP to raise awareness and funds by printing and designing their 2012 calendars entailing captions of their projects and activities in Jordan during the past period. This 18 Private & Confidential comes as part of Landmark's support to WFP's project for fighting hunger. WFP is currently providing capacity building and training for the School Feeding program at the Ministry of Education, covering storage and food handling, improving monitoring, evaluating impact, and raising advocacy and awareness. 2. Localising Employees Being aware of the unemployment challenge that the country faces, Landmark has been responsibly taking a share in facing this challenge by fulfilling the majority of its recruitment needs from the local market. This preference for hiring locals has been reflected in Landmark's recruitment policy. *Senior positions are those of heads of departments and above in the organisational structure. Landmark also provides internship opportunities for students, from which many get employed by Landmark after their graduation. 3. Earth Hour and Hiring the Blind to Serve Dinner Taping on its increasing awareness of the need to manage Earth's resources and acting as an environmentally responsible global corporate citizen, Landmark has participated in the Earth Hour initiative in 2011 and is planning to do the same every year to come. This activity also serves as a way to further bond all employees and guests on a common goal that every human being can relate to. At 8:30pm on 26th March, the hotel employees join hundreds of millions of people across the globe in switching off as many lights as possible (no complete switch off is possible due to safety and security issues). By joining this initiative, the hotel's management and employees acknowledge a commitment to go beyond this hour and put sincere efforts to preserve the earth's natural resources throughout the hotel's operations. In the past two years, the event was announced on all screens across the hotel venue, reducing the use of paper announcements, and through efficient communication, enthusiasm was built amongst the hotel's employees and guests to participate in this symbolic hour. Guests were invited to switch off the lights in their rooms and gather at the lobby to celebrate together and with the hotel employees and management this simple positive contribution. The hotel also realised an opportunity in this activity and took it a further step towards building empathy for blind people. As a sort of engagement with local communities and encouragement of a non-discriminative work environment, the hotel capitalized on the symbolic significance of this Earth Hour by having a team of blind people provide the service at one of the hotel's restaurants during that hour. 4. Focus on Partnerships Not Sponsorships As part of its sustainability strategy, the hotel has been moving away from mere short term sponsorships into sustainable partnerships that would have more lasting impact on the society. The strategic approach that we followed was identifying the hotel's needs that can be fulfilled by products and services from local communities; hence, creating a shared value for both parties. 19 Private & Confidential Following are some of the programmes initiated by the hotel to create such shared values: 4.1. Local Catering and Traditional Handicrafts The hotel has partnered with a local organisation to help in hiring more women at the hotel. An example of that is hiring women from rural areas to cater for the hotel in preparing special traditional dishes that are time consuming to be prepared regularly in the Kitchen department, such as preparing rolled stuffed Grape Leaves. This initiative helps in generating income for women in local communities and at the same time increase guests satisfaction by providing local traditional dishes in the hotel's catering services. The hotel has also identified the appreciation visitors to Jordan have for traditional handicrafts, and at the same time, the inability of many local artisans to reach with their items to those visitors. Accordingly, the hotel decided to partner with local communities and promote the handicrafts of local artisans in the hotel's gift shop. This partnership is creating sustainable long term value for local suppliers. A catalogue is created, including a list of priced and photographed local products produced by local artisans and available to all guests of the hotel to look at and order from. The hotel is not making any profit out of this initiative; the only endeavour here is to promote the traditional Jordanian handicrafts, support local artisans with income generating opportunities, and allow our guests to further enjoy the 'Jordan Experience'. So far, the hotel has partnered with 30 local suppliers, promoting over 100 products in total. Suppliers are allocated by contacting local NGO's who reach out to rural communities, and by also asking our employees to refer us to such artisans in their communities or families. So all in all, a wider social bonding experience is being created amongst multiple stakeholders of the hotel. 4.2. Food Distribution & Food Waste Management As our sustainability directions should align with our core competencies, we identified the stages in our value chain that could be optimised towards better management of resources, and minimal negative impact on the environment and the society. Such efforts have also helped us maintain a reputation for good social responsibility. In the Kitchen department, we optimised the operations to maintain the level of daily food waste at around 2-3 meals, which any of the employees can take or use; thus minimising food waste to almost zero. We implemented a coordination policy between the Kitchen and the Bookings Office to help the chef make a daily decision of having or cancelling buffets depending on the hotel occupancy and bookings for the day. Such a process engaged more than one team in an effort to optimise resources and minimise food waste on a daily basis. Most hotels on average have high food wastage for approximately 50 people on normal days. The challenge we faced at the beginning was the rules and regulations that place a high liability on any hotel distributing food outside its premises except while providing catering services. Accordingly, we took a proactive step and engaged with local communities through representative organisations and NGOs to identify a methodology that enables food distribution following large-scale banqueting events. This initiative resulted in higher engagement of our employees who managed the process, and of the local community (NGOs and beneficiaries), in addition to maintaining a zero food waste level at the Landmark Hotel. 20 Private & Confidential While 25% of our employees are part of the Strategic Committee who drive CR at Landmark, a total of 75% of our employees are engaged and help in the implementation of the strategy through their day to day duties and responsibilities, and we aim at raising this percentage to 85% for the year 2012. 4. Environmental Sub-Committee a. Scope As a responsible hotel, we are committed to contribute to the preservation of the environment as well as our country's limited resources. We strive to reduce our CO2 emission, promote recycling and a proper disposal of our operational waste, and reduce our energy and water consumption in all our business divisions to ensure sustainable growth. Towards maintaining this commitment, the Environment Committee has been formed to be the custodian of the sustainability strategy in relation to the Green Workplace direction. b. Activities The Landmark Hotel has invested a lot of money and effort to in the implementation of its sustainability strategy towards optimising its operations and practices in an eco-friendly manner. Following are some of the activities undertaken by the hotel in this regard. 1. Environmental Policies The Landmark Hotel has implemented advanced environmental policies that are reflected in almost all aspects of its operations, to minimise as much as possible of the environmental costs of operations. As a result, the hotel today has the lowest energy bills in the hotelier industry in Jordan and is considered the most energy efficient hotel. The current status has been achieved and maintained by incorporating the following actions, amongst others, in the hotel's policies and internal communication wherever possible or applicable: Turning off lights at offices after working hours and installing motion-sensor lighting in the corridors; Applying energy saving technologies such as using energy saving light bulbs in all rooms, halls and facilities; and using eco-friendly laundry machines that help in saving water; Turning off electronic devices at the end of a working day; Giving guests the option of reusing bath towels and linens; and Encouraging employees and guests to use the recycling facilities provided by the hotel. 2. Minimising Negative Impact One of the challenges we face in the hotelier business is the negative impact that our large operation can have on the environment, especially in matter of consumption of energy and natural resources. At the same time, operating on such a large scale, with reach to a high number of employees and guests, provides opportunities for change. The same operations can 21 Private & Confidential be optimised, and stakeholders engaged, in a way that can result in tangible reduction of any negative impact. The Landmark Hotel has implemented a number of activities to take advantage of its anatomy to minimise negative impacts on the environment. 2.1. Technical Environmental Review and Changes Being very environmentally conscious throughout the organisation, the hotel has been committed to have environmental audits every two years to measure its energy emissions, assess the current status, and consider activities that can be done to reduce its energy emissions. This regular monitoring helps us benchmark our performance and reduce emissions effectively. Landmark has also been taking regular environmental risk and impact assessments to ascertain the potential for unintended environmental damage alongside other risks and to be aware of the environmental impacts of its projects. For the purpose of capturing potential risks, minimising damage, and having the needed precautions in place, Landmark has established fast reporting and communication lines to report on potential environmental risks immediately. 2.2. Room Management All lighting bulbs at the hotel premises, including guests' rooms, have been replaced with energy-saving bulbs. Guests are also encouraged to minimize the use of detergents by requesting that their towels and linens remain unchanged for short stays at the hotel, thus reducing some of the negative impact of laundry on the environment. To encourage saving water, small notes are placed in the bathrooms calling for a careful use of water, and in some upgraded rooms, eco-friendly taps that work by sensors have been implemented. 2.3. Recycling Landmark has commenced recycling activities throughout its operations to encourage its guests and employees to follow suit. The hotel is a partner of Entity Green that provides guidance and support in making sure the recycling process is optimised and well implemented, and a representative of this organisation is usually available at the hotel premises to monitor the recycling process. There are recycling facilities in each floor of the hotel, and a recycling centre at the back of the hotel. Today the hotel recycles up to 26 types of disposals including computers and electronic devices. Furthermore, to encourage the minimisation of producing waste, not just recycling, the ink and colour cartridges of printers get refilled rather than replaced. 22 Private & Confidential On the suppliers' front, the hotel has pioneered with its initiative to return packaging to its suppliers to be reused. The main goal was to find a way that would bring value by saving cost of packaging, minimising waste, and developing more awareness for waste management. The hotel identified the bulk suppliers it deals with, engaged with them to find the ones who would benefit from reusing the packaging, and looked with them into feasible work processes and mechanisms to apply this initiative. As a result, today all daily suppliers of Landmark Hotel have no packaging waste. For example, vegetables suppliers used to bring their goods in new wooden boxes each time; instead now they deliver goods in reusable boxes and collect the empty boxes from previous deliveries, thus they have zero waste of packaging. Same approach is applied for juice providers; they use now upgraded juice cartons to be refilled rather than plastic cartons that are used and thrown. 2.4. Capacity Building As a crucial part of Landmark's precautionary measures to environmental challenges, we have invested in capacity building for our employees to equip them with the needed mind-set and skills to be more aware of and efficient with their positive role in the implementation of our environment strategy. The Art Day is one of the examples of engaging employees and raising environmental awareness. This initiative is focused on the employees, through arranged workshops, to help them use hotel waste and unneeded products in an artistic form for personal benefit. For example, some employees creatively stringed water bottles to form a curtain. Such activities aimed at encouraging employees to have a mind-set of reusing items at home for different purposes artistically, and thus build a culture of resources management. For example, Landmark has invested in training employees on the potential environmental impact of the business. It has also undertaken regular review of new technologies that may be integrated in the operations of the business and increase the environmental efficiency of it; the needed employees have been trained on the use and implementation of such technologies and on the significant impact of recycling throughout the operation. 3. Proactive Reduction of Impact Aside from the effort being put on the operational management level to minimise negative impact of the hotel's operation, we believe that we can have a more proactive role that would contribute positively to the environment and the ecosystem we operate through. Landmark has worked actively since 2005 to reduce power consumption in its building. The focus has been on enhancing the expertise of its employees, and making more efficient use of energy (lighting, heating and water). The hotel's energy reduction programs have resulted in innovations to identify alternative means and approaches to operate to further reduce energy. Environmental Landscaping is an example of such innovations. All landscaping at the hotel is local friendly; all plants can live in the local environment in Jordan with minimal maintenance level accommodating to the hot dry summer climate with little or no need for extra watering. Also, all plants and fertilisers are natural and eco-friendly and purchased from local suppliers. In addition, the hotel holds a trees planting day where employees participate in the gardening and planting activities, with guidance by the landscaping manager at the hotel. 23 Private & Confidential Furthermore, towards an efficient use of energy with least negative impact on the environment, the Procurement department included environmental considerations in its purchasing decisions. The hotel has invested substantial amounts of finances in upgrading its electronic equipment into eco-friendly and energy efficient options. Such equipment and devices included washing machines, laundry machines and air conditioning units. The Maintenance Department has also been responsible to conduct maintenance checks to avoid environmental risks and ensure equipment is operating efficiently and effectively. To date, More encouraging, the results of independent environmental audits have shown an increase in efficiency in the hotel's use of resources. For example, 10% of energy saving has been achieved due to the conservation and efficiency improvements in personnel behaviour, retrofitting of equipment, and use of new technologies. Our environmental responsibility extends beyond mere reduction of negative impact of our operations to include activities and efforts that aim at raising environment-preservation awareness by promoting greater environmental responsibility and the use of environmentally friendly technologies, or innovating relevant solutions. As a leader of sustainability in the hotelier sector in Jordan, Landmark has also advocated and lobbied for regulatory changes to acknowledge potential environmental risks and opportunities. Landmark has also encouraged the integration of voluntary charters, codes of conduct and codes of practice in all its initiatives internally and externally. It has also put into place strategies and policies to include the triple bottom line of sustainable development – economic prosperity, environmental quality, and social equity. Main corporate policies that Landmark has been committed to are the use of environmentally sound technologies (ESTs) in its operations, as well as an investment policy to ensure that its investments promote environmental responsibility. This mind-set of proactively protecting the environment has resulted in a number of activities that are becoming part and parcel of any regular working day at Landmark: 24 Private & Confidential 3.1. Mud huts A very innovative idea was implemented for the first time in 2011 that mainly delivers a clear message about how environment friendly the Landmark Hotel is, and also provides benefit to a certain group of our employees. All traditional security huts at the gates of the hotel used to gather heat in summer and lack warmth in winter days, which was inconvenient for our security employees. The Mud Huts came to replace the old ones by providing nicely designed security huts built simply of mud, using only natural elements; which provide cooling and warmth depending on the season. The huts attracted guests' attention and allowed for a chance to communicate the hotel's environmentfriendly culture. 3.2. Green meetings Toward spreading environment awareness and building relevant practices across its stakeholders the hotel has started in 2011 to provide its guests with the option to hold 'Green Meetings'. If the guest accepts or requests that, before starting the meeting, the concept of a 'Green Meeting' will be explained and then business will be run as usual, yet within an environment-friendly room setup. This would result in turning the lights off and opening the curtains to allow for sun light in; opening or closing windows to reach optimal room temperature; using jugs of water rather than bottled water; and using ceramic cups instead of plastic cups. The option to print paper will still be provided, while informing guests that paper can get recycled at a later stage. Snacks will be served as in any other meeting, yet the same amount will be divided over smaller portions, allowing for the chance to use un-touched plates to be sent to local communities. About 6 rooms have been catered for green meetings at Landmark, and all internal meetings by employees are to be 'green' whenever possible. 5. Business Concerns Sub-Committee a. Scope The Business Concerns Committee is responsible for implementing Landmark's sustainability strategy for two directions; Guest Satisfaction and Responsible Marketplace. We endeavour to serve our guests' needs and exceed their expectations by implementing forward-looking corporate strategies. We are committed to continuous improvement in our performance and we will continually seek smart solutions to fulfil all our current and future customers' needs. On the marketplace front, we commit to practicing and encouraging the highest ethical standards throughout our supply chain of partners, suppliers and vendors, for the realization of a responsible ethical hospitality and sustainable tourism in Jordan. 25 Private & Confidential The next section provides some of the examples highlighting our commitment to guest satisfaction and a responsible marketplace. b. Activities 1. Supply Chain Policy Strongly believing in the value of a holistic sustainable business whereby the value chain of operating extends into the supply chain of the hotel, we have put all effort to make sure that our employees and suppliers understand our sustainability culture and our strict policies when it comes to human rights, such as forced labour and child labour. Landmark is committed to prohibit all forms of forced labour and support the effective abolition of child labour that it is aware of amongst its suppliers. Accordingly, the hotel has strict policies and procedures prohibiting employment of children and any forced-labour activity or practice such as lodging financial deposits, withholding travel documentation or otherwise. It also requires strict adherence to minimum age provisions above the requirement of national labour laws taking into account international standards. To make sure this policy is implemented across its value chain, Landmark communicates to all its employees their employment rights, terms and conditions including the voluntary nature of employment and the freedom to leave, and any penalties associated with such departure. It also provides adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in its recruitment procedures. For example, we are obliged by law to get security clearance for all our employees, which would require their identification cards thus guaranteeing that we meet the minimum age bar of 18 years old. In addition, where possible, Landmark ensures that its employees are given secure employment and decent wages and working conditions so that they do not need to send their children to work. The hotel also reviews all overtime policies and procedures with its employees to ensure employees satisfaction and that all overtime related procedures are considered and implemented. Landmark offers and provides training, and learning opportunities for both its employees and their children to raise a culture and awareness against child labour. 5 hours of ethical business training are provided yearly for each employee. On the supply chain level, Landmark invests in raising the awareness of its suppliers to prohibit child labour by using preferential relationships to encourage such change in behaviour. Landmark's policy against forced labour and child labour is clearly included in the agreements with the suppliers, and any breach in this regard will be considered a breach of the agreement and an end of the business relationship. A unique model of engagement with suppliers is implemented at Landmark Hotel. Instead of just training suppliers on the hotel's policies, regularly meetings take place with existing and new suppliers to communicate to them the hotel's CR strategy, policies, and expectations of suppliers' practices in regards to human rights. The adopted approach focuses on setting a culture of responsibility amongst suppliers, working with them on ways to further develop with their level of service and advance their ethical and sustainability practices, thus creating a better competitive environment that even other customers admire and try to have with their own suppliers. So far, 5 suppliers have engaged with Landmark's ethical code of conduct. 26 Private & Confidential We are very confident of our commitment to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour and child labour, and based on many reports and audits undertaken regularly throughout Landmark, it has been confirmed and affirmed that there is no such forms of abusive labour at this organisation. None of our internal operations have risks for incidents of forced labour or child labour due to the clear and strict recruitment policies we have in this regard. Nevertheless, we have not audited such risks externally within our supply chain. 2. Localise Suppliers Our sustainability commitment is also reflected in our policy to do business with local suppliers whenever they can meet our procurement needs. To date, 95% of the current suppliers of Landmark are local. The hotel also closely works with those suppliers to improve their products and services by providing continuous feedback and new ideas on how to best cater for the hoteliers industry with best quality of services and products. We also encourage suppliers to find local alternatives for their products; for example, our food menus are prepared according to the season's fruits and vegetables to encourage suppliers to produce locally and rely less on imported products. This comes in line with the hotels conviction that the better the marketplace we operate in, the more opportunities for excellence and shared value there will be for all parties involved. It is worth mentioning that during the reporting period, the Landmark Hotel invested 2,495,263 JOD in procurement, of which 2,458,763 JOD were spent on local suppliers. 3. Customer Satisfaction As part of the Business Sub-Committee's commitment to make sure forward-looking corporate strategies are implemented, with special focus on incorporating sustainability in the day to day business practices, customer-focussed and innovative ideas have been put in place. Realizing that the core of its business success relies on customer satisfaction, the hotel has substantially improved its customer complaints monitoring system. Traditionally, once a complaint is received, it would be handled and closed without any logging or follow up. Currently, systems are in place to monitor, analyse and handle complaints and up to date, no customer complaint has gone unmanaged for more than 3 days, and all complaints have been handled to the satisfaction of the customer. But customer satisfaction needs not be only bound to satisfied expectations; with this in mind, the hotel believes that innovation in its services can further please its customers and gain and retain their loyalty. For instance, offering Green Meetings not only serves on the energy saving level, but also nourishes the guests' sense of responsibility by allowing them to take part in a collective effort that helps protect the environment. From the feedback we have been receiving since we started this practice, customers who attended such meetings were very satisfied and some even promoted the idea back in their offices. “Having the choice to implement the Green Meetings Service, provided by Landmark Amman Hotel, has added tremendous value to our event and made our performance all the more sustainable. It helped us reach out to all our employees to convey the message that we are strongly committed to adopting the principles of sustainable development in all our business conducts”~ Mr. Ghassan Nuqul, Vice Chairman of the Board of Nuqul Group 27 Private & Confidential 4. Compliance with Best Practices Taking its reputation for a 'Landmark' in the hotelier industry, the hotel has taken its compliance to local and global standards very seriously. Up to the date of this report, the hotel has never had to pay any fines or non-monetary sanctions and no case was brought through dispute resolution mechanisms against the hotel in relation to non-compliance to laws and regulations relating to the environment, provision and use of products and services, or any other business operations-related laws and regulations such as accounting fraud, workplace discrimination, and corruption. Anti-Corruption Landmark has a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery, and in the case of any violation of the law or unethical business dealings, immediate strict action will be taken up to and including dismissal. All needed internal and external ethical policies, guidelines, guidance and training have been communicated and provided to all employees to make sure they all have the same understanding and awareness of the hotel's anti-corruption policy and governance related matters. Moreover, the rigid corporate governance of Landmark in addition to the whistleblowing scheme acknowledged by all employees, both allow for an ease of reporting or flag-raising in the case of any suspicion of corruption. The hotel also implements a visible reporting cycle with increased accountability and transparency resulting in regular and continuous improvements. The internal communication structure of Landmark enables employees to raise concerns over issues such as unethical business conduct, including fraud and conflict of interest, bribery and facilitation payments. This has been a successful tool to review levels of awareness and employees' needs. For instance, 100% of the hotel's business units are internally checked regularly for any corruption related risks and externally checked every 6 months. As a result, the hotel has never had any incident of corruption. The hotel also has strict policies in dealing with agents and business partners, taking into consideration the operating environment, while sticking to a zero-tolerance to corruption. 5. Ethical Policy Landmark has been very clear about its solid stand against human rights abuse and its commitment to human rights best practices. This has been reflected in the hotel's culture and ethical policies on which employees have been trained, in addition to providing training on human rights in matter of discrimination, treatment of colleagues and employees, to name a few. To date, there has been no single breach of these policies and the hotel is committed to keep taking all measures necessary to maintain this culture of high ethical performance. Part of these measures is incorporating human rights clauses wherever necessary in the hotel's legal binding agreements with different stakeholders. Furthermore, the hotel's legal team – who also happen to include human rights activists, makes sure that agreements provided by external suppliers undergo human rights screening. The hotel issues two types of significant investment agreements that need to incorporate human rights clauses: employment contracts, and procurement agreements with suppliers/ 28 Private & Confidential contractors. 100% of the total number of signed contracts/ agreements have included such clauses or underwent the necessary screening. Up to date, zero contracts with suppliers/ contractors were declined or subject to rectifying actions as a result of human rights screening. To further enforce a culture that supports human rights amongst its suppliers, Landmark has conducted a workshop for all its suppliers to raise their awareness of hotel's culture, policies and expectations from its suppliers. The workshop allowed for constructive discussions between the hotel and its suppliers on means and practices that would help suppliers become in line with the hotel's mind-set in respect to human rights. Landmark also proactively and actively promotes, supports and advocates the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights even beyond its premises. As an example, Landmark sponsored a case study by a Human Rights specialist to analyse how the hotel manages its human rights issues and made recommendations for improvement 6. About this report a. Report Parameters This report serves as the first sustainability report by Landmark Hotel, covering the business operations of the Landmark Hotel within the boundaries of its premises in Amman, Jordan. The report comes to crown the Landmark's serious efforts primarily in the year 2011 towards establishing itself as a leading provider of sustainable hotelier services in Jordan. In some instances the report refers to earlier activities from the years 2009 and 2010. Although sustainability efforts have been relatively incorporated in our day to day business since establishment, our most recent commitments have been shaped and formalised by a sustainability strategy that was the result of a collaborative effort by all our stakeholders. This strategy and the formalisation of its implementation and monitoring have enabled us to issue this sustainability report in relevance to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sustainability reporting guidelines and indicators, as well as the UN Global Compact principles. This will help us benchmark our progress in the years to come and allow our stakeholders to review and compare our sustainability performance. The report meets the GRI G3 application level C. This level means that the report has covered a list of core GRI indicators as illustrated in the GRI index .These indicators are derived from the GRI Framework that helps measure and report economic, environmental and social performance. Worldwide, this sustainability framework is the most widely used, and we are committed to keep improving in our performance to increase the number of GRI indicators to report on by the end of our reporting cycles once every two years. Contact Points for Questions Please direct any questions regarding this sustainability report to our Strategic Social Responsibility Committee at …info@landmarkamman.com… or call +96265607100 b. GRI/ Global Compact Index (Legend: O not reported on,  completely reported on,  partially reported on) 29 Private & Confidential Global Page Code GRI Indicators Status Compact Ref. Principle 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker   1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities  2 2.1 Name of the organisation  2.2 Brands, products and/or services  2.3 Operational structure  2.4 Headquarter location  2.5 Countries in operation  2.6 Nature of ownership  2.7 Markets served  2.8 Scale of the organisation  2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership  2.10 Awards received  3 3.1 Reporting period  3.2 Date of most recent previous report  3.3 Reporting cycle  3.4 Contact point for questions  3.5 Process for defining report content  3.6 Boundary of the report  3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report O 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, and outsourced operations  3.9 Data measurement techniques 3.10 Effects of re-statement of information provided in earlier reports O 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods O 3.12 GRI Content Index  3.13 External assurance 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure  4.2 Indication whether chairperson is also executive officer O 4.3 Independent members at the board O 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the board O 4.5 Linkage between executive compensation and organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interest at the board 4.7 Expertise of board members on sustainability topics 4.8 Statements of mission, of conduct, and principles 4.9 Procedures for board governance on management of sustainability performance 4.10 Processes for evaluation of the board’s sustainability 30 Private & Confidential performance 4.11 Precautionary approach 4.12 External charters, principles or other initiatives 4.13 Memberships in associations 4.14 Stakeholder groups  4.15 Stakeholder identification and selection  4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 4.17 Topics and concerns raised by stakeholders EC Economic Performance (EP) Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee EC1 compensation, donations and other community O investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan EC3 obligations. Significant financial assistance received from EC4 government. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant O locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of  operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior EC7 management hired from the local community at  significant locations of operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit  through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. EN Environment (EN) EN 1 Materials used by weight or volume. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN 2 materials. EN 3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ? EN 4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN 5 improvements. ? Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Principle 8 EN 6 energy-based products and services, and reductions  Principle 9 in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN 7 reductions achieved. EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source. Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN 9 water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN 10 reused. EN 11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, 31 Private & Confidential or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN 12 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN 13 Habitats protected or restored. Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN 14 managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN 15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN 16 weight. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN 17 weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN 18 reductions achieved. ? Principle 7 EN 19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type EN 20 and weight. EN 21 Total water discharge by quality and destination EN 22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. O? EN 23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the EN 24 Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly EN 25 affected by the reporting organisation’s discharges of water and runoff. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Principle 8 EN 26 products and services, and extent of impact  Principle 9 mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN 27 materials that are reclaimed by category. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EN 28 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with  environmental laws and regulations. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN 29 organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Total environmental protection expenditures and EN 30 investments by type. ? Principle 7 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for MM1 production activities or extractive use) disturbed or rehabilitated. LA Labour Practices & Decent Work (LA) Total workforce by employment type, employment LA 1 contract, and region.  Principle 6 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age LA 2 group, gender, and region.  Principle 6 32 Private & Confidential Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA 3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Percentage of employees covered by collective LA 4 bargaining agreements.  Principle 3 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant LA 5 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety LA 6 committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA 7 absenteeism, and total number of work-related  Principle 1 fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskcontrol programs in place to assist workforce LA 8 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Health and safety LA 9 topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Average hours of training per year per employee by LA 10 employee category.  Programs for skills management and lifelong learning LA 11 that support the continued employability of employees  and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA 12 performance and career development reviews.  Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age LA 13 Principle 6 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee LA 14 category.  Principle 6 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one MM4 week’s duration, by country. HR Human Rights (HR) Percentage and total number of significant investment HR 1 agreements that include human rights clauses or that  Principle 2 have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors HR 2 that have undergone screening on human rights and  Principle 2 actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR 3 are relevant to operations, including the percentage of  employees trained. Total number of incidents of discrimination and HR 4 actions taken. O Principle 6 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may HR 5 be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 33 Private & Confidential Operations identified as having significant risk for Principle 4 HR 6 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to  Principle #5 contribute to the elimination of child labour. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and Principle 4 HR 7  measures taken to contribute to the elimination of Principle 5 forced or compulsory labour. Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s policies or procedures concerning HR 8 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Total number of incidents of violations involving rights HR 9 of indigenous people and actions taken. SO Society (SO) Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of SO 1 operations on communities, including entering,  operating, and exiting. Percentage and total number of business units SO 2 analysed for risks related to corruption  Principle 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s SO 3 anti-corruption policies and procedures.  SO 4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.  Principle 10 Public policy positions and participation in public SO 5 policy development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to SO 6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive SO 7 behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO 8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws  and regulations. Number and percentage of operations with closure MM10 plans. PR Product Responsibility (PR) Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR 1 and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health PR 2 and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. Type of product and service information required by procedures and percentage of significant products PR 3 and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product PR 4 and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR 5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 34 Private & Confidential Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and PR 6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR 7 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding PR 8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance PR 9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision  and use of products and services 35 Private & Confidential
