Global Advice Network UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 About Global Advice Network Company Name Global Advice Network Aps Date 14 May 2013 Address Borgergade 111, 1300 Copenhagen K Country Denmark Membership 10. June 2007 date Contact name Jens Berthelsen Number of 20 employees Contact Position Partner Contact +45 6088 1044 Sector Consulting/Support telephone no. Services Global Advice Network is a private consultancy firm with global experience in the fight against fraud and corruption. Our company specialises in the area of Corporate Integrity (Business Ethics) and offers services in anti-­‐corruption, anti-­‐fraud, sustainability and business development. Global Advice Network has offices in Copenhagen, Oslo and Stockholm. Global Advice Network focuses on practical solutions for companies. We help clients practice what they preach , specifically, to transform policies into practices and make them coherent with the corporate values. Global Advice Network offers clients support to develop an in-­‐house capability to increase their resistance to fraud and corruption as well as to gain competitive advantages from the CSR agenda. As such, the Global Compact (UNGC) Principles are central to what we do, even though the focus of our work is on the 10th Principle. Global Advice Network produces the Business Anti-­‐Corruption Portal (the Portal), which provides a number of comprehensive and practical tools and relevant information, to offer support in avoiding and fighting corruption to small and medium enterprises (SMEs). SMEs do not usually have the internal integrity systems of large companies; however, they often meet the same demands from the governmental institutions, business partners and civil society. Many companies do not have the necessary knowledge of the market and tools to handle ethical dilemmas. Our company offers companies to make use of the Portal, which is intended to help companies avoid bribery and extortion by providing them with necessary information and instruments, free of charge. In addition, Global Advice Network creates courses for specific industries and professions and for both private and public sector clients in a variety of countries. Global Advice Network carries out pro-­‐bono work every year to promote aspects of the UNGC. In the last year we have conducted several anti-­‐corruption workshops and seminars in Russia and two in China in co-­‐operation with the Swedish government. Global Advice Network is an active participant in Global Compact Working Group on Anti-­‐Corruption and the Nordic Global Compact Network. 1 GAN UNGC Report 2013 Executive Statement of continued support in 2013 Global Advice Network joined the UNGC 10 June 2007, and we continue to wholeheartedly support the Principles of the UNGC. We are committed to living out those principles as a business internally as well as with our work for clients. Global Advice Network is committed to promoting corporate integrity. It is our core business to assist in developing and strengthening ethical practices and integrity systems, particularly in relation to business, but also more generally along the lines of the first nine UNGC Principles. We therefore constantly try to improve our action in these areas and to further deepen the integration of UNGC Principles with our business. Global Advice Network's policy is to only work on projects, which we believe will be in accordance with the principles of the UNGC. Being complicit, either actively or passively, with a violation of UNGC Principles would undermine our core business. Should any potential real or theoretical conflicts between our work and UNGC Principles arise, they must be discussed and resolved internally to ensure the continued compliance of our work with UNGC Principles. We firmly believe that belonging to the UNGC is helpful to our business and are proud to be part of such a worthwhile initiative. Position Partner Signature 2 GAN UNGC Report 2013 Human Rights – Principle 1–2 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human right Assessment, Policy and Goals Global Advice Network is committed to respect human rights of our employees, suppliers and partners, and treat each party fairly and politely. We try to treat our employees with respect at all times. We strive to avoid discrimination and promote tolerance, transparency, and accountability, as well as to encourage freedom of expression in our organisation. In addition, our company always strives to maintain safe and healthy work environment. Implementation Global Advice Network is committed to protect and respect internationally proclaimed human rights, as defined by the UN Guiding Principles. We provide advice and support to all of our employees, including flexibility in working hours if needed for private matters, and fair tasks allocation, based strictly on the individual skills of each employee. The length of the vacation period and the amount of working hours per week are allocated to each employee in consistency with the national legislation. As an international company with offices in four countries, we recognise our responsibility to ensure health and wellbeing of our staff in all our operations and activities. Measurements of Outcomes Global Advice Network has not experienced any human rights related issues since its establishment; neither has it been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. We monitor and make sure that any sub-­‐contractors, which we are cooperating with outside Denmark, provide decent working conditions to their employees and ensure that no human rights abuses, child labour, or discrimination take place at their facilities. 3 GAN UNGC Report 2013 Labour – Principle 3–6 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals All Global Advice Network employees have the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Being an international company and working with organisations from all over the world, we believe that we benefit the most from having employees that originate from different countries, which allows us to reflect the cultural diversity of the clients we work with. All employees of Global Advice Network receive a contract upon their employment, where a detailed description of the employment related issues, such as compensation, number of working hours, holidays and other conditions is provided. The national legislation concerning labour rights is enforced and carefully monitored in the countries where the company is active. We strive to provide a supportive and dynamic work environment, where everyone has an equal opportunity to develop professionally. Implementation Global Advice Network is committed to diversity and prohibits any discrimination and harassment in all forms starting with our recruitment processes and throughout all the working processes and at the workplace. Executive decisions about recruitment, salary, bonuses and promotions are exclusively based on the individual performance of the candidates and employees. Global Advice Network has made significant efforts to improve work environment for our employees. During the past year, the management of the company has initiated and performed the employee review and feedback meetings to assess employee satisfaction with the workplace and to offer an opportunity for all employees of the company to make suggestions for further improvement of the company. These personal meetings were also used for the employees to voice their wishes for further personal and professional development and career growth, additionally to have an influence on their tasks. Measurements of Outcomes Global Advice Network has not been involved in any violations concerning labour rights. The company has not been involved in any forms of forced or compulsory labour. We have a tremendously high degree of academic, cultural, and social background diversity, which is directly related to our company being an international organisation. By responding to the results of the employee review and feedback 4 meetings conducted in the beginning of 2013, employee satisfaction level with the work place has improved significantly, contributing to an improved feeling of cooperation and teamwork. GAN UNGC Report 2013 Environment – Principle 7–9 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Global Advice Network is motivated and highly committed to protecting and making a positive impact on the local environment, meanwhile conducting our daily business activities. We encourage our employees to use public transportation or bikes for everyday transportation, in addition, the company does not own any vehicles. As an internationally operating company, we are aware of the CO2 emissions generated by business travelling and take this into consideration when planning our participation in workshops and conferences. Implementation Whenever possible, Global Advice Network takes environmental issues into consideration in procurement. Being a part of a small office community we constantly seek to influence the landlord towards environmentally friendly policies and practices in the building. Many of our projects have direct or indirect positive impact on the environment. In order to increase the cost savings and lower the company’s carbon footprint, we have implemented various policies, including diminishing the use of colour copies printed out, recycling materials and separation of waste. Almost all employees in our office have a possibility to use an additional screen on their desks, which greatly reduces amount of the printed out material. In Global Advice Network offices we recycle and reuse various materials and our staff is conscious of a responsible energy and water use. Measurements of Outcomes Global Advice Network has relatively low CO2 emissions, and use only environmentally friendly materials, due to effective environmental policies. 5 GAN UNGC Report 2013 Anti-­corruption – Principle 10 Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals The fight against corruption and bribery forms the basis of Global Advice Network’s consultancy work with clients, i.e. businesses and institutions, in their endeavours to implement and live up to their ethical principles. We actively support the UN Convention Against Corruption and will not participate in any corruption related activities. A major contribution of Global Advice Network to global fight against corruption is the Business Anti-­‐Corruption Portal (www.business-­‐anti-­‐corruption.com). The Portal is developed and operated by our company to help small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) develop and maintain transparency in their external and internal business activities, when operating in unfamiliar or emerging markets. The various instruments and information that are available on the Portal have helped many organisations to develop zero tolerance towards corruption when conducting business in a foreign market. More than 70 business and corruption focused Country Profiles are available on the Portal and are regularly updated. The information is aimed at educating companies on corruption risks that exist in the process of interacting with the governmental institutions and associated officials in different settings. We cooperate with the governments of different countries and private companies in order to fight crime and corrupt behaviour. Implementation The Anti-­‐Corruption Business Portal produced by Global Advice Network presents a wide variety of information and instruments on corruption issues that are available on the Portal’s homepage for freely accessible training of the companies and their employees. As part of Global Advice Network’s commitment to the UNGC, some new tools have been developed pro-­‐bono and made available on our website. Highly qualified staff members of our company are continually available for advising and consulting companies that wish to further improve their knowledge about bribery and corruption. Constantly producing and innovating the anti-­‐corruption tools and providing training services to other companies, employees at Global Advice Network possess a specialised, practical and extensive pool of knowledge and expert skills in the area of fighting and preventing corruption. Our valuable experience and strong commitment to follow the ideology of zero corruption tolerance in the everyday activities of the company helps us ensure continuous consistency with the anti-­‐corruption principle. Training of our employees and constant knowledge sharing through collaboration of different departments on the common tasks ensure awareness and involvement to the process. 6 GAN UNGC Report 2013 Measurements of Outcomes Global Advice Network has never been involved in any legal cases or violations involving any corruption issues. Internal legal advisers and consultants of our company ensure highly accurate implementation of and compliance to the anti-­‐corruption principle of the Global Compact, while carrying out various business operations. During the past year our employees have participated in several major international events that had focus on fighting corruption to help businesses all over the world commit to sustainable and ethical business practices. In 2013, Global Advice Network plans to increase personal training of the employees to furthermore enhance the effectiveness of the company in its contribution to the global fight against corruption. On the following page the highlights of Global Advice anti-­‐corruption performance are outlined. In addition, a description of the development of the Anti-­‐Corruption Tools Inventory to assist businesses and organisations in the implementation of the Global Compact's 10th principle is provided. 7 GAN UNGC Report 2013 CASE: Development of a free anti-­‐corruption e-­‐learning course in Russia and free training in anti-­‐corruption for businesses. Global Advice Network had over the years conducted several anti-­‐corruption workshops in Russia and neighbouring countries where the Russian language is spoken. We have also trained several young business leaders from Russia in Sweden and worked with businesses operating in Russia and surrounding countries. Our efforts have provided us with a distinctive and in-­‐depth knowledge of business dynamics and associated corruption risks in the region. The highlight of our work in the past year has been a specifically developed e-­‐learning course for civil servants in Murmansk, Russia. The course was developed in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice of Murmansk and financed by the Nordic Council of Ministries. This e-­‐learning course on Ethics and Anti-­‐ Corruption in the Public Sector presents practical examples of ethical dilemmas that can occur upon interaction of businesses with the Russian public sector. Additionally, the course educates about the effects of corruption on economy and society. It presents instruments and tools that can help private and public organisations prevent conflict of interest and deal with the effects of corrupt conduct, with a special focus on the relevant Russian anti-­‐corruption legislation. The launching of this e-­‐learning course was successful and it has been taken over by the Ministry of Justice for further unlimited and free use. By creating this e-­‐learning course, Global Advice Network contributed to reinforcement of the governmental sector and institutional environment in Russia, for the first time, offering public organisations a free of charge training on how to avoid corruption. The e-­‐learning course was developed by Global Advice Network and based on the research conducted by the company’s employees, who also have the practical knowledge acquired through active participation in international workshops on corruption hosted in Russia and nearby regions. Throughout 2012, we have furthermore enhanced our activities in Russia by effectively implementing the material from our Business Anti-­‐Corruption Portal to conduct training in several cities. Important interactive training sessions, based on the Portal’s e-­‐learning in Russian, were carried out in Arkhangelsk, Murmansk, Pskov and Petrozavodsk. A practical workshop-­‐ ‘The use of Internet resources as a tool in the fight against corruption’-­‐ was given during the anti-­‐corruption seminar organised by the St.Petersburg International Business Association. Besides the initiatives in the Eastern Europe region, Global Advice Network has developed and launched an Arabic version of the Anti-­‐Bribery and Corruption e-­‐learning course that is freely available on the Portal and is aimed at helping businesses operating in the Middle East and the North Africa region. In the past year, we have conducted an extensive and free of charge anti-­‐corruption training of civil servants in Copenhagen, as we believe that training is a crucial element in raising consciousness about corruption in the society and ensuring fairness and transparency of various business activities. 8 In 2012, Global Advice Network continued its contribution to raising awareness and preventing corruption in business environment. We presented and launched a new version of Integrity System, which was inspired by international best-­‐practices models. Integrity systems allow businesses to GAN UNGC Report 2013 progress the cause of sustainable and ethical business conduct when involved in international operations. The new Integrity system guides companies on how to establish and implement adequate procedures for managing corruption risks and to comply with international anti-­‐corruption legislations. In the past year, the main tool of Global Advice Network-­‐ the Business Anti-­‐Corruption Portal, has been presented in various countries at business anti-­‐corruption seminars, workshops and conferences. The main idea behind such active participation of our employees in the international anti-­‐corruption initiatives is to create and support a stable network of public agencies and private firms which can assist each other and collaborate in the area of fighting corruption. Our Annual Report outlines our performance and contains detailed information about our developments and progress in the past year. Prospects for 2013 In 2012, the new contract between the EU Commission and the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs on a grant to produce 33 new country profiles on grant to produce over 30 new country profiles as a part of further development of the Business Anti-­‐Corruption Profile. The new EU contract is expected to raise awareness of the risks of corruption and corruption issues amongst at least 100,000 European SMEs and 200,000 individuals over the next 3 years. 9 GAN UNGC Report 2013
