December 2013 Solvay United Nations Global Compact Communication on progress Advanced level CONTENT About this document 2 CEO Statement of continued support 3 Solvay Reporting to United Nations Global Compact 4-6 Self-assessment on advanced level 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 1 ABOUT THIS DOCUMENT In 2010, Solvay committed itself to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment includes supporting the ten principles of the UN Global asking more from chemistry Compact as well as reporting and communicating annually with its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. Solvay is reporting according to the Advanced Program and communicates on the 24 advanced criteria that are set by the UN Global Compact on the following areas: • Strategy, governance and engagement • UN goals and issues • Implementation of Global Compact principles • Value chain implementation, • Verification and disclosure. Solvay COP 2013 refers to specific pages or sections in the 2012 Annual Sustainable Development report 2012 Report, in the 2012 Sustainable Development Report and additional online information. Solvay COP 2013 is available on Solvay website. 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CEO STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT “I am pleased to reaffirm Solvay’s support for the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, all of which align with our Group’s values and policies. Solvay is committed to continue to advance those principles within its sphere of influence by incorporating the UN Global Compact and its principles within its strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Sustainability is at the heart of our vision. We want to be a role model for sustainable chemistry in the way we manufacture, do business and manage people, and by the product portfolio we offer to our customers. The Global Compact is the only global initiative that takes into account all the aspects of sustainable development and is focused on continuous improvement. A key challenge is to conciliate the various sustainability goals and the interests of our stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe how Solvay has progressed in creating value for its stakeholders in full alignment with its commitment to corporate social responsibility and its code of conduct.” Jean-Pierre Clamadieu Solvay Chief Executive Officer December 20th, 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 3 SOLVAY REPORTING TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS This approach is structured by stakeholders and incorporates the requirements of ISO 26000. Supported 1 Solvay supports and respects the protection of by a strong governance, all employees are enlisted to international human rights within its sphere of influence. in deploying it. For example towards its Employees 2S  olvay is sure that it is not complicit in human rights stakeholder, Solvay has defined 5 commitments, divided abuses. on 12 best practices, regarding safety and health at work, professional development, fair treatment and respect of Clear commitments human rights. Solvay is committed to respecting and supporting human rights with regard to its employees, the communities in Key actions which it operates and its business partners as expressed Solvay encourages its employees through its Speak in the internationally recognized standards including the Up campaign take up any difficulty or question with U.N. Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Solvay its hierarchy and other identified interlocutors as the Group takes seriously any indication that human rights are cannot address questions or concerns unless it is aware not properly protected within its sphere of influence or of them. The first and best place for employees to Speak that it may be complicit in any human rights violation. Up is with their individual manager or supervisor. In addition Employees are expected to understand the human rights employees may seek help from other internal resources issues that may be at stake in their workplaces and as well as from an external Ethics Helpline, this helpline should prevent any violation of these rights. Solvay has is maintained by a private third party and operated in adopted a specific policy dealing with human rights. accordance with local law. In December 2013, Solvay signed a global social and Solvay has in place a strong dialogue with its employees environmental responsibility agreement with IndustriALL through the Solvay People Survey (groupwide survey, Global Union the first international federation of workers carried out every 2 or 3 years), through the European Works for industry which represents 50 million workers in Councils and the national employer representative bodies. 140 different countries in sectors as diverse as the oil Training courses and induction activities are organized to and gas, chemicals, mining, shipbuilding, automotive, ensure that an ethical and compliant conduct is embodied aerospace, construction materials, environmental in the way business is done by Solvay and also to address services industries, etc.. This agreement, gives tangible behavioral risks in certain specific areas. Managers are expression to Solvay’s determination to ensure that the requested to follow a special training addressing issue of international labor standards defined by the International open communication and non retaliation. Labor Organization, the principles of the UN Global Compact, and the Group’s social standards in the Since 2012, Solvay is taking part in a new collaborative areas of health, safety and environmental protection are initiative for the Chemical sector regarding the assessment respected on all its sites all over the world. of the CSR performances of suppliers: “Together for Sustainability”. These assessments will be made on In 2013 Solvay has deployed its Sustainable the basis of standardized criteria and tools for supplier Development approach, Solvay Way which is based on sustainability audits in which human rights issues will be a continuous improvement reference framework, divided addressed. The participants to this initiative will share on four levels of progress. Solvay Way allows the Group’s the supplier sustainability assessments and audits data. entities to self-assess their sustainable development Nevertheless, the participants will keep responsibility for progress on the basis of 23 commitments divides up their own operations. into 48 practices and identify their improvement plans on an annual basis. Solvay has multi-annual objectives, Key achievements monitored by the Executive Committee, aimed at The key outcomes are in the Solvay SD report 2012, improving its environmental and social profile. p. 96-97, 123, and in the Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 161 Solvay Annual Report 2011. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 LABOUR Each employee is remunerated according to its his responsibilities and conditions in the local market, every 3 Solvay upholds the freedom of association and the member of the managerial staff goes through effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining an annual personal appraisal review, a number of talent 4S  olvay upholds the elimination of all forms of forced round tables are organised where the career of women and compulsory labour managers are discussed, opportunities allowing work-life 5S  olvay upholds the effective abolition of child labour. balance are deployed: part-time, tele-working, nursery in 6S  olvay upholds the elimination of discrimination in a number of locations. respect of employment and occupation. For Solvay, the people safety objective which is reaching Clear commitments a Medical Treatment Accident Rate lower than 1.0 by The Group has made a formal commitment to respect 2020, covers a common safety level for both the Solvay’s the international labor standards defined by International personnel and contractors working on Solvay’s sites. Labor Organization (ILO) conventions and the principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2013, the Group As part of the IndustriALL Global Union Agreement, reaffirmed this commitment by signing a worldwide social each year, a joint assessment mission will be conducted responsibility agreement with IndustriALL Global Union in a country and on sites chosen by IndustriALL Global This agreement applies to all Solvay employeesand is Union. This assessment will focus on health, safety, integrated in the Solvay Way framework which is part of social responsibility, with thematics like health, safety and the Solvay’s management processes. environmental protection and also on pay levels, training policy, the quality of the social dialogue, relationships A chapter in the Code of Conduct is dedicated to Ethics with suppliers and subcontractors, the struggle against & Integrity in the workplace. The Code of Conduct is part discrimination, the promotion of equal opportunities, etc. of the Group’s constant effort to maintain and strengthen and environmental protection. trust both among all its employees and between the Group and its stakeholders, including its employees and Key achievements their representatives. The key outcomes are in the Solvay SD report 2012 • Concrete commitments to our stakeholders, p. 10 Key actions • Frequency rate of occupational accident, p. 91 The Solvay’s Code of Conduct is supported by various • Age pyramid, p. 81 policies, including policies dedicated to Human • Diversity and equal opportunity KPIs, p. 80-81 Resources. Solvay policies and procedures make • Press release December 17th, 2013 www.solvay.com qualifications, skills and experience the basis for the recruitment, placement, training and career evolution of employees at all levels. The Group recruits and selects staff without any form of discrimination on the basis of ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION – job requirements (expertise and competences) and the PRINCIPLE 7-8-9 capability and willingness of candidates to adopt the underlying Group’s Values. 7 Solvay supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 Solvay undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9 Solvay encourages the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 5 SOLVAY REPORTING TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Clear commitments Key actions Solvay’s vision is to invent a new model of sustainable As a responsible chemical company, Solvay group chemistry. This Solvay long-term ambition translates makes significant investments in health, safety and its founder’s vision of acting as a responsible company environment to control the risks linked to its activity and that responses to the societal and environmental to improve its environmental footprint, particularly its challenges through a more innovative and sustainable emissions into the air, water, and soil. chemistry. The Group prove this by imagining and producing increasingly innovative solutions that meet Each manufacturing sites checks its compliance with all the sustainable development challenges facing our local applicable environmental regulations, in particular stakeholders. with the operation permits. Solvay applies recognized Environmental Management Systems that are based on The Solvay Way, the Group’s sustainable development the principle of continuous performance improvement. approach, is the result of this vision. By interacting with These systems are the basis for the deployment of various stakeholders, this transversal approach serves key elements which include risk analysis, monitoring as a catalyst and as a guide to constantly challenge of environmental performance and compliance to and improve the sustainability aspects of the Group’s regulations and permits, follow-up of the corresponding behaviors and practices. corrective actions, review of performance and improvement plans by the management. The Solvay Way is consistent with its commitment to the Responsible Care Global Charter®. Solvay aligns with Solvay products and R&D projects are evaluated the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. The according to the SPM methodology. This methodology Solvay Way reference framework is also aligned with the is part of the Solvay Way process. In addition, the international standard ISO 26000. There are five priority environmental profiles “cradle to gate” (Ecoprofiles) of objectives in Solvay Way: products have been established for 68% of the Group’s portfolio. The environmental profiles are used to compare • To achieve excellence in safety, health and different products or processes and also help customers occupational hygiene for everyone on our sites. to build the lifecycle assessment (LCA) of their products. • To realize an increasing share of our sales in markets In practice, the results of the SPM assessments are or with portfolio of activities meeting the requirements endorsed by the Executive Committee. A personalized of sustainable development. feed-back is given to Senior Managers and Global • To continuously improve the performance of our Business Units (GBU) entities to enable them to technologies, processes and products so to avoid incorporate the results of the SPM assessments in their injuries and limit their environmental impact throughout strategy. By end 2014 all key applications, with possible the lifecycle of our products. sustainability aspects, in all business lines, should be • To reduce greenhouse-gas emissions, energy and assessed, representing 80% of sales. water consumption, and negative impacts on soil, water and air quality, as well as the use of resources. Key achievements • To develop rich and balanced social dialogue. The key outcomes are in the Solvay SD report 2012: • Our priority targets by 2020, p. 7 In order to share with its stakeholders its progress and • Environmental performance, pp. 52-73 results Solvay has set up priority targets regarding • Sustainable Portfolio Management (SPM), pp. 38-48 sustainable development and social responsibility by 2020. For example, Solvay aims to reach a Medical Treatment Accident Rate (MTAR) lower than 1.0. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CORRUPTION Key actions Solvay has a compliance organization, under 10 Solvay works against corruption in all its forms, the leadership of the Group General Counsel. including extortion and bribery. This organization has as the objective to enhance a groupwide ethics and compliance-based culture to Clear commitment ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations Solvay explicitly states in its Code of Conduct that the and compliance with Solvay’s Code of Conduct, values Group prohibits bribery in any form. Exchanging token and corporate policies. gifts and entertainment with customers or suppliers is only permitted in accordance with the applicable Group Solvay’s Code of Conduct is supported by various Policy. Facilitation payments are not permitted by Solvay. policies including policies on Gifts, Entertainment and This commitment is also part of the IndustriALL Global Anti-Bribery, on conflicts of interest and on insider Union Agreement. By signing this global agreement, trading. Solvay undertakes to respect the 10 principles of the UN Global compact, principles of the ILO Conventions, and Key achievements proper health safety and environmental commitments. The key outcomes are in the Solvay SD report 2012: • Compliance with the Code of Conduct, p. 97 • Ethical practices, p. 109 • The Solvay Annual Report 2012 • Press release December 17th, 2013 www.solvay.com UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 7 SELF-ASSESSMENT ON ADVANCED LEVEL Solvay was able to meet from the first year the criteria of the “Advanced reporting level” and consequently became a “Global Compliance Advanced” company. 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT CRITERION 1 Key aspects of the company’s high-level sustainability strategy in line with Global Compact principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Impact of broader sustainability Never before has there been a greater need for sustainability and trends on the long-term prospects responsibility. All over the world, everyone is looking for new answers. and financial performance of the Answers on climate change, on how to produce more with fewer organisation resources, how to meet the needs of new consumers and how to fulfill our quest for health and well-being. Solvay believe that Chemistry is key to delivering this progress. Its ambition is to invent a New Model of Sustainable Chemistry. This Solvay long-term ambition translates its founder’s vision of acting as a responsible company that responses to the societal and environmental challenges through a more innovative and sustainable chemistry. The Group prove this by imagining and producing increasingly innovative solutions that meet the sustainable development challenges facing our stakeholders. The Solvay Way, the Group’s sustainable development approach, is the result of this vision. By interacting with various stakeholders, this transversal approach serves as a catalyst and as a guide to constantly challenge and improve the sustainability aspects of the Group’s behaviors and practices. Major sustainability risks and In order to identify, assess and manage opportunities successfully and at the opportunities in the near to medium same time limit risks which are potentially significant for the activities of the term (3-5 years) Group, the Company has a risk management systems. Risk management is integrated in the strategic and operational decision making process, and is seen as an essential management tool and as an aid for making the decisions to achieve the company’s short, medium and long term objectives. Solvay is a primary industry, carrying out energy –intensive industrial activities. The increase of energy cost, including the costs of energy supply, has an impact on Solvay’s activities. Costs increase due to increased cost of exploration and exploitation, geopolitics, increased demand, and the rise in cost of CO2 emissions. The availability of energy at low cost is a key challenge. More generally the changes of consumer behavior related to “green consuming” could affect the products and markets of the Group. Threats and opportunities related to sustainability “green consuming” have been identified for an important share of the group’s products and markets. Solvay risks and opportunities are disclosed in Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 130 >>> UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 9 STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Social and environmental impact of The Solvay Way integrates social, societal, environmental and economic the organisation’s activities aspects into the company’s management and strategy, with the objective to create value. It takes into account the society’s changing expectations, requesting industry to develop technologies, processes, products, applications and services in line with the objectives of sustainable development. Solvay’s commitment to sustainable development and social responsibility applies to all lifecycle stages of its products, including the design, manufacturing, product applications, end-of-life, use of resources, and the social consequences of their manufacture or use. Solvay Way based on a continuous improvement reference framework, divided in four levels of progress, allows all entities to evaluate their practices and identify their improvements on an annual basis. See more information in Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 6-17 and in Solvay Annual Report 2012, pp. 14-15 Overall strategy to manage The Solvay Group’s priority objectives in sustainable developmental and sustainability impacts, risks and social responsibility are: opportunities in the near to medium •T  o achieve excellence in safety, health and occupational hygiene for term (3-5 years) everyone on the sites. •T  o realize an increasing share of sales in markets or with an activities portfolio meeting the requirements of sustainable development. •T  o continuously improve the performance of technologies, processes and products, so as to avoid injuries and limit their environmental impact throughout product lifecycles. •T  o reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water consumption, and negative impacts on soil, water and air quality, as well as the use of resources, especially non-renewable ones. •T  o develop rich and balanced dialogue with employee representatives at national and international levels. •T  o implement the global social and environmental responsibility agreement with IndustriALL through which the Solvay Group confirms its respect for fundamental social rights and its commitment to sustainable development and social responsibility wherever it conducts its activities; Solvay Way presents the overall strategy to manage sustainability impacts, risks and opportunities. 10 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Key performance indicators to Sustainability Indicators (KPIs) are used to assess performance, to report measure progress about overall sustainability and extra-financial management and follow up the objectives to be achieved by 2020. See more information on Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 7 Major successes and failures during Solvay discloses successes and failures in its SD reporting: the reporting period See Solvay SD report 2012 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 11 STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT CRITERION 2 Implement effective decision-making processes and systems of governance for corporate sustainability Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Involvement and accountability of The Solvay Way aims to involve each and every employee, regarded as management (C-suite) in corporate a direct and essential player of the Group’s social and environmental sustainability strategy and responsibility. implementation in line with Coordinated by the Sustainable Development Management team, the Global Compact principles Solvay Way is directed via a global network of more than 200 «champions» and «correspondents» who ensure its active deployment within all the entities of the Group. The Sustainable Development Department, attentive to the needs of the different stakeholders and responsible for supervising the approach on behalf of the Group, coordinates the work of this network and reports directly to the CEO. In practice, each entity (Global Business Units or Functions) has chosen a Champion, charged with boosting and driving the implementation of Solvay Way in its organization. The Champion is assisted by a network of “correspondents” responsible for field deployment in industrial sites, R & I centers and business units. The Champions and correspondents play key roles in Solvay Way. They ensure the deployment of the process by mobilizing their colleagues around defined objectives and by setting action plans. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 6, 13-15 Corporate governance structure Deployed in 2013, Solvay Way applies to the 30.000 employees. And is and its role in oversight of corporate monitored by Solvay’s senior management. The Sustainable Development sustainability implementation in line Group General Manager reported directly to the Chairman of the Executive with Global Compact principles Committee. Goals and incentive schemes for A strong sign of Solvay’s commitment at the highest level is that in 2013, management (C-suite) to promote 10% of the annual Bonus for the Chairman of the Executive Committee sustainability strategy in line with (CEO) and 7500 managers of the Group is linked to their contribution to Global Compact principles the Sustainable Development process. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 14 12 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 3 Engage with all important stakeholders Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Regular stakeholders consultations Among the various ways used by Solvay to engage with stakeholders: in the area of human rights, labour, • Investors’ meetings and road shows: Solvay is developing a targeted environment and anti-corruption communication and dialogue on its sustainability policy and parameters and multiplies the opportunities of dialogue with investors involved in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) values. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 108 •S  olvay’s engagement in mutually beneficial dialogue with government and communities at local, regional, national and supranational level both directly and indirectly through its Public Affairs network. •D  ialogue with the various workers representatives such as the European Work Council, and IndustriALL Global Union. • In its 2013 IndustriALL Global Union agreement, two joint assessment mission will be conducted in a country and on sites chosen by IndustriALL. This assessment will focus on health, safety and environmental protection pay levels, training policy, the quality of the social dialogue, relationships with suppliers and subcontractors, the struggle against discrimination, the promotion of equal opportunities, etc. •S  olvay internal consultation via the Solvay People Survey: the aim is to ensure that relationships between employees are founded on trust and mutual respect. Every two or three years, a “Solvay People Survey” will be carry out Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 29 and 79. •S  trengthening dialogue with local communities and harmonizing actions to ensure the quality of its relationships and the sustainability of its industrial activities. Solvay regularly conducts opinion surveys among the community in the vicinity of large production sites. Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 103-106 •R  egular customers’ surveys of different nature depending on the type of product and activity are organized. List of stakeholder groups engaged Solvay is committed toward: by the organization • customers; • employees; • suppliers; • investors; • communities; • planet. See the list of stakeholders identified in the Solvay SD Report, pp. 10-12 >>> UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 13 STRATEGY, GOVERNANCE AND ENGAGEMENT Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Process for stakeholder Solvay Way is structured by stakeholders and incorporates the identification and engagement requirements of ISO 26000. See the list of stakeholders identified in the Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 10-12 Outcome of stakeholder •S olvay performance recognized in extra-financial ratings involvement Solvay SD Report 2012, p 34-35 •S olvay participation to “VinylPlus” program: a voluntary commitment by Europe’s PVC industry Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 117 •S olvay and IndustriALL Agreement Please see: Press release December 17th,2013 www.solvay.com •S olvay Product Safety Summaries (PSS) realized in the frame of an initiative of the ICCA (International Council of Chemical Association Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 112 Process of incorporating The commitments of the Solvay Way reference framework aim to achieve stakeholder input into corporate an optimal level of responsibility towards Solvay’s stakeholders. strategy and business decisionWith these stakeholders and their representatives, Solvay develops and making maintains permanent dialogue on issues of sustainable development. Discussions are based on the will to innovate and move forward together as well as to develop specific partnerships. Contracts are prepared, negotiated and executed by Solvay to reflect the Group’s sustainable development policy. Solvay Way practices are reviewed each year by external partners and the Sustainable Development Department implements the findings and conclusions to achieve progress. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 10-12 14 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 UN GOALS AND ISSUES CRITERION 4 Take actions in support of broader UN goals and issues Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Adoption or modification of Solvay’s sustainability strategy is integrated in the organization of the Group business strategy and operating and in the businesses processes. The Mission, Vision and Values of the procedures to maximize Group also include UN goals and issues. contribution to UN goals and issues “Build a strong leader participating in the reshaping of the global chemical industry. Be a model of sustainable chemistry, attracting and growing the people who will imagine, engineer and make the solutions that meet the global challenges society faces, creating value for all our stakeholders” Development of products, Solvay contributes via its products to develop new solutions responding services and business models that to social needs and the development of better and more sustainable contribute to UN goals / issues technologies, especially along partnerships with various stakeholders. Solvay Sustainable Portfolio Management (SPM) tool supports strategic decisions by the Executive Committee by assessing the sustainability of a product along two axes: its production and its markets. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 38-45 Ecoprofiles of product portfolio Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 44, 116 Social investments and At corporate level, Solvay concentrates on initiatives related to science philanthropic contributions that and technology, education and humanitarian and development projects. tie in with the organization’s core At local level, the Group’s policy is to support social and economic competencies, operating context development of the areas in which it operates in the frame of long term and sustainability strategy relationships with the neighboring communities. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 101 Public advocacy on the importance Ethics and integrity are the most reliable path to sustainable and of one or more UN goals and issues responsible growth. The Group’s values and principles tell employees and stakeholders what Solvay is and how Solvay acts. Partnership projects and collective Partnership projects and collective actions are reported in Solvay SD actions in support of UN goals and Report 2012, pp. 47-48, 67, 101 issues UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 15 HUMAN RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 5 Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of human rights Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Commitment to comply with Solvay expresses its commitment to responsible behavior and integrity, all applicable laws and respect taking into account the sustainable growth of its business, and its good internationally recognized human reputation in the communities in which it operates in the Solvay’s Code of rights, wherever the company Conduct. operates (e.g. the Universal Solvay’s Group Code of Conduct expressly states that Solvay is committed Declaration of Human Rights) to respecting and supporting human rights with regard to its employees, the communities in which it operates and its business partners as expressed in the internationally recognized standards including the U.N. Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Through its IndustriALL Global Union Agreement, Solvay re affirmed its commitment to respect Human Rights. Statement of policy expressing Solvay’s policy on Human Rights in our Businesses has been approved by commitment to respect and the Executive Committee. This Policy endorses Solvay’s commitment to support human rights approved protect and advance human rights. at the most senior level of the company Statement of policy stipulating Solvay’s Code of Conduct and the Human Rights policy clearly stipulates human rights expectations of what Solvay expects from its employees and from third parties acting on personnel, business partners and behalf of Solvay. Through a separate program, Solvay communicates its other parties directly linked to expectations to its suppliers. operations, products or services Statement of policy publicly Solvay’s policy on Human Right is available internally to all personnel. available and communicated Solvay employees will be trained, as part of a larger training. In due course internally and externally to all the policy will also be available externally. personnel, business partners IndustriALL agreement applies to the 30000 employees of the Group and other relevant parties and is integrated in the Solvay Way reference framework. Every year two assessments will be carried out on a production site chosen by IndustriALL to verify the correct application at a grassroots level of the commitments made by the Group. 16 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 6 Implement effective management systems to integrate the human rights principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices On-going due diligence process Human Rights is part of the Risk Assessment, and part of the IndustriALL that includes an assessment of Global Union missions realized on production sites chosen by IndustriALL. actual and potential human rights See also of Solvay Annual Report 2012 impacts Press release December 17th, 2013 www.solvay.com Internal awareness-raising and Training courses and induction activities are organized to ensure that an training on human rights for ethical and compliant conduct is embodied in the way business is done by management and employees Solvay and also to address behavioral risks in certain specific areas, this includes training on Human Rights. Operational-level grievance Solvay has adopted a general policy on reporting irregularities and mechanisms for those potentially misconduct. Through the “Speak Up” campaign, Solvay encourages impacted by the company’s its employees to report their concerns or their ethical dilemmas. Solvay activities encourages its employees to discuss these issues in the first place with their managers or with dedicated internal organizations. Solvay has also installed an external reporting “lines”, hosted by a third party for reporting concerns and seeking advice. These lines are operated in the majority of the countries in which Solvay is active but not yet in all countries, due to regulatory constraints. It is expected that these lines will be operated in 2014 Groupwide. Allocation of responsibilities and The function “Ethics and Compliance” has the more specific objective of accountability for addressing strengthening a culture based on ethics and compliance with the Solvay human rights impacts Values and Code of Conduct.. It consists of “Compliance Officers” who are present in the four regions. These are assisted by a network of experienced employees tasked, in addition to their other responsibilities, with supporting activities in this area. The function “Ethics & Compliance” reports twice a year to the Board of Directors. Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 161 Internal decision-making, budget Solvay “Speak Up” program encouraged the employees to take up any and oversight for effective difficulty or question relating to the application of the Code of Conduct with responses to human rights impacts its hierarchy and other identified interlocutors. The alternative for internal reporting is the external Ethics Helpline to voice any difficulties or pose questions in complete confidence. Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 161 Processes to provide for or Solvay has not been confronted with any adverse human rights impacts. cooperate in the remediation of adverse human rights impacts that the company has caused or contributed to UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 17 HUMAN RIGHTS IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 7 Implement effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of human rights integration Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices System to monitor the effectiveness Through Solvay’s Speak Up program, Solvay encourages its employees to of human rights policies and Speak Up in case of any questions, concerns or potential violations. implementation, including in the Other avenues for employees to alert the company are the Solvay People supply chain Survey (Worldwide survey carried out every two or treethree years) and on many sites a counselor has been appointed. Through the internal audit organization, the knowledge of the employees of the content of the policy will be verified. In its 2013 IndustriALL Global Union agreement, two Solvay has decided that every year, a joint assessment missions will be conducted in a country and on sites chosen by IndustriALL Global Union. This assessment will not only focus on health, safety and environmental protection but also on pay levels, training policy, the quality of the social dialogue, relationships with suppliers and subcontractors, the struggle against discrimination, the promotion of equal opportunities, etc. IndustriALL represents 50 million workers in 140 countries in the mining, energy and manufacturing sectors. The deployment of the IndustriALL agreement is also integrated in the Solvay Way framework, the new Group’s sustainability approach, which is part of the Solvay’s management processes. The level of knowledge of the IndustriALL Agreement by employees will be followed. Monitoring drawing from internal Solvay has a strong dialogue with its employees in place through the Solvay and external feedback, including People Survey (group wide survey, carried out every 2 or 3 years), through affected stakeholders the European Works Councils and the national employer representative bodies. IndustriALL Agreement and its animation is also an important opportunity to have a social dialogue. Through the Speak Up campaign Solvay also receives feedback and will share this feedback with the relevant internal organizations in order to improve current procedures. Leadership review of monitoring Reports made are taken very seriously by the organization and are and improvement results investigated by the compliance function. The decision has been taken to report on ethics and compliance regarding training and non-conformities twice a year directly to the Board. Process to deal with incidents Any alerts received on potential violations will be investigated by the dedicated compliance organization. 18 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 8 The COP describes key outcomes of human rights integration Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Outcomes of due diligence process Solvay has integrated Human Rights in its risk assessments and is incorporating Human Rights due diligence in the assessment of its suppliers through the “Together for Sustainability” initiative. A collaborative initiative for the Chemical sector regarding the assessment of the CSR performances of suppliers. These assessments will be made on the basis of standardized criteria and tools for supplier sustainability audits in which human rights issues will be addressed. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 123 External and formal reporting of Work in progress. Solvay is in the process of developing a procedure operations or operating contexts to identify potential human rights impacts. that pose risks of severe human rights impacts Disclosure of main incidents As part as consolidated financial statements, Solvay publishes involving the company the important litigation in which it is involved. Solvay is not involved in any litigation concerning human rights. Solvay Annual Report 2012, pp. 138-140 Outcomes of processes of Not applicable. No case of remediation. remediation of adverse human rights impacts UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 19 LABOUR PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 9 Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of labour Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Reference to relevant international Solvay’s policy on Human Rights expressly states that Solvay endorses conventions and other international and promotes the principles contained within the Universal Declaration of instruments (e.g. ILO Core Human Rights, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Conventions) Labor Organization (ILO), and the core conventions on Labor Standards. In 2013, the Group signed a worldwide social responsibility agreement with IndustriALL Global Union which represents 50 million workers in 140 different countries .This agreement, the first one of its kind in the chemical industry, Solvay’s agreement with IndustriALL Global Union shows Solvay’s determination to ensure that basic labor rights and the Group’s social standards in the areas of health, safety and environmental protection are respected on all its sites all over the world. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 9 Please see: Press release December 17th, 2013 www.solvay.com 20 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Reflection on the relevance of the Solvay commits to respect international social standards as defined by labour principles for the company the International Labor Organization and to comply with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in all its operations worldwide. The IndustriALL Global Union agreement reinforces the commitments already made by Solvay in the areas of health & safety at work, the management of risks related to the pursuit of its business activities and environment protection. The signatories are determined to fulfill this agreement in a concrete and dynamic manner. Every year, two joint assessment missions will be conducted in a country and on sites chosen by IndustriALL. The first one, conducted by the Global Safety Panel (a committee gathering 4 union representatives from Solvay – one for each of the 4 region of the world where Solvay is present – and 2 representatives from IndustriALL) will measure the results of Group safety policies. The second one will assess the application of the agreement in all its dimensions: not only health, safety and environmental protection but also pay levels, training policy, the quality of the social dialogue, relationships with suppliers and subcontractors, the struggle against discrimination, the promotion of equal opportunities, etc. Solvay Way guides and formalizes the Sustainable development strategy for the group and all of its entities. The commitments of the Solvay Way reference framework aim to achieve an optimal level of responsibility towards Solvay’s employees. This framework closely links operational performance and behavioral excellence; it is simultaneously a management guide, an improvement tool and a key driver for internal and external commitment and dialogue. Structured by stakeholder groups, the Solvay Way offers a self-assessment checklist enabling the various parts of the Group to position their practices with regard to Solvay’s commitments and to define required improvement initiatives. Written company policy (e.g., in The Solvay’s Code of Conduct includes a chapter on Ethics & Integrity in code of conduct) on labour the workplace. In addition the Code of Conduct is supported by various Human Resources policies that are dedicated to labour like: • career management; • job evaluation and job families(Hay system) to promote equal opportunities; • compensation to promote equal opportunities; • international mobility policy to promote equal opportunities. >>> UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 21 LABOUR PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Inclusion of minimum labour Solvay has recently developed a specific Supplier’s Code of Conduct that standards in contracts with will be gradually deployed amongst all its suppliers and sub-contractors. suppliers and other relevant This Supplier Code of Conduct includes a chapter on Human Rights where business partners Solvay expects from its suppliers to share our belief that respect for human rights is in the interest of everyone – individuals, companies and ultimately society as a whole. Solvay encourages suppliers to hold themselves to the highest standards in ensuring respect for human rights. The application of minimum labour standards by its suppliers will be verified through the “Together for Sustainability” initiative. A collaborative initiative for the Chemical sector regarding the assessment of the CSR performances of suppliers. These assessments will be made on the basis of standardized criteria and tools for supplier sustainability audits in which human rights issues will be addressed. Specific commitments and goals for You can see the five priority objectives in Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 14 specified years and the targets by 2020 in the Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 7. 22 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 10 Implement effective management systems to integrate the labour Principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Risk and impact assessments in The main identified risks for Solvay, as a chemical group, is definitely safety the area of labour and health of the personnel. See Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 98 Among the main risks for people in the Solvay group activities are those related to the excessive exposure of employees, contractors and the public during production activities and exposure to hazardous products or during the transportation or use of these hazardous chemicals. See Solvay Annual Report 2012, pp. 136-137 Allocation of responsibilities The allocation of the responsibilities is shared within Solvay between the and accountability within the Human Resources Department, the Sustainable Development Department organisation and the Legal & Compliance Department. Internal awareness-raising and The Solvay Code of Conduct has a dedicated chapter to ethics & integrity training on labour principles for in the Work Place and is accompanied by a permanent training program management and employees that includes labour principles. People & Management Model The People Model and the Code of Conduct give employees the framework to act as responsible people. The People Model, which concerns collaborative and collective behavior, is a social contract between the Group and its employee’s. It promotes relationships based on dialogue, mutual respect and transparency. It also recognizes the importance of constant people development in order to ensure that the Group has the right competencies skills set to develop its businesses. Grievance mechanisms, Solvay has adopted a general policy on reporting irregularities and communication channels misconduct and encourages its employees through its “Speak Up” and other procedures campaign to report their concerns or their ethical dilemmas. Solvay (e.g. whistleblower has also installed an external reporting “lines”, hosted by a third party mechanisms) for reporting for reporting concerns and seeking advice. These lines are operated in concerns or seeking advice the majority of the countries in which Solvay is active but not yet in all countries, due to regulatory constraints. It is expected that these lines will be operated in 2014 Groupwide. See the Solvay Annual Report 2012 and Solvay SD Report, page 97 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 23 LABOUR PRINCIPLES IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 11 Describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of labour principles integration Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices System to track and measure Solvay Way Self-assessment and continuous improvement steps: a selfperformance based on assessment checklist enabling the various parts of the Group (GBUs and standardized performance metrics Functional Divisions) to position their practices with regard to Solvay’s commitments and to define required improvement initiatives. Audits or steps to monitor and Key and first line suppliers are subject to regular audits by the Solvay improve the labour performance of buyers and by internal or external functions independent from the companies in the supply chain purchasing/supply chain. During these audits the following points are evaluated: finance, health and security, environment. Assessment of the CSR performances of suppliers, including human rights, will also take place through the “Togehter of sustainability”assessments. Leadership review of monitoring Safety performance is reported to the Executive Committee on a monthly and improvement results basis and to the Board of Directors. Every year, an assessment will be carried out on a Solvay site chosen by IndustriALL to verify the correct application at a grassroots level of the commitments made by the Group. Process to deal with incidents Solvay has adopted a general policy on reporting irregularities and misconduct. Through the “Speak Up” campaign, Solvay encourages its employees to report their concerns or their ethical dilemmas. Solvay encourages its employees to discuss these issues in the first place with their managers or with dedicated internal organizations. Solvay has also installed an external reporting “lines”, hosted by a third party for reporting concerns and seeking advice. These lines are operated in the majority of the countries in which Solvay is active but not yet in all countries, due to regulatory constraints. It is expected that these lines will be operated in 2014 Groupwide. 24 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 12 The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labour principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Outcomes of due diligence and 80% of Solvay employees are represented by an independent trade union follow-up efforts to uphold the or covered by collective bargaining agreements freedom of association right to the worldwide social responsibility agreement signed in 2013 with collective bargaining IndustriALL Global Union which represents 50 million workers in 140 different countries, shows Solvay’s determination to ensure that basic labor rights and the Group’s social standards in the areas of health, safety and environmental protection are respected on all its sites all over the world. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 9 Outcomes of due diligence and See personnel well-being & stress follow-up efforts to eliminate forced Solvay SD report 2012, page 84 labour Outcomes of due diligence and Age pyramid follow-up efforts to abolish child Solvay SD report 2012, page 81 labour Outcomes of due diligence and Diversity and equal opportunity follow-up efforts to eliminate Solvay SD report 2012, page 80-81 discrimination Disclosure of main incidents Disclosure of the number of non-compliance with the Code of Conduct involving company Solvay SD report 2012, page 97 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 25 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 13 Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of environmental stewardship Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Reference to relevant international The Solvay sustainable development policy is consistent with its conventions and other international commitment to the Responsible Care Global Charter®. instruments Solvay aligns with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and uses as a reference the voluntary international standard ISO 26000. Solvay SD Report 2012, page 52 Reflection on the relevance of Besides the responsibility regarding production activities and their safety, environmental stewardship for the the responsibility for the products Solvay provides to its customers and to company society is essential and this all along the life cycle of products, down to their end-of life and recycling. This is reflected in the important efforts to identify and communicate accurately about the potential dangers of some of Solvay products and the ways to manage the associated risks, according to all existing regulations and further. Written company policy on The Company has an environmental policy which includes the following environmental stewardship elements: • reference to all key issues of energy and water consumption, waste and emissions to air and water; • responsibility at board level the Company’s Sustainable Development strategy is supervised by the Executive Committee; • commitment to use of objectives and targets; • commitment to monitoring and auditing; • commitment to public reporting; • globally applicable corporate operating standards; • commitment to stakeholder involvement; • commitment to address product or service impact; • moves towards sustainability. In addition, the Company has signed or endorsed the following charters or other initiatives: the chemical industry Responsible Care programme since 1992. It also committed to the new worldwide ICCA global Responsible Charter (in 2007). 26 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Inclusion of minimum environmental Solvay has recently developed a specific Supplier’s Code of Conduct that standards in contracts with will be gradually deployed amongst all its suppliers and sub-contractors. suppliers and other relevant This Supplier Code of Conduct includes a chapter on Environment business partners where Solvay expects from its suppliers to minimize the impact on the environment in all their operations, products and services. This includes but is not limited to the following: •S uppliers are responsible for managing, measuring and minimizing the environmental impact of their facilities and transportations, including reductions on emissions, waste, energy and water consumption. •S uppliers shall comply with all local regulations or, in their absence, international standards. •S uppliers shall carry out initiatives to favor the sustainable use of renewable resources. The application of the environmental standards by its suppliers will be verified through the “Together for Sustainability” initiative. The Group wishes to involve its suppliers in relationships of trust, based on shared ethical principles established with the goal of creating sustainable value for all. Solvay’s commitments are: •D efining prerequisites and integrating them into the supplier selection process •E valuation buyers’ CSR performance •M anaging and assessing suppliers’ CSR performance, optimizing relationship Specific commitments and goals for You can see the five priority objectives in Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 14 specified years and the targets by 2020 in the Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 7. >>> UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 27 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 14 Implement effective management systems to integrate the environmental principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Environmental risk and impact Environmental risk is Solvay’s exposure stemming from the accidental assessments release of a chemical substance following a plant equipment failure, a transport accident or production problems resulting in exceeding permitted emission levels. Annual Report 2012, Environmental Risk management, pp. 137-138 Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 53-54 Assessments of lifecycle impact of As a manufacturer of products to be used in the manufactured of finished products, ensuring environmentally products, Solvay has established detailed ecoprofiles for 95% (of last year sound end-of-life management revenues) of its portfolio. policies Ecoprofiles are used to feed the SPM (Sustainability Portfolio Management) assessments. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 116 Allocation of responsibilities Responsibility at board level the Company’s Sustainable Development and accountability within the strategy is supervised by the Executive Committee. organisation Internal awareness-raising HSE training in all Solvay sites. and training on environmental stewardship for management and employees Grievance mechanisms, A new Crisis Management policy and process have been put in place communication channels and in 2013. This policy defines the crisis alert process at group level. other procedures (whistleblower mechanisms) for reporting concerns or seeking advice regarding environmental impacts 28 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 15 Implement effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for environmental stewardship Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices System to track and measure Environmental data (about 300 parameters) are collected and consolidated performance based on and a series of KPIs are published through a variety of channels, in line standardized performance metrics with the UN’s Aarhus Convention on public access to information on the environment and in reference to the Global Reporting Initiative. See the various reporting channels for environment performance in our website. Leadership review of monitoring Solvay applies recognized Environmental Management Systems (EMS) and improvement results that are based on the principle of continuous improvement. The detection and follow-up of compliance with operating permits and laws, and for environmental performance documentation is an intrinsic part of the systems. EMS are the basis for the deployment of key elements such as risk analysis, monitoring of performance, follow-up of corrective actions, and review of performance, including improvement plans, by the site Management. In 2012, Solvay did not report any significant environmental accident. The Solvay sites were required to maintain or establish, by end 2013, environmental management systems of ISO 14001-type or equivalent at all sites, and to have them certified in respect of activities incurring significant risks of adverse environmental Impact. The Rhodia legacy sites rely on an in-house management system, deployed worldwide. For the future, all sites will be required to have an HSE Management System in line with Group standards (Solvay Care Management System or equivalent: ISO, EMAS, Responsible Care). These systems include provisions for the verification of legal compliance and for performance documentation. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 53-54 Process to deal with incidents Each manufacturing site checks compliance with the local applicable environmental regulations, in particular with operation permits. Environmental management systems include systems dedicated to check this compliance. Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 53-54 Audits or other steps to monitor All key suppliers and all first line suppliers (number) are subjected to and improve the environmental regular spot-checks made by the Solvay buyers. The following points are performance of companies in the evaluated: finance, health and security, environment, Moreover, detailed supply chain audits are organized in specific sites and specific regions as well as specific activities like transport (with the Safety Quality Assessment SystemSQAS of CEFIC). UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 29 ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 16 Describes key outcomes of integration of the environmental principles Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Indicators on uses of materials and Energy consumption, Water intake energy Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 55-56, 68-70 Indicators on emissions, effluents, Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 56-68, 70-73 an waste Indicators on the company’s Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 54, 117-120, 101 initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Indicators on the development and Alignment of R&D & Innovation projects with megatrends diffusion of environmentally friendly Solvay SD report 2012, pp. 38-45 technologies Disclosure of main incidents Incidents during transport, loading, and unloading of Solvay products involving the company Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 122 30 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 17 Formulate robust commitments, strategies or policies in the area of anti corruption Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Publicly stated formal policy of Solvay’s Code of Conduct expressly states that the Group prohibits bribery zero-tolerance of corruption in any form. Solvay and its employees do not use gifts or entertainment to gain competitive advantage. Facilitation payments are not permitted by Solvay. Disguising gifts or entertainment as charitable donations is equally a violation of the Code of Conduct. Solvay is a member of Transparency International Belgium. the global Corporate Social and Environmental Agreement with IndustriALL Global Union applies to the whole Group. It reaffirms the commitment of the Group to especially work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment to be in compliance In addition the Code of Conduct is supported by various policies including with all relevant anti-corruption a policy on Gifts, Entertainment and anti-bribery. laws, including the implementation of procedures to know the law and The function “Ethics & Compliance” has the objective of straightening monitor changes a culture based on ethics and compliance. This organization is also responsible to know the law, create awareness, train the employees and develop procedure. Statement of support for Solvay expects from its employees to comply with all applicable laws international and regional legal and regulations. frameworks, such as the UN Convention against Corruption Carrying out risk assessment of This is work in progress. Solvay will systematically incorporate the issue potential areas of corruption of corruption in its risk assessment. Detailed policies for high risks areas Solvay’s Policy to prevent corruption covers all forms of corruption (public of corruption and private) in all geographic areas. Policy on anti-corruption regarding Solvay strongly encourages its joint venture parties to put in place a similar business partners ethics & compliance program including anti-corruption. Solvay’s Supplier Code of Conduct expressly states that Suppliers shall not engage in or tolerate any form of corruption, bribery, extortion or fraud. Suppliers shall not offer any gifts or other benefits to Solvay employees that could improperly influence the Solvay employee. UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 31 ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 18 Describe effective management systems to integrate the anti-corruption principle Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Support by the organization’s Solvay’s Code of Conduct as well as the policy on Gifts, Entertainment leadership for anti-corruption and Anti-Bribery has been approved by Solvay’s Executive Committee. is strongly supported by Solvay’s management. Human Resources procedures In 2013, a groupwide training program on corruption and bribery will supporting the anti-corruption be reinforced targeting the employees that might be exposed to commitment or policy, including corruption risks. communication to and training for all employees Internal checks and balances to Solvay requests from its employees to obtain prior managerial approval ensure consistency with the antito accept or give gifts or entertainment above a certain nominal value. corruption commitment Management is request to keep records of these requests and their responses. Actions taken to encourage Solvay’s Supplier Code of Conduct expressly states that Suppliers shall business partners to implement not engage in or tolerate any form of corruption, bribery, extortion or fraud. anti-corruption commitments Suppliers shall not offer any gifts or other benefits to Solvay employees that could improperly influence the Solvay employee.chain. Management responsibility and Solvay has a compliance organization under the leadership of the Group accountability for implementation General Counsel in place to enhance a groupwide ethics and complianceof the anti-corruption commitment based culture to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations or policy and compliance with Solvay’s Code of Conduct, values and corporate policies. The compliance officer report directly to the Group General Counsel. Communications (whistleblowing) Solvay has a “Speak Up” program to encourage its employees to channels and follow-up report when they are faced with concerns or ethical dilemma’s. Solvay mechanisms for reporting concerns encourages its employees to discuss these issues in the first place with or seeking advice their managers or dedicated internal organization. Solvay has also installed an external reporting ethicsline, hosted by a third party for reporting concerns and sealing advice. Speak Up is being deployed in the majority of the countries in which Solvay is active but not yet in all countries due to the regulatory concerns. Internal accounting and auditing Auditing on corruption or any other form of fraud is part of the mission procedures related to anticorruption of Solvay’s internal audit function. 32 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 19 Describe effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for the integration of anti-corruption Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Leadership review of monitoring On an annual basis a Compliance report will be issued to the Board and improvement results of Director. Process to deal with incidents Any report or request for advice will be dealt with by the dedicated compliance organization. In 2012, 18 reports were registered through the Speak Up campaign, all 18 reports were further investigated. Public legal cases regarding Solvay has nothing to report. corruption See also Solvay Annual Report, pp. 138-140 Use of independent external Solvay is a member of Transparency International Belgium and works assurance of anti-corruption closely together with various non-financial rating agencies. programmes UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 33 ANTI-CORRUPTION IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 20 Describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption principle Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Outcomes of assessments of Risk assessement is a work in progress. potential areas of corruption, where appropriate Outcomes of mechanisms for Any report or request for advice will be dealt with by the dedicated reporting concerns or seeking compliance organization. In 2012, 18 reports were registered through advice the Speak Up campaign, all 18 reports were further investigated. Indicators Human Resources Solvay SD report 2012, page 97-99 procedures supporting the anticorruption commitment or policy Disclosure of main incidents Solvay SD Report 2012, page 97 involving the company 34 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 VALUE CHAIN IMPLEMENTATION CRITERION 21 Describes implementation of the Global Compact principles in the value chain Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Analysis of sustainability risks, Supply Chain and Manufacturing Risk in production units is Solvay’s opportunity and impact in the exposure to risks with raw material, suppliers, production and storage units value chain, both upstream and and transportation, such as risks of major equipment failure or damage, downstream transportation accidents, drastic shortages of raw materials or energy, natural disasters or transportation strikes. See Solvay Annual Report 2012, p. 131-132 Policy on value chain, including Solvay has recently developed a specific Supplier’s Code of Conduct that a policy for suppliers and will be gradually deployed amongst all its suppliers and sub-contractors. subcontractors Communication of policies and The Procurement Function continues to implement long-lasting expectations to suppliers and other and responsible relationships with their suppliers, via information business partners campaigns, regular interactions, training, evaluations and innovations, in-line with socially and environmentally responsible principles established by Solvay Way. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 123 Monitoring and assurance Since 2012, Solvay is taking part in a new collaborative initiative for the mechanisms (e.g. audits/ Chemical sector regarding the assessment of the CSR performances of screenings) for compliance in the suppliers: “Together for Sustainability”. These assessments will be made value chain on the basis of standardized criteria and tools for supplier sustainability audits in which human rights issues will be addressed. The participants to this initiative will share the supplier sustainability assessments and audits data. Nevertheless, the participants will keep responsibility for their own operations. Solvay SD Report 2012, p. 23 Awareness-raising, training and The Group wishes to involve its suppliers in relationships of trust, other types of capacity building based on shared ethical principles established with the goal of creating with suppliers and other business sustainable value for all. partners Sustainability is an integral part of the Solvay Group strategy. The Solvay Way Corporate Social Responsibility is integrated into the Solvay Purchasing Process. Solvay is committed to: •D efine prerequisites and integrate them into the supplier selection process • Evaluate buyer’s CSR performance •M anage and assess supplier’s CSR performance, optimizing relationships. Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 12, 123 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 35 VERIFICATION AND TRANSPARENCY CRITERION 22 The COP provides information on the company’s profile and context of operation Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Legal structure, including any group See Solvay Annual Report 2012. structure and ownership Countries where the organisation See Solvay Annual Report 2012, p 139. operates, with either major operations or operations that are specifically relevant to sustainability Markets served (including See Solvay Annual Report 2012. geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ beneficiaries) Primary brands, products, and/ In the Solvay website or services Direct and indirect economic value Sustainable development part of the Annual Report 2012 generated for various stakeholders Solvay SD Report 2012 (employees, owners, government, lenders, etc.) 36 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 CRITERION 23 Incorporates high standards of transparency and disclosure Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices COP uses the Global Reporting A concordance Table with the criteria of Global Reporting Initiative and Initiative (GRI) Sustainability UN Global Compact is used in Solvay SD Report 2012, pp. 126-131 Reporting Guidelines COP qualifies for Level B or above No information yet reported at this stage of the GRI application levels COP includes comparison of key This is usually the case for the KPIs selected and reported by Solvay. performance indicators for the See the Sustainability indicators 2010. previous 2-3 years Board, where permissible, approves To be implemented. COP and other formal reporting on corporate sustainability Relevant sustainability information Solvay Annual Report includes information relating to sustainability issues. from COP is included in annual financial report and fillings UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 37 VERIFICATION AND TRANSPARENCY CRITERION 24 Independently verified by a credible third party Global Compact best practices Solvay’s best practices Accuracy of information in COP is To ensure the reliability and credibility of its extra-financial reporting, Solvay verified against assurance standard commissioned Ernst & Young Company Auditors (E&Y) to audit and ensure (e.g. AA1000, ISAE 3000) the reliability of key elements of its Sustainable development reporting system. In addition to the audit elements of previous years, E&Y certified the data consolidation in 2012. Indeed, E&Y verified the processes for energy, greenhouse gas, and environmental emissions. Also, E&Y certified the information of the Product Portfolio (SPM) presented in the SD Report 2012, pp. 39-43. See also Solvay SD report 2012, p. 30-31, pp. 132-133 Accuracy of information in COP is Assurance report verified by independent auditors See also Solvay SD report 2012, p. 30-31, pp. 132-133 (e.g. accounting firm) Content of COP is independently Solvay will use the new GRI.4 frame for reporting. verified against content standards (e.g. GRI Check) COP is reviewed by a multiTo be discussed. stakeholder panel or by peers (e.g. Global Compact Local Network) 38 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 NOTES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 39 NOTES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SOLVAY 2013 41 Solvay S.A. Rue de Ransbeek, 310 1120 Bruxelles Belgique ©2013, SOLVAY T: +32 2 264 2111 F: +32 2 264 3061 www.solvay.com
