HP 2012 1 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Report Governance Environment Society About this report see page 3 see page 26 see page 72 see page 134 Contents 3 Governance 26 Environment 72 Society 4 Letter from CEO Meg Whitman 27 Environmental sustainability 73 Human rights 5 Executive summary 29 Energy and climate 75 Supply chain responsibility 8 HP profile 32 Paper 76 Our approach 10 Global citizenship strategy 33 Employee engagement 78 Progress in 2012 11 Materiality 35 Products and solutions 96 Conflict minerals 12 Global citizenship and business value 37 Life cycle assessment 98 Supplier diversity 13 Global citizenship governance 38 Research and development 103 Privacy 14 Stakeholder engagement 39 Design 108 HP people 16 Affiliations and memberships 41 Materials 109 Engaging our people 18 Corporate ethics 44 Packaging 110 Building careers 19 Ethics and compliance 45 Transport 112 Diversity and inclusion 21 Anticorruption 46 Use 114 Rewards and benefits 22 Public policy 50 Product return and recycling 115 Wellness 25 Policies and standards 54 Vendor audits 116 Health and safety 55 HP operations 120 Social innovation 57 Management and compliance 121 Education 57 Energy and GHG emissions 124 Health 58 Energy efficiency 125 Community engagement 60 Renewable energy 127 Performance 60 Travel 129 Economic impacts 61 Waste and recycling 130 Data dashboard: Society 63 Water 64 Sustainable building design 64 Toxics Release Inventory 134 About this report 65 Ozone-depleting substances 135 Overview 65 Remediation 136 Assurance 65 Biodiversity 137 Report of Independent Accountant 67 Data dashboard: Environment 139 UN Global Compact index 140 Global Reporting Initiative index I ndicates Ernst & Young has reviewed this indicator/value. See Report of Independent Accountant on page 137 for details of the work performed and values assured. Share with colleagues Contents • Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Governance Employees, customers, and other key stakeholders increasingly look to HP for leadership in helping to address many of the world’s major environmental and social challenges. We believe that profitable and responsible operations make a positive impact on communities worldwide. 4 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance • Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Welcome to the HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report. Our founders, Bill and Dave, first put Global Citizenship on supply chain, our own operations, and the footprint of the list of HP’s corporate objectives in 1957. And we still our products and services in use. This is another first in know today that being a good corporate citizen is integral the IT industry. to our innovation and performance. It is central to our corporate purpose of advancing the way people live and work. The saying goes that you can’t manage what you can’t measure, and we can now measure our complete carbon The world is facing many challenges: climate change and footprint. This insight allows us to commit to new goals rising energy costs, the need for economic development like reducing the carbon dioxide emissions of our operaand social equality, and increasing information security tions by another 20% by 2020. Achieving this goal will help and privacy concerns—just to name a few. lower HP’s operating costs and energy-price risk, providing business benefits as well as environmental benefits. HP is leading the way with a strong commitment to providing solutions for our customers that address business In our Global Citizenship Report, you’ll learn about these issues in ways that can also positively impact society and examples and many others. In addition, to promote the planet. higher standards across the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, we endorse the United We’ve made great progress in 2012. Nations Global Compact as a practical framework for the development, implementation, and disclosure We launched the first commercialized product from our of sustainability policies and practices. Project Moonshot, which will truly revolutionize the data center with an entirely new category of server. We expect The contributions we make to benefit people, comit to consume up to 89% less energy and 80% less space munities, and the planet also create value for HP, our at 77% less cost, and I am confident it will be an extreme employees, our customers, and our shareholders. improvement over anything else on the market. It’s not just good values, it’s good business—and that We also launched new responsible supplier guidelines for means a path to sustainable growth. student and dispatch workers in China. This is an industryfirst initiative that protects high-risk workers and promotes responsible labor practices. This initiative is part of HP’s Sincerely, larger commitment to ensuring that our suppliers meet high ethical standards and treat our extended workforce with dignity and respect, reducing turnover and supporting product quality. Meg This past year, we also published our complete carbon footprint, a measure of our environmental impact as a corporation. This includes the footprint of our extended 5 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman • Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Executive summary HP has long been a leader in global citizenship—it has been one of our seven corporate objectives since 1957. We fully embrace our social and environmental responsibilities, and we are committed to conducting our business in ways that positively impact society and the planet. Our global citizenship agenda covers a broad spectrum, including governance, environment, and society. Below are our most significant achievements towards this vision in 2012. Governance Global citizenship strategy Corporate ethics HP demonstrates clear leadership and governance to HP emphasizes ethics in everything we do, making achieve consistently strong global citizenship perforemployees aware that we are accountable for our actions, mance. This effort begins at the top and depends on responsible for the consequences, and proud of our efforts. active participation and support throughout HP. • Scored 99% in the 2012 DJSI category of Codes of • Conducted a formal materiality assessment to review Conduct/Compliance/Anticorruption & Bribery and update our understanding of HP’s global citizen• 99% of HP employees completed the ethics and ship issues compliance annual training session • Launched the External Global Citizenship Council to • 25,000 employees viewed the Integrity Matters provide external input and guidance videos on handling ethical issues • Scored 92 out of 100 for disclosure in 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project Leadership Index Public policy • Included in the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index HP advocates with transparency and integrity to promote (DJSI) World Index and North America Index laws and regulations that encourage economic growth and innovation in a socially and environmentally respon• Included in four FTSE4Good indexes for the tenth sible manner. consecutive year • Promoted public policy priorities, including working with governments around the world on technology, tax, trade, intellectual property, and social and environmental policies 6 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Environment Governance Letter from CEO Environmental sustainability Product return and recycling Meg Whitman HP continues to improve the efficiency of our products, HP provides broad geographical coverage of take-back • Executive summary supply chain, and operations. programs and ensures an environmentally responsible option for processing HP products at the end of their life. HP profile • Published our complete carbon footprint, making HP Global citizenship among the first companies globally to disclose this level • Reached 2.5 billion pounds of electronic products and strategy of information (released in early 2013) supplies recycled since 1987 Stakeholder • 100% of HP Everyday Office Papers are FSC®-certified in • Increased the number of U.S. take-back locations for HP engagement the Americas (as of early 2013) print cartridges to more than 7,000 through partnerCorporate ethics ships with Walmart, OfficeMax, and Staples – and Office • Held a top spot in the Newsweek Green Rankings for the Depot in early 2013 Public policy third consecutive year Policies and standards • Established a new recycling facility to process used HP Products and solutions ink cartridges in São Paulo, Brazil Environment HP works to reduce the environmental footprint of products Society and solutions across our portfolio—from single-user perHP operations About this report sonal computing devices and printers to enterprise servers, HP continues to increase efficiency in our operations, storage equipment, and data centers. reducing energy use and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and improving our landfill diversion rate. • The HP Moonshot system uses up to 89% less energy compared to traditional servers1 • Established a goal to reduce total GHG emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and 2) by 20% by 2020, • HP’s Energy-Star qualified, latest OfficeJet range of compared to 2010 printers use up to 50% less energy than the majority of comparably priced laser printers2 • Reduced total GHG emissions from our operations by 8% from our 2010 baseline • Most HP PCs, printers, and servers are more than 90% recyclable by weight3 • Achieved an 88.1% landfill diversion rate 1 According to internal HP engineering that compares HP Moonshot servers with traditional x86 server technology. 2 Majority of color laser printers <$800 USD and color laser MFPs <$1,000 as of August 2012. Energy use based on HP and HP commissioned third-party testing. Actual cost and energy usage may vary. For details, see www.hp.com/go/officejet. HP OfficeJet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One series compared with majority of color laser AiOs <$600 and HP OfficeJet Pro 8100 ePrinter compared with majority of color laser printers <$300, March 2011. HP OfficeJet Pro X Series compared with majority of color laser printers <$800 and color laser MFPs <$1,000, August 2012. 3 Calculated using HP’s Recyclability Assessment Tool. 7 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Society Governance Letter from CEO Human rights HP people Meg Whitman HP maintains a centralized human rights program in our HP hires, develops, and retains the employees we believe • Executive summary Ethics and Compliance Office to identify and manage our will make our business continue to thrive, offering supportown impacts in this area and provide leadership in multiive, motivating workplaces where everyone can flourish. HP profile stakeholder forums promoting respect for human rights Global citizenship • Engaged 10,000 employees in leadership training in business. strategy • Increased participation in our mentoring programs by 40% • Developed a human rights risk assessment process taiStakeholder • 40,000 employees in 80 countries participated in global engagement lored to our operations and potential human rights risks wellness exercise challenges Corporate ethics • Continued external advocacy and leadership through the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights and BSR • Delivered more than 200 events for employees on Public policy diversity topics through our Employee Resource Groups Policies and standards Supply chain responsibility Environment HP advances efforts to significantly improve social and Social innovation Society environmental responsibility (SER) standards throughout HP continues to expand our contribution to finding soluthe IT supply chain tions to environmental and social issues by uniting the About this report power of people and technology. • Developed new supplier guidance on appropriate use of student and dispatch workers (released in early 2013) • Reached more than 2 million entrepreneurs since 2007, helping to establish and expand more than 25,000 busi• Conducted first independent management system nesses and create over 57,000 jobs through HP LIFE assessments of HP supplier facilities • Tested more than 200,000 infants in Kenya and • Rated #2 in the Enough Project’s survey “Taking Conflict Uganda for HIV/AIDS through the HP Early Infant Out of Consumer Gadgets: Company Rankings on Diagnosis (EID) project Conflict Minerals 2012” • HP employees donated more than 1.4 million hours to • First IT company to publish its supply chain smelter volunteer projects list (released in early 2013) • $118.6 million USD in social investments made through • First IT company to publish its supply chain water cash, products, and services4 footprint (released in early 2013) Privacy HP works to protect customers’ privacy and personal information through employee training and external engagement. • More than 99% of permanent employees completed privacy training • Led a consortium that was awarded European Community funding for research on accountability models for cloud services • Served as a Trusted Advisor to the European Commission and data protection regulators to influence the development of new privacy legislation • Our Privacy Office handled more than 70,000 inquiries 4 Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from the HP Company and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation, plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data exclude contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations but include HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. 8 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary • HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report HP profile HP delivers innovation in printing, personal computing, software, services, and IT infrastructure. We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio, most expansive scope, and deepest industry expertise to deliver value and improved outcomes for customers in almost every country in the world. HP is at the forefront of technological innovations that advance the way we live and work, enabling us to play a vital role in creating sustainable growth. Key capabilities Expand the core Software HP provides leading software to expand, HP applies core competencies in solutions, services, softimprove, and manage the core. Our software differentiware, and infrastructure to address the IT challenges our ates our hardware to improve its performance and help customers face. solve customer problems. We also make software to manage heterogeneous infrastructure environments and—via Autonomy technology—address customers’ Solutions Customer-centric solutions that make it work information management challenges. Add value to the core Industry and technology services solving key Services Services HP services envelop our core infrastructure customer problems and software to enable customers to get increased value Leading software provides confidence, insight, from HP. Through broad offerings such as outsourcing, Software application, consulting, and technology services, we work and agility to ensure that our technology meets customer needs. We build relationships that can last for decades. World’s largest provider of technology hardware Infrastructure infrastructure Make it work Solutions Our solutions add value by combining our technologies to advance customers’ business objectives Build the core in a holistic and compelling way. We have packaged our HP infrastructure HP’s hardware franchises, marketcapabilities into five key solution areas: converged infraleading server, storage, and networking business, and PC, structure, application transformation, enterprise security, imaging, and printing groups account for about 65% of our information optimization, and hybrid delivery. revenue. Everything we do either amplifies or builds on this unique strength. 9 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP strives to define markets and lead in innovation, NetNet Revenue by segment, fiscal year 2012 [$million USD] revenue by segment, fiscal year 2012* [$million USD] Governance with a strategic focus on assisting customers with cloud technologies, information optimization, and security. We Letter from CEO increased research and development spending again in Meg Whitman 2012, to $3.4 billion USD, and expect to continue to bring Executive summary the very best innovations to market. • HP profile Global citizenship strategy Shared values Stakeholder engagement HP’s shared values and company-wide objectives include a long-standing commitment to global citizenship. Broader Corporate ethics than any single organization or program, global citizenship Public policy at HP determines how we capitalize on our technologies Policies and standards and expertise to help address the world’s major social and environmental challenges and accelerate positive change. Environment Personal Systems $35,650 28.9% Society About this report HP corporate summary Printing $24,487 19.8% • # 10 on Fortune 500 US Services $34,922 28.3% • # 31 on Fortune 500 Global Enterprise Servers, Storage, and $20,491 16.6% Networking • President and Chief Executive Officer: Meg Whitman • Employees: Approximately 331,800 worldwide1 Software $4,060 3.3% • Incorporated in Delaware, United States HP Financial Services $3,819 3.1% • Ticker symbol: HPQ on New York Stock Exchange • Corporate and regional headquarters Corporate Investments $108 — • FY12 net revenue: $120 billion USD * The total of segment revenue, $123,537 million USD, includes intersegment net revenue and other of ($3,180 million USD). Total HP consolidated net revenue in fiscal year 2012 equaled $120,357 million USD. 1 As of October 31, 2012. 10 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile • Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Global citizenship strategy HP operates in more than 170 countries. We have long been a leader in global citizenship— it has been one of our seven corporate objectives since 1957. We fully embrace our social and environmental responsibilities, and we are committed to conducting our business in ways that positively impact society and the planet. Our Global Citizenship program covers a broad agenda, including governance, environment, and society. During the coming decade, we intend to continue to focus on: • Partnerships Our collaborative spirit creates powerful partnerships across institutions, industries, sectors, • Enhancing environmental sustainability across the and borders. These improve our collective capability to product life cycle address the serious challenges that the world faces. • Building a leading human rights program • Driving strong and sustained social and environmental responsibility in our supply chain Global citizenship reporting • Advancing an accountability approach to ensure respect We are committed to transparent reporting on global for privacy citizenship that demonstrates accountability to our • Addressing global health and education issues through stakeholders. HP has reported on our global citizenship social innovation programs, performance, and goals every year since we published our first Global Citizenship Report for 2001. Building on the size and scale of our company and our deep Over that period, we have progressively broadened the history in global citizenship, we are uniquely positioned to scope, increased the level of detail, and expanded the create these positive outcomes. Our approach to global metrics in our report. We refer to the Global Reporting citizenship includes: Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines in the development of our report. See the 2012 Global • Technology HP’s innovative technology provides the Reporting Initiative index on page 140. foundation for many of our global citizenship initiatives. • People Our 331,800 dedicated employees worldwide1 See Overview on page 135 for more detail about the are committed to making a difference. Global citizenship scope of our report and our approach to assurance. improves our competitiveness and our ability to attract and retain the best people. 1 As of October 31, 2012. 11 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Materiality Contents The following graphic illustrates the results of this assessGovernance ment. Each issue is linked to one of HP’s three global citizenship pillars—governance, environment, and society. Letter from CEO Meg Whitman In 2012, we commissioned a formal materiality assessment, conducted by BSR and GlobeScan. Our objective was Overall, the materiality assessment illustrates the wide Executive summary scope of global citizenship issues. These are all relevant to to take a fresh look at the wide range of global citizenship HP profile issues that HP faces, to reconfirm our long-standing areas how HP conducts business in a way that positively impacts • Global citizenship of focus, determine any gaps in our current programs, and society and the planet. The assessment also helped constrategy identify emerging issues and new leadership opportunities firm the issues that HP should prioritize going forward. Stakeholder for our business. Key findings included: engagement The assessment included insights from four main sources: Corporate ethics • Product-related opportunities, such as improving product Public policy • Interviews and workshops with internal stakeholders energy efficiency and expanding access to technology, and HP leaders represent the leading areas where HP can create value Policies and standards • Interviews with members of our newly formed External for society and for our business. Environment Global Citizenship Council • Managing our operations responsibly—from decreasing Society • Reviews of public and internal HP documents environmental impacts and protecting customer privacy About this report to promoting diversity and ensuring ethical behavior— • Quantitative surveys of more than 230 external stakeremain important areas for HP. holders and opinion leaders and more than 650 HP employees • Enhancing labor conditions in our global supply chain is among the important ways we can drive sustainable development. HP 2012 materiality assessment Governance Environment Society High Non-GHG air emissions Energy and GHG emissions in Product energy efficiency operations and supply chain Responsible paper sourcing Sustainable product design Waste and hazardous materials in Biodiversity impacts operations and supply chain Product reuse and recycling Access to technology Water in operations and supply chain IT as a sustainability solution Use of substances of concern in products Social application of IT Sustainable buildings Labor practices in supply chain Supply chain codes, standards, and engagement Responsible sourcing of materials Importance to sustainable development Climate resilience and adaptation Public policy engagement Ethical behavior and business partnerships Freedom of expression Responsible marketing Transparency, accountability, Product transport and logistics and reporting Packaging Bribery and corruption Sale and misuse of IT products Diversity and inclusion and services Privacy and data protection Executive compensation Board structure and independence Occupational health and safety Lobbying and political contributions Supplier diversity Workforce reductions and relocations Employee travel Employee volunteerism Employee training and development Natural disaster relief Employee wellness and benefits Taxes paid Low Importance to HP’s business success Low High 12 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Based on this assessment, HP is also expected to focus on Cost savings Governance issues such as the human rights implications of the sale • Energy and resource efficiency in HP’s operations and misuse of IT products and services. and those of our suppliers reduces costs and increases Letter from CEO Meg Whitman productivity. We plan to use the assessment results to help shape Executive summary our global citizenship strategy and reporting efforts • Risk management related to global citizenship issues HP profile moving forward, and to help ensure that we continue to helps HP to avoid expenses associated with crisis focus on areas of greatest importance to HP and to our management. • Global citizenship strategy stakeholders. Reputation enhancement Stakeholder • Strengthened relationships with customers, governengagement ments, nongovernmental organizations, investors (see Corporate ethics Public policy Global citizenship Global citizenship indexes below), and others improve our ability to conduct business effectively. Policies and standards Environment and business value • Increased employee engagement enables us to attract and retain a talented workforce. Society • Expanded influence among policy makers and thought Global citizenship is an important source of business value leaders helps us promote issues important to our indusAbout this report for HP. Our efforts in this area strengthen our business by try, our customers, and the world. contributing to sales growth, helping us achieve cost savings, and enhancing our reputation. Global citizenship indexes How global citizenship can Analysts from socially responsible investment (SRI) firms contribute to business value and other investment-focused organizations regularly report on HP’s global citizenship performance. These Sales growth assessments help us to benchmark our global citizen• Better business opportunities result from HP’s ability ship programs and initiatives against other companies. In to service customers’ increasing expectations for high2012, the following were among the ratings and rankings performing products that contribute to sustainable that included HP: development, and from our ability to help customers meet their own global citizenship objectives. • Carbon Disclosure Project HP placed in the top 10% of • Improved market access results from our ability to companies on this year’s Carbon Disclosure Leadership better anticipate legislation, participate in public policy Index, which ranks companies on the transparency and discussions, maintain legal compliance, and innovate progress they have made on their carbon emissions and and collaborate to meet societal needs. climate change goals. HP scored 92 out of 100—an eight point improvement over our 2011 score. • Long-term contracts are formed with enterprise customers and government agencies in the United States • Dow Jones Sustainability Index HP was among the top and worldwide that include environment, privacy, 10% of the companies named to the 2012 Dow Jones supply chain responsibility, and other global citizenSustainability World Index and was also named to the ship factors in their procurement criteria. In 2012, of North American Index, which measures a company’s customer requests for proposal that included queseconomic, environmental, and social performance. tions about environmental and social performance, • FTSE4Good Included on four FTSE4Good indexes for HP found that 36% asked for information regarding the tenth consecutive year. materials use in our products, and 31% asked about • Interbrand For the second consecutive year, HP ranked product recycling. 2 the highest among electronics companies and again • Access to capital is supported by our relationship with placed fifth overall on the 50 Best Global Green Brands major investors, which are increasingly assessing global 2012 list from Interbrand, a leading brand consultancy. citizenship-related performance and risk. • NEWSWEEK 2012 Green Rankings For the third year in a row, HP ranked 2nd on Newsweek’s listing of the top 500 U.S. companies, in recognition of our commitment to environmental sustainability. In addition, HP placed 22nd on the Global 500 list. 2 Does not include requests for proposal for which environmental and social questions were addressed directly by customers or our sales force. 13 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Global citizenship HP Global Citizenship Council Contents Governance governance Letter from CEO HP’s Executive Council retains overall responsibility for Meg Whitman global citizenship as part of our business strategy. Our Global Citizenship Council ensures company-wide comExecutive summary mitment to and alignment with HP’s global citizenship HP profile A company as diverse and complex as HP needs clear objectives. The council comprises executives and subject leadership and governance to achieve consistently strong • Global citizenship global citizenship performance. This begins at the top and matter experts from across HP and seeks input from all of strategy our business groups and functions, as well as from external depends on active participation and support throughout Stakeholder stakeholders. It meets at least quarterly to promote and our organization. engagement advance global citizenship strategically through risk and Corporate ethics opportunity assessment, governance, and policy oversight. Public policy HP Board of Directors’ Nominating The Global Citizenship Council is sponsored by a member Policies and standards and Governance Committee of the HP Executive Council. Co-chairs are HP’s vice presiEnvironment dent of sustainability and social innovation and the senior The Board of Directors’ Nominating and Governance vice president and chief ethics and compliance officer. Society Committee assists the board in fulfilling its responsibiliAbout this report ties related to public policy, government relations, and Other executives and subject matter experts represent the global citizenship (including human rights). The committee following areas: identifies, evaluates, and monitors social, political, and • Corporate • Human Resources environmental trends and concerns as well as domestic and Communications • Human Rights foreign legislative proposals and regulatory developments that could significantly affect HP’s business. The committee • Corporate Ethics • Investor Relations may also report and make recommendations to the board • Enterprise Risk • Global Security with respect to activities, policies, and programs relating Management • Privacy to matters of local, national, and international public policy • Environmental • Supply Chain affecting HP’s business. These may include: Sustainability Responsibility • Government Relations • Social Innovation • Trade policy and major legislative and regulatory developments • Relations with regulators, governmental agencies, Topic-specific councils public interest groups, and other stakeholders HP also maintains separate councils dedicated to areas • HP’s policies with respect to global citizenship such as the environment, supply chain responsibility, cor• General guidelines for political contributions porate ethics, and privacy. These councils include leaders with relevant expertise from our business units, regions, and functions. Each council meets periodically to evaluate our progress in implementing our strategies and to establish performance goals. Global citizenship governance HP Board of Directors Nominating and Governance Committee assists the board in fulfilling its responsibilities related to HP's public policy, government aﬀairs, and global citizenship (including human rights) activities HP Executive Council External Global Citizenship Council HP Global Citizenship Council Corporate Hewlett-Packard Supply chain Social Environment Human rights Privacy HP people Company ethics responsibility innovation Foundation 14 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy • Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Stakeholder engagement It is impossible for one organization alone to tackle the full breadth of global citizenship issues. HP therefore collaborates with a diverse range of stakeholders to pursue long-term, scalable solutions to major environmental and social challenges. This collaboration happens across borders and between • Malini Mehra, founder and CEO of the Center for industries and institutions. From these relationships, Social Markets we gain valuable insights into emerging trends, external • Kevin Moss, head of corporate responsibility at standards and regulations, and environmental and social BT Americas risks and opportunities facing our business. We use these insights along with our own materiality assessment (see • Steve Westly, founder of The Westly Group and Materiality on page 11) to inform our global citizenship former controller and chief fiscal officer of the approach and broader business strategy. State of California • Andrew Winston, founder of Winston Eco-Strategies and author of Green Recovery External Global Citizenship Council The EGCC replaces the Executive Environmental Advisory In 2012, we established a new stakeholder council of Council (EEAC), which was formed in 2010 to provide external experts to provide input on our global citizenship objective insight to HP leadership on broad environmental strategy. The External Global Citizenship Council (EGCC) trends and our own strategies and programs. The EGCC membership comprises leaders from across the academic, expands upon the EEAC’s original scope to address global business, and nongovernmental organization (NGO) comsocial as well as environmental issues. munities. The eight members are: Meeting twice a year, the council helps HP leadership • Aron Cramer, president and CEO of BSR evaluate opportunities, set priorities, and assess progress • John Elkington, founding partner and executive chairwith regard to global citizenship. EGCC members also proman of Volans and co-founder of SustainAbility vide input on key initiatives. For example, the council’s first • Peter Graf, chief sustainability officer and executive vice major task was to inform and review HP’s recent materiality president of sustainability solutions at SAP assessment (see Materiality on page 11). • Peggy Liu, chairperson of Joint U.S.-China Collaboration HP values external stakeholder feedback, and we careon Clean Energy fully consider the recommendations of our stakeholder councils. 15 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP’s stakeholder engagement Governance Stakeholder group Types of engagement Example of issues raised Example of HP’s response Letter from CEO Academics Collaborations Support and promote In 2012, HP Catalyst multiversity consortium member, Meg Whitman access to STEMx Northwestern University, developed Project Access to Sponsorships education. enhance STEMx education to underfunded public middle Executive summary and high schools. See Social innovation on page 120. See Education on HP profile page 121. Global citizenship Customers Customer surveys Help enterprise We expect HP Project Moonshot servers to consume up to strategy customers decrease 89% less energy than traditional x86 servers. See Design on Joint initiatives resource consumption page 39. • Stakeholder Requests for proposal and carbon emissions. engagement Employees Employee surveys Capitalize on In 2012, 200 employees volunteered for an HP Hackathon. Corporate ethics employee skills to The winning team developed a valuable tool that can legally Volunteer programs Public policy help address social locate registered blood donors with rare blood types using challenges. information those individuals have already provided volunPolicies and standards tarily. See Social innovation on page 120. Environment Investors Rankings and indices Provide details of In 2012, HP was again included on the CDP S&P 500 Carbon Society HP’s environmental Disclosure Leadership Index. See Global citizenship and busiperformance to ness value on page 12. About this report benchmark against peer companies and competitors. Legislators and Lobbying governments Use of conflict In 2012, HP participated in a multi-stakeholder group to regulators minerals. create consensus opinions and communications that were Research provided to the U.S. State Department and to the U.S. Responding to public Securities and Exchange Commission. See Conflict minerals consultation on on page 96. regulations Participating in working groups Local Cash and in-kind donations Provide ongoing In 2012, HP volunteers taught basic IT skills to tsunami communities support to rebuild victims in Shinonome, Japan, so that they could reach relaVolunteer programs and recover after tives, stay up to date with current events, search for jobs, disasters. and more. See Community engagement on page 125. Nongovernmental Collaboration on programs Use technology to In 2012, HP joined with Clinton Health Access Initiative organizations and initiatives promote access to (CHAI), Kenya Ministry of Health, and Strathmore University healthcare. on the Early Infant Diagnosis project to expedite early HIV Collaboration on innovatesting and treatment for infants. See Health on page 124. tive solutions to social challenges Rankings and reports Peer companies Collaboration on industry Reduce excessive In 2012, HP cochaired the Electronic Industry Citizenship initiatives and working working hours in Coalition’s (EICC) new working group on excessive working groups supplier facilities. hours. See Supply chain responsibility on page 75. Professional Participation and sponsorPromote industryIn 2012, HP participated in the Green Chemistry and organizations ship of initiatives wide efforts to Commerce Council (GC3) to identify alternative plasticizers. eliminate use of See Materials on page 41. emerging substances of concern. Social Participation at Bridge the gap In 2012, HP Advisors paired seasoned HP professionals with entrepreneurs conferences between NGO and social entrepreneurs to share expertise. See Community corporate expertise. engagement on page 125. Mentoring Suppliers Audits Reduce supplier In 2012, HP worked with suppliers to develop corrective nonconformances action plans to address nonconformances. We conducted Participation at business to HP’s EICC Code of follow-up audits to check items were resolved. See Supply development events Conduct. chain responsibility on page 75. Capability-building programs Mentoring Quarterly business reviews Supplier surveys 16 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Affiliations and Contents Clinton Health Access Initiative (CHAI), a global health Governance organization committed to strengthening integrated health systems in the developing world and expanding Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary memberships access to care and treatment for HIV/AIDS, malaria, and tuberculosis HP profile HP belongs to or affiliates with many organizations that Combat Climate Change (3C), a business leaders’ initiaaddress global citizenship issues, including: tive to support the negotiation process led by the United Global citizenship strategy Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation, the premier forum establish a new global agreement • Stakeholder for facilitating economic growth, cooperation, trade, and engagement investment in the Asia-Pacific region Corporate Eco Forum, a membership organization for Corporate ethics large companies that demonstrate a serious commitment BSR, a global nonprofit organization that helps member Public policy to the environment as a business strategy issue, helpcompanies enhance business performance while respecting Policies and standards ing accelerate sustainable business innovation and the ethical values, people, communities, and the environment exchange of best-practice insights Environment Society Center for Climate and Energy Solutions, an independent, CSR Asia, which builds capacity in companies and their nonpartisan, nonprofit organization working to advance About this report supply chains to promote awareness of corporate social strong policy and action to address the twin challenges of responsibility in order to advance sustainable developclimate change and energy ment across the region Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, a CSR Europe, a business membership network that promembership-based research organization associated with motes the business case for corporate social responsibility the Carroll School of Management, which is committed to across the region and globally helping businesses leverage their social, economic, and human assets to ensure both their success and a more just Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition, a coalition of the and sustainable world world’s leading electronics companies working together to improve efficiency and social, ethical, and environmental Center for Democracy & Technology, a nonprofit public responsibility in the global supply chain policy organization that conceptualizes and implements public policies that will keep the Internet open, innovative, EPEAT®, a leading global registry that helps identify greener and free computers and other electronic equipment The Centre for Information Policy Leadership, an organizaEthics and Compliance Officer Association (ECOA), a nontion that develops initiatives that encourage responsible profit, member-driven association exclusively for individuals information governance necessary for the continued who are responsible for their organization’s ethics, compligrowth of the information economy ance, and business conduct programs Change the Equation, an organization that pledges to Ethos Institute for Business and Social Responsibility, a create widespread literacy in science, technology, engiBrazilian nonprofit organization with a mission to mobilize, neering, and math (STEM) as an investment in our nation encourage, and help companies manage their business in that empowers us all a socially responsible way The Climate Group, an independent, nonprofit organizaEuropean Academy of Business in Society (EABIS), a tion working internationally with government and business network of companies and business schools commitleaders to advance smart policies and technologies to cut ted to putting business-in-society issues at the heart of global emissions and accelerate a clean industrial revolution management practice European e-Skills Association, an organization representing Climate Savers Computing Initiative (CSCI), a nonprofit the information and communications technology sector’s organization committed to reducing carbon dioxide contribution to the development and implementation of a emissions through the development, deployment, and long-term e-skills and digital literacy agenda in Europe adoption of smart technologies to improve efficiency and reduce the amount of energy a computer consumes European Recycling Platform (ERP), the first ever panEuropean take-back scheme to effectively implement Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), which convenes global leadthe European Union’s Waste Electronic and Electrical ers to devise and implement innovative solutions to some Equipment (WEEE) Directive of the world’s most pressing challenges—maximizing their efforts to alleviate poverty, create a cleaner environForest Stewardship Council (FSC®), an independent, nongovment, and increase access to healthcare and education ernmental, nonprofit organization established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests 17 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Global Business Initiative on Human Rights (GBI), an National Association for Environmental Management Governance initiative led by major global corporations to support (NAEM), a nonprofit, nonpartisan professional association action-learning activities that promote the implementation dedicated to educating corporate environmental, health Letter from CEO of the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and safety, and sustainability decision makers Meg Whitman Executive summary Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI), an independent, Partners in Health, an NGO founded in 1987 that aims to HP profile nonprofit association that fosters global and open cooperprovide a preferential option for the poor in healthcare. By ation, informs the public of its members’ voluntary actions establishing long-term relationships with sister organizaGlobal citizenship to improve their sustainability performance, and promotes tions based in settings of poverty, Partners In Health strives strategy technologies that advance sustainable development to bring the benefits of modern medical science to those • Stakeholder most in need of them and to serve as an antidote to despair engagement Global Forest Trade Network (GFTN), an initiative by World Corporate ethics Wildlife Fund (WWF) to eliminate illegal logging, improve Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade, a the management of valuable and threatened forests, and joint initiative between governments, companies, and civil Public policy create a new market for environmentally responsible forsociety to support supply chain solutions to conflict minerPolicies and standards als challenges in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) est products Environment and the Great Lakes Region (GLR) of Central Africa Society Global Social Compliance Programme, a business-driven program for the continuous improvement of working and Sustainable Silicon Valley, an organization leading Silicon About this report environmental conditions in global supply chains Valley to a more sustainable future through collaboration with local government agencies, businesses, and The Green Grid Association, a nonprofit, open industry community organizations to identify and address the consortium of global IT companies, policy makers, and end highest-priority environmental issues users seeking to improve energy efficiency in data centers and unite industry efforts to develop a common set of United Nations Global Compact, a voluntary and strategic metrics, processes, and new technologies policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally IDH: The Sustainable Trade Initiative, a multi-sector process accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, that aims to improve the sustainability of international environment, and anticorruption supply chains U.S. Green Building Council, a nonprofit organization comInternational Climate Change Partnership (ICCP), a global mitted to a prosperous and sustainable future through membership-based coalition of companies and trade cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings, including associations committed to constructive and responsible LEED® certification for data centers participation in the international policy process concerning global climate change World Economic Forum, an independent, nonprofit foundation committed to improving the state of the world by Junior Achievement, the world’s largest organization dediengaging societal leaders in partnerships to shape global, cated to educating students about workforce readiness, regional, and industry agendas entrepreneurship, and financial literacy through experiential, hands-on programs World Resources Forum, a science-based platform to exchange knowledge about the economic, political, and mothers2mothers, an NGO that helps prevent mother-toenvironmental implications of global resource use child transmission of HIV. Since 2001, mothers2mothers has grown from one site in Cape Town to more than WWF Climate Savers, an initiative by World Wildlife Fund 400 sites in seven countries (WWF) to mobilize multinational companies to voluntarily reduce greenhouse gas emissions and promote the business case for energy efficiency and clean technology 18 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement • Corporate ethics Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Corporate ethics 99% At HP, how we do things is as important as what we do. We are accountable for our actions, responsible for their consequences, and proud of our efforts. Our values guide us to behave ethically and with respect of HP employees completed the toward our stakeholders and wider society. We use ethics and compliance annual our scale and influence to encourage similar behavior training session beyond our own operations. Read more in Human 25,000 rights on page 73. We strive to maintain a strong culture of integrity and trust globally, whatever the local culture, laws, and employees watched Integrity regulations. Our robust ethics and compliance program Matters videos on handling ethical issues requires HP employees, partners, and suppliers worldwide to use only lawful and ethical business practices. 99/100 scored in the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index category of Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ Anticorruption & Bribery 19 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Doing the right thing is central to our brand and culture. We Governance structure and responsibilities Governance do not tolerate corrupt behavior and will never trade our HP’s commitment to the highest ethical standards starts integrity for a business opportunity. We refuse to pay bribes at the top. The Board of Directors heads our ethics and Letter from CEO or kickbacks even when it requires walking away from a compliance governance structure and, along with comMeg Whitman deal (see Anticorruption on page 21). We have systems pany executives, sets the tone for employees. Our Ethics Executive summary and processes in place for employees, partners, suppliers, and Compliance Office oversees the day-to-day work on HP profile and others to report ethics issues, and we work quickly to this issue across our global operations. The board’s Audit Global citizenship resolve them according to our policies and local laws. Committee provides nonexecutive input on our program strategy and guidance to our chief ethics and compliance officer. In the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index, HP scored 99 Stakeholder out of 100, the highest score in the IT sector, in the category During fiscal year 2012, the Board of Directors was led by engagement of Codes of Conduct/Compliance/Anticorruption & Bribery. executive chairman, Raymond Lane, and lead independent • Corporate ethics We also earned high ratings in Transparency International’s director, Rajiv Gupta. On April 4, 2013, Mr. Lane ceased Public policy Defence Companies Anticorruption Index for 2012. serving as chairman, and the board appointed Ralph Policies and standards Whitworth, an independent member of the board, to serve Environment HP codes of conduct as nonexecutive chairman on an interim basis while the board conducts a search for a permanent nonexecutive Society Employees chairman. With Mr. Whitworth serving as an independent About this report nonexecutive chairman, the board determined that the Standards of Business Conduct (20+ languages) role of lead independent director was no longer necesHP U.S. Public Sector Employees sary and eliminated it. For further information, see HP board membership, board committees and composition, U.S. Public Sector Code of Conduct and corporate governance guidelines. These documents address various board-related issues, including board Contingent Workers governance and director independence. Contingent Worker Code of Conduct (20+ languages) Suppliers Ethics and compliance governance structure HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct Board of Directors Partners Partner Code of Conduct (20+ languages) Audit Committee Independent Director Ethics and Chief Ethics and Compliance Oﬀicer compliance Ethics and Compliance Committee Every day, the actions of our employees impact HP’s Ethics and Compliance Oﬀice reputation. We are proud of our record for integrity and hold ourselves and our business partners to very high standards. Legal and regulatory compliance is required from all our employees, partners, and suppliers, and we promote a culture of integrity, trust, and ethical decision Compliance Council Global Ethics Team making wherever we operate. To put these principles into practice we employ rigorous standards, governance structures, training, communications, and reporting and Compliance Oﬀice Ethics Oﬀice investigation procedures. Regulatory Compliance Corporate SBC HP’s Standards of Business Conduct (SBC), available in Review Board Compliance Team 20+ languages, sets clear expectations for employees and provides guidance in difficult situations. We use addiMarket Knowledge Business, Regional, tional codes of conduct for contingent workers, partners, Board and Global Functions and suppliers, and for employees working with the U.S. SBC Liasons public sector. Privacy and Data Protection Board Local SBC Network Social and Environmental Responsibility Operations Council 20 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Asking questions and reporting concerns Progress in 2012 Governance We encourage employees to raise concerns and ask quesLetter from CEO tions whenever they are uncertain of the best course of Ethics and compliance training Meg Whitman action—without fear of retaliation. Everyone at HP is accountable for his or her actions— Executive summary regardless of position in the company. Our main training In keeping with HP’s long-standing “open door” approach initiatives in 2012 included: HP profile to communication, we provide guidance on asking quesGlobal citizenship tions and reporting concerns in our SBC, accompanying • Mandatory ethics and compliance annual refresher strategy training module, corporate policy directory, and ethics course Ninety-nine percent of employees (excluding and compliance website. Employees can also talk to their new hires, those on leave of absence, and people leaving Stakeholder engagement manager or more senior managers if ethics issues arise, HP) completed a one-hour online training session that or they may seek advice from our ethics and compliance covered SBC and key policies, procedures, and high-risk • Corporate ethics issues. This number includes senior officers and execuexperts or regional or business SBC liaisons. Public policy tives. New hires completed a comprehensive course Policies and standards We provide formal, confidential communication reportwithin 30 days of joining us. Board members complete ing channels for employees and third parties, including the training every two years and were not included in Environment e-mail, an online form, and a global 24-hour toll-free the 2012 course. Society hotline with translators available. Where allowed by • Training videos Approximately 25,000 employees About this report law, reporting can be anonymous. See the table “Items viewed our Integrity Matters videos. These depict typical reported to the Global SBC team or other compliance scenarios where ethical issues arise and provide guidfunctions” at right. ance from senior leaders on how to respond. See how to ask a question or report a concern. • IonETHICS We published our newsletter IonEthics twice in 2012, featuring anonymous case studies and “what Investigating concerns if?” scenarios to educate employees on handling ethically challenging situations. We use a Global Case Management System to record allegations of ethical violations. Managers receive access to incident details as needed, while protecting personal Items reported to the Global SBC team or other information. These data help us identify any geographical compliance functions, 2008–2012 hotspots of ethicsand compliance-related incidents that [percentage of total by topic] may require additional action. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 We respond promptly to all alleged violations and conduct Human resources 56% 35% 44% 42% 39% investigations as appropriate. Investigations may involve local, regional, or corporate-level employees and include Misuse of assets 19% 14% 11% 10% 12% members of other relevant functions. HP’s Investigations Fraud 5% 12% 10% 9% 8% team oversees all escalated, corporate-led investigations. Details and results of investigations are kept as confidential Sales channel 1% 3% 3% 3% 1% violations as is practically possible. We take appropriate disciplinary action based on the results of our investigations. When Conflicts of 4% 7% 6% 8% 13% necessary we terminate employees and review relationinterest ships with partners and suppliers. Confidentiality 4% 6% 5% 6% 4% Customer 0% 2% 2% 3% 4% relationships Financial and 1% 4% 3% 2% 2% public reporting Competition 1% 1% 1% 3% 3% Other 9% 16% 15% 14% 14% Investigation process overview Review, analyze, Form team and plan Remote investigation On-site investigation Report and close and conclude • Review the allegation and • Develop informants and other • Obtain and review evidence • Assess credibility • Write the report prepare a notification memo witnesses only available on-site • Reach reasonable conclusions • Solicit inputs • Form the investigation team • Background work • Interview witnesses and subjectss in good faith • SBCCT Leadership Team and and assign a case owner Obtain remotely available • Discuss initial recommendations applicable regional and business • Put together an investigation information and disclose as required unit SBC liaisons review report plan E-mail/HDD search and analysis and confirm recommendations • Commence investigation Informational interviews • Close case by phone • Implement • Plan for on-site investigation 21 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Anticorruption Contents employees. Additionally, nearly 34,000 HP employees Governance worldwide received comprehensive scenario-based anticorruption training in 2011 and 2012 that covered Letter from CEO Corrupt behavior impedes legal compliance and social relevant anticorruption laws. Employees who work with Meg Whitman and economic development, and undermines the very the U.S. public sector complete additional training tailored Executive summary to the unique requirements of conducting business with foundation upon which HP was built. We do not tolerate HP profile any bribery or kickbacks to win business or influence a the government. Global citizenship business decision. strategy Our Ethics and Compliance Office provides specific guidHP is committed to complying fully with all anticorruption ance and training for growth markets and specialists Stakeholder laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt teams, including face-to-face training and materials that engagement Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act. We ensure compliance may be adapted for localized training to address the SBC • Corporate ethics and Global Business Gifts, Travel, and Entertainment with all applicable anticorruption laws wherever we do Public policy business through our Anticorruption Compliance Program, Policy. In 2012, we focused on enhancing and expandPolicies and standards which is reviewed and revised each year to ensure that ing our controls related to third-party due diligence and HP has adequate procedures in place to prevent bribery. other areas. Environment HP also has policies for Global Business Gifts, Travel, and Society We require all employees, partners, and suppliers to Entertainment and Political Contributions. About this report report corrupt activity and to adhere to our anticorruption We use internal data and Transparency International’s policies. We encourage employees to consult the Ethics Corruption Perceptions Index to identify high-risk countries and Compliance Office over any potential misconduct, and and raise awareness of potential ethical issues in each we promptly investigate alleged violations of our policies market. We participate in and speak at anticorruption or relevant laws. conferences around the world, including events outside of our industry. We also benchmark our program with those of other companies to identify ways to improve and Ongoing investigation strengthen our anticorruption compliance program. The German Public Prosecutor’s Office, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the Securities and Exchange Training Commission are currently investigating allegations of misconduct in connection with a 2003 transaction between a Anticorruption training is part of our mandatory ethics former HP subsidiary in Germany and the Russian General and compliance induction process for new hires and is Prosecutor’s Office (GPO). HP takes such matters very serian important part of the annual refresher course for all ously and continues to cooperate fully with the authorities in their ongoing investigations. Goals 2012 goals Progress Assess effectiveness of training We seek feedback on our programs through surveys, e-mails, and other means to assess relevance and and consulting programs. understanding. We also analyze case data to identify areas for remediation and then assess whether that remediation is effective. Lead growth market compliance. We provided additional focused compliance-related support and dedicated anticorruption training to the Growth Markets Organization team. Improve localization of training We continue to increase our outreach and reinforce our relationships with the region and country leaders to and programs. ensure that our training and programs are relevant and address current issues. Begin expanding Wellness HP expanded its Wellness Assessment Program to assess the compliance programs and top legal and reguAssessments to HP subsidiaries. latory risks of four of its subsidiaries across all three geographic regions. We will continue to expand our program to assess additional subsidiaries in 2013. Mature HP’s Human Rights We made significant progress aligning the pan-HP Human Rights Program with the Corporate Compliance program to mirror other compliProgram framework and will continue to drive implementation and alignment in 2013. ance programs. 2013 goals Increase business-led ethics and compliance messaging and communications. Showcase “ethics champions.” Continue assessment of effectiveness of training and consulting programs. Continue expanding controls relating to third-party due diligence, including initiating rescreening of existing channel partners. Revise and consolidate anticorruption policies. Enhance event and hospitality screening processes. 22 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics • Public policy Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Public policy As a global company, we are in a unique position to influence public policies that can have a positive impact on people and communities worldwide. We share our deep industry knowledge and experience with government agencies and regulators to help shape effective policies in areas such as technology development, taxation, market access, environment, and intellectual property rights. Our objective is to promote laws and regulations that encourage industry growth and innovation in a socially and environmentally responsible manner. HP’s public policy work complies with all applicable national and international laws as well as our own strict Standards of Business Conduct (SBC). Collaboration Policy priorities in 2012 While our in-house Government Relations team leads our public policy engagement, we also work with IT industry Our recent public policy work focuses on the five areas associations. These organizations provide a unified voice described below. in discussions with government agencies. We list the major memberships and coalitions HP belongs to worldwide on Technology policy our Government Relations website. Cloud technology’s continued growth is a strategic priority for HP and was a key policy focus in 2012. The rapid In regions where we have significant business interests, expansion of cloud computing is attracting attention from we also engage external consultants, including profesgovernments and regulatory agencies worldwide. HP is sional contract lobbyists. These experts work closely with helping shape policies and regulatory frameworks that Government Relations and abide by national and regional support the adoption of this new style of IT. Our approach lobbying regulations as well as HP’s SBC. is customer-focused and environmentally aware. We advocate for strong privacy and data protection regulations, robust cybersecurity standards, and energy efficient cloud delivery. 23 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP encourages policies and regulatory frameworks based • HP supported Russia’s official membership in the World Governance on open standards that do not require a particular type of Trade Organization (WTO) in 2012. This development will technology. We also support regulatory frameworks that allow the United States and other WTO members to work Letter from CEO deliver standardization, interoperability, and portability with Russia to spread international trade obligations in Meg Whitman across IT systems and solutions. This helps our global areas such as intellectual property, market access for Executive summary customers while improving cloud functionality. Likewise, goods and services, and investment rules. The United HP profile we promote government procurement standards and poliStates subsequently approved Permanent Normal Trade Global citizenship cies that take into account the speed of innovation and life Relations with Russia, allowing U.S. companies to realize strategy cycle costs of technology, and that enable the free flow of the benefits of Russia’s WTO membership. data across borders, when permissible by law. Stakeholder Intellectual property and anticounterfeiting engagement Highlights in 2012 included: Our business is based on innovation and relies on fair Corporate ethics • Sharing our cybersecurity practices in response to an and efficient intellectual property protection. However, • Public policy existing patent systems across different regions do not inquiry from U.S. senator John D. Rockefeller IV, who Policies and standards chairs the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, provide adequate protection for legitimate intellectual Environment and Transportation property. We support changes to patents and copyright regimes worldwide that would better balance the interests Society • Contributing our insight on cybersecurity in response to of consumers, technology equipment manufacturers, and About this report the European Union (EU) Consultation on Network and intellectual property rights holders. In the United States, we Information Security also support reform to strengthen the patent system and • Publishing a response to the EU Commission’s public curb abusive patent litigation. Additionally, we support the consultation on cloud computing, highlighting our work introduction of more effective fair compensation systems on protecting privacy and personal data in jurisdictions that still use analog copyright levies. Tax and economic incentives A related issue, counterfeiting, costs the IT industry an HP promotes tax policies and economic incentives that estimated $100 billion USD in annual revenue globally.1 It encourage innovation, growth, and job creation. In the poses a sizable challenge to HP and is more sophisticated United States, such tax policies include support for an and pervasive than ever before. The sale of fake goods international tax system that reflects the 21st-century can damage our customers and our brand, and the loss of global marketplace and incentives for innovation such as income lessens our ability to create jobs and develop new the research and development tax credit. HP also works technologies. with national governments, NGOs, and multinational organizations around the world to support policies that To fight the trend of counterfeiting, HP developed the encourage job creation, higher living standards, and Anticounterfeiting Program to partner with governments expanded business activity. and law enforcement agencies to encourage the strengthening of IP law and the prosecution of counterfeiters, Market access whether small vendors or large manufacturers. In fiscal year 2012, approximately 65% of HP’s overall net Social and environmental policies revenue came from outside the United States. We support comprehensive and progressive trade agreements Working closely with governments and other progressive between countries and regions that liberalize markets companies, HP helps drive advances in public policy that for our products and services and increase transparency address global environmental and social concerns. in government procurement, regulations, and standards. We also support agreements that include clear rules to Highlights in 2012 included: protect intellectual property, labor standards, and the • As part of the technical working group within the environment. International Organization for Standardization, we helped develop standards for calculating the carbon Highlights in 2012 included: footprint of products, slated for publication in 2013. • HP supported the continuation of U.S. negotiations with • HP continued to engage governments and stakeholders, eight Asia-Pacific countries toward the completion of a directly and through trade associations, to help improve Trans-Pacific Partnership free trade agreement, which national and international approaches to controlling addresses key issues such as cross-border data flow, the movement of electronic waste while also allowing privacy, technology standards, government procurelegitimate movements of used equipment for repair and ment, and protection of intellectual property rights. We reuse to continue. See Product return and recycling on welcome the commencement of negotiations on a page 50. Transatlantic Free Trade Area, which we believe can help lower barriers to trade between the United States and the European Union. 1 Managing the Risks of Counterfeiting in the Information Technology Industry, page 2, KPMG LLP and the Alliance for Gray Market and Counterfeit Abatement. 24 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Political engagement See historical data on page 130. Governance In 2012, HP contributed $1,422,375 USD to state and local Learn more on our Government Affairs website, including: Letter from CEO Meg Whitman candidates, political memberships or sponsorships, and • Policies for corporate and PAC political contributions ballot measure campaigns in the United States. These conExecutive summary • Criteria and responsibilities for approving political tributions aligned with our policy positions and complied HP profile contributions with HP’s political guidelines, SBC, and applicable laws. Global citizenship • List of candidates who received corporate or PAC contristrategy U.S. law prohibits corporate contributions to federal political butions in 2012 Stakeholder candidates. However, eligible employees can make volun• List of Section 527 organizations that received contribuengagement tary donations to the HP Political Action Committee (PAC). tions from HP in 20123 Corporate ethics HP PAC is a separate legal entity from HP that contributes to both Democratic and Republican campaign committees, The website also discloses the proportion of our member• Public policy PACs, and party committees who share our policy views. In ship fees that each trade association we belong to in the Policies and standards 2012, HP PAC dispersed a total of $529,450 USD.2 United States used for lobbying purposes in 2012. Environment As a general rule, HP does not make political contributions Society outside the United States. About this report 2 Includes minimal operating expenditures. 3 The term “527 organization” refers to a U.S. political organization that is not regulated by the Federal Election Commission. These organizations are created under Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code. 25 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Letter from CEO Meg Whitman Executive summary HP profile Global citizenship strategy Stakeholder engagement Corporate ethics Public policy • Policies and standards Environment Society About this report Policies and standards Accessibility Global citizenship HP Accessibility Policy HP Global Citizenship Policy Business ethics Human rights HP Standards of Business Conduct HP Global Human Rights Policy Corporate governance Labor practices Corporate Governance Guidelines HP Open Door Policy Diversity Privacy HP Nondiscrimination Policy HP Global Master Privacy Policy HP Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy Supply chain Environment HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy Climate Change Policy HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Environmental, Health, and Safety Policy Code of Conduct Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy Hardware Recycling Standards HP General Specification for the Environment Printing Supplies Recycling Policy Contents Governance • Environment Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report Environment From our products designed for the environment and extensive return and recycling programs, to innovations within our own operations and supply chain, we’re committed to reducing our environmental impact—and that of our customers. 27 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment • Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report Environmental sustainability With more than 7 billion people seeking greater prosPublished our complete carbon perity worldwide, balancing economic growth with footprint, among the first companies globally to disclose environmental sustainability calls for innovation and this level of information (released leadership. HP is responding to this challenge by in early 2013) improving the efficiency of our products and solutions, 24% supply chain, and operations. By combining the expertise of our people, our innovative technology portfolio, and collaborative partnerships, we are working to create solutions that reduce environmental impact and expand opportunities. improvement in production supplier GHG emissions intensity We are working with our customers, suppliers, and over four years* other stakeholders to develop and share solutions that 20% streamline and replace resource-intensive processes. We will move our business forward by reducing HP’s own environmental footprint while helping people prosper and companies thrive. targeted reduction in total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from operations by 2020, compared to 2010 * Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. 28 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our approach We also offer a wide range of services and solutions that help customers improve their environmental performance. Governance Our approach has three pillars, as shown below: Customers can use our free online Carbon Footprint Environment Calculator to compare products and identify steps to • Environmental reduce the environmental impact and cost of computing make a positi sustainability and printing. Our free Power Advisor tool does a similar job Products and solutions help ve for customers who use HP servers. e im Product return and w From end users to entire organizations, enterprises can recycling Ho Performance in ct HP operations w our operations pa get what they need from HP to improve environmental Innovate to reduce performance and meet their business goals. Customers Data dashboard: HP’s environmental also rely on HP solutions and expertise for insight into Environment footprint and drive Portfolio of how their IT systems and even their entire enterprise can sustainable growth. Society products and perform better while using fewer resources. With HP, solutions enterprises can reengineer processes and transform their About this report Help people achieve more with fewer businesses to create faster, more cost-effective, and susPartnering across resources and less tainable ways to work and serve their customers. the supply chain waste. Collaborate to promote sustainability throughout Learn more in Products and solutions on page 35. the IT supply chain. Supply chain We look beyond the use of our products to also measure and improve environmental performance with partners throughout our supply chain and the IT industry as a whole, from sourcing, manufacturing, and shipping all the way through to return and recycling. Working with suppliers and Products and solutions other companies, we also continue to improve our return and recycling programs to expand availability, reduce Our products and solutions help people achieve more with waste, and capture value from used technology products. fewer resources and less waste. This enhances how our customers live and work while helping them reduce their Learn more in Environmental impacts on page 81, environmental impact. We strive to improve the environTransport on page 45, and Product return and recycling mental performance of products and solutions across our on page 50. portfolio—from single-user personal computing devices and printers to enterprise servers, storage equipment, and Operations data centers. Over a five-year period, HP reduced energy We’re improving the performance of our operations by consumption of our product portfolio by 50% on average.1 deploying many of our most promising technologies to reduce our own footprint and drive sustainable growth. Managing our global operations responsibly is a corner“Long before [sustainability] was an area that stone of our commitment to environmental sustainability, and it strengthens our business. We work to reduce our people were asking about, HP was trying to find consumption of energy, water, paper, and other resources ways to build equipment that is more energy and to cut GHG emissions through new programs and technologies as well as sustainable facility design. efficient and produces less waste at end of life. That was important to us.” Learn more in HP operations on page 55. —Bill Thomas, global head HTS sustainability, HSBC See video. Aron Cramer president and CEO, BSR Aron describes his views on sustainability and how HP has built it into technology solutions that reduce energy usage and waste for our customers. 1 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, Inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 29 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Energy and climate Contents Governance Environment HP believes it is in the interest of society and business During 2012 we completed a comprehensive carbon • Environmental to limit global temperature increase by the end of this footprint analysis to better understand the impact of our sustainability century to avoid the most severe environmental, social, company and our products. HP is among the first compaProducts and solutions and economic impacts of climate change. Governments, nies globally to publish this level of information. This builds Product return and businesses, and other organizations must meet the on years of leadership in this area. For example, in 2008 HP recycling challenges of climate change with ingenuity and through became the first major IT company to measure and publish HP operations the power of information technology. See HP’s Climate aggregated supply chain greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Change Policy. Learn more in Environmental impacts on page 81. Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report Our carbon footprint* 36% 4% 60% Total emissions Supply chain Operations Products and solutions 78,609,000 tonnes CO2e Supply chain GHG emissions Operations GHG emissions Products and solutions GHG emissions tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e 47,100,000 23,500,000 800,000 3,700,000 1,756,000 900,000 400,000 133,000 320,000 0 0 0 Materials Capital goods Upstream Transport Facilities Transportation Commercial Employee Product use Product Buildings Investments extraction energy fleet air travel commuting end-of-life leased through production to others manufacturing Greenhouse gas emissions in this phase are primarily Greenhouse gas emissions from HP operations are More than half of HP’s total carbon footprint is due to due to materials use and manufacturing. Through primarily due to facility energy use. We met our goal the energy our products and solutions consume during innovative design, we work to decrease materials two years early to reduce absolute GHG emissions use. We reduced product energy consumption across volume and impacts. We collaborate with suppliers to from HP-owned and leased facilities by 20% relative our portfolio by 50% on average over five years, improve their environmental performance—resultto 2005 levels by the end of 2013. This year, we set and we continually work for further improvement.*** ing in a 24% decrease in production supplier GHG a new goal to decrease total GHG emissions from View complete data and goals in Data dashboard: emissions intensity over four years.** View complete operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20% by 2020, Environment on page 67 and Goals on page 66. data and goals in Data dashboard: Environment on compared to 2010. View complete data and goals page 67 and Goals on page 66. in Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Goals on page 66. * Emissions from Facilities and Transportation fleet (Scope 1 and Scope 2) are from 2012. Emissions in the other categories included in this graphic (Scope 3) are from 2011. To calculate Scope 1, Scope 2, and Scope 3 emissions, HP has followed the principles outlined in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Ernst & Young has assured HP’s global Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions for the years noted. Additional details on calculations and methodology can be found in HP’s “Carbon Accounting Explanations” document. ** Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent one for which data are available. *** The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, Inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 30 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Supply chain Governance Greenhouse gas emissions in this phase are primarily due to materials use and manufacturing. Through innovative Environment design, we work to decrease materials volume and impacts. We collaborate with suppliers to improve their environmental performance—resulting in a 24% decrease in production supplier GHG emissions intensity over four years.2 View • Environmental complete data and goals in Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Goals on page 66. sustainability Products and solutions Supply chain Emissions Description Product return and categories [tonnes CO2e] recycling Materials extraction 23,500,000 Emissions associated with all levels of our supply chain from materials extraction through the manuHP operations through manufacturing facture of HP products. In addition to our work with suppliers, HP’s Design for Environment program considers environmental Data dashboard: impact in the design of every product and solution, from the smallest print cartridge to entire data Environment centers. Society Learn more in Environmental impacts on page 81. About this report Capital goods 800,000 Emissions associated with capital goods, from raw materials extraction through manufacturing and building construction. HP practices sustainable building design to decrease these impacts. For example, two HP facilities received LEED® certification in 2012, and four more are due to be certified in 2013. Learn more in Sustainable building design on page 64. Upstream energy 400,000 Upstream emissions of purchased energy, from raw material extraction up to the point of combustion, production as well as transportation and distribution losses in the grid. Transport 3,700,000 Emissions from upstream and downstream product transportation and distribution, including retail and storage. To reduce impacts, we work to maximize the efficiency of our supply chain network, shift to less energy-intensive modes of transport, and influence our logistics service providers. Learn more in Transport on page 45. Operations Greenhouse gas emissions from HP operations are primarily due to facility energy use. We met our goal two years early to reduce absolute GHG emissions from HP-owned and leased facilities by 20% relative to 2005 levels by the end of 2013. This year, we set a new goal to decrease total GHG emissions from operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20% by 2020, compared to 2010. View complete data and goals in Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Goals on page 66. Performance Emissions Description categories [tonnes CO2e] Facilities 1,756,000 Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions associated with energy consumption, PFCs, and HFCs in facilities under HP’s operational control. In 2012, we decreased these emissions 8% from our 2010 baseline. Learn more in Energy and GHG emissions on page 57. Transportation fleet 133,000 Emissions associated with HP owned or leased vehicles. As part of the Clinton Global Initiative’s Fleets for Change, we have committed to reducing GHG emissions from our U.S. auto fleet by 10% by 2015 from 2010 levels on a per-unit basis. Learn more in Travel on page 60. Commercial air travel 320,000 Emissions associated with employee business travel by commercial aircraft. We promote digital communications such as video-conferencing as an alternative to travel when feasible and encourage less carbon-intensive forms of travel when possible. Learn more in Travel on page 60. Employee commuting 900,000 Emissions from employee transportation between their homes and their worksites (in vehicles not owned or operated by HP) and teleworking. We promote programs in some locations such as ride-sharing, bike storage, and free shuttles from local public transportation to help employees reduce commuting emissions. Learn more in Travel on page 60. 2 Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent one for which data are available. 31 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Products and solutions Governance More than half of HP’s total carbon footprint is due to the energy our products and solutions consume during use. We reduced Environment product energy consumption across our portfolio by 50% on average over five years, and we continually work for further improvement.3 View complete data and goals in Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Goals on page 66. • Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Emissions Description Products and solutions categories [tonnes CO2e] Product return and Product use 47,100,000 Emissions associated with energy consumption of HP products across each of our major business recycling groups, as well as the impact of paper and print cartridges. We work to design increasingly efficient products and solutions that help customers reduce the enviHP operations ronmental impact of their operations and personal lives. Data dashboard: Learn more in Use on page 46. Environment Product end of life 0 Emissions associated with the disposal and treatment of sold products. Society HP’s product return and recycling programs, which recovered 159,550 tonnes of hardware and supplies About this report in 2012, reduce and potentially make this impact net positive. For example, through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can then be used (along with recycled plastic from bottles) to make new cartridges as well as other metal and plastic products. Learn more in Product return and recycling on page 50. Buildings leased 0 Emissions associated with the operation of assets leased to other entities. This amount is de minimis. to others Investments 0 Emissions associated with corporate investments in business intelligence solutions, HP Labs, software, and certain business incubation projects. This amount is de minimis.* * De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. We have disclosed our Scope 1 emissions (mostly from Beyond the impacts of our company, we realize it is fuel burned onsite and by employee-owned vehicles), essential to move toward a clean energy economy and Scope 2 emissions (from the electricity we purchase), and are advocating for comprehensive climate action. HP is a selected Scope 3 emissions in past years, for example signatory to the 2°C Challenge Communiqué, which calls first-tier production supplier GHG emissions based on for international government action to stabilize global supplier surveys. This year, we substantially expanded the average surface temperatures at a maximum of 2°C above categories of Scope 3 emissions reported to provide a preindustrial levels. more complete picture of our GHG impact as a company.4 See the page 69 for full detail. We also support the development and promotion of climate change policies through our participation in global Our analysis followed the guidelines of the Greenhouse Gas and local organizations. For instance, we are working with Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and WWF’s Climate Savers program to set aggressive GHG the World Business Council on Sustainable Development. emissions reduction goals for our company and also to Ernst & Young has reviewed the results and we detail our help define effective HP and governmental policies to curb methodology and assumptions in HP’s Carbon Accounting climate change. HP has hosted roundtables with other Explanations document. The results will inform our climate leading information and communications technology (ICT) change strategy moving forward. companies to determine ways to collectively influence energy and climate policy. 3 The average energy consumption of HP products was estimated annually between 2005 and 2010 using high-volume product lines representative of the overall shipped product volume. The high-volume product lines include notebook and desktop computers, Inkjet and HP LaserJet printers, and industry-standard servers. 4 The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 32 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Paper Contents In 2012 HP raised customer awareness about responsibly Governance managed forests and FSC certified products through our sponsorship of the animated film The Lorax, which uses Environment HP has one of the industry’s most extensive supply chains, the Dr. Seuss character to encourage more responsible • Environmental and we are committed to the responsible sourcing and use printing and paper use. Learn more. sustainability of paper products. We also want to reduce the environProducts and solutions mental impact associated with producing the paper that we Product return and sell. We work with leading environmental organizations to Helping customers conserve recycling promote responsible forestry, increase the use of sustainresources HP operations ably sourced paper, and encourage paper recycling. And as a leading supplier of imaging and printing equipment, we HP technology and services help customers use printing Data dashboard: make it easy for our customers to reduce paper waste. materials and paper more efficiently. Environment Society Our Environmentally Preferable Paper Policy details HP’s We enable customers to: About this report principles for buying, selling, and using paper and paperbased packaging. We seek to source from suppliers who • Reduce paper and ink use through the HP EcoSMART demonstrate responsible forestry and manufacturing Console and EcoSMART Fleet—online tools that provide practices. Our environmental strategy for packaging priusage data and options for saving energy and paper. oritizes renewable, recycled, and recyclable materials (see • Ensure optimum paper use through automatic twoPackaging on page 44 for more information). sided printing, and by setting two-sided printing as the default across entire print fleets through tools such as HP Universal Print Driver and HP Web Jetadmin. Responsible paper sourcing • HP Smart Print, free software that helps users print only and sales the webpage content they need, reduces paper waste for print jobs using supported browsers. HP sells approximately 243,000 tonnes of HP-branded printer and copier papers annually. We require suppliers Additionally, we are working to advance the analog-to-digto verify the source of fiber used in HP-branded papers ital transformation of the printing and publishing industry, to ensure it is legally and responsibly sourced. We are as well as in other commercial and industrial sectors that working to increase both the percentage of postconsumer produce materials such as marketing materials and labels. recycled fiber in HP-branded papers and our use of fiber A recent HP life cycle assessment showed that return rates that is certified as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship for paperback books can drop from 30% to 5% or lower by Council (FSC®). shifting to digital printing, since shorter runs on a digital press are economically feasible and can be more closely HP is a member of the FSC, and we strongly encourage our matched to actual market demand for a book. paper suppliers to pursue FSC certification. We are on track to meet our goal of having 50% of HP-branded paper FSC-certified5 and/or contain at least 30% postconsumer Optimizing paper use across HP waste by the end of 2015. As of early 2013, 100% of HP Everyday Office Papers are FSC-certified in the Americas, as As well as helping customers use paper more efficiently, the new North American certification of the entire portfolio we are shifting to more environmentally sustainable printjoins the existing FSC-certified portfolio of HP-branded ing and paper use across HP. Focus areas include: office papers in Latin America. This makes HP one of the region’s first major original equipment manufacturer (OEM) • Paper used in our offices We use HP Everyday Papers— office paper brands6 to offer a complete portfolio of papers typically made from fiber procured through responsible that is entirely FSC certified. In addition, the majority of our forestry practices—for internal office printing. Twophoto and specialty papers have achieved FSC “chain of sided printing is the default. custody” certification (SCS-COC-002255), demonstrating • Paper shipped “in the box” By changing specifications, that the fiber is responsibly sourced from forests that are reducing document length, and switching to electronic managed to FSC principles and criteria. delivery (where legally permissible), we have eliminated the printing of 1.4 billion pages of product manuals, An increasing amount of HP-branded papers use FSCguides, and warranties included with our products, certified fiber. HP also participates in WWF’s Global Forest saving over 300 tonnes of paper (assuming printing on & Trade Network (GFTN), through which we gain valuable both sides). expertise to help us achieve our responsible paper-sourcing goals. To learn more about certifications for HP-branded paper products, as well as the percentage of recycled content in our papers, see HP Eco Highlights Products. 5 FSC (license code FSC®-C017543). 6 According to NPD data 2012 (www.npd.com). 33 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Print on demand We have switched to this approach Hilde Allman Governance for most of our sales and marketing literature, only HP employee since 1983 printing materials when needed. This reduces storage Environment requirements and paper waste associated with discardAs an HP Imaging and Printing • Environmental ing obsolete documents. Technology Consultant based sustainability in Mississauga, Canada, Hilde Products and solutions Deinking research aids paper recycling Allman works with customers to Product return and To support the shift from newsprint and offset printing to help them make choices about recycling digital press, HP works to demonstrate the recyclability of HP products. Through the Eco Advocates program, she HP operations digital prints. We are a leader in research in this area and also helps them identify ways to improve their environactively promote industry-wide collaboration to improve mental performance. Data dashboard: ink, paper, and recycling processes as digital prints Environment become a larger part of the paper recycling stream. HP’s Eco Advocates program trains employees to discuss Society environmental issues with customers and demonstrate About this report As a part of this effort, we have a research and development how HP’s environmental initiatives, products, and busiprogram focused on deinking printed paper for recycling. ness solutions can help them reduce their impacts. Hilde Deinking removes dirt, ink, and other contaminants and is has been involved in the program for eight years and has particularly important when the deinked pulp is intended incorporated it into many facets of her work. for use in high-grade recycled products. “Being an Eco Advocate has really enriched my knowledge In 2012, we worked with Arjowiggins Graphic in Europe on of sustainability and the importance of doing the right two successful deinking trials using printed paper from thing from a corporate perspective,” says Hilde. “How can our HP Indigo digital presses. These trials resulted in the we improve our business processes to mitigate our enviproduction of high-quality deinked pulp and further demronmental impacts? I spend a lot of time working with our onstrated that printed matter from HP Indigo presses can customers to answer that question.” be deinked. HP provides a suite of tools that help users manage paper A major European deinking company, UPM, also published and printer energy use, and Hilde helps customers take results in 2012 showing that our recently introduced A50 full advantage of them. The suite includes duplex printink for the HP Color Inkjet Web Press product line has siging; pull-printing, a technology that holds a print job until nificantly improved deinkability over previous generations a user comes to pick it up; Intelligent Print Management, of HP ink. Furthermore, HP collaborations with deinkwhich helps enterprise customers select sustainable printing paper companies, combined with results from the ing options; and Smart Web Printing, which allows users to independent test lab PTS (Paper Technology Specialists), select areas of a web page for printing. enabled HP to conclude that over 30 papers printed on the HP Color Inkjet Web Press have demonstrated “Good Hilde also directs customers to HP’s Carbon Footprint Deinkability” as defined by the European Recovered Paper Calculator, which enables them to calculate their own Council (ERPC) scorecard. impacts, and to the HP Planet Partners Program, which helps customers recycle computer equipment, printing supplies, and other items. Employee “I’m very proud of the fact that HP has taken a leadership position in the area of sustainability,” she says. “It differenengagement tiates us as a company.” For Hilde, the rewards of being an Eco Advocate are Our employee engagement strategy in the environmenimmeasurable—including opportunities to team up with tal area is evolving rapidly. More than five years ago, colleagues at HP she might not otherwise have met and we recognized that while it is imperative to engage our sharing her knowledge with top enterprise clients. She employees on sustainability issues, we have an even also has collaborated with organizations such as World bigger opportunity to capitalize on their knowledge and Wildlife Fund (WWF), participating in WWF’s Living Planet enthusiasm to help customers change their behavior. @ Work championed by HP, and helps to drive sustainability initiatives at the Canadian Head Office HP campus Around the world, HP creates opportunities for employees where she works. to learn about, demonstrate, and share beneficial environmental practices—while helping HP make a positive impact. Hilde knows her work has had an impact. “I have a treThe HP Sustainability Network is the centerpiece of this mendous sense of accomplishment from participating approach. With more than 3,000 members, it is one of the in Eco Advocates and from being able to share what I’ve largest Employee Resource Groups at HP. learned with my colleagues and knowing that we are making a difference.” 34 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Chapters of the Sustainability Network in 14 countries, in two more languages in addition to the original offerings Governance led by a global steering committee, coordinate efforts in English, furthering the program’s reach in Europe, and to engage employees on sustainability issues, such as created podcasts that have been widely used by our sales Environment alternative commuting programs, electronics recycling, teams worldwide. • Environmental volunteering initiatives, on-site composting, educational sustainability workshops, and site events. During 2012, 36 sites ran In 2011, we began the third phase of our strategy, which Products and solutions World Environment Day or Earth Day events attended by will expand engagement beyond our customers to focus Product return and thousands of employees. on sharing our expertise in this area with other busirecycling nesses. We are championing WWF’s Living Planet @ Work Many of the Sustainability Network chapters have Bicycle employee engagement program to offer free guidance HP operations Users Groups, which run initiatives for employees ranging and web content to hundreds of businesses on how to Data dashboard: from seminars on safe cycling and bike maintenance to drive employee engagement on environmental sustainEnvironment employee bike share programs. ability. As of March 2013, 495 companies have signed up Society to the program, and we are exploring potential opporAbout this report Expanding on our efforts in this area, in 2008 we launched tunities to expand program delivery to other regions. As the second phase of our environmental employee engagepart of Living Planet @ Work, in 2012 we ran a Change ment plan—our Eco Advocates program—through which the Equation campaign in Canada which supports and our sales teams help customers reduce their impacts. In celebrates the efforts of companies to produce their first 2012, we educated more than 1,500 employees in this sustainability reports. area, mainly through webcasts. We also provided materials “The HP Eco Advocates Program provides me with a wide range of opportunities to work on projects at HP and in my community. It connects the dots for people to live and work sustainably. Small business owners I have worked with through this program are impressed by HP’s commitment to the environment and want to find ways to implement similar programs within their businesses.” —Wendy Wheeler, R&D manager, HP Software Goal Paper 2015 goal Progress 50% or more of HP-branded paper will be FSC-certified or have at least We are currently at over 40% and on track to meet this target. 30% postconsumer waste content by the end of 2015. 35 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Environmental sustainability • Products and solutions Product return and recycling HP operations Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report Products and solutions HP’s products and solutions help customers achieve more with fewer resources and less waste. We work to minimize the environmental footprint of products up to 89% less energy used by HP Moonshot and solutions across our portfolio—from singlesystem compared to traditional user personal computing devices and printers to servers* enterprise servers, storage and networking equipment, and data centers. We consider the entire life cycle to identify opportuup to 50% less energy used by HP OfficeJet nities to improve environmental performance, from Pro 8600 e-All-in-One series, HP the earliest stages of development through manuOfficeJet Pro 8100 ePrinter, and facturing and customer use to end of life. We deploy HP Officejet Pro X Series printers than the majority of comparably insights from research and development, life cycle priced laser printers** assessment, and stakeholder consultation to inform >90% product design and foster innovations in materials use, manufacturing, and transport. Our services help enterprise customers measure and recyclable, by weight (most HP manage resource consumption and carbon emissions PCs, printers, and servers)*** across their processes and operations. * According to internal HP engineering that compares HP Moonshot servers with traditional x86 server technology. ** Majority of color laser printers <$800 USD and color laser MFPs <$1,000 as of August 2012. Energy use based on HP and HP commissioned third-party testing. Actual cost and energy usage may vary. For details, see www.hp.com/ go/officejet. HP OfficeJet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One series compared with majority of color laser AiOs <$600 and HP OfficeJet Pro 8100 ePrinter compared with majority of color laser printers <$300, March 2011. HP OfficeJet Pro X Series compared with majority of color laser printers <$800 and color laser MFPs <$1,000, August 2012. *** Calculated using HP’s Recyclability Assessment Tool. 36 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • HP Energy and Sustainability Management (ESM) • HP Carbon Calculator allows customers to calculate the Governance addresses the use of energy, water, and other resources energy and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) use of PC across a customer’s organization. and printing products for both individual products and Environment product fleets. • Critical Facilities Services (CFS) focuses on improving Environmental data center energy consumption and efficiency, as well sustainability To learn more about environmental innovation across the as water usage. • Products and solutions infrastructure, software, services, and solutions HP offers, • HP IT Infrastructure Consulting Services help organizavisit our EcoSolutions page. Product return and tions decrease the physical footprint of their IT and recycling adapt energy efficient technologies. HP operations Sustainability initiatives across • HP Carbon Emissions Management Service helps Data dashboard: customers calculate, record, and analyze energy use the life cycle Environment and carbon emissions across their IT infrastructure— Society from desktop to mainframe. Learn more below about how HP approaches sustainability at each stage of the life cycle to improve environmental About this report performance, illustrated by recently released next-generation innovative PC, printer, and server products. Improving environmental performance across the life cycle Life cycle stage HP t410 All-in-One Smart Zero Client HP OfficeJet Pro X Series Printers HP ProLiant Gen8 Servers Research, development, and design ENERGY STAR® qualified ENERGY STAR qualified ENERGY STAR qualified Across HP, we conduct research and developEPEAT® Gold registered * EPEAT Bronze registered Toolless access aids servicing, lifement on products and solutions—from ink Design collaboration with 3M Display Uses thin-wall molded parts to decrease extension maintenance, and end-of-life cartridges to data centers—that require Solutions to utilize new light-ampliproduct weight dismantling less energy, use more sustainable materials, fication film technology to enable and are easier to recycle than the previous usable display brightness on reduced generation of HP products. power budget Materials and manufacturing Manufactured at supplier faciliManufactured at supplier facilities that Manufactured at supplier facilities that We collaborate with our manufacturing partties that participate in HP’s Energy participate in HP’s Energy Efficiency participate in HP’s Energy Efficiency ners and suppliers to understand, reduce, and Efficiency Program Program Program report the environmental impact of product Manufactured using low-halogen Manufactured with 5% postconsumer manufacturing. Read more about the environmaterials and with 10% postconrecycled plastic from recycled HP mental performance of our production and sumer recycled plastic (by weight) printers nonproduction suppliers in Environmental impacts on page 81. Packaging and transport Surface transport within the United Efficient package design incorporating Eliminated some packaging altogether by We strive to develop more sustainable packStates and Canada uses a 100% 75-85% recycled content fibers using racks to provide required protecaging options and make product transport SmartWay carrier network** Cushion size minimized to only 2-3% of tion between manufacturing sites and to choices that decrease fuel use and associated total package weight, while providing customers greenhouse gas emissions. excellent product protection Use of 100% recycled thermoformed Surface transport within the United cushions States and Canada uses a 100% Surface transport within the United States SmartWay carrier network** and Canada uses a 100% SmartWay carrier network** Use Provides the same performance as Using page-wide print array technology, Consumes 10% less energy and achieves We make it easy for customers to reduce a traditional PC but runs on just 13 achieves printing speed comparable 1.7 times the computing power per watt their environmental impact by improving the watts of power with color laser printers with low energy compared to the HP ProLiant G7 server energy efficiency and resource consumption Most of the computing work occurs on consumption Energy efficiency features: of our products and solutions. servers, so HP Zero Clients typically Uses less than one watt of energy in • Technology that adjusts power and have a longer life cycle than desktop off mode cooling dynamically PCs, reducing the frequency of • Location-aware racks and servers, replacement intelligent power distribution units, and rack-level power capping Return and recycling Designed to be more than 90% recyDesigned to be more than 94% recyDesigned to be more than 90% recyclable We work with a global network of vendors clable by weight *** clable by weight *** by weight *** in 69 countries and territories worldwide to Supplies are recyclable Toolless access reduces time required to collect, process for resale, and/or recycle service, install, and remove components returned products, as well as to qualify and dismantle at end of life *** recycled materials for use in new products. * EPEAT Gold registered models of this product are available where HP registers thin client computers. ** Certification based on actions to reduce transportation-related emissions. *** Using the HP Recyclability Assessment Tool. 37 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Life cycle Contents PAIA Consortium The Product Attribute to Impact Governance Algorithm (PAIA) methodology is an approach to streamlined LCA that aims to provide an efficient and cost-effective Environment Environmental sustainability assessment estimate of the carbon impact of a product class, including notebooks, desktops, and LCD monitors. PAIA was developed by collaboration between the Massachusetts Institute • Products and solutions HP increasingly uses life cycle assessment (LCA) to better of Technology’s Materials Systems Laboratory and equipunderstand and provide guidance for reducing the environment manufacturers, suppliers, government organizations, Product return and mental impacts of our products. LCA covers every stage and NGOs. recycling of a product’s life, from raw materials extraction through HP operations manufacture, transportation, and use, to end-of-life International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Data dashboard: recovery or disposal. As a member of ISO’s graphic technology committee workEnvironment ing group, we contributed to completion of a commercial Society We follow the International Organization for Standardprinting PCF standard, ISO 16759, and the carbon footprint ization’s ISO 14040/14044 and ISO 14025, which define of print media products standard, ISO 14067. Both are due About this report universal standards for LCA methodology. In 2012, we to be published in 2013. conducted LCAs of more than 50 printing products to better understand how we can reduce environmental impacts Underwriters Laboratories Environment We completed across our product portfolio. product category rules for printers and imaging products. We use insights gained through LCAs to: • Assess our current materials, packaging, and products; Progress in 2012 model alternatives; and target areas for improvement Printing product assessments • Develop tools to estimate the carbon footprint of our In 2012, we completed life cycle assessments on 53 HP products LaserJet printers, one Inkjet printer, and one scanner. The • Determine which processes, components, and materials results show the dominance of printer use in overall life have the greatest environmental impact and prioritize cycle impacts, particularly paper consumption, and underthese for analysis, with the goal of reducing these impacts score the importance of past and current efforts to reduce • Develop metrics to help product designers compare energy consumption and optimize for duplexing. We condesign options tinue to conduct LCAs on other scanner products. We have engaged PE International to develop Environmental Product • Support Design for Recycling initiatives Declarations (EPDs) for all printing product LCAs. An EPD is a summary of the LCA that communicates the results in a simplified format developed in line with ISO 14025. Collaboration Instant Ink Program HP is working to enhance product environmental comHP Instant Ink replacement service allows customers to parability across the IT industry. This will help customers sign up to receive new ink cartridges delivered to their make choices using objective information. We believe a door before they run out. Customers who use the HP transparent and universally accepted approach to LCA and Instant Ink service and mail their used HP ink cartridges in product carbon footprint (PCF) assessment is needed. the postage-paid return envelopes can reduce the carbon footprint of purchase and disposal of HP ink cartridges by We collaborate with other industry leaders, academia, up to 75%.1 nongovernmental organizations, and governments to develop standardized LCA and PCF methodologies as well as to promote and share best practices. Working with the IT industry also helps us to better understand and reduce Challenges the environmental impacts of our shared supply chains. Although HP uses the best available data and industry standard methodologies, LCA has limitations for assessing Examples in 2012 included: IT equipment due to the amount of uncertainty in results. Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition We launched a This uncertainty stems from the use of different methodolpilot PCF project in which key HP suppliers and other original ogies and assumptions, the lack of accurate and consistent equipment manufacturers will develop guidance doculife cycle data, and product complexity. The rapid rate of ments for collecting LCA data by component or product. technological innovation and the large number of suppliers for some products also pose challenges. HP is working to reduce the uncertainties that limit the reliability, consistency, and comparability of LCAs. 1 Based on a 2012 study commissioned by HP performed by Four Elements Consulting. Analysis includes the CO2 equivalent associated with customer trips to purchase ink cartridges at a retail store versus delivering directly to a customer’s house, and it includes recycling empty ink cartridges versus throwing them away. 38 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Research and Amip Shah Contents Governance HP employee since 2007 Environment Environmental sustainability development Amip Shah, based in Palo Alto, California, spends a lot of time gazing into the future. As a princi• Products and solutions At HP, we help customers achieve more with less through pal research scientist at HP Labs, cutting-edge research and development (R&D) that Product return and his job requires him to imagine includes the exploration and application of innovative recycling how the cities of tomorrow will look. He often wonders: How technologies and services for a more sustainable world. HP operations will cities function in a world where sustainable, efficient systems are a necessity and everybody and everything is Data dashboard: Innovation and R&D occur throughout our business groups interconnected? What sorts of technologies will support Environment as well as at HP Labs—HP’s central research organizathem? How will the avalanche of data from smart appliSociety tion—and are essential to our ongoing ability to deliver ances, buildings, and grids be managed? leading products and services. Our researchers work About this report internally and in collaboration with leading universities, The answers may lie in a city with a seamlessly integrated governments, and companies worldwide to develop technology infrastructure, equipped with sensors delivering breakthrough solutions for businesses and customers. real-time data that allow efficient optimization of environments. Cooling a room right before its occupants get too At HP Labs, we look at emerging trends to understand warm, gradually brightening streetlights as the sun begins where our industry—and our world—is headed; invest to set, irrigating green space when the soil turns dry (and in an ambitious research agenda for tomorrow; and build not moments before an anticipated rain), improving quality a pipeline to fuel the next generation of HP products, of life while reducing waste. This vision is not far away. services, and solutions, delivering breakthroughs that can transform current businesses and create new ones. “In the future, it’s not going to be enough to separately build a thermostat, a smart phone, and a building management Sustainability innovation takes place across many of system,” says Amip. “All of these will need to be integrated our research areas and has contributed to a variety of together to create customizable, personalized, efficient, sustainable technologies and solutions—ranging from and sustainable buildings. Our customers will want full breakthroughs in energy-optimized computing systems solutions... it’s not about a single piece of technology, or a to a leading deinking method for recycling digitally single device. It’s about bringing it all together.” printed materials. This vision of future cities grew out of life cycle assessment and real-time environmental control systems that HP Labs Progress in 2012 had developed for data centers—taking into account carbon emissions, water use, resource consumption, and human Net-Zero Energy Data Center health impacts to analyze and manage a data center’s In 2012, our sustainable data center project unveiled the environmental footprint from cradle to cradle. He and his architecture for the first HP Net-Zero Energy Data Center. colleagues quickly realized that the approach had broader The technology combined local renewable energy and implications and could also be used in buildings and even cooling sources with a demand-management approach cities. Amip and the HP Labs team are already conducting that scheduled IT workloads based on resource availability pilot programs. and performance requirements. At the HP Labs test bed in Palo Alto, California, deployment of the net-zero data cenWorking with a multidisciplinary team mapping out ter technology was found to use 30% less power overall sophisticated solutions to complex problems puts Amip and 80% less energy from the traditional utility grid. The right where he wants to be. “I work with people who are remaining energy used from the traditional grid was offset experts in product design, control theory, data mining, by photovoltaic power generated onsite. By decreasing machine learning, and engineering. I am really driven by dependency on nonrenewable energy, our model reduced the opportunity to learn and to work on complex probchallenges related to location, energy supply, and energy lems,” says Amip. “Working with this team, I learn somecosts, holding the potential to increase access to data thing new every day.” centers and related IT services in parts of the world where access to energy is limited. National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) The heat generated from running the HPC system will be demonstration project reused to heat office space and labs. This heat recycling, together with other efficiencies, such as eliminating water In 2012, the U.S. Department of Energy’s National consumption in cooling and increasing hot water generaRenewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) selected HP as one tion to heat adjacent buildings, are expected to reduce of two companies to provide a new High Performance NREL’s overall energy costs. The system will initially Computing (HPC) system. The system advances renewinclude HP ProLiant SL230s and SL250s Generation 8 able energy innovations and energy efficient technologies. (Gen8) servers, followed by HP’s next generation HPC platThrough this groundbreaking project, NREL is exploring form. NREL will be the first customer to deploy this new innovative new ways to power and cool data centers. technology in 2013. 39 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Resource Management as a Service (RMaaS) Progress in 2012 Governance In 2012, HP also pursued scalable and customizable Environment solutions to help cities more efficiently manage resources Project Moonshot such as electricity, gas, water, and waste across residenOne of our groundbreaking design initiatives is Project Environmental tial, commercial, and industrial facilities. Through the Moonshot, a multiyear, multiphase program first launched sustainability Resource Management as a Service (RMaaS) project, we in November 2011 to develop a new generation of extreme • Products and solutions explored smarter resource management solutions at our low-energy and high-density servers. The mission is to Product return and own HP Labs facilities in Palo Alto, California. In 2012, we respond to four technology megatrends—social, mobile, recycling developed and installed an integrated hardware, software, cloud, and big data—and deliver innovations in server HP operations and services monitoring prototype into one of the site design that revolutionize energy use, density, cost, and buildings. The “smart metering” infrastructure provided complexity. We are pursuing this through the collaboraData dashboard: real-time information about energy consumption, enabling tive HP Pathfinder Innovation Ecosystem, which includes Environment remote control of energy use down to a single desk light. third-party computing, storage, networking, and software Society The new system significantly reduced energy consumptechnology providers to contribute their innovations to About this report tion in the pilot building—for example, it increased lighting HP Moonshot. efficiency by 30%. In April 2013, we brought the latest innovation from HP Labs and our Enterprise Group to market: the first Design commercialized product and the second generation of our HP Moonshot servers. We expect this to revolutionize the economics of the data center with an entirely new category We apply sustainability principles throughout the prodof software defined server architecture that for targeted uct life cycle, beginning with design. This reduces our workloads consumes up to 89% less energy and uses 80% corporate environmental impact and helps our customers less space, and costs 77% less than a traditional server reduce theirs. environment.2 If just 10 large web services providers switched their traditional servers to Moonshot, they could In 1992, HP adopted a pioneering company-wide Design save a combined $120 million in energy operating expense for Environment program that considers environmental and more than 900,000 tonnes of CO2e emissions annually. impact in the design of every product and solution, from This would be the equivalent of taking over 180,000 cars the smallest ink cartridge to an entire data center. Over the off the road for a year. past 20 years, the program has led to innovations in material selection for products and their packaging, as well as Customers and partners can explore the new extreme in product transportation, use, and return and recycling low-energy, software-defined HP Moonshot servers at capabilities. More than 50 environmental product stewards the HP Discovery Lab, which opened in Houston, Texas, work alongside our design teams in a concerted effort to in January 2012. Participants can investigate, test, and improve product performance, measure progress, and optimize applications in a secure and confidential environcommunicate our results. ment to determine which computing infrastructure is best suited to their applications. The site is accessible in person We apply the same holistic design approach to our inforor online and staffed by HP technology experts available mation technology (IT) infrastructure and data center for consultation and support. services for enterprise customers. We design complex IT systems to help organizations consume less energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, conserve water, and operate more efficiently. Design for recyclability We’re making it easier for customers Most HP PCs, printers, and servers are To enhance the recyclability of paper, to reduce waste by designing easily more than 90% recyclable, by weight.1 we also work with industry partners recyclable products. Where feasible, In addition, HP workstations and the to improve ink removal from printed we use common fasteners and snapElite and Pro series desktop PCs have paper through research into innovain features to avoid applying glues, a chassis that can be easily disastive inks, additives, paper design, and adhesives, or welds. This makes it sembled without using any tools. This deinking processes. See Paper on easier for recyclers to dismantle, sepmakes it simpler to upgrade the compage 32 for more information. arate, and identify different plastics. puters and extend their useful life as well as facilitating recycling. 1 Calculated using HP’s Recyclability Assessment Tool. 2 According to internal HP engineering that compares HP Moonshot servers with traditional x86 server technology. 40 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP Latex Inks and A50 Inkjet Web Press Inks and management—into one consolidated infrastructure, Governance In 2012, HP Latex Inks and A50 Inkjet Web Press Inks enabling customers to reduce costs and improve efficiency became the first in the industry to achieve Sustainable in energy consumption, resource use, and space utilization. Environment Product certification from Underwriters Laboratories, an Environmental independent safety science company. The water-based Critical Facilities Services sustainability HP Critical Facilities Services (CFS) provides customers inks used in HP commercial color Inkjet printing systems • Products and solutions meet a range of stringent criteria related to human health with strategic consulting, design-build expertise, and Product return and and environmental considerations, including low volatile operational assurance resources to build highly efficient recycling organic content. The inks do not require special handling, new facilities and upgrade existing data centers. CFS has contain no materials requiring hazard warning labels, and designed more than 50 million square feet of energy HP operations are nonflammable and noncombustible. efficient data centers. Through Energy Efficiency Analysis, Data dashboard: CFS compares customers’ energy use efficiency to industry Environment best practices and recommends improvements. CFS also Technology Services: Data Center Consulting Society helps customers achieve prominent energy-efficiency Our customers demand the highest performance from the About this report certifications such as LEED® and ENERGY STAR® for Data most efficient data centers to minimize capital and operaCenters. In addition, the team contributed to the U.S. tional expenditure and achieve the lowest possible energy Department of Energy’s “Save Energy Now” data center consumption and carbon footprint. tools and provides assessments in support of that initiative. As of April 2012, our team had designed more than HP Data Center Consulting (DCC) embraces IT infrastruc60% of all LEED-certified data centers worldwide. ture, Critical Facilities Services (CFS), and Cloud Consulting. DCC fully integrates the IT and facilities technologies that For example, in 2012 HP CFS worked with the University define data center performance, enabling customers to of Iowa (UI) to design the first LEED Platinum educational manage IT and facility infrastructure as a single entity. We institution data center, the Information Technology Facility. help customers achieve a standardized and streamlined The facility consolidates two data centers with room for operational strategy that can decrease physical footprint additional servers currently scattered across the campus, (such as power and cooling infrastructure) and improve as well as space for high-performance research computenvironmental performance while enabling much greater ing. The facility is a part of UI’s 10-year commitment to operational efficiency. energy conservation and campus sustainability. Learn more about UI’s 2020 Vision. IT infrastructure HP’s IT infrastructure Services team helps customers We also help customers plan and manage growth in a data define and implement their infrastructure strategy. This center. Instead of overbuilding in anticipation of future includes migrating, upgrading, consolidating, virtualizing, demand, HP’s flexible data center provides a modular sysautomating, managing, securing, and cloud-enabling IT tem that allows the facility to expand in stages, so the size data center assets. In addition to improving performance, of the facility always closely matches the demand. This each of these activities can enhance energy efficiency approach can employ capital expenditure more efficiently, and decrease related GHG emissions. We provide services cut energy costs, and reduce GHG emissions. across servers (see ProLiant8 case study), storage, networking management, and security. Managed and outsourcing services HP offers ongoing data center management and infraHP Converged Infrastructure, which provides a seamless structure services at the company’s energy efficient and experience in virtualization, cloud computing, and data ISO-certified data centers. We optimize our data centers management, is central to our approach. The converged to support a combination of cloud, traditional IT, and inplatform brings together the key elements of computhouse solutions for hundreds of clients worldwide. ing—networking, power and cooling, servers, storage, Design for accessibility We strive to create products, soluHP products include buttons identiusers who are deaf or hard of hearing. tions, and online materials that are fiable by touch, ports and switches We also participate in the developaccessible to everyone, including positioned within easy reach, and ment of worldwide standards and people with disabilities and seniors large adjustable displays. Our cuspolicies through industry and governwith age-related limitations. Our tomer support programs incorpoment efforts to improve the accessiproduct design teams explore ways rate assistive technologies such as bility of information and technology to enhance usability, productivTelecommunications Relay Service, for people with disabilities. ity, user comfort, and accessibility. Video Relay Service, and Web See the HP Accessibility website for Examples of accessibility features on Captioned Telephone Service to help more information and examples. 41 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment HP Performance Optimized Data Centers Environmental HP Performance Optimized Data quickly on demand, reduce capital materials associated with unboxing sustainability Centers (HP PODs) are a portfolio expenditures, and use less space. and assembling and testing. HP is one • Products and solutions of modular data centers that help of the few qualified global suppliers Product return and enterprises rapidly and efficiently Customers can have their IT conthat can offer customers this interecycling expand data center capacity and meet figured, loaded, cabled, and tested grated approach, saving up to 50% in HP operations increasing service-level agreements. using HP Factory Express to help total cost of ownership over tradiCompared with traditional brickensure quality, increase deployment tional data center deployments. Data dashboard: and-mortar data centers, HP PODs speed and lower cost, while savEnvironment help customers scale capacity more ing on unnecessary onsite labor and Society About this report Cloud consulting supplies consumption. For example, HP thin client computDepending on customers’ business needs and service ing devices can require up to 65% less material to produce model requirements, we support a wide range of profesand ship than HP’s smallest commercial desktop PC. sional services solutions, from traditional private data center designs to cloud frameworks (private, public, or For the first time, we are reporting the estimated weight of managed). Regardless of the operational model, there materials used in HP high-volume computers and printers are always requirements to deploy highly streamlined normalized by company revenue. These data will provide a and consolidated IT infrastructures and critical facilities baseline to measure progress in coming years. environments to enhance efficiency and improve overall environmental performance. Some of our services in this area include Converged Cloud Workshop, Cloud Roadmap Estimated materials use in HP high-volume computers Service, Cloud Design Service, and Cloud Implement Service. and printers, 2012 [tonnes/$ million USD of net revenue] * Wires/ Metal Plastic cables PCAs LCDs Batteries Supporting industry efforts HP also supports international efforts to improve the enviComputers 6.2 2.6 0.84 0.81 1.6 0.34 ronmental performance of the IT industry. For example, HP Printers 8.3 10.7 0.41 0.74 0.12 reviewed and contributed recommendations to the data * Estimates are based on several specific computer and printer products that center section of the International Telecommunication are representative of the main HP product categories. Estimates for computer Union “Guidelines for Environmental Sustainability for the volumes do not include servers. Estimates for printer volumes do not include ICT Sector,” released in November 2012. graphic arts, industrial, or webpress printers, or ink or toner cartridges. See numerous additional examples of innovative designs for products and solutions that enhance environmental performance on the following pages: Products and soluNanotechnology tions on page 35, Materials on page 41, Packaging on Nanotechnology holds long-term promise for creating page 44, and Use on page 46. electronics applications that require fewer materials and consume less energy. Since 1995, HP Labs has led research in the areas of nanoarchitecture, nanoelectronMaterials ics, nanomechanics, and nanophotonics. Outcomes of this research include advances in memristor-based computer memory, which has the potential to run 10 times faster and use 10 times less power than an equivalent flash HP evaluates environmental impact across the product life memory chip. cycle when selecting materials for use in our products. Our objective is to minimize environmental impacts and any We recognize that properties of matter can depend potential for human health impacts. We design products to on size and shape at the nanoscale level. We consider use less material, and we seek alternatives to substances potential health and safety issues of nanostructured of concern. We strive to use recycled materials when materials as an integral part of our research program possible, and we comply with all relevant government that seeks to find applications for such materials in our regulations wherever we do business. business. In 2012, HP developed a nanomaterial risk assessment tool to help assess and manage health and safety risks associated with the use of these materials. Using less material The tool helps determine the best way to handle hazards using previous findings and applications and accounting Through innovations in technology and product design, HP for potential incomplete information on health hazards works to use materials more efficiently in product manuand exposure scenarios. facture and also to help customers optimize paper and 42 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Evaluating substances of concern • The HP General Specification for the Environment (GSE) includes substance and materials requirements Governance HP proactively evaluates materials of concern. We may for parts and components that are used in HP products, Environment restrict substances because of customer preferences, packaging, and manufacturing processes. Environmental legal requirements, or because we believe it is appropri• The HP Active Verification Materials Testing sustainability ate based on a precautionary approach. When scientific Specification defines our requirements for testing • Products and solutions analysis reveals a potential impact to human health or materials used in HP products for specific substances Product return and the environment, we seek to replace substances with restricted under the GSE. recycling commercially viable alternatives. Following the principle of HP operations informed substitution, HP carefully assesses the environPhasing out phthalates, BFRs, and PVC mental, health, and safety risks of these alternatives. In 2012, we added restrictions to the HP GSE on the use of Data dashboard: Environment certain phthalates in plastic parts in HP products. We are Implementing HP materials restrictions considering additional future restrictions. Society To help ensure HP meets legal requirements as well as our About this report own materials standards, we follow a compliance process HP is working to phase out halogens, which include bromithat has three key pillars: nated flame retardants (BFRs) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC), where technically feasible in new products. For example, • The HP Supplier Safe and Legal Standard provides 96% of HP Compaq business PCs and HP notebooks a consistent management system standard for the launched since 2011 are low-halogen as defined by the design, manufacture, and delivery of products. It International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI).3 specifies how to meet product regulations concerning restricted materials and other regulated areas including electromagnetic compatibility, safety, telecommunication authorization, and energy efficiency. HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* HP product proactive materials restriction/substitution timeline* 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 Mercury/mercury PVC in Remaining uses of compounds packaging phthalates (DEHP, (except bulbs) DBP, BBP, and DIBP) BFRs in and HBCDD** external Cadmium Lead in PVC cables case Bis (2-ethylhexyl) plastic phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl PVC from case plastics Lead parts phthalate (DBP), and butyl Ozone-depleting substances Hexavalent chromium benzyl phthalate (BBP) in Polycyclic aromatic new personal computing hydrocarbons (PAH) products DfE programs started Mercury in notebook products PBB/PBDE (including DecaBDE) Remaining uses of BFRs and PVC in new Remaining uses of antimony HP brand personal computing products Bisphenol-A Mercury in bulbs Arsenic/arsenic compounds Nonylphenol Other perfluorinated chemicals Beryllium/beryllium compounds Remaining uses of BFRs Bisphenol-A in thermal paper and PVC Remaining uses of Antimony trioxide in low-halogen products*** certain phthalates Selenium/selenium compounds Antimony, chlorine in bleached paper, and ortho-phthalates*** * Dates refer to when proactively adopted materials restrictions were first introduced on an HP product, ahead of regulatory requirements. Materials in gray text beyond April 2013 have been identified by stakeholders as potential materials of concern. Future possible restriction of those materials depends, in part, on the qualification of acceptable alternative materials. For a comprehensive list of HP’s materials restrictions, including numerous materials restricted by HP on a worldwide basis in response to regional regulations, refer to HP’s General specification for the environment. ** Limited to products within the scope of the EU RoHS Directive. *** These requirements apply only when specified by the HP Business. 3 In accordance with the “iNEMI Position Statement on the Definition of ‘Low-Halogen’ Electronics.” Plastic parts contain < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of bromine [if the Br source is from BFRs] and < 1,000 ppm (0.1%) of chlorine [if the Cl source is from CFRs or PVC or PVC copolymers]. All printed circuit board (PCB) and substrate laminates contain bromine/chlorine total < 1,500 ppm (0.15%) with a maximum chlorine of 900 ppm (0.09%) and maximum bromine being 900 ppm (0.09%). Service parts after purchase may not be low-halogen. Power supply and power cords are not low-halogen. 43 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Assessing alternative materials Using recycled materials Governance Environment When replacing substances of concern, we seek to idenHP continues to expand the use of recycled materials in its tify alternatives with a reduced risk of potential human products. Examples from 2012 include: Environmental health and environmental impacts, and that also meet sustainability • The HP Deskjet 3050A e-All-in-One printer, manufacour performance and cost criteria. To support these • Products and solutions tured with 25% postconsumer recycled plastic objectives, we have developed an integrated assessment Product return and approach to analyzing potential materials replacements. • The HP Compaq Pro 6300 desktop PC, manufactured recycling Established in 2007, our approach begins with a hazardwith 37% postconsumer recycled plastic HP operations based screening to help rule out alternatives that are of equal or greater concern than the substances they would Through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original Data dashboard: replace. This screening is based on the GreenScreen™ for HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw Environment Safer Chemicals framework developed by the nongovernmaterials that can then be used to make new cartridges Society mental organization (NGO) Clean Production Action. as well as other metal and plastic products. Over the past About this report two years, HP has shipped 600 million Inkjet cartridges Integrating the GreenScreen framework into our overall containing recycled plastic from this process.6 alternatives assessment protocol has enabled HP to more easily select replacement materials with a reduced risk of In 2012, HP initiated a pilot program to use recycled content human health and environmental impacts. Since the plastic recovered from our hardware recycling facilities program began in 2007, we have completed more than in new HP electronic products. In partnership with an 160 assessments of materials that account for more than HP electronics recycling supplier and a recycled plastics 80% of the weight of our products, including for low compounder, we developed a recycled resin, acrylonitrile halogen power cords, brominated flame-retardant butadiene styrene (rABS) in three colors. We determined the alternatives, and general plastic resins, as well as for resin to be an appropriate material for use in internal printer cleaners used in the manufacturing process. We are also components and external case parts. The HP OfficeJet Pro implementing an alternatives assessment program for X series Inkjet printer, released in early 2013, is the first HP solder paste and fluxes. See the articles “Reducing Risk by product manufactured with rABS (5% of the product’s total Reducing Hazard – Use of Chemical Hazard Screening as plastic by weight). HP plans to expand the program to cover the First Step in the Assessment Process”4 and “Hewlett additional colors, materials, and printers in 2013. Packard‘s Use of the GreenScreen™ for Safer Chemicals”5 to learn more about HP’s approach. Supporting and advocating for We collaborate with suppliers and industry associations to relevant government regulations create market demand for materials with reduced human health and environmental risk. If acceptable alternatives HP complies fully with materials regulations worldwide do not yet exist, we work closely with suppliers to develop that are applicable to IT products. We were among the first formulations that meet HP’s specifications. companies to extend the controls in the European Union Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) Directive to our HP also advances the industry-wide elimination of subproducts worldwide through the HP General Specification stances of concern by working with external stakeholders for the Environment (GSE). We also provided key inputs to to promote the integration of the GreenScreen tool into related legislation in Europe, as well as China, India, Korea, eco label certification and government regulation. In 2012, and Vietnam. we continued to participate in the Green Chemistry and Commerce Council plasticizer alternatives assessment projWe believe the RoHS Directive and similar laws play an important role in promoting industry-wide elimination of ect, which employs GreenScreen. HP is an active member substances of concern. We are working with the industry of the Business-NGO Working Group for Safer Chemicals to advocate for the inclusion of additional substances— and Sustainable Materials, which published the chemical including PVC, BFRs, and certain phthalates—in future alternatives assessment protocol that other industries can RoHS legislation covering electrical and electronics produse to improve their materials selection processes. ucts. (See our compliance statement.) HP also complies with the European Union’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation, and Restriction of Chemical substances (REACH) legislation, which sets requirements for assessing and managing risks posed by chemicals. We accomplish this by working closely with suppliers to gather information on listed substances that may be in HP 4 Wendschlag, H.; Robertson, C.; Holder, H.; Wray, C., “Reducing Risk by Reducing Hazard – Use of Chemical Hazard Screening as the First Step in the Assessment Process,” Electronics Goes Green 2012+ (EGG), Berlin, 9-12 Sept. 2012. 5 Holder, H.A.; Mazurkiewicz, P.H.; Robertson, C.D.; Wray, C.A., “Hewlett Packard‘s Use of the GreenScreen™ for Safer Chemicals,” Chemical Alternatives Assessments (Issues in Environmental Science and Technology), R.M. Harrison (Editor), R.E. Hester (Editor), RSC Publishing, available May 2013, http://www.rsc.org/Shop/ books/2013/9781849736053.asp. 6 The recycled plastic used in Inkjet cartridges also contains recycled plastic from bottles. 44 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents product materials and providing related safety information Remove Governance to customers. We have completed the necessary substance We strive to eliminate the use of substances of concern registrations required by May 2013 and have already begun when lower-impact alternatives are readily available. For Environment the registration process for the next deadline in May 2018. example, HP restricts the use of PVC in packaging with Environmental minor exceptions. (See related information in Materials on sustainability HP’s comprehensive approach to regulatory compliance page 41.) • Products and solutions also includes due diligence for some minerals used in our supply chain. The minerals of concern are the raw Product return and Reduce materials for tin, tantalum, tungsten, and gold. Beyond recycling Using less packaging reduces materials consumption, the regulatory requirements, we are working with a range of HP operations stakeholders to help ensure that conflict minerals—mincarbon footprint of transportation, and customer waste. Data dashboard: erals originating from the Democratic Republic of Congo We meet or exceed local legal standards for packaging Environment (DRC) and its neighbors—do not directly or indirectly fund minimization where they exist. We are also reducing the groups responsible for human rights abuses in the DRC amount of paper delivered with products, such as warSociety (see Conflict minerals on page 96). ranties and manuals, making the information available in About this report electronic form instead. Reuse Packaging We design packaging for reuse where feasible, enabling retailers, distributors, and enterprise customers to return Innovation in packaging design provides the opportunity to packaging materials to HP or redeploy the materials for significantly reduce environmental impacts. We continually future shipments. When our suppliers are located close to work to improve all environmental performance aspects HP manufacturing facilities, we also work to design reusof packaging while achieving adequate product protection, able packaging. respecting regulatory requirements, and managing cost. Recycle We include environmental considerations in our guidelines We are committed to increasing the proportion of recycled for our packaging suppliers, encouraging them to create content in our packaging materials. The amount of recycled more innovative and environmentally responsible packagcontent in our packaging varies widely by region, as well ing designs. Our General Specification for the Environment as by material and product type. Where feasible, HP is (GSE) restricts substances of concern, such as polyvinyl shifting from plastic packaging to paper and molded pulp chloride (PVC),7 and requires all materials used in HP packalternatives that contain recycled content and are certified aging to be recyclable.8 as meeting a sustainable forest management standard. In some instances, however, light plastic packaging may have To decrease the environmental impact of our packaga smaller carbon footprint than the molded pulp alternative ing, we strive to reduce material use, optimize shipping because of the quantity of molded pulp needed to provide densities, and utilize recycled materials. These objectives the same level of protection. In such cases, we increasingly are achieved through our underlying principles: remove, use expanded polystyrene (EPS) or expanded polyethylene reduce, reuse, recycle, replace, and influence. HP environmental packaging mission Deliver our industry’s most eﬀicient and sustainable packaging designs Focus areas Using principles of With Reduce material usage Remove Recycle Conformance to Optimize shipping densities Reduce Replace HP’s General Specification for the Environment Utilize recycled materials Reuse Influence 7 The restriction on PVC in HP packaging does not apply to protective tape covers with a surface area equal to or less than 15 square centimeters (2.35 square inches) and/or weighing less than 1g (0.035 ounce). 8 Not all locations have suitable recycling infrastructure to recycle all materials used in HP packaging. 45 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Transport Contents (EPE) foam cushions that contain recycled plastic. In 2011, Governance we implemented 100% recycled cushions for some consumer and commercial desktops in the Americas. Environment HP conducts business in more than 170 countries. On a Environmental Replace typical day, we ship over 1 million products around the sustainability We are working to replace hard to recycle materials with world. Our products travel from manufacturing locations • Products and solutions more easily recycled substitutes. While all HP packagto distribution centers and then on to customer destinaProduct return and ing materials are capable of being recycled, this is only tions worldwide. recycling possible where appropriate collection and recycling HP operations infrastructure is in place. We therefore take ease of curbWe are committed to reducing transport-related GHG side recyclability into account when selecting packaging emissions and other environmental impacts associated Data dashboard: materials. We also evaluate the total life cycle of materials with these activities. As a global IT company with one of Environment when assessing the merits of a packaging change, weighthe most extensive transportation networks in the sector, Society ing factors such as the potential to reduce greenhouse gas we also help develop new industry standards for environAbout this report (GHG) emissions as well as recyclability. mentally responsible transportation management. We work with logistics service providers (LSPs) to optimize our Influence global supply chain and select the best modes of transport As a major purchaser of packaging materials, we encourage and routings for our shipments. vendors to use more recycled fiber content and sustainably harvested fiber in our paper-based packaging. We are In 2012, GHG emissions from transporting HP products also working with providers of 100% recycled EPS and PE totaled an estimated 1.7 million tonnes of carbon dioxide foam cushions to broaden industry adoption and build the equivalent (CO2e).9 This is about 10% less than GHG emisinfrastructure required to make these more available. sions from our own operations. Since the end of 2008, we have implemented projects that cut emissions from product transport collectively by 190,000 tonnes CO2e, Progress in 2012 exceeding our goal to reduce emissions by 180,000 tonnes of CO2e by 2013. The following examples from more than 25 separate packaging projects undertaken in 2012 illustrate the range We use three strategies to reduce fuel use: maximizing of packaging innovation across our product portfolio. the efficiency of our supply chain network, shifting to less energy-intensive modes of transport, and influencing our Packaging innovation Summary of benefits in 2012 LSPs. We also work to reduce the size and weight of our product packaging while retaining high-quality protection, Designed HP LaserJet Pro 300/400 color Eliminated nearly 500 ocean container shipments multifunction printer packaging to achieve a since this decreases the volume of goods we transport. Reduced CO2e emissions by 1,730 tonnes smaller, more efficient design Learn more in Packaging on page 44. Implemented high-performance, low-density Reduced packaging part weight by 33% foam for 25 HP LaserJet products Reduced CO2e emissions by 936 tonnes Progress in 2012 Reduced size of OfficeJet 4620 product and 50% more units shipped per ocean container box while increasing protection Reduced weight by 20% Maximizing the efficiency of our supply chain Eliminated printed in-box documentation in Avoided printing of 1.4 billion sheets of 8.5” x 6” paper network many products across all business groups Reduced annual CO2e emissions by 10,500 tonnes HP reduces fuel use and GHG emissions by decreasing the distance our products travel. We accomplish this by Implemented use of recycled pallets for part Avoided use of 640,000 new pallets annually working with suppliers to locate manufacturing facilities of our business in the Americas Diverted 12,700 tonnes of lumber waste from landfills closer to customers and consolidating distribution centers Replaced paper insert in Inkjet supplies Reduced CO2e emissions by 65 tonnes to optimize the use of trailer space for our shipments. For product with cardboard shelf built into the box example, we opened a factory in Turkey (shifting from Increased recycled content of paperboard Paperboard boxes are 100% recycled fiber, of which other parts of Asia) to service customers in Africa and the and corrugated boxes for Inkjet supplies 35% is postconsumer Middle East partially via ocean as opposed to air shipment. products Corrugated boxes are 35% recycled fiber In the United States, we consolidated three West Coast warehouses into one—improving operational and energy Replaced single product packaging with Reduced packaging weight per unit by 60% multiproduct cases for some Enterprise efficiency, and streamlining outbound freight. Reduced CO2e emissions by 44 tonnes Group products Reduced packaging cost per unit by 82% Introduced “thin box” design for notebook Decreased packaging volume by nearly 30% products Reduced package weight by 10% Increased density of products per pallet by 25-33%, decreasing transport CO2e emissions 9 This figure for transport GHG emissions is based on data reported by LSPs that HP contracts to deliver our products. It differs from the larger product life cycle assessment-based estimate presented in Energy and climate on page 29, which includes additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. 46 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Estimated GHG emissions from product transport, 2012* Governance Air Ocean Road (includes rail) 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Environment GHG emissions 1.2 1.3 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.5 Environmental [million tonnes CO2e] sustainability GHG emissions 65% 70% 50% 10% 10% 20% 25% 20% 30% • Products and solutions [percentage of total from transport] Product return and recycling Shipment mix by weight-distance 10% 10% 5% 70% 70% 80% 20% 20% 15% [approximate, kg-km] ** HP operations * Table does not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. Data dashboard: ** All figures rounded; improvements in efficiency of the mode of transportation may not be fully reflected. Environment Society About this report Shifting to less energy-intensive modes of In the United States, we ship all HP consumer and comtransport mercial products using SmartWay surface transportation carriers—a collaboration between the U.S. Environmental We typically ship HP products by ocean or air from the Protection Agency (EPA) and the freight transportation manufacturing location to regional distribution centers, industry.11 In 2012, HP was one of only 40 companies and then by truck or rail to their final destinations. Because among the SmartWay Transport Partnership’s nearly emissions vary greatly by type of transport, with air being 3,000 partners to receive the SmartWay Excellence Award. the most GHG intensive, shifting to less energy intensive modes of transport can reduce climate impacts substantially (see chart above).10 In 2012, select shipments of notebook PCs traveled by ocean instead of air from China to Europe, Latin America, and the United States (as well as Use intra-Asia), resulting in an estimated savings of approxiHP is aware that the energy and materials consumed by mately 20,000 tonnes of CO2e. customers when using our products have a significant environmental impact. Therefore, we work to design In 2011, we began using a new international freight train increasingly efficient products and solutions that help network from China to Europe to reduce emissions, time, customers reduce the environmental impact of their operaand costs. The train route begins in Chongqing, China, and tions and personal lives. This approach covers everything ends in Duisburg, Germany (see case study: Chongqing we sell, from single-user personal computing devices and region presents opportunities for supply chain SER in China printers to enterprise servers, storage equipment, and on page 94). This alternative rail solution reduces CO2e entire data centers. emissions by more than 90% compared with air freight and cuts costs by over 60%. The route is also 10 days faster For many of our products, customer use generates more than ocean transport. Since its launch, we have transported greenhouse gas emissions than any other stage of the more than 4 million notebooks by rail (approximately 30% life cycle. However, understanding the carbon footprint of of notebook shipments from China to Europe) and will begin our products is complex. Large corporate customers and printer shipments through this route in 2013. private consumers have very different usage patterns, and the carbon intensity of electricity varies by location. This Influencing logistics service providers year, we are for the first time publishing a comprehensive HP selects logistics service providers (LSPs) that maintain estimate of the GHG emissions related to the use of HP high standards in social and environmental responsibilproducts. See Energy and climate on page 29 for detail. ity. These LSPs sign and adhere to HP’s Supplier Social and Environmental Responsibility Agreement and agree Our web-based HP Carbon Footprint Calculator, developed to conform to the expectations and standards in HP’s in 2009, allows customers to compare estimated paper EICC Code of Conduct and applicable laws and regulaand energy use and costs, along with CO2e emissions for tions, while meeting our other business requirements. To HP and Compaq branded products, taking into account improve environmental performance, LSPs strive to use user location.12 The tool can also estimate users’ printeroptimal routings and engine technologies, and we require related electricity and paper costs.13 The calculator, which them to track GHG emissions associated with the transport receives more than 10,000 visits per month, covers more of HP products. than 9,000 HP and non-HP devices. 10 According to the World Resources Institute GHG Protocol. Calculation methodology based on GHG Protocol distance-based method. 11 This designation is based on actions to reduce transportation-related emissions. 12 Power, cost, and carbon calculations are estimates. Results will vary based on variables, which include information provided by the user, time PC is in different power states (on, standby, off), time PC is on AC, hardware configuration, variable electricity rates, and utilities provider. HP advises customers to use information reported by this Carbon Footprint Calculator for reference only and to validate impact on their environment. For more information about calculation assumptions, see www.hp.com/large/psg/toolassumptions.pdf. 13 The Carbon Footprint Calculator also estimates the user’s costs for the electricity and paper a printer consumes. It is based on certain key assumptions and makes use of data and models generated by third parties. 47 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Collaboration Imaging and printing Governance HP also contributes to the development of industryHP has pioneered IT industry efforts to help customers Environment wide standards to reduce the environmental impact of IT reduce the carbon footprint of printing. Examples include: products. Eco-labels are one important driver of improveEnvironmental • Our ENERGY STAR qualified products improve the ments, encouraging the IT industry to invest in innovations sustainability sustainability of office printing by using less energy and in energy and resource efficiency. For example, in 2012 we • Products and solutions generating less waste. contributed to the development of the latest ENERGY STAR® Product return and rating criteria for PCs, Displays, and Imaging Equipment • HP digital on-demand printing solutions, such as Indigo recycling products. Working with industry associations and directly and Web Press, enable our customers to print exactly HP operations with the EPA, HP was a leader in the development of what they need, when and where they need it, as opposed these updated standards. HP is now a cochair of the ITIC to analog printing, which encourages overproduction, Data dashboard: (Information Technology Industry Council) energy efficiency resulting in large volumes of marketing collateral, books, Environment working group. Over the past four years, HP has also been and labels being wasted. Society a key participant in a stakeholder consensus process to • Our Managed Print Services solutions enable customers About this report develop the EPEAT® standard for imaging devices. This to save 30%-80% in energy use and significantly reduce standard was published in December 2012, and HP has paper waste. begun to register imaging devices at EPEAT.NET. HP’s ENERGY STAR qualified HP OfficeJet Pro 8600 e-Allin-One series, HP OfficeJet Pro 8100 ePrinter, and HP Progress in 2012 Officejet Pro X Series printers compete with office laser printers. Based on our own testing, these models use up We made significant progress in 2012 helping customers to 50% less energy than the majority of comparably priced decrease the environmental impact of their HP IT products laser printers.14 All models are capable of two-sided printby providing more energy and resource efficient products. ing, providing an opportunity to save paper. The Officejet As illustrated by several of the examples below, efficiency Pro X Series generates 50% less supplies waste15 comimprovements frequently offer cost savings as well. pared to competitors’ color laser printers. For details, see www.hp.com/go/officejet. Personal computers and devices HP is an industry leader in energy efficient options for We also provide energy efficient solutions for large organipersonal computers and associated products. We strive zations that use multiple printing and imaging devices. HP to develop products that meet ENERGY STAR ™ and EPEAT Web Jetadmin used with the HP EcoSMART Fleet centralGold qualifications, the highest international standards for izes printing activity and allows the organization to control environmental attributes in electronics such as material energy-saving features such as sleep and wake-up settings selection and energy savings. In 2012, 43.7% of commerand double-sided printing as default. The system provides cial PCs shipped by HP were EPEAT Gold qualified, and an user data that can support environmental goals. additional 10.9% were EPEAT Silver qualified. Data centers Recent developments in “thin client” networks are making HP Data Center Consulting, including IT infrastructure, significant energy efficiency gains possible by individual Critical Facilities Services, and Cloud Consulting, helps workstations accessing a central server in place of the customers achieve a standardized and streamlined conventional PC hard drive. The HP t410 All-in-One Smart operational strategy that can decrease physical footprint Zero Client provides the same performance as a traditional (such as power and cooling infrastructure) and improve PC but runs on just 13 watts of power. It meets both EPEAT environmental performance while enabling much greater Gold and ENERGY STAR standards. operational efficiency. See Design on page 39 for detail. 14 Majority of color laser printers <$800 USD and color laser MFPs <$1,000 as of August 2012. Energy use based on HP and HP commissioned third-party testing. Actual cost and energy usage may vary. For details, see www.hp.com/go/officejet. HP OfficeJet Pro 8600 e-All-in-One series compared with majority of color laser AiOs <$600 and HP OfficeJet Pro 8100 ePrinter compared with majority of color laser printers <$300, March 2011. HP OfficeJet Pro X Series compared with majority of color laser printers <$800 and color laser MFPs <$1,000, August 2012. 15 Compares weight of empty cartridge and packaging materials needed for 15,000 pages using highest-capacity cartridges of major in-class competitors’ color laser MFPs <$1,000 USD and color laser printers <$800 USD as of October 2012. Tested by Buyers Lab Inc. For details, see www.hp.com/go/officejet. 48 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Storage The HP Vertica AppSystem is a scalable, high-speed, Governance HP storage products incorporate the latest materials, techrelational data analytics platform that helps companies nology, architectural, and design advances to help reduce store and analyze vast amounts of data, while using fewer Environment power consumption within the data center. For example, resources. Running on energy-efficient HP ProLiant DL380 Environmental Gen8 servers with local disks, this platform reduces storreplacing legacy storage with HP 3PAR StoreServ Storage sustainability age costs by up to 90%. Due to the platform’s advanced can reduce disk capacity requirements and energy use • Products and solutions by 50% or more.16 Support for nonspinning media further columnar-based storage architecture, it requires 25-50% Product return and decreases the energy footprint of these systems. The allless hardware and storage space compared to alternative recycling solid state drive (SSD) HP 3PAR StoreServ 10000 Storage technologies, which decreases related power and cooling system reduces client cost per input/output operations per costs. The HP Vertica Analytics Platform also helps compaHP operations second by 70%, and energy use by more than 80%.17 nies achieve compression rates of 50-90%—allowing them Data dashboard: to store the same amount of data using fewer resources. Environment As the industry’s broadest tape storage portfolio, HP Society StoreEver Tape Storage features HP’s market-leading tape HP Business Service Automation (BSA) is software that About this report products and technologies.18 By choosing tape instead of customers use to manage IT services and capacity to spinning media for long-term data archiving, the energy improve efficiency across domains and virtual environsavings alone can pay for the cost of an organization’s ments. BSA can be used in conjunction with data center entire tape system investment within 12 years.19 For many hardware to dynamically adjust capacity, switching off organizations, a combination of tape and disk backup equipment when it is not needed. This can save energy provide the most energyand cost-efficient approach and reduce associated CO2 emissions. Companies that to meeting data protection and archiving needs and can have used HP BSA for storage provisioning report that they be met both simply and economically by combining HP have regained up to 40% of space from existing storage.21 StoreEver Storage with HP StoreOnce Backup. HP Service Health Optimizer is capacity-planning softSoftware ware that makes recommendations on how to reduce the number of systems in an IT environment. It proposes HP software products can help customers save energy, configurations for the ideal size, placement, and allocacosts, and other resources by reducing unnecessary comtion of virtual machines relative to physical space. This puting and storage capacity. increased density can decrease the system footprint space and energy consumption. With HP Software as a Service (SaaS), HP hosts and operates software for our customers, sharing the systems on which the software runs among multiple users and multiple applications. Because customers are not running Case study software through their data centers, they save power, cooling, energy, and floor space. SaaS is a component of cloud computing that provides HP Energy and Sustainability on-demand access to configurable shared resources, Management including software. A study by CDP estimated that “U.S. businesses with annual revenues of more than $1 billion In 2012, HP Energy and Sustainability Management can cut CO2 emissions by 85.7 million tonnes annually by worked with a major American city to assess its energy 2020 as a result of spending 69% of infrastructure, platconsumption and develop a cost reduction strategy. form, and software budgets on cloud services.”20 During the year, we completed a baseline assessment of the city’s highest energy consuming facilities, reviewed HP SaaS can reduce environmental impacts related to energy management processes and governance strucsoftware disk and packaging manufacture, distribution, tures, and performed a functional needs assessment for and shipping, also resulting in greater operational effian enterprise energy software system. ciency and better resource management. And by offering remote access to software via the Internet, SaaS expands opportunities for telecommuting and remote IT support, which can reduce the need for travel. 16 See http://www8.hp.com/us/en/products/data-storage/data-storage-solutions.html?compURI=1284392#.US5MeFf4J8E for details. 17 Based on HP internal comparison of an HP 3PAR 10000 V800 system with all Fibre Channel drives and an equivalently sized HP 3PAR 10000 V800 system with all solid state drives. See http://www8.hp.com/us/en/hp-news/press-release.html?id=1266636#.US5HDVf4J8E for full details. 18 According to the IDC Branded Tape Tracker CQ2 2012, HP is the market share leader in units and revenue for Linear Tape-Open (LTO) tape worldwide across individual tape drives and tape automation products. 19 Source: “In Search of the Long-Term Archiving Solution—Tape Delivers Significant TCO Advantage over Disk,” Clipper Group, December 23, 2010. David Reine and Mike Kahn. 20 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project Study, “Cloud Computing –The IT Solution for the 21st Century.” 21 D imensional Research “HP Customers Reveal Real-Life Benefits of IT Automation,” 2010. 49 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Goals Contents Governance Environment Environmental Life cycle assessment sustainability 2012 goals Progress • Products and solutions Calculate and disclose Product Carbon Footprint (PCF) values using the We used the PAIA tool to calculate PCF values in response to bids and Product return and Product Attribute to Impact Algorithm (PAIA) tool for new HP notebook, tenders, as well as customer inquiries. We have not yet disclosed these recycling desktop, and monitor products. calculations because there is a lack of product category standards HP operations for PC products. Product category standards establish comparable methodologies for credible and transparent disclosure. HP is leading Data dashboard: an effort to develop a consistent methodology for computers that will Environment support credible and transparent disclosure in the future. Society Complete life cycle assessments on 20 additional HP LaserJet printers, We exceeded our goal, completing life cycle assessments on 53 HP About this report one HP scanner, and one book vs. e-reader. LaserJet printers, one HP scanner, and one book versus an e-reader. We also completed an LCA on one HP Inkjet printer. Work with industry to establish product category rules (PCRs) for Collaborated with Underwriters Laboratories Environment to complete imaging products. PCRs for printers and imaging products. 2014 goal Promote and support the development of an IEC Technical Report to establish harmonized product category PCF standards for PCs and displays. Materials 2012 goal Progress Complete the phase-out of bis (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), dibutyl Complete: All personal computing products to be newly introduced phthalate (DBP), and butyl benzyl phthalate (BBP) in newly introduced in 2013 meet the HP GSE requirement for phasing out the phthalates personal computing products by the end of 2012. DEHP, DBP, and BBP. Transport 2012 goal Progress Implement network enhancements, mode changes, and route optimizaWe exceeded our goal by achieving a CO2e reduction of 190,000 tion that decrease greenhouse gas emissions from product transport by tonnes through air-to-ocean and truck-to-rail conversions, direct ship 180,000 tonnes of CO2e, since the end of 2008. programs, warehouse consolidations, and other network enhancement programs. 2016 goal Implement network enhancements, mode changes, and route optimization that decrease greenhouse gas emissions from product transport by 200,000 tonnes of CO2e since the end of 2012. 50 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Environmental sustainability Products and solutions • Product return and recycling HP operations Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report Product return and recycling 69 HP aims to provide take-back programs with broad geographical coverage and ensure an environmentally responsible option for processing HP products at the end of their life. We verify the quality of our global countries and territories with recycling network through third-party vendor audits, HP take-back programs and we increasingly rely on third-party recycling 2.5 billion certifications when available. We continue to evaluate expansion of our product take-back programs into additional countries, but this depends in part on the availability of local recyclers that meet our standards pounds of electronic products and supplies recycled since 1987 or export regulations that allow for legal transport of materials to recycling facilities in other countries. 30 million Additionally, we are striving to capture a larger quantity of e-waste through partnerships with major retailers in some locations. units and accessories refurbished for reuse since 2003 3,700+ locations throughout the United States, making drop off for computer recycling close, easy, and free 51 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our approach network to process the material responsibly. The recyclers were selected in part for their proximity to Staples distriGovernance Addressing the end of life of our products is a priority for bution centers, reducing transportation and corresponding Environment HP and central to our efforts to decrease environmental GHG emissions resulting from the program. Environmental impacts across our value chain. We sell hardware products sustainability At the same time HP is extending the range of options for globally that have typical life spans of between three and Products and solutions ten years. Consequently, at the time of disposal, the age returning printer cartridges. In 2012 we added partnerships • Product return and and condition of products vary greatly. Our challenge is to with OfficeMax and Walmart to our existing arrangement recycling provide a broad choice of product take-back solutions with with Staples. HP operations the widest geographical reach. Our take-back programs are currently available in 69 countries and territories. See data regarding these programs in the table on the Data dashboard: next page. Environment After a customer returns his or her hardware product, our Society priority is to determine the best recovery solution for it. Expanding the global reach of our recycling network About this report When equipment has resale value, we prefer to refurbish We are working with governments and nongovernmenand resell it, the option with the lowest environmental tal organizations to improve local recycling capabilities impact. When reuse is not viable, we extract as much value in important emerging markets including Africa, Asia, as possible by breaking it down and recycling the constituEastern Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East. As ent materials. these economies grow and demand for electronic products continues to increase, we are focused on expanding Specialist third-party companies provide reuse and HP’s return and recycling programs in these regions (see recycling programs on our behalf. HP requires that our case studies below). In 2012, HP increased the number of recyclers process all material according to best practice countries and territories in which take-back programs are and in full compliance with relevant regulations. In available from 67 to 69. particular, HP monitors product take-back programs to ensure there is no “leakage” of material to facilities or Capabilities in developing countries vary widely, with organizations outside of our approved vendor network. We many lacking adequate collection and recycling systems. undertake due-diligence audits of our recycling vendors to It is common in the developing world for electronic waste ensure compliance with our Printing supplies recycling to be collected and treated in an informal economy with policy, Hardware recycling standard, Hardware reuse inadequate controls to safeguard human health and the standard, Policy on export of electronic waste to developing environment. As we expand our programs, we work to countries, and Supplier code of conduct. HP also requires improve local capabilities and standards. Establishing certification to third-party recycling standards (R2 and responsible recycling facilities creates employment in e-Stewards) in the many countries where they are available. disadvantaged communities while helping protect workers and the environment. A third-party firm audits all potential Promoting product take-back in the United States recyclers to make sure they meet our global standards and HP is increasing recovery of end-of-life products by policies. We require recyclers to provide plans to address collaborating with leading retail chains. In 2012, HP and any gaps in their approach identified in the audits. Staples announced a partnership to offer consumers free, convenient, and responsible recycling every day throughout the United States regardless of the brand or purchase location. The program covers a wide range of products, from desktop PCs to tablets and fax machines to digital camcorders. The partnership leverages Staples’ stores and logistics network to collect the devices and consolidate them at its distribution centers and HP’s certified recycler Video: How HP is developing recycling facilities in East Africa Case study New recycling facility in Brazil In Brazil, customers may return recycling facility at the Flextronics plastic products. The recycled plastic HP print cartridges to HP Planet facility in São Paulo to process the is used in new printer parts manufacPartners via authorized retail colused HP ink cartridges collected. The tured in Brazil as well as new HP ink lection locations (such as Kalunga, facility, employing 20 people, uses cartridges. Any remaining material Saraiva, HP Stores, Contabilista, HP technology to process used HP is disposed of responsibly through and Carrefour), authorized reseller ink cartridges in a multiphase recyenergy recovery. No original HP carcollection points or by requestcling process. The cartridges are tridges returned through HP Planet ing a pickup at www.hp.com.br/ reduced to raw materials which can Partners are ever sent to a landfill. reciclar. HP has established a new be used to make new metal and 52 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Product return and recycling options* Governance Customer Asset recovery services Outcomes Environment Environmental sustainability Return for cash Reuse in 2012 Remarket Products and solutions 3.9 million units to customer (hardware only) • Product return and recycling Leasing return HP operations Materials for Data dashboard: other products Environment Donation** Responsible recycling in 2012 Society 133,550 tonnes Energy recovery (hardware and cartridges) About this report Recycling Disposal (if necessary) * Segments in this graphic are not drawn to scale. ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. HP take-back programs We use a global network of vendors in 69 countries and territories to collect, process for resale, and recycle returned products. Our main programs include: Service Overview Scope Hardware We resell refurbished products, from PCs to data center equipment, at the end of leasing terms or This service is availreuse * (trade in, as part of trade-in agreements. We offer remarketed equipment for many HP and non-HP products able in 53 countries return for cash, and follow strict processes set out in our Hardware reuse standard to protect user data and meet and territories. leasing return, environmental requirements. donation) ** Hardware We recycle returned products that are not suitable for reuse. This service is availrecycling able in 55 countries Consumer recycling services vary by country, depending on local regulations and infrastructure. We are and territories. co-founders of the European Recycling Platform, which provides pan-European take-back and recycling services and recycled more than 32,700 tonnes of electronic equipment on HP’s behalf in 2012. In the United States, our Consumer buyback program allows consumers to return IT equipment of any brand and check online to see how much money or purchase credit they can receive in exchange. Even if the product is not eligible for buyback, consumers can recycle HP and Compaq products at no cost and other brands for a small charge. In 2012 we added the ability for consumers to drop-off hardware products at Staples and FedEx Office, increasing the total to more than 3,700 drop off locations throughout the United States, making recycling close, easy, and free. We also provide recycling services to commercial customers. Our Hardware recycling standard, Policy on export of electronic waste to developing countries, and Supplier code of conduct set out strict processes to safeguard the environment and protect consumer and commercial customers’ data. See a list of recycling options by country. HP ink and Customers can return used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges to authorized retail and other collecWe provide free toner cartridge tion sites through the HP Planet Partners program. In North America, for example, HP is partnering recycling for HP recycling with Staples to collect used HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges. In 2012 we added new retail cartridges in 56 drop-off options for HP cartridge recycling at Walmart and OfficeMax, making a total of more than countries and 7,100 locations in the United States where consumers can drop cartridges for recycling.*** For some territories. products and in selected countries, we offer free, postage-paid return options including printable labels, shipping envelopes, collection boxes, and the option to order bulk pickup. Learn more. Through our “closed loop” recycling process, Original HP ink and LaserJet toner cartridges are reduced to raw materials that can then be used to make new cartridges as well as other metal and plastic products. Over the past two years, HP has shipped 600 million Inkjet cartridges containing some recycled plastic from this process.**** In 2012, HP initiated a pilot program to use recycled content plastic recovered from our hardware recycling facilities in new HP electronic products. (See Materials on page 41 for more information.) See a list of recycling options by country. * Availability of each reuse offering varies by location. ** The relationship is directly between customer and charity. Available in the United States only. *** As of March 2013. **** The recycled plastic used in Inkjet cartridges also contains recycled plastic from bottles. 53 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Advocating for regulations that Progress in 2012 Governance promote reuse and responsible In 2012, we recovered 159,550 tonnes of hardware Environment Environmental recycling and supplies. sustainability HP is engaging governments and stakeholders, directly and This included: Products and solutions through trade associations, to help improve national and international approaches to controlling the movement of • Approximately 3.9 million hardware units weighing • Product return and recycling electronic waste while also allowing legitimate movements 26,000 tonnes (57.2 million pounds) for reuse and of used equipment for repair and reuse to continue. To remarketing; more than 60% returned by business HP operations customers that end, HP has provided thought leadership regarding Data dashboard: the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary • Approximately 133,550 tonnes (295 million pounds) Environment Movements of Hazardous Wastes and Their Disposal and for recycling; more than 80% of hardware recycling Society supports its objective to prevent the dumping of waste volume by weight returned by consumers About this report in less developed countries that do not possess suitable recycling and treatment facilities. HP also advocates for Overall, we have recovered a total of 1,390,950 tonnes legitimate movements of used equipment, which promotes (3.066 billion pounds) of computer hardware (for reuse repair and reuse of electronics, thereby reducing the genand recycling) and supplies (for recycling) since 1987. eration of electronic waste. We achieved a total reuse and recycling rate in 2012 The value of electronic waste has increased substantially of approximately 14% of relevant HP hardware sales due to the value of the underlying commodities. This is worldwide. creating competition for collection of used electronic products in developed as well as developing countries. See Product return and recycling* on page 67 for However, most existing legislation holds manufacturers detailed performance information. exclusively responsible for collection and treatment of all of their used products. HP is helping regulators understand the impact of this trend on both current and future e-waste regulations. See HP’s position on Individual Producer Responsibility. Product return and recycling, 2008-2012* [tonnes] 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total reuse of equipment ** 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700 26,000 Total recycling—computer hardware and supplies combined 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 133,550 Total reuse and recycling combined 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600 159,550 * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible dis­posal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data are based on the HP fiscal year. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2008–2012 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units, rather than a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units. Tonnage numbers are approximate. 54 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Vendor audits Contents the countries where HP sells EPEAT-registered products. Governance All HP recycling facilities for imaging products in Australia, Canada, China, Mexico, Singapore, and the United States Environment We have direct relationships with about 75 first-tier reuse already meet this requirement. While we support the Environmental and recycling vendors, who in turn manage hundreds of EPEAT third-party certification program, we will continue sustainability to supplement it with our own audits of certified vendors subvendors in their own networks. Products and solutions and will continue to audit our noncertified vendors. • Product return and We contract Environmental Resources Management (ERM), recycling a third party, to audit our first-tier vendors and ensure they HP operations conform to our Hardware recycling and reuse standards 2012 audits and findings covering the storage, handling, and processing of returned Data dashboard: In 2012, ERM audited 18 reuse and 13 recycling vendor electronic equipment, as well as our Policy on export of Environment facilities in 17 countries. Twenty-two were repeat site audits electronic waste to developing countries and Supplier code Society of conduct. to check vendors’ ongoing commitment and improved perAbout this report formance. All of the site audits evaluated both the vendor The audits also include an assessment of environmental, facilities and their material disposition network. In addition health, and safety practices and performance, as well as to those site audits, another 12 audits were conducted checks on downstream material flows based on shipment remotely (by phone and e-mail) to evaluate vendor disposiand receipt records. When audits identify areas of nontion networks (these sites had all been previously audited conformance, vendors must create corrective action plans with no major gaps found). and respond quickly to improve their performance. Once we receive a vendor’s report of corrective actions taken, Eleven of the 22 re-audited sites had previously experiERM conducts a verification audit to ensure that adequate enced major nonconformances. ERM re-audits confirmed changes have been made. Although we prefer to work with that all major nonconformances had been addressed at vendors to improve their capabilities, in extreme cases we seven of these sites. HP vendor managers continue to stop using vendors who lack transparency or the willingwork with the others to resolve open issues, and in two of ness to make the required changes. the remaining four cases, vendors had addressed some of the major nonconfor­mances identified. ERM’s audit training program also helps our first-tier vendors to understand our audit process and teaches Most gaps in conformance to HP standards are found in them how to improve their operational performance the areas of environmental, health, and safety, followed by and how to audit their own vendors. Our vendor audit security, logistics, and asset tracking, and then manageprogram conforms to and exceeds the practices described ment systems. Combined, the first three areas accounted in the EPA’s Sustainable Materials Management Electronics for more than 84% of the gaps found during audits in 2012. Challenge. These guidelines have also been incorporated into the IEEE 1680.1 optional criteria of EPEAT® for perWe have received and reviewed 136 vendor-generated sonal computers. corrective action plans following the 208 audits conducted since we enhanced our vendor audit program in 2008. The recently implemented IEEE 1680.2 criteria for imaging products require the use of recycling vendors that have Read a statement from ERM. obtained certification by a qualified third-party auditor in Goals 2015 goals Progress Recycle 3.5 billion pounds (1.6 million tonnes) of electronic products and In 2012, HP recycled 295 million pounds of electronic products and supplies by the end of 2015 (since 1987). supplies, bringing the total since 1987 to 2.54 billion pounds. Reuse 40 million electronic products and accessory units by the end of In 2012, HP reused 3.9 million electronic products and accessory units, 2015 (since 2003). bringing the total since 2003 to 30.95 million. 55 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Environmental sustainability Products and solutions Product return and recycling • HP operations Data dashboard: Environment Society About this report HP operations 20% HP is working hard to reduce our environmental footprint and drive sustainable growth. One of the most significant environmental impacts from our operations is the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions that result from reduction in total Scope 1 and energy generated to run our offices, data centers, and Scope 2 GHG emissions from manufacturing facilities. (See Energy and GHG emissions operations by 2020, compared to 2010 on page 57 for details.) Other environmental impacts from our operations are those associated with waste 88.1% disposal, paper use, water consumption, site remediation, and the use of ozone-depleting substances. Some of our manufacturing facilities have additional landfill diversion rate achieved impacts, including wastewater discharges and permitted in 2012 releases of regulated substances. 56 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our approach See a list of HP’s major operations in our 2012 Annual Report (page 35). Governance Environment We are working to improve our environmental performance by: The quality of our data and trend analysis continues to Environmental improve. In the summer of 2012, we completed the implesustainability • Enhancing energy efficiency and reducing GHG emissions mentation of Hara energy and sustainability management Products and solutions • Increasing resource efficiency software. Hara is helping HP more accurately measure Product return and and monitor our environmental performance and identify • Creating new opportunities and markets by sharing areas with the greatest potential for improvement. We recycling successes in our own operations with partners and can now measure energy and water use at the site level • HP operations customers and at more frequent intervals. As a result, we have reset Data dashboard: the baseline for our operational data2 to 2010, as that is Environment HP’s environmental, health, and safety (EHS) management the first full year of data in the system. We applied our Society system is designed to ensure that all our facilities comply new methodology to 2010 and 2011 retroactively to with applicable regulations and meet company standards. ensure consistency across the years reported. We also About this report adjust our baseline as needed to account for acquisitions See Awards for details of the recognition HP has received and divestitures, using accepted methodologies such as for its environmental management and performance. the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. About our operational data HP’s Energy and Sustainability Management group was Data relating to HP operations are based on our fiscal year, involved in the Hara rollout and is applying the insights which ends October 31. we have gained to benefit customers undertaking similar deployments. For example, we used our experience On that date, HP owned and leased more than 700 sites from the Hara implementation to inform our Resource in 98 countries. In 2012, we collected data from 332 sites Management as a Service research project. This project (including all HP-owned manufacturing sites and our largaimed to find opportunities for HP to combine hardware, est owned and leased office, warehouse, data center, and software, and services to help cities more efficiently distribution sites). These sites represent 87% of our total manage utilities and waste (see Research and developfloor space of approximately 6.7 million square meters. ment on page 38). We extrapolated data from comparable data centers and offices for the remaining floor space, unless stated otherwise.1 Environmental risk assessment HP’s Enterprise Risk Management availability. The assessment showed While we expect that our operations program identifies critical risks and that although issues such as climate will become increasingly subject suitable mitigation programs at the change may pose risks to our busito regulatory and cost challenges enterprise, business, and functional ness, we have in place measures to related to climate change and water levels. This process includes environmitigate those risks. These measures scarcity, we do not believe these mental risks. include long-term, fixed-price energy changes will disproportionately affect contracts and the purchase of energy HP relative to the market. Our last major assessment of envifrom renewable sources. We also ronmental risks took place in 2011. have implemented numerous energy Beyond our direct operations, we also We evaluated our 26 most critical and water conservation programs have programs to manage environoperations for the consequences and projects that help meet the commental risks and opportunities in our of regulatory changes, physical mon objectives of cost reduction, goal supply chain and related to our prodchanges, energy costs, and water attainment, and risk management. ucts and solutions. 1 The availability of data varies by location and utility. Electricity data are most commonly available and cover 87% of our square footage. For other components of Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions, plus water and solid waste, HP develops intensity factors for nonreporting locations based on the actual performance of reporting sites. This ensures the most complete and accurate representation of environmental performance in operations possible. 2 All operational data have been restated except for perfluorocarbons released during semiconductor manufacture, diesel fuel use and related GHG emissions, and GHG emissions related to fleet. 57 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Management and Progress in 2012 Contents Governance compliance Environment In 2012, our operations produced a total of 1,889,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emissions, a Environmental decrease from 1,990,000 tonnes of CO2e in 2011 and an sustainability 8% reduction from our 2010 baseline. Products and solutions HP is committed to leadership standards in environmental, health, and safety (EHS) performance, which include Product return and Our total GHG emissions normalized against net revenue conducting our operations in an environmentally responrecycling equaled 15.7 tonnes of CO2e per $ million USD in 2012, sible manner and enabling our employees to work without • HP operations broadly in line with 2011 and a 4% reduction compared injury at our facilities and other locations. with 2010. Data dashboard: Environment Our EHS management system helps us achieve these Our emissions continued to fall as a result of energy-effiSociety objectives and ensures that we comply with regulations ciency efforts globally, reflecting good practice throughout and meet company standards across all HP facilities. At its About this report HP rather than any single, large-scale effort. As just one core is our EHS policy. example, in 2012 HP’s UK operations received the Carbon Trust Standard for achieving a 10.6% reduction in absolute HP manufacturing operations in owned and leased space GHG emissions during 2011. The Carbon Trust Standard is worldwide are certified to ISO 14001, the international a robust and independent methodology for measuring and standard for environmental management systems. reducing GHG emissions. To help ensure that we continue to meet our EHS objectives In 2013, we will prioritize energy and sustainability as as we grow, newly acquired companies must implement an organizational initiative. Our objective is to increase our EHS management system as a part of their integration. accountability for environmental impacts at every stage of an HP facility’s life cycle and to enable the sharing of strong We investigate any allegations of noncompliance with practices company-wide. The initiative will be sponsored the law to correct any issues, determine the root causes, and monitored at a senior level to reinforce its importance. and, if applicable, implement corrective action to help prevent recurrence. Greenhouse gas emissions from operations, Our management of health and safety and also wellness 2010–2012* [tonnes CO2e] are covered in HP people on page 108. 2,500,000 20 2,000,000 16 Energy and GHG 1,500,000 12 emissions 1,000,000 8 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our operations 500,000 4 account for less than 5% of HP’s total carbon footprint, including our supply chain, operations, and customer use of 0 0 our products. However, emissions from operations are most 2010 2011 2012 within our control, and we believe it is important to take every opportunity to help tackle global climate change. A mericas 1,238,000 1,197,000 1,098,000 HP is committed to reducing our emissions by making our Europe, Middle East, 355,000 282,000 264,000 global operations more energy efficient, using low-carbon and Africa energy sources, where possible, and reducing employees’ business travel. These activities also help reduce costs. A sia Pacific and Japan 464,000 510,000 527,000 In 2012, we set new GHG emissions-reduction goals, havTotal 2,057,000 1,990,000 1,889,000 ing reached our goal to cut absolute emissions from our operations (not including the HP transportation fleet) to GHG emissions 16.3 15.6 15.7 intensity ** [tonnes 20% below 2005 levels by 2013—two years earlier than CO2e/$ million USD originally committed. of net revenue] We have established a new goal to reduce HP’s total * Total includes HP’s Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. ** Historical emissions intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue greenhouse gas emissions from our operations (Scope 1 as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. and Scope 2) by 20% by 2020, compared to 2010 levels. This includes emissions from our operational real estate and the company’s transportation fleet, as well as emissions from our 78 client-serving (or “trade”) data centers. 58 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Sources of GHG emissions from We report our GHG emissions yearly through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and in 2012 were again included Governance operations in the CDP’s S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index. Environment The Index highlights constituent companies within the S&P Environmental Energy use (see Energy efficiency at right) accounts for 500 Index based on the level and quality of their climate sustainability 98% of the GHG emissions our operations generated in change information-disclosure practices. Our 2012 Carbon 2012 and represents one of our largest operational costs. Disclosure Score increased to 92 (out of a maximum 100) Products and solutions Product return and from 84 the previous year. The remaining 2% of emissions come from refrigeration recycling equipment and a small number of HP manufacturing • HP operations processes, such as semiconductor manufacture, which Data dashboard: Environment uses perfluorocarbons (PFCs). See Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 for detail. Energy efficiency Society Improving energy efficiency in HP’s operations will enable Sources of GHG emissions from HP operations, 2012* About this report us to grow our business and save costs while reducing our 2010 2011 2012 environmental impact. Electricity (Scope 2) ** 84% 84% 87% Natural gas (Scope 1) 4% 4% 3% Becoming more energy efficient is a fundamental part of our environmental strategy, and one we are pursuing by Transportation fleet (Scope 1) 7% 7% 7% consolidating our sites into fewer, bigger, more efficient Refrigerant emissions 4% 4% 2% locations. We continued this approach in 2012. (Scope 1) In addition, we employ energy-saving measures such Diesel (Scope 1) <1% <1% <1% as installing energy-efficient technology and lighting in Perfluorocarbons (Scope 1) <1% <1% <1% offices, research labs, and data centers. * Numbers do not equal 100% due to rounding. ** Takes into account electricity generated from renewable energy. Based on estimates made at the time of deployment, investments and actions such as these could save HP about $4.5 million USD in 2013 and approximately 46,000 About our GHG emissions data MWh in energy use. Additional benefits may include helping improve employees’ experience at work, increasing We calculate our GHG emissions according to the collaboration, and making our facilities more productive. Greenhouse Gas Protocol of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute.3 In this section, we report Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG Progress in 2012 emissions4 arising from HP’s operations, transportation fleet, and employee business travel. HP operations consumed 4,109 million kilowatt hours (kWh) of energy in 2012, slightly less than 4,239 million kWh • Scope 1 emissions include those from the direct use of in 2011 and a 5% drop from 4,334 in 2010. The decrease natural gas, diesel fuel, refrigerants, and PFCs in operafrom our 2010 baseline is the result of a 25% reduction in tions and from fuel used by HP’s transportation fleet. natural gas use combined with a 3% decrease in electricity • Scope 2 emissions are from purchased electricity used in consumption during that period. our operational real estate and trade data centers. • Scope 3 emissions in our operations result from Our energy intensity relative to net revenue was 34.1 kWh employee business travel by commercial airlines and per $ million USD of net revenue, a 2% increase on 2011 rental cars, in addition to other categories. In other secand a 1% drop from our 2010 baseline. tions of this report, we also disclose estimated Scope 3 emissions from product manufacturing by suppliers, Examples of energy-efficiency initiatives carried out in product transport, product use, and product recycling. 2012 include: • Installing enLightened wireless heating and lighting View HP’s carbon footprint for more detail. See Data controls in HP Labs’ Palo Alto, California, building, dashboard: Environment on page 67 to view HP’s GHG minimizing the need to install hardware and therefore emissions grouped by Scope. reducing installation costs. We estimate this technology will save 155 MWh of energy and nearly $24,000 USD This year, we commissioned independent auditor Ernst & each year, paying for itself in less than three years. Young to verify our energy use and GHG emissions across our global facilities as well as our annual reporting under • Adjusting air volume, heating, cooling, and humidificathe GHG measurement and reporting protocols of the tion in our Böblingen, Germany, facility, reducing GHG World Resources Institute and the World Economic Forum. emissions by an estimated 1,400 tonnes and saving See Report of Independent Accountant on page 137. about $750,000 USD each year. The facility made these 3 HP reports actual performance each year. Historical values are restated for the impacts of acquisitions and divestitures when deemed material. 4 The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. 59 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents modifications in response to employee feedback about are sited. In these cases, we invest in the best available Governance comfort levels. The changes paid for themselves in technologies to reduce energy consumption. Examples about three months. include our Sydney and Toronto data centers, where we Environment installed new cooling technologies that had not yet been Environmental used elsewhere. Wherever we build our data centers, we sustainability Energy use from operations, 2010–2012* [million kWh] always seek opportunities to use ambient air for cooling. Products and solutions 5,000 40 Learn more in Sustainable building design on page 64. Product return and recycling 4,000 32 During 2012, we completed energy-efficiency initiatives at our data centers that we estimate could save • HP operations approximately 13.5 million kWh on an annual basis. These 3,000 24 Data dashboard: measures included improving airflow management and Environment control, replacing an infrared humidification system with 2,000 16 Society a more energy-efficient ultrasonic technology, replacing About this report cooling and air-conditioning systems with more efficient 1,000 8 alternatives, and redesigning server rack layouts to better regulate temperatures. 0 0 2010 2011 2012 HP’s next-generation internal data centers in Georgia and Texas, United States, are using the HP Pod 240a—nickNatural gas 476 428 355 named the EcoPOD—to reduce energy consumption while increasing capacity. Each EcoPOD offers the equivalent of Electricity ** 3,858 3,811 3,753 more than 800 square meters of traditional data center IT in an 84-square-meter package5 and uses 95% less faciliTotal 4,334 4,239 4,109 ties energy compared with traditional data centers.6 Energy intensity 34.4 33.3 34.1 [thousand kWh/$ Our six internal data centers can expand to more than million USD of net double their existing area to accommodate future growth. revenue] *** Each one is built with the environment in mind, and our * Some data center in Hockley, Texas, United States, has obtained segments do not add up to total due to rounding. ** Includes U.S. Green Building Council Leadership in energy and purchased electricity and energy consumed during on-site electricity generation. Environmental Design (LEED®) Gold sustainable build*** Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue ing certification. See Sustainable building design on as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. page 64. In 2012, HP Labs’ groundbreaking sustainable data center in Fort Collins, Colorado, United States, was recognized by Making data centers more efficient the local Chamber of Commerce with a Ripple Award, an We operate 78 client-serving (or “trade”) data centers annual award for businesses that demonstrate the value worldwide, in addition to our six internal data centers of environmental responsibility. The data center was built located in three cities in the United States. Growing cusas a showcase for sustainability. Learn more. tomer demand for the services of our trade data centers makes consolidating, building, retrofitting, and operating Six HP data centers in the UK have achieved European highly energy-efficient data centers all the more imporUnion Data Centre Code of Conduct accreditation, which is tant. A typical data center consumes 20 to 40 times more a voluntary initiative aimed at reducing data center energy energy per square meter than an office. consumption. Our design teams for all new data centers are responsible Data center consolidation for ensuring that energy efficiency is considered throughData center consolidation helps us reduce costs, phase out the design and build process. HP Enterprise Services, out older technologies, and improve service levels, while HP Global Real Estate, and HP Critical Facilities Services decreasing energy use and associated GHG emissions. have established design criteria for new data centers, including the use of modular designs to accommodate In 2012, HP Enterprise Services continued to reduce the future growth, which has enabled us to increase capacity number of internal and customer-facing data centers it at existing data centers and avoid the need to build on new operates worldwide, in addition to making them more sites. Another criterion is to locate data centers in more energy efficient. We reduced our data center and comtemperate climates to reduce cooling requirements. As puter lab floor space by more than 7,000 square meters many of our enterprise customers require our facilities to this year, while maintaining our ability to support custombe in certain locations, we often cannot control where they ers worldwide. 5 Values based on 1.3 megawatts of IT load at five kilowatts per rack, where one rack equals three square meters; there are an estimated 260 racks in a traditional data center. 6 New POD technology from HP offers 95% greater energy efficiency compared with a traditional brick-and-mortar data center, based on internal HP testing. 60 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Renewable energy Pascale Legros Contents Governance HP employee since 2008 Environment Switching to renewable energy sources supports HP’s Pascale Legros, based in Environmental goal to reduce absolute greenhouse gas emissions from Montreal, Canada, has played a sustainability our operational real estate, though increasing energy variety of roles since joining HP Products and solutions efficiency remains our priority. Global Procurement about five Product return and years ago. Beginning March 2012, recycling she has served as HP’s Sustainable Procurement Program • HP operations Progress in 2012 manager, focusing on developing and implementing environmentally sustainable procurement strategies. As social Data dashboard: We purchased 496 million kWh of renewable energy and environmental responsibility issues are increasingly Environment worldwide in 2012, in addition to 3 million kWh genercentral in the global marketplace, companies including HP Society ated on-site, equivalent to 13% of our total electricity are using their buying power to improve the performance About this report consumption and a 60% increase since 2010. As a result, of their supply chains. we achieved our target to double renewable energy purchases to 8% of our electricity use by 2012 (we actually “We want our suppliers to clearly understand our goals reached this goal in 2011, one year ahead of schedule). and our strategies so that they can help us reach our targets and reduce our footprint,” says Pascale. This figure includes a small amount of energy generated on-site, but more than 99% is through energy contracts This past year, switching HP’s car rental service contract in Ireland, the UK, and other European countries, plus to hybrid and other fuel-efficient vehicles certified by the renewable energy credits in the United States. Our reportU.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay proing excludes renewable energy provided by default in the gram reduced fuel consumption and related GHG emispower grid. sions by 15% per day driven, compared with 2011. This will save HP an estimated $1 million USD by the end of 2013. We are committed to maintaining renewables as a part of The team also worked with HP’s preferred office consumour energy mix to make continued emissions reductions. ables supplier to devise a plan enabling HP data centers Though we implemented no major new installations in in the United States to purchase recertified mainframe 2012, our use of renewable energy increased due to projdata tapes at a reduced cost from the office supply store, ects completed in 2011. In the United States alone, several reducing waste and saving energy. sites have rooftop solar panels: “These actions taken as a whole can amount to a major • Hockley, Texas: annual capacity 341,000 kWh impact. And I’m glad I can play a part. It’s great to know that what we do will have an impact on the world,” she says. • Palo Alto, California: annual capacity 225,000 kWh • San Diego, California: annual capacity 1,766,000 kWh Pascale is also committed to supplier diversity and served as the Supplier Diversity Program lead in Canada, earning • Suwanee data center, Georgia: annual capacity distinction from Diversity Canada Magazine as one of the Most 395,000 kWh Influential Women in Diversity and Human Resources in 2013. See more about renewable-energy purchasing in Data These efforts are just the start. Pascale is passionate about dashboard: Environment on page 67. setting her sights on greater targets, and she is always looking ahead. “I know we can accomplish much more, and that motivates me.” Travel Collaboration Approximately one-third of HP employees travel as part of their work, for instance to meet with customAs part of the Clinton Global Initiative’s Fleets for Change, ers or colleagues from other parts of the business. To we have committed to reducing GHG emissions from our decrease the environmental impacts of business travel, U.S. auto fleet by 10% by 2015 from 2010 levels on a perwe encourage the use of digital communications such unit basis. We are on track to achieve this goal, primarily as video-conferencing technology. In addition, we are through introducing more fuel-efficient vehicles into our rolling out desktop video conferencing throughout HP U.S. auto fleet. and increasing the number of meeting rooms with videoconferencing facilities. We continue to work with our U.S. rental car supplier to reduce fuel consumption and related GHG emissions, When HP people do need to travel, we promote more for example by choosing hybrid and other fuel-efficient efficient forms of transport such as smaller cars and rail vehicles certified by the U.S. Environmental Protection travel instead of air. Our travel-booking system provides Agency’s SmartWay program. In 2012, we achieved our information about the emissions associated with a journey target of 15% fewer emissions per day driven, compared so employees can choose the option with the least enviwith 2011. We estimate the associated cost savings will be ronmental impact. more than $1 million USD by the end of 2013. 61 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Employee commuting Waste and recycling Contents Governance Environment In 2012, emissions from our employees commuting to work totaled an estimated 900,000 tonnes of CO2e. We HP generates nonhazardous waste such as paper, pallets, Environmental metals, and packaging, as well as hazardous waste7 conhave various programs to help employees find alternatives sustainability and reduce their commuting emissions. sisting mainly of liquid waste from our ink-manufacturing Products and solutions facilities and batteries from our data centers. Product return and HP locations worldwide support carpooling options, such recycling as our partnership with rideshare.org in the San Francisco The two types of waste require different approaches, • HP operations Bay Area and our “2+” car parking incentive, where parking but we aim to reduce the environmental impact of both spaces close to the building entrance are reserved for cars through a policy of reduce, reuse, and recycle. Data dashboard: Environment carrying at least two employees. Other initiatives for commuters can include: The transportation, tracking, treatment, and disposal Society of our hazardous waste is managed by a combination About this report • Promoting cycling to work by providing routes and of HP employees and competent external contractors. maps, bike storage and loan facilities, and discounts on HP employees audit this process, and we also commisbikes and related equipment sion independent audits as appropriate. These audits are • Taking advantage of WageWorks in the United States, carried out as part of the approval process for all new through which HP employees can use pretax income to facilities and periodically for approved facilities. pay for public transport costs We reuse electronic equipment when appropriate; other• Providing free shuttles from local public transportation wise we recycle it responsibly through the same programs • Encouraging employees to commute outside of peak we offer our customers. See Product return and recycling periods, reducing travel time, stress, and GHG emissions on page 50. Progress in 2012 Recycling programs In 2012, employee business travel (excluding commuting) Our global recycling programs are key to our efforts to generated 404,000 tonnes of CO2e, a 13% decrease from reduce waste sent to landfill. HP employees can recycle 2011. Emissions per employee decreased 8% during the paper, plastics, and batteries at convenient recycling year and have dropped by 12% since 2010. The majority of points within many of our buildings. We also recycle glass, GHG emissions from business travel are from commercial plastic, and aluminum containers disposed of in our dinair travel (67%). ing rooms and conference facilities. Some sites organize additional recycling programs for materials such as wood, Employee use of videoconferencing at HP facilities avoids batteries, and oils. CO2e emissions that would have been generated from air and car travel had the meetings taken place in person. Additional recycling activities in 2012 included: See detailed travel data in Data dashboard: Environment • Introducing a cell phone recycling program in Canada on page 67. and the United States, through which HP employees recycled 10,000 mobile devices. In 2013, we plan to expand the initiative to Europe, with a target of recycling GHG emissions from employee business travel, more than 15,000 devices. 2010–2012 [tonnes CO2e] • Collaborating with our preferred office consumables 2010 2011 2012 supplier to recertify mainframe data tapes at HP trade Total emissions 448,800 464,800 404,000 data centers in six U.S. states. We purchased more than 54,000 recertified tapes in 2012, reducing both landTransportation fleet 144,800 142,800 133,000 (Scope 1 emissions) filled waste and the energy and materials needed to create new tapes. Commercial air travel 304,000 322,000 271,000 (Scope 3 emissions) • Arranging for a carpet supplier to collect and recycle our unwanted carpets, which in turn enables them to Emissions per employee * 1.38 1.33 1.22 provide new carpets containing between 22% and 29% * Based on employee numbers as reported in past Global Citizenship Reports. postconsumer waste. 7 Hazardous waste classification varies by country. For ease of calculation, HP data include some waste not considered hazardous in the country where it is generated. 62 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Progress in 2012 Nonhazardous waste composition, 2012* [percentage of total] Governance Environment In 2012, HP generated approximately 125,500 tonnes of total waste compared with 90,300 in 2011. The vast Environmental majority (94%) was nonhazardous solid waste. sustainability Products and solutions HP generated approximately 117,400 tonnes of nonhazProduct return and ardous waste in 2012, a 42% increase compared to 2011. recycling This considerable rise is the result of two major building • HP operations demolition projects in the Americas region that will not be repeated. We expect waste volumes to substantially Data dashboard: Environment reduce again next year. Society Despite the increase in waste created, we reused, recycled, About this report or incinerated for energy around 103,500 tonnes of non­ hazardous waste, achieving a landfill-diversion rate of Reused or recycled 88.1%. This is an increase from 82.0% in 2011. Metals 22.2% Almost 20% of the nonhazardous waste we generated in 2012 was paper. We continue working to drive down our Paper 18.6% paper use to lessen our environmental impact and save money. Read about our efforts to reduce paper use and Pallets 11.4% purchase paper from sustainable sources. Electronic equipment 3.6% Packaging materials 3.5% Other 25.2% L andfill 11.9% Incineration 3.6% Nonhazardous waste, 2010-2012* [tonnes] Hazardous 5. waste, Hazardous waste, 2010-2012 2010-2012* [tonnes][tonnes] * 120,000 10,000 100,000 8,000 80,000 6,000 60,000 4,000 40,000 2,000 20,000 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 A mericas 55,800 51,300 88,900 A mericas 3,600 3,030 2,760 Europe, Middle East, 19,400 15,900 13,500 Europe, Middle East, 2,570 2,560 3,040 and Africa and Africa A sia Pacific and Japan 17,300 15,800 15,100 A sia Pacific and Japan 2,260 1,810 2,270 Total 92,500 82,900 117,400 Total 8,430 7,400 8,060 * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 63 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Water Contents Water consumption, 2010-2012* [cubic meters] Governance 10,000,000 Environment HP’s operations are not water intensive, but we recog8,000,000 Environmental nize that water availability is a growing concern globally. sustainability We are aware that some of our operations are in water6,000,000 Products and solutions stressed regions, making water availability and quality an Product return and issue for our business, customers, and communities. We purchase the vast majority of water we use through well4,000,000 recycling • HP operations regulated municipal sources8 and participate in the CDP water program to enhance our understanding of the issue 2,000,000 Data dashboard: and develop a clearer picture of our water use. Environment 0 Society Our approach to managing water use takes into account 2010 2011 2012 About this report water availability at a facility’s location, as well as the facility’s usage, to reflect the fact that water impacts are local. A mericas 4,977,000 4,609,000 4,602,000 We used the Global Water Tool developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Europe, Middle East, 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,287,000 and Africa and data produced by the University of New Hampshire to identify sites in water-stressed locations. A sia Pacific and Japan 2,353,000 2,455,000 2,603,000 By 2015 we will have implemented water-saving measures Total 8,535,000 8,309,000 8,493,000 at a select number of sites that these tools indicate are in water-stressed regions. Examples include flow restrictors, * Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. waterless urinals, and rainwater harvesting. We expect these measures to reduce water use across those sites by 3% from 2011 levels. This expected decrease represents Wastewater a 82,600 cubic meter9 saving—more than the 77,700 cubic meters we estimated last year as we have recalculated our Wastewater is not a significant environmental impact for baseline water use data. We don’t expect large reductions HP. Our six imaging and printing product-manufacturing at all the sites identified, as many have already made confacilities discharge some treated wastewater related to siderable savings or are office-based locations with limited these manufacturing processes. potential to decrease water use. In 2012, these manufacturing facilities generated 1,335,000 cubic meters of wastewater. These effluents are Progress in 2012 discharged under permits and treated at local treatment plants. We have procedures in place to prevent unauthorIn 2012, HP’s total water use was just under 8.5 million ized discharges of chemicals to wastewater systems and cubic meters worldwide, predominantly for domestic use ensure we do not discharge wastewater directly from HP in buildings, cooling, and landscape irrigation. This repreoperations to surface water or groundwater. Consolidating sents a 2% increase from 2011. our manufacturing operations allowed us to eliminate wastewater discharges from our Boise, Idaho, United Consumption at our priority sites in water-stressed locaStates, facility in 2012. However, production changes tions increased in 2012 by 3.1%, primarily due to higher increased our wastewater generation at three other manuproduction levels at one site in the Asia Pacific region. We facturing sites. Globally, our total wastewater generation are determining additional measures to reduce water use increased by 3% over 2011. at this site so that we can accommodate the increased production and still achieve our 2015 goal. See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Data dashboard: Environment on page 67. Our supply chain uses a significant amount of water compared with HP’s operations. In 2012, we collected water use data from first-tier production suppliers representing 38% of our total supplier spend. These suppliers reported using 28 million cubic meters of water in 2011. We continue to improve our understanding of supplier water impacts and to identify ways to reduce our total water footprint. See Environmental impacts on page 81. 8 Even though most water is procured from municipal sources, HP recognizes the opportunity to differentiate sources in some cases. In 2013, HP will move toward more fully using Global Reporting Initiative indicator EN8 as the protocol for tracking water by source where possible. 9 We changed our reporting unit from liters to cubic meters following the introduction of the Hara system. 64 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Sustainable Contents Sustainable building design progress summary Governance [Percentage of 12 projects tracked addressing each scorecard element in 2012] Environment Environmental sustainability building design Planning for conservation 48% Water eﬀiciency 72% Products and solutions We continue to reduce the environmental footprint of our operational real estate by using our offices more efficiently Energy and atmosphere 80% Product return and and improving the design of new and existing buildings. recycling Indoor environment 66% • HP operations Our sustainable building design checklist guides project Material resources 83% Data dashboard: managers when planning office improvements. It ­covers Environment cost-effective, sustainable design features related to Waste management 84% Society energy and materials use, waste management, and water efficiency. A scorecard completed at the end of each project Innovation and design process 84% About this report notes the building’s performance in each area and helps 0% 100% identify areas for further enhancement. Progress in 2012 In 2012, we extended our internal sustainability survey of Toxics Release scorecard results from the Americas into our Europe, Middle East, and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific and Japan (APJ) Inventory regions. Twelve HP facilities (eight in the Americas, three Five HP operations worldwide that are responsible for the in EMEA, and one in APJ) completed the survey, and the manufacture of imaging and printing products require the average score globally across all areas assessed was 74%. use of several chemicals listed on the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Toxics Release Inventory (TRI). Together, We seek suppliers of office furnishings and furniture who these sites account for all of HP’s reportable TRI releases. can support sustainable design. Some of our suppliers In 2011, the quantity sent for off-site recycling increased apply the e3 Furniture Sustainability Standard developed due to a change in production activity at one of our manuby the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturer’s facturing operations. However, we expect TRI releases to Association, which includes criteria for evaluating the continue to decrease as we eliminate or scale down the HP social and environmental impacts of different materials. processes that use those chemicals, due to changes in our One of our vendors uses a high proportion of recycled conbusiness operations. tent in its products, including 100% of preconsumer waste fabric and granite, and 41% postconsumer waste in steel TRI releases, 2008-2011* [tonnes] products. The furniture we bought from another supplier contained 33.5% recycled content. 500 In some cases, we apply for LEED® certification. In 2012, 400 two HP facilities received LEED certification: In the United States, our Sunnyvale, California, facility achieved gold 300 certification; in France, our Paris Metro facility received silver classification. These certifications brought the total 200 number of HP LEED–certified facilities from four to six. Four additional facilities are due to become certified in 2013 and one in 2014, across our APJ and EMEA regions. 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 O ff-site recycling 365.8 269.0 260.5 294.7 O ff-site treatment 60.5 106.1 49.1 53.3 Wastewater 9.3 6.1 6.9 6.5 A ir 16.7 26.1 18.3 17.5 Total 452.2 407.3 334.8 372.0 * TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently completed reporting year is 2011. Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 65 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents TRI releases by substance, 2011* [tonnes] In 2012, we began to calculate ODS emissions by tracking Governance those sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage. We apply an intensity factor based on those Environment actual quantities for nonreporting sites. Previously, we Environmental estimated the level of leakage across the entire real estate sustainability portfolio based on the inventory of refrigerants in equipProducts and solutions ment and in storage. Between this change and the ongoing Product return and replacement of CFCs we saw a significant reduction in estirecycling mated ODS emissions in 2012. This was particularly true among refrigerants with high ozone-depleting potential • HP operations values (Halon 1301, R11).10 Data dashboard: Environment See performance data, including regional breakdown, in Society Data dashboard: Environment on page 67. About this report N -methyl pyrrolidone (off-site recycle) 294.6 Glycol ethers (off-site treatment) 27.9 Remediation Xylene (off-site treatment) 17.4 Where needed, HP conducts or contributes to soil and groundwater remediation to clean up contaminated sites. Xylene (air emissions) 9.0 These sites include former HP and legacy manufacturing locations where contamination took place beginning in the Glycol ethers (air emissions) 8.5 late 1970s. We are also involved in remediation at sites Nitric acid (off-site treatment) 8.0 where third parties managed both our wastes and those generated by other organizations. Globally, HP conducted Nitrates (wastewater) 6.5 or contributed to remediation at 20 sites in 2012. Lead (off-site recycle) 0.1 We apply the risk-prevention and management procedures of our environmental, health, and safety (EHS) Total 372.0 management system to help prevent future releases at our facilities and to avoid sending wastes to third-party * TRI reports are due to the U.S. EPA July 1 each year, so the most recently facilities that may not handle them responsibly. HP had no completed reporting year is 2011. significant spills in 2012 that adversely impacted soil or groundwater. Ozone-depleting Biodiversity substances HP’s direct operational impact on biodiversity is minimal because we build very few facilities relative to our size and growth. When we do build, we often use previously HP facilities use ozone-depleting substances (ODSs) developed land, which reduces our expansion into undein cooling and air-conditioning systems. Although these veloped areas. systems are sealed, leaks during operation and maintenance could result in emissions. We continue to replace However, we have an indirect impact on biodiversity chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) in our systems with hydrofluothrough forestry because we sell and use significant rocarbons (HFCs). Although HFCs are greenhouse gases, amounts of paper. Our Environmentally Preferable Paper they do not deplete the ozone layer. We are also starting Policy sets out our standards for buying, selling, and to replace HFC-based cooling systems with HFC-free using paper and paper-based packaging. We increasingly equivalents when they reach the end of their operational source paper from suppliers that demonstrate sustainable lives. These HFC-free equivalents are not ODSs and have no forestry and responsible manufacturing practices, and we or very low global warming potential. strive to reduce the amount of paper we use in our operations and recycle paper when possible. Read more about paper use at HP. 10 We use various tools and sources for global warming potential and ozone-depletion values, including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s GHG Emissions from Refrigeration and Air Conditioning tool, IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995). 66 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Goals Contents Governance Environment Environmental sustainability Energy and GHG emissions Products and solutions 2012 goal Progress Product return and Double voluntary purchases of renewable energy to 8% of electricity use We purchased 496 million kWh of renewable energy worldwide in 2012, recycling (in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid). in addition to 3 million kWh generated on-site, equivalent to 13% of our total electricity consumption. This performance continues to exceed • HP operations our goal, first reached in 2011, and represents a 60% increase since Data dashboard: 2010. We expect to maintain this level of commitment moving forward; Environment purchasing renewable energy will be an important strategy toward meeting our new long-term GHG emissions reduction goal. Society 2013 goal About this report Reduce the greenhouse gas emissions from HP-owned and HP-leased We achieved this goal in 2011, two years early. In 2012, our operations facilities by 20% relative to 2005 levels by the end of 2013 on an absolute produced 1,889,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e) emisbasis. sions, an 8% reduction from our new 2010 baseline. 2015 goal Reduce GHG emissions from HP’s U.S. auto fleet by 10% on a per unit basis, We are on track to achieve this goal, primarily through introducing compared to 2010. more fuel-efficient vehicles into our U.S. auto fleet. 2020 goal Reduce total greenhouse gas emissions from our operations (Scope 1 and Scope 2) by 20%, compared to 2010. Water 2015 goal Progress Reduce freshwater use at sites identified as water-stressed by 3%, Consumption at these locations increased by 3.1% in 2012, primarily due compared to 2011 consumption at those locations. to higher production levels at one site in the Asia Pacific region. We are determining additional water-saving measures to meet our 2015 goal. 67 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Data dashboard: Environment Contents Governance Environment Environmental sustainability Products and solutions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Products and solutions GHG emissions from product transport (estimated) * [tonnes CO2e] 1,800,000 1,700,000 1,900,000 1,900,000 1,700,000 Product return and * These figures for transport GHG emissions are based on data reported by logistics service providers that HP contracts to deliver our products. They differ from recycling the larger product life cycle assessment-based estimate presented in Energy and climate on page 29, which includes additional upstream and downstream transport related to our products, as well as retail and storage. These data do not include data from all recent HP acquisitions. HP operations • Data dashboard: Environment Product return and recycling * 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Society Total cumulative recycling-computer hardware and supplies 651,000 763,000 884,500 1,018,400 1,152,000 About this report combined [tonnes] Total cumulative recycling-computer hardware and supplies 1,435 1,682 1,949 2,245 2,540 combined [million pounds] Total reuse and recycling combined [tonnes, approximate] 153,000 142,000 151,000 160,600 159,550 Reuse of equipment ** 34,000 30,000 30,000 26,700 26,000 Recycling-hardware and supplies 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 133,550 Number of countries and territories with HP return and 53 56 58 60 69 recycling programs Total recycling, by region [tonnes] 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 133,550 Americas 36,000 37,500 38,600 49,600 60,165 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 76,700 69,300 76,300 77,100 67,700 Asia Pacific and Japan 6,700 5,600 5,900 7,200 5,685 Total recycling, by type [tonnes] 119,000 112,000 121,000 133,900 133,550 Hardware 98,600 90,500 99,100 113,650 114,455 HP LaserJet toner cartridges *** 19,000 20,100 19,600 18,550 17,350 HP ink cartridges *** 1,850 1,800 2,200 1,700 1,745 HP LaserJet toner cartridge recycling Percentage of HP LaserJet market covered by program 90% 90% 92% 94% 94% Composition Percentage of materials recycled into new products 76% 80% 85% 82.1% 80.1% Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 24% 20% 15% 13.9% 15.9% Percentage reuse of components**** 4.0% 4.0% Percentage material in storage-pending processing **** 0.0% 0.0% Percentage incineration **** 0.0% 0.0% Percentage landfill**** 0.0% 0.0% continued 1 Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 68 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Product return and recycling * 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Governance HP ink cartridge recycling Environment Percentage of ink market covered by program 88% 88% 87% 88% 88% Environmental Composition sustainability Percentage of materials recovered for recycling 59% 64% 73% 74.2% 69.1% Products and solutions Product return and Percentage of materials used for energy recovery 38% 31% 23% 21.6% 29.3% recycling Percentage reuse of components**** 0.0% 0.0% HP operations Percentage material in storage-pending processing **** 0.2% 0.0% • Data dashboard: Percentage incineration **** 4.0% 1.5% Environment Society Percentage landfill**** 0.0% 0.0% About this report * Recycling totals include all hardware and supplies returned to HP for processing; with ultimate dispositions including recycling, energy recovery, and, where no suitable alternatives exist, responsible disposal. Hardware recycling data from Europe, Middle East, and Africa, and HP LaserJet recycling data are calendar year. The remaining data are based on the HP fiscal year. ** The decrease in tonnage from 2008–2012 is due to a reduction in the average weight of returned units rather than to a decline in the total number of returned units. Returned units during that period were: 2008: 3.46 million units; 2009: 3.58 million units; 2010: 3.81 million units; 2011: 3.44 million units; 2012: 3.9 million units. *** Includes cartridges returned by customers and cartridges from HP internally through 2010. The 2011 and 2012 figures are cartridges returned by customers only. **** This category of data was added in 2011. HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2010 2011 2012 Energy use [million kWh] 4,334 4,239 4,109 Energy intensity * [thousand kWh/$ million USD of net revenue] 34.4 33.3 34.1 Direct energy use in operations (corresponds to Scope 1 emissions) 512 450 379 Electricity (generated on site) [million kWh] 36 22 24 Natural gas [million kWh] 476 428 355 Americas 283 249 202 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 185 171 145 Asia Pacific and Japan 8 8 9 Renewable (generated on-site) [million kWh] 2 2 3 Diesel/gas/oil** 34 19 21 Indirect energy use (corresponds to Scope 2 emissions) 3,822 3,789 3,729 Electricity (purchased) [million kWh] 3,822 3,789 3,729 Americas 2,224 2,187 2,111 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,006 952 944 Asia Pacific and Japan 592 650 674 Voluntary purchases of renewable energy *** [million kWh] 309 467 496 Nonhazardous waste [tonnes] 92,500 82,900 117,400 Americas 55,800 51,300 88,900 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 19,400 15,900 13,500 Asia Pacific and Japan 17,300 15,800 15,100 Nonhazardous waste landfill diversion rate [percentage of total produced] Global 84.8% 82.0% 88.1% Americas 81.8% 80.4% 88.9% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 89.3% 87.4% 89.1% Asia Pacific and Japan 89.6% 81.8% 82.5% Nonhazardous waste composition, 2012 [percentage of total] (See Waste and recycling on page 61.) continued 69 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP operations (also see GHG emissions below) 2010 2011 2012 Governance Hazardous waste [tonnes] 8,430 7,400 8,060 Environment Americas 3,600 3,030 2,760 Environmental Europe, Middle East, and Africa 2,570 2,560 3,040 sustainability Asia Pacific and Japan 2,260 1,810 2,270 Products and solutions Product return and Water consumption [cubic meters] 8,535,000 8,309,000 8,493,000 recycling Americas 4,977,000 4,609,000 4,602,000 HP operations Europe, Middle East, and Africa 1,205,000 1,245,000 1,287,000 • Data dashboard: Asia Pacific and Japan 2,353,000 2,455,000 2,603,000 Environment Society Wastewater generation [cubic meters] 1,225,000 1,296,000 1,335,000 About this report Americas 562,000 587,000 533,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 264,000 259,000 290,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 399,000 450,000 512,000 Ozone depletion potential of estimated emissions**** [kg of CFC-11 equivalent] 9,619 6,782 535 Americas 6,307 5,963 354 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 70 96 54 Asia Pacific and Japan 3,242 723 127 TRI releases by disposition and by substance (See Toxics Release Inventory on page 64.) * Historical energy intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and direct and indirect energy use. ** Diesel is mostly used at HP for testing generators. In limited cases, diesel is also used for long-term onsite energy generation. *** Renewable energy and renewable energy credits, in addition to the renewable energy available by default in the power grid. **** In 2012, we began to calculate ODS emissions by tracking those sites that have reported replacing refrigerants due to leakage. We apply an intensity factor based on those actual quantities for nonreporting sites. Previously, we estimated the level of leakage across the entire real estate portfolio based on the inventory of refrigerants in equipment and in storage. Between this change and the ongoing replacement of CFCs we saw a significant reduction in estimated ODS emissions in 2012. This was particularly true among refrigerants with high ozone-depleting potential values (Halon 1301, R11) that were assumed to be leaking but reported much lower or even zero quantities in 2012. We use various tools and sources for global warming potential and ozone-depletion values including the Greenhouse Gas Protocol’s GHG Emissions from Refrigeration and Air Conditioning tool, IPCC Second Assessment Report (1995). GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations) * 2010 2011 2012 GHG emissions from operations** [tonnes CO 2 e] 2,057,000 1,990,000 1,889,000 Americas 1,238,000 1,197,000 1,098,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 355,000 282,000 264,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 464,000 510,000 527,000 GHG emissions intensity *** [tonnes CO2e/$ million USD of net revenue] 16.3 15.6 15.7 GHG emissions by scope [tonnes CO2e] Scope 1 Scope 1 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 327,300 310,800 246,000 Americas 192,800 185,200 144,500 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 104,700 102,400 84,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 29,900 23,100 17,500 Scope 1 emissions, by type Natural gas [tonnes CO2e] 86,500 77,900 64,700 Americas 51,400 45,400 36,800 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 33,600 31,200 26,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 1,500 1,400 1,600 continued 70 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations) * 2010 2011 2012 Governance Diesel/gas/oil [tonnes CO2e] 15,600 6,800 7,400 Environment Americas 3,200 1,400 2,400 Environmental Europe, Middle East, and Africa 500 400 300 sustainability Asia Pacific and Japan 11,900 5,000 4,700 Products and solutions Product return and Transportation fleet [tonnes CO2e] 144,800 142,800 133,000 recycling Americas 80,300 77,200 78,900 HP operations Europe, Middle East, and Africa 63,700 61,700 51,100 • Data dashboard: Asia Pacific and Japan 800 3,900 3,100 Environment Society Refrigerants (HFCs) [tonnes CO2e] 77,000 75,100 37,500 About this report Americas 54,500 53,100 23,100 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 6,800 9,200 6,300 Asia Pacific and Japan 15,700 12,900 8,100 PFCs**** [tonnes CO2e] 3,440 8,200 3,400 Americas 3,400 8,160 3,400 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 40 40 0 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 Scope 2 Scope 2 emissions, by region [tonnes CO2e] 1,730,000 1,679,000 1,643,000 Americas 1,046,000 1,012,000 954,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 250,000 180,000 180,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 434,000 487,000 509,000 Scope 2 emissions, by type 1,730,000 1,679,000 1,643,000 Purchased electricity for operations [tonnes CO2e] 1,950,000 1,973,000 1,962,000 Americas 1,124,000 1,108,000 1,070,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 391,000 378,000 382,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 434,000 487,000 509,000 Reductions from voluntary purchases of renewable energy and renew-165,000 -245,000 -268,000 able energy credits [tonnes CO2e] Americas -79,000 -96,000 -116,000 Europe, Middle East, and Africa -86,000 -149,000 -152,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 Reductions from voluntary upgrades to other no/low-carbon energy -55,000 -48,000 -51,000 sources (such as large hydro) [tonnes CO2e] Americas 0 0 0 Europe, Middle East, and Africa -55,000 -48,000 -51,000 Asia Pacific and Japan 0 0 0 continued 71 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GHG emissions (Scopes 1-3, including from operations) * 2010 2011 2012 Governance Scope 3 [tonnes CO2e] 76,720,000 Environment Materials extraction through manufacturing (Scope 3, category 1; also see 23,500,000 Environmental Production supplier GHG emissions performance in Supply chain responsibility) [tonnes CO2e] sustainability Products and solutions Capital goods (Scope 3, category 2) [tonnes CO2e] 800,000 Product return and Upstream energy production (Scope 3, category 3) 400,000 recycling [tonnes CO2e] HP operations Transport (Scope 3, categories 4 and 9; also see GHG emissions from product 3,700,000 transport in Products and solutions) [tonnes CO2e] • Data dashboard: Environment Waste generated in operations (Scope 3, category 5) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis† Society Commercial air travel (Scope 3, category 6) †† [tonnes CO2e] 304,000 320,000 271,000 About this report Employee commuting (Scope 3, category 7) [tonnes CO2e] 900,000 Upstream leased assets (Scope 3, category 8) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis††† Processing of sold products (Scope 3, category 10) De minimis [tonnes CO2e] Product use (Scope 3, category 11) [tonnes CO2e] 47,100,000 Product end of life (Scope 3, category 12) [tonnes CO2e] 0 Buildings leased to others (Scope 3, category 13) [tonnes CO2e] 0 Franchises (Scope 3, category 14) [tonnes CO2e] Not applicable Investments (Scope 3, category 15) [tonnes CO2e] De minimis * HP has followed the principles outlined in the GHG Protocol corporate and value chain standards. We have also had our global Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions assured by Ernst & Young. Additional details on Scope 3 calculations and methodology can be found in HP’s “Carbon Accounting Explanations” document. ** Total includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in table. *** Historical emissions intensity values were calculated using HP’s annual revenue as characterized in financial reporting and Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions. **** Use of updated industry standard emissions factors for process tools resulted in a considerable increase in estimated emissions in 2011. Estimated emissions decreased in 2012 because of changes in process activity. These data are based on the calendar year. † De minimis values are less than 0.25% of total Scope 3 emissions. †† Values were provided by HP’s global travel agency, which factors the type of aircraft, passenger and cargo load, cabin class, and miles traveled for each ticketed trip. ††† All facilities accounted for in Scope 1 and 2. Contents Governance Environment • Society Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report Society We apply our talent, technology, and partnerships to improve communities and address social challenges. We promote responsible practices in our supply chain, respect human rights, and strive for a workplace where all of our employees can flourish. 73 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society • Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report Human rights HP takes an uncompromising view on human rights: we must always respect them ourselves and work tirelessly to influence others to do the same. Due to our scale and scope, our business can impact a wide range of human rights. Consequently, we have established a centralized human rights program in our Ethics and Compliance Office. In addition to identifying and managing our own impact on human rights, we devote significant time and resources to providing leadership in multi-stakeholder forums promoting the effective implementation of processes to ensure respect for human rights in business. Respecting human rights in everything we do is a core • Complete due diligence to avoid complicity in human principle at HP. Human rights are the fundamental rights, rights violations freedoms, and standards of treatment to which all people • Regularly assess human rights risks, policies, and are entitled and are outlined in international conventions, impacts, and provide visibility of the results to senior declarations, and treaties including the United Nations executives Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). In addition to defining these rights, the UN has also published • Provide access to independent grievance mechanisms its “protect, respect, remedy” framework. This outlines a immediately to raise concerns or identify adverse conceptual and policy framework for business and human human rights impacts rights as well as guiding principles for its implementation. • Promptly investigate allegations and pursue actions to mitigate any adverse human rights impacts HP’s respect for human rights is not new. HP has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which includes 10 • Promote continual improvement through capability universally accepted principles in the areas of human building for our business partners, terminating relationrights, labor, environment, and anticorruption, since 2002 ships only as a last resort (see UN Global Compact index on page 139). • Advance our human rights practices through a journey of cumulative progress HP’s Global Human Rights Policy (available in 21 languages) • Report transparently on our efforts includes the following key commitments: • Comply with laws and regulations where HP does business Several other HP policies and standards also guide our and adopt and apply international standards where laws approach to respecting human rights. See “Human rights– are less stringent related policies” below for links to these. 74 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Beyond the basic responsibility to respect human rights During 2012, external advocacy and leadership remained Governance across our business, we also support and promote the an important part of our program, and we focused our enjoyment of rights in the communities where we operefforts through GBI and BSR. Leadership engagements Environment ate. From local community and employee engagement included: Society programs to large-scale social innovation programs, we • Human rights focus the collective power of our people, portfolio, and • Contributing to the State of Play Report “The Corporate partnerships for greatest impact (see Social innovation Responsibility to Respect Human Rights in Business Supply chain responsibility on page 120). We also participate in industry leaderRelationships” published by the Institute for Human ship initiatives and organizations advancing a common Rights and Business and GBI. Privacy understanding of respect for human rights in business • Presenting on “Implementing Corporate Respect for HP people such as the Global Business Initiative on Human Rights Human Rights in Practice” at the East African Roundtable Social innovation (GBI) and BSR. for Business Leaders, held in Nairobi, Kenya, in November Economic impacts 2012. Delegates from the UN and leading global corporations discussed integrating human rights into company Data dashboard: Society Human rights management operations with East African business representatives. About this report HP’s Ethics and Compliance Office, within the Office of the • Participating in the BSR Human Rights Working Group General Counsel, is responsible for ensuring the implemenfor company practitioners. HP assisted in the developtation of our human rights policy and for defining processes ment of a standard human rights training document for to assure the prevention, mitigation, and remediation of the working group, which provides a “safe space” for any human rights impacts across HP’s business. In doing learning and sharing information between companies. so, our human rights program management office works We also pursued specific initiatives to secure conflict-free closely with HP’s business units and global functions to mineral sources from the Democratic Republic of Congo address human rights impacts across a wide range of busi(see Conflict minerals on page 96). ness activities including supply chain management, labor relations, employee health and safety, global trade, and In 2013, we will add a human rights module to HP’s consumer and employee data privacy. For more detail on Standards of Business Conduct refresher training taken these programs, see the following sections of this report: by all employees to raise awareness of potential issues employees may encounter. • Corporate ethics on page 18 • Supply chain responsibility on page 75 • Privacy on page 103 Human rights–related policies • HP people on page 108 HP policies with particular relevance to human rights include: HP’s Global Citizenship Council ensures company-wide commitment and alignment to HP’s global citizenship • HP Standards of Business Conduct objectives including governance of our human rights program. • HP Global Human Rights Policy • Contingent Worker Code of Conduct 2012 progress • HP Environmental, Health, and Safety (EHS) Policy • HP Global Citizenship Policy Building on earlier third-party assessments, in 2012 HP • HP Global Master Privacy Policy developed a human rights risk assessment process tailored to our operations and potential human rights risks. • HP Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy We plan to conduct assessments annually to continually • HP Nondiscrimination Policy improve our understanding of human rights risks in our various business operations. We will include the results • HP Open Door Policy from these reviews in updates to the Office of the General • HP Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code Counsel and Global Citizenship Council on the status of of Conduct (supplier code of conduct) human rights management across our business. • HP Supply Chain Social and Environmental Responsibility Policy • Partner Code of Conduct 75 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society Human rights • Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report Supply chain responsibility 1st HP has one of the industry’s most extensive supply chains. Comprising more than 1,000 production suppliers and tens of thousands of nonproduction suppliers, HP’s supply chain spans six continents, 1 in the IT industry to issue supplier more than 45 countries and territories, and many guidelines for the responsible cultures. The breadth and depth of our supply chain management of student and temporary workers (released in is a core part of HP’s success, but it also brings early 2013) challenges. We embrace the opportunity and our 1st responsibility to address them. HP has worked with suppliers for more than 12 years to improve social and environmental responsibility (SER) standards throughout the information technology (IT) independent management supply chain (see HP supply chain SER milestones). In system assessments of HP a constantly evolving supplier landscape, our supply supplier facilities conducted chain SER program seeks innovative ways to approach #2 SER issues and to increase the positive impact of our efforts. We use our scale, purchasing power, and knowledge to achieve our objectives. rating in the Enough Project’s survey “Taking Conflict Out of Consumer Gadgets: Company Rankings on Conflict Minerals 2012” 1 HP uses the terms “production suppliers” and “nonproduction suppliers” throughout this report. “Production suppliers” refers to suppliers that provide materials for HP products. “Nonproduction suppliers” refers to suppliers that provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products, excluding logistics service providers. 76 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our program addresses the full range of SER issues— combining rigorous auditing with collaborative Program direction Governance capability-building initiatives and targeting both HP’s vision is for a sustainable supply chain, with empowEnvironment production and nonproduction suppliers. For complete ered partners that own and prioritize the well-being of Society information regarding our approach to managing our the people, communities and environment around them. Human rights Supply Chain SER program, see HP’s approach to supply We have been working toward this vision for more than chain responsibility, a separate document on our website. a decade, evidenced by the 12-year history of our supply • Supply chain responsibility chain SER program. We have made strong progress in several areas. Our Privacy audit results over time show a decrease in the number In 2012, we introduced a series of fundamental changes to HP people of nonconformances to our code of conduct between the way we manage supply chain SER. These are intended Social innovation initial and full re-audits of supplier facilities. We have to deliver lasting value to our suppliers, customers, and also led the IT industry in efforts to eliminate conflict the communities in which they operate. Economic impacts minerals from our supply chain, while targeting highData dashboard: risk issues such as student labor. We have enhanced our Increased supplier ownership of SER and Society auditing program to cover a larger number of supplier management system discipline About this report sites more efficiently, and to include our first indepenSupply chain SER programs have traditionally focused on dent management system assessments. We have also helping suppliers pass audits. Although audits can be an expanded our program beyond production suppliers to excellent measurement tool, they only provide a snapshot also cover nonproduction suppliers. But we recognize of performance and do not lead to lasting performance that if we want to achieve a truly sustainable supply improvements on their own. Our data show that suppliers chain—one in which strong SER performance is selfthat take ownership of improving their audit scores, and perpetuating—we need to take more significant steps invest in effective management systems, have stronger (see Program direction at right). long-term SER performance. Since we began our auditing program in 2005, we have Our approach used trained and dedicated HP SER auditors and have validated our approach periodically with third-party audits. Our internal auditors have always supported post-audit This section provides the latest updates to our approach to remediation efforts at supplier facilities. supply chain social and environmental responsibility (SER) Beginning in 2013, we will encourage suppliers to take in 2012. For complete information regarding our approach, greater ownership of improving their performance by see HP’s approach to supply chain responsibility, a separequiring them to schedule and pay for quality-controlled, rate document on our website. That document includes independent third-party audits and corrective action mandetailed information regarding our work to: agement on a regular basis. Over time this transition will • Assess SER risks in our supply chain increase the number of audits and free up HP resources and expertise to focus on direct supplier engagement that sup• Measure suppliers’ SER performance ports supplier ownership, including hosting and supporting • Promote sustained supplier SER improvement through capability-building initiatives (see Capability building on capability-building initiatives page 93) and helping suppliers develop supplier manage• Conduct stakeholder engagement to research and betment systems that will produce sustained SER performance ter understand supply chain SER issues and to formulate improvements. Transparently sharing the results of supplier responsive programs and initiatives audits and the associated corrective actions remains a central part of our supplier performance management system • Develop leading policies and standards (see HP’s approach to supply chain responsibility). • Integrate SER into our procurement process. In 2013, we will begin implementing a five-tier rating We have used this approach—and we will continue to system for supplier facilities that draws on the results use it—to manage our supply chain SER program since of third-party supplier audits and remediation efforts, its inception. However, we have identified a few high-risk alongside other SER performance indicators. Business situations that are beyond our traditional sphere of influincentives will encourage suppliers to achieve higher ence through the program. These issues demand a course ratings, while poor ratings could result in a reduction of that considers the unique factors that make them so business for suppliers. This system will be integral to our important. Conflict minerals is one such issue, relating to regular business reviews and award cycles with suppliers. suppliers many tiers deep in our supply chain. While many aspects of our traditional approach to supply chain SER Tackling new and persistent issues management—such as risk assessment—are also part Audit trends and external stakeholder input, among other of our approach to conflict minerals, the supplier engagesources, underscore several critical, persistent SER issues ment aspect of our program in that area is unique. Read in the IT supply chain that require increased attention and about our approach to conflict minerals, which emphainvestment. These include: sizes industry collaboration and intensive government • Excessive working hours engagement, in Conflict minerals on page 96. • Wages and overtime payments 77 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Student, dispatch, and foreign migrant labor rights • In 2013, we became the first IT company to publish our Governance protection supply chain water footprint. Environment • Industrial relations • In 2013, we became the first IT company to publish its supply chain smelter list. Society • Supplier SER management systems (including health Human rights and safety) We maintain each of these disclosures in our annual Global • Supply chain • Measuring and mitigating greenhouse gas emission Citizenship Report. responsibility and water use impacts Privacy In addition, this year we are expanding the level of detail in We are using a variety of approaches to address these our supplier list to include the locations and addresses of HP people issues, including enhanced policies and standards, industry product assembly sites and the HP product types that are Social innovation collaboration, public/private partnerships, and indepenmanufactured at each of these locations. See HP’s list of Economic impacts dent assessments. We are also increasing investment in suppliers. our existing capability-building programs. Data dashboard: Society Supplier visits For example, in early 2013 we introduced the “HP Student About this report In 2012, we continued our emphasis on transparency by and Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard for Supplier providing third-party stakeholders, including the media, Facilities in the People’s Republic of China.” This docuaccess to our supplier facilities. In December 2012, we ment directs suppliers on how to properly manage student invited the New York Times (NYT) to tour one of our largest and temporary agency workers in China, and it is part of supplier manufacturing facilities, in Chongqing, China. This a broader program that includes capability-building and visit focused on the improved conditions that HP and our assurance mechanisms to improve conformance. suppliers are providing to workers. The NYT documented We are also expanding our efforts to improve the environthe trip and published a video. In 2012, we also requested mental performance of our supply chain. In particular, we independent assessments of our suppliers’ facilities by are beginning to focus on reducing waste and water use notable external stakeholders, including: (see Environmental impacts on page 81). For the first • Social Accountability International (SAI): Labor rights time, we have reported supplier water consumption data NGO SAI assessed three of our suppliers, one each in in this 2012 Global Citizenship Report. Similar to our work China, Europe, and Latin America. See Supplier SER on supplier greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, capturing management systems (including health and safety) on and reporting water consumption data will help our suppage 80 for more information. pliers better understand their environmental impacts and eventually implement reduction targets. • IDH: The Sustainable Trade Initiative: IDH assessed five HP suppliers. The assessments evaluated suppliers’ Beyond our immediate suppliers operations and identified areas of improvement. See Social and environmental performance risks exist deep in Industrial relations on page 95 for more information. our supply chain, not just with our firstand second-tier suppliers. Our stakeholders expect us to know the source Independent management system assessment of materials used in our products and the major suppliers Understanding that mature and well-implemented involved. Examples of key issues regarding our products management systems are key to sustained performance and packaging are responsible sourcing of minerals and improvement, HP commissioned SAI to perform indepenpaper and wood products. HP conducts due diligence dent assessments of our supply chain SER management on these issues, which clarifies how these materials are system, as well as the labor and health and safety mansourced and demonstrates that HP supports responsible agement systems of several of our suppliers. trade. We are committed to increasing our understanding of our extended supply chain. In this report, we have for Overall, HP’s management system for supply chain SER the first time published a list of the tantalum, tin, tungscored higher than the average SAI member company sten, and gold smelters we have confirmed to be in our measured in 2012. Details include: supply chain (see Conflict minerals on page 96). Above-average results • Sourcing and compliance integration between HP and Transparency suppliers scored higher than average for SAI member companies. In addition to a strong commitment from HP has a long history of transparency in our supply chain senior supply chain management, HP demonstrated a SER program. Examples include: solid degree of integration in decision-making and performance evaluations between compliance and sourcing • In 2005, we believe we were the first electronics functions. In 2013, we will further enhance our integration company to publish aggregated supplier audit results. efforts through the establishment of a five-tier supplier • In 2008, we were the first electronics company to rating system that integrates SER with business perforpublish a list of suppliers, and we were the first major IT mance (see Program direction on page 76). company to disclose our supply chain GHG emissions. 78 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Our complaint management system development and Transparency down the supply chain Governance implementation score was among the highest achieved We strive to help suppliers become more transparent. In based on the maturity of our transparency, worker 2012, we met our goal to engage with suppliers representEnvironment communications, and external stakeholder dialogue ing 90% of final assembly spend to develop strategies Society program efforts. and/or participate in training for publication of annual Human rights • Annual supplier improvement efforts received an corporate responsibility reports based on the Global • Supply chain above-average rating. SAI cited HP’s key capabilityReporting Initiative (GRI) standard. (See HP’s supplier list responsibility building programs, including the Health Enables for information on which suppliers currently publish GRIPrivacy Returns project, the Gender Equity Model (Modelo based reports). de Equidad de Genero) certification program, and the HP people We were instrumental in calling for and creating an Hepatitis B Antidiscrimination Training (see Capability Social innovation building on page 93). Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition transparency task Economic impacts force aimed at developing membership reporting require• Our overall supplier SER performance scored well due ments and eliminating barriers to supplier transparency. Data dashboard: to our collaborative improvement efforts that address Society We are also creating incentives for improved corporate critical issue areas, including health and safety and responsibility reporting through our new five-tier rating About this report working-hours management. system and requirements in our procurement process. Average results Our commitment to openness endures, and we will con• HP’s supply chain SER program scope and risk managetinually enhance the transparency of our supply chain SER ment process scored equally to the average SAI member program, including sharing increased detail on our supplier company measured in this category. Our five-tier supplier network, publicly releasing new and revised policies such rating system will elevate the priority of SER in supplier as our “HP Student and Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard performance reviews and further complement our risk for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China assessment process. (PRC),” continuing consultation and supplier site access by third parties, disclosing key performance indicators, and Below-average results including the results of our broadening set of assessment • The link between our purchasing practices and excestypes with our existing audit data reporting. sive supplier overtime impacts scored below average, and SAI identified this as an improvement that HP could make (see Excessive working hours at right). In addition to reviewing HP’s management system for supply chain SER, SAI was also invited to review the Progress in 2012 management systems of HP suppliers in 2012 (see About Throughout this section, we provide updates on each of our operational data on page 56). the most critical labor and environmental supply chain issues. The section includes third-party input into those issues from academia, nongovernmental organizations, socially responsible investors, the media, and other exter“After participating in the Social Fingerprint assessnal stakeholders, as well as HP’s initiatives to address them. Third-party input provides not only an important ment, suppliers told us that they appreciated the barometer of current and emerging supply chain issues opportunity to benchmark themselves against but also a partnership platform to further assist supplier management and workers in SER performance other companies and learn about leading practices. improvements. They saw this as another concrete example of HP’s commitment to collaboration and capability buildIn this section, we also report updated audit results from 2012. ing. HP’s commitment is also evident in the fact that it underwent the Social Fingerprint assessment of its own supply chain management system. This Labor impacts points to the company’s understanding that buyers Excessive working hours and suppliers have a shared responsibility for The most commonly found major nonconformances at supplier facilities in several regions relate to excessive improving labor standards in the workplace.” working hours. HP’s EICC Code of Conduct states that workweeks are not to exceed the maximum set by local —Jane Hwang and Craig Moss, Social Accountability International law. It also states that a workweek should not be more than 60 hours, including overtime, except in emergency or unusual situations. 79 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) data collection frequency and to include KPI measureGovernance working group ments for high-risk workers (for example, student and HP is making a concerted effort to reduce instances of juvenile workers). Environment excessive working hours in our supply chain. In 2012, Society the EICC reinstated its working group to address the HP procurement professionals will increase collaboration Human rights root causes of excessive working hours. HP is cochair of with suppliers to solve issues more effectively through the group, which aims to make a measurable impact on the program’s expanded KPI visibility and intensified KPI • Supply chain responsibility reducing excessive working hours by 2014. We will help management processes. We work with suppliers that by implementing: report KPIs to us on capability-building programs to Privacy encourage lasting improvements (see Capability building • Data collection that will demonstrate progress, guide HP people on page 93). training efforts, and identify gaps and trends Social innovation • Training to help suppliers set up management systems Wages and overtime payments Economic impacts and monitoring processes A number of reports issued in the media and by NGOs Data dashboard: • Cross-industry collaboration to promote best practices have raised concerns about low wages and insufficient or Society outside the IT industry no payments for overtime to workers in the electronics About this report supply chain. We believe that the first step to improving • The EICC’s latest independent auditing system that treats this situation is to understand the gaps that exist between the most egregious working-hours nonconformances actual wages, the concept of a living wage (which takes as zero-tolerance items, meaning that suppliers must into consideration living costs for certain regions or cities), rectify the situation within 30 days of the original audit and wages desired by workers in major sourcing regions. The working group’s deliverables and HP’s program will In 2012, we commissioned an independent study looking focus initially on China-based manufacturing facilities of into these issues in China. When complete in 2013, the EICC members and their first-tier suppliers. study will allow us to establish recommendations for wage systems at major manufacturing suppliers. Working hours key performance indicators (KPIs) Since 2009, we have required supplier sites in China with Student, dispatch, and foreign migrant labor major nonconformances related to working hours to rights protection report monthly KPIs that track the amount of overtime The changing supplier landscape around the world is charand the number of days each worker has off per week. acterized by a shifting worker base that includes a number The data we have received have shown that the proporof categories of workers who we consider to be at high tion of people working less than 60 hours in 2012 was risk of mistreatment. These include migrants, students, 70%, an improvement of 15% over the past three years. In temporary workers, and women. particular, we have seen positive results when a facility’s management has acknowledged the benefits of reportOne of the most significant changes occurring in our ing and monitoring these KPIs. These positive results are supply chain is a shift in manufacturing from the eastern not necessarily yet reflected in our audit findings because regions of China, such as the Pearl River Delta, to western although improvements have been made, the results may China. Suppliers throughout the ICT industry are movnot meet the thresholds required by our audit process. ing their facilities west. This shift has resulted in fewer migrant workers. However, it has also brought new chalHP verifies suppliers’ KPI data reported to us against local lenges for HP and our peer companies. In particular, the data found on-site during SER supplier audits. In 2012, we use of student workers by electronics company suppliers did not find any inconsistencies between our audit findings has increased. and the self-reported data from our suppliers. The NGO China Labor Watch released a report in 2012 Currently, approximately 30 production supplier sites in describing underage, student, and temporary labor at China with major nonconformances related to working several electronics manufacturing locations in China. This hours report monthly KPIs to us. These 30 sites represent report was released during a time when a first-tier HP supmore than 75% (by spend) of production supplier sites plier admitted publicly to using underage student workers. with major working-hours nonconformances, which meets HP confirmed that neither of these incidents related to our 2012 goal. facilities in which HP products or components are made. Nonetheless, we have taken steps to promote the correct By the end of 2013, we aim to expand our KPI program by use of student workers by our suppliers. including another 20 supplier sites. We will focus on our first-tier final assembly sites. We also plan to increase 80 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP’s student worker guidelines HP’s EICC Code of Conduct Governance In response to the growing focus on student labor manageHP endorses the EICC Code of Conduct in its entirety, but ment violations in the electronics industry supply chain, we have supplemented it with additional requirements Environment HP has developed specific student and dispatch worker specific to freedom of association (standard A7). See HP’s Society guidance for supplier facilities in China. “HP Student and approach to supply chain responsibility. Human rights Dispatch Worker Guidance Standard for Supplier Facilities in the People’s Republic of China (PRC)” is an industry-leading Supplier SER management systems (including • Supply chain responsibility initiative and was communicated to suppliers in early 2013. health and safety) HP commissioned the labor rights NGO Social Accountability Privacy In addition to mandating fair remuneration and social International (SAI) to independently assess the social HP people insurance, HP’s guidelines state: management systems of three key production suppliSocial innovation • All work must be voluntary. ers from China, Europe, and Latin America. SAI uses its Economic impacts Social Fingerprint tool, which rates companies on a scale • Local regulations must be complied with or exceeded. of 1 to 5, with “1” indicating that the company has little or Data dashboard: • The number of student and dispatch workers must be no awareness of systems or repeatable processes, and Society limited. “5” indicating the company has mature systems that are About this report implemented inside and outside the company with contin• Work must complement primary study areas. ual improvement. The average SAI independent evaluation score across all three suppliers was 3.0, indicating that HP has asked suppliers to conform to the guidelines these suppliers have adopted a systems approach, but immediately. We will measure their conformance through with mixed levels of development and/or implementation. our audit and key performance indicator programs and will provide training through a series of in-country events The findings included: in 2013. HP developed the guidelines in consultation with key stakeholders, including the Center for Child Rights and • Supplier worker involvement and communication Corporate Social Responsibility in China. programs scored among the top categories for all three suppliers. Although suppliers showed that they had CA Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 worker-management communication channels and HP’s response to the California Transparency in Supply procedures in place, increasing workers’ utilization of Chains Act of 2010 details our work to ensure that there these channels is important to take these programs to are no instances of slavery and human trafficking in our the next level. supply chain. • Suppliers demonstrated varying levels of employee labor rights training, and SAI recommended increasing Industrial relations the frequency at which suppliers refresh content and the HP supports the rights of workers at our supplier facilities level of training provided to ensure greater awareness to associate freely on a voluntary basis, seek representaamong all levels in the workplace. tion, join or be represented by works councils, join or not join labor unions, and bargain collectively as they choose as • Suppliers demonstrated that they had the appropriate established by local law. Ongoing research by the Centre teams in place to improve SER performance, but SAI for Research on Multinational Corporations has found recommended enhancing training for these teams. shortcomings with regard to industrial relations in elec• Suppliers’ management of contractors and their own tronics industry factories. Freedom of association was suppliers scored below average, and SAI recommended also one of three priorities in 2011-2012 for makeITfair, enhancing SER communications and risk assessment an NGO-led campaign to encourage electronics compaprocesses with this group. nies to improve labor rights and environmental conditions in their supply chains. HP and SAI continue to work with these suppliers to improve their social management systems and to track the Worker-management communications impact on their audit results. These pilot results will also To raise awareness around freedom of association, HP help us define our broader independent assessment plan, introduced our worker-management communications which includes adding management system evaluations training in 2008 (see Capability building on page 93), at new supplier locations in Chongqing, China, in 2013. which continues to help workers better understand their labor rights and how they can raise grievances about Health and safety their working environment. Through our auditing results and dialogue with peer companies in the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition In 2012, we continued our partnership with the Dutch (EICC), HP recognizes that health and safety, such as Sustainable Trade Initiative, along with other electronics emergency preparedness, continues to be an area of widemanufacturers. The program focuses on building managespread concern in the IT supply chain. During our annual ment systems to encourage better worker-management supplier summit in 2012, HP executives requested supcommunications by assessing suppliers’ operations and pliers to renew their focus on safe work environments. In identifying areas for improvement. 2013, we will focus on providing assistance for health and 81 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents safety management system development, and increase Sofia Kelly Governance the frequency of our surveillance events for this specific HP employee since 2010 EICC Code of Conduct provision. See Detailed audit findEnvironment ings on page 88 for region-specific details. As an HP Supply Chain Social and Society Environmental Responsibility Human rights (SER) Program Manager, Sofia • Supply chain Environmental impacts Kelly has a unique perspective on responsibility the evolving supply chain landReducing the environmental impact of our product manuscape, one in which environmental factors such as energy Privacy facturing and supply chain operations is a key objective and water use are increasingly important alongside tradiHP people of our supply chain social and environmental responsibiltional labor and ethics issues. Social innovation ity (SER) program and HP’s efforts to reduce our overall Economic impacts environmental footprint (see Our carbon footprint* on Sofia relishes having an impact on these issues. “I’ve page 29). We work closely with our manufacturing always had a passion for environmental conservation,” Data dashboard: partners and component suppliers, providing support Society says Sofia, based in Palo Alto, California. “It’s just one of and training to improve environmental performance and those things I was born with. I know that the idea of susAbout this report transparency. tainability and creating a world that we can pass on is a necessity.” Our work to date has focused on reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, which continues to be a priority. In Sofia began her career working at the factory level imple2012, we have begun to see the benefits of this work, with menting environmental management systems (ISO14001) a clear reduction in the GHG intensity of our first-tier emisin the telecommunications industry, before moving on to sions. As part of our new vision for a sustainable supply a field that was rapidly growing in importance: supplier chain, we are extending our focus to also include a broader ­ethics and environmental requirements. HP is helping piorange of suppliers’ environmental aspects, starting with neer this field, which is why the past three years have been water. Below, we report for the first time the progress of a great fit for Sofia. our data-collection program for water use. HP is one of few IT companies reaching out to firstand Collaboration second-tier suppliers to build capabilities that drive HP engages in industry-wide initiatives to decrease the substantial environmental improvements. Through the environmental footprint of the information technology (IT) Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), Sofia industry’s global supply base. looks for new and better ways to help suppliers report and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. And through Global Social Compliance Programme (GSCP) the Energy Efficiency Program and the Global Social Environmental Reference Tools Compliance Programme (GSCP), she and her team encourAs a long-standing member of the GSCP, we supported age suppliers to improve their environmental practices. the development of reference tools and implementation guidelines based on current best environmental pracMotivating suppliers to participate in new efforts can be tices to help suppliers improve their performance (see challenging. HP addresses this through close relationships HP’s approach to supply chain responsibility). The GSCP with suppliers as well as by partnering with industry orgaReference Tools aim to encourage convergence of environnizations such as the EICC. This helps the company align its mental and social systems across industries. They provide message, reduce redundancy, and synchronize expectaa common interpretation of fair labor and environmental tions. “Year-over-year, suppliers have been getting better requirements and explain how these requirements should at sharing metrics,” she says, “and we are now seeing high be implemented. They also reduce potential duplication interest as well in our new GSCP initiative.” in auditing and encourage members to collaborate on capability-building programs in the future. Water is next on her list of focus areas. “We’ve been talking a lot about energy, but water is the next frontier and someHP has adopted the GSCP Environmental Reference Tools thing that all companies need to quickly understand and for use with our suppliers. The tools provide guidance to manage,” says Sofia. This year, HP published water conorganizations for achieving specific performance levels sumption data from its first-tier suppliers for the first time. across multiple environmental impact categories, including but not limited to: Sofia is proud of her contribution to these many efforts: “It’s great to see that in a relatively short period of time global • Emissions to air companies such as HP have done so much to benefit the • Energy use, transport, and greenhouse gas emissions environment. It’s about conserving our resources, which • Environmental management systems ultimately benefits not only our industry, but the global economy as a whole. So, it’s incredibly rewarding for me.” • Major incident prevention and management • Pollution prevention, hazardous and potentially hazardous substances 82 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Waste management 26.7 million kilowatt hours and avoided CO2-equivalent emissions equal to the emissions from electricity used Governance • Wastewater/effluent in 2,820 average U.S. homes for a year, according to the Environment • Water use U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Society Emissions equivalency calculator. We are extending the Human rights Beginning in 2013, HP is asking first-tier assembly suppliprogram’s reach throughout 2013 to our second-tier supers to use these tools to assess the overall health of their pliers, and to suppliers in Southeast Asia. • Supply chain environmental management practices and to target speresponsibility cific performance levels based on environmental impact Greenhouse gas emissions Privacy category. Our goal is also to encourage management at In 2008, HP became the first major IT company to measure HP people our suppliers to be more proactive in improving environand publish aggregated supply chain GHG emissions. Doing Social innovation mental performance. so has helped us understand our suppliers’ GHG impacts. Economic impacts Energy efficiency initiatives We now report emissions data for 95% (by spend) of proData dashboard: We were the only IT company to become a charter member duction suppliers (see below). This percentage increased Society of the BSR Energy Efficiency Partnership Program in China from 81% in 2008 and makes up a significant part of HP’s About this report in 2010. The program helps major suppliers conduct energy Scope 3 GHG emissions footprint (see Energy and climate audits, develop energy improvement action plans, and on page 29). This year, for the first time, we also surshare best practices that enable companies to reduce veyed select nonproduction suppliers, and we share our energy use, cut greenhouse gas emissions, and lower costs. preliminary findings below. In 2012, HP expanded our participation in the Energy While measurement is the first step, we aim to encourage Efficiency Program in China through a low-carbon manugreater energy efficiency and reduced carbon emissions facturing capability building workshop co-organized in our supply chain by helping suppliers establish carbonwith WWF-Hong Kong. We now have 47 suppliers and reduction programs. Production suppliers representing 50 sites across China taking part in the program, up from 89% of our supplier spend now have GHG emissions– eight suppliers and 12 sites in 2011. To date, particireduction targets. This figure has increased steadily every pating HP suppliers reported energy savings totaling year from 67% in 2008. Production supplier GHG emissions performance* [tonnes CO2e] 8,000,000 100 6,000,000 75 4,000,000 50 2,000,000 25 0 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Aggregated first-tier production suppliers’ Scope 1 direct and 3,500,000 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,500,000 3,500,000 Scope 2 indirect emissions** Coverage [first-tier production supplier spend captured] 81% 86% 91% 95% 95% Aggregated production supplier Scope 3 indirect emissions 3,100,000 [tonnes CO2e] *** Coverage [first-tier production supplier spend reporting 48% Scope 3 emissions] * The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. ** Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. *** Numbers only take into account Scope 3 categories that suppliers report on. 83 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Production supplier GHG emissions intensity* [tonnes Nonproduction supplier GHG emissions performance, 2011 Governance CO2e/first-tier production supplier spend, 2007 = 100%] Aggregated first-tier nonproduction suppliers’ Scope 1 480,000 direct and Scope 2 indirect emissions [tonnes CO2] * Environment 100 Society Coverage 51% [first-tier supplier spend captured] 80 Human rights * Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar • Supply chain volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of responsibility 60 these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. Privacy 40 HP people Social innovation Suppliers’ Scope 3 emissions 20 To reduce GHG emissions throughout our entire supply Economic impacts chain, we also encourage our first-tier suppliers to underData dashboard: 0 stand their own suppliers’ emissions. Society 2007 2008 2009 2010 ** 2011 About this report Nearly half (48%) of our production suppliers (by spend) * Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year already estimate some of their own Scope 3 emissions. The 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. total estimated Scope 3 GHG emissions from these suppli** 2010 figure has been updated to reflect revised supplier revenue data. ers that are attributable to HP’s share of their production We continue to report the original number for the purposes of the Carbon is significant, emphasizing the impact we can have in Disclosure Project. Previous 2010 figure: 94%. reducing total emissions from our supply chain by reaching out to sub-tier suppliers. Reporting second-tier emissions for the first time this year is an initial step in that direction. We attribute the decline in first-tier emissions intensity in Based on the data we have received, we believe that suppli2011 to several factors, such as: ers have a stronger understanding of emissions associated • Efforts by suppliers to improve their environmental perwith business travel, product distribution, transportation, formance, including setting energy and GHG emissions and logistics than any other Scope 3 category. reductions Improving data accuracy • Regulations by the Chinese government requiring large We help suppliers new to GHG reporting to calculate their manufacturers in China to reduce energy consumption emissions by encouraging them to use the EICC Carbon as part of the country’s 12th Five-Year Plan Reporting System questionnaire. In 2012, we invited • Programs such as the Energy Efficiency Program, the 22 new suppliers to submit emissions data. As we expand Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Electronic Industry the program, we will continue to work with suppliers to Citizenship Coalition Carbon Reporting System, which collect and report their footprints. In 2013, we will introhave created awareness among suppliers about GHG duce a new platform supporting the industry-wide EICC emissions reporting and the importance of reducing tool to further simplify the reporting process. As more energy consumption companies disclose metrics and require their suppliers to do the same, our data will continue to improve. Two additional factors also contributed to a drop in aggregated first-tier emissions in 2011: Water protection The two main issues related to water management among • The continuing economic recession that has led to our suppliers are consumption and discharge. reduced production output • Natural disasters in Japan and Thailand, in particular, Water consumption which caused some operations to shut down for certain Similar to our work on Scope 3 GHG emissions, our aim is time periods to reduce the water footprint of our supply chain. We follow a similar process of measurement and reporting as we This year, for the first time, we are also presenting GHG do for our suppliers’ GHG emissions. emissions from our nonproduction suppliers. We have collected these data from nonproduction suppliers’ Carbon This is the first year that we are reporting water consumpDisclosure Project submissions, and for many this is the tion from our first-tier suppliers. To our knowledge, we are first time that they have collected and reported these data. the first IT company to collect and report these numbers. Nonetheless, it represents a first step to reporting more We collected the data primarily from component manufacmature data in the future. Nonproduction suppliers providturing and final assembly suppliers, representing 38% of ing HP with business and technology services provided the our total production supplier spend. Separately, 38% of our highest level of reporting. suppliers have company-wide strategies, plans, or policies to reduce water use (some of these suppliers also provide We will continue to work with suppliers to help them water consumption data). develop the tools needed to report more robust numbers. This will help HP report data covering a larger proportion of our nonproduction supply chain in 2013 and beyond. 84 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Supplier water consumption, 2011 processing, manufacturing, and finished goods. We will Governance ask these suppliers with operations in water-stressed Aggregated water withdrawn for use [cubic meters] * 28,000,000 regions to enroll in the Global Social Compliance Environment Coverage [% of first-tier supplier spend captured] 38% Programme, with the aim of improving their waterSociety management performance. Companies with company-wide water strategies, 38% Human rights plans, or policies [% of first-tier supplier spend captured] Water discharge • Supply chain responsibility The Institute of Public and Environmental Affairs (IPE), * Consumption is estimated based on suppliers’ consumption and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of an influential Chinese environmental nongovernmental Privacy organization, runs a public pollution database to monitor these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most HP people recent for which data are available. corporate environmental performance and to facilitate Social innovation public participation in environmental governance in China. In 2012, we began partnering with several of our Economic impacts In 2011, HP conducted a “hot spot” analysis to complement high-spend first-tier suppliers to help ensure that subData dashboard: environmental data received by suppliers. The analysis tier suppliers named on the database comply with local Society environmental laws regarding water discharge. Our initial identified paperboard manufacturing for packaging as About this report the most water-intensive activity among our first-tier efforts identified 18 subtier suppliers in China that had suppliers, accounting for 38% of our supply chain water violated environmental laws in the past. We helped these footprint. All other basic inorganic chemical manufactursuppliers develop corrective action plans and we increased ing as well as paint and coating manufacturing together our monitoring of their facilities, encouraging them to account for 28% of our footprint. The other categories are enhance transparency by updating their corrective action listed in the table below. plans and providing monitoring reports to stakeholders. We continue to work with our first-tier suppliers to help HP’s supply chain water footprint noncompliant sub-tier suppliers move toward compliance with local laws, asking them to check their suppliers’ faciliPaperboard manufacturing for packaging 38% ties twice a year and follow up with audits. All other basic inorganic chemical manufacturing 18% Material processing and manufacturing 14% Summary audit results Paint and coating manufacturing 10% Component manufacturing and finished goods 12% Since we performed our first supplier audit in 2004, we have conducted 893 audits in total. We expect this number Other (includes facilities) 8% to grow at an increasing rate as we deepen supplier engagement. Across each of these areas, we aim to reduce water conThe graph on page 85 shows how the number of audits sumption. For example: at our production suppliers has grown. It illustrates steeper • We work to use paperboard as efficiently as possible growth in the number of full re-audits than in the number following our our paper policy and by designing more of initial or follow-up audits, due to the fact that there are efficient packaging (see Packaging on page 44 for fewer new suppliers to audit in our program. more information). HP uses follow-up audits to confirm full closure of non• We work to reduce chemical use in our products and conformances discovered during initial and full re-audits. processes through HP’s Design for Environment proFull re-audits cover all of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct gram (see Design on page 39). categories. We compare full re-audits with initial audits to • We have begun using the World Business Council for see how the supplier has improved management systems Sustainable Development Global Water Tool to plot our and programs over time. high-risk top-tier component supplier sites of material 85 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents SER audits conducted, 2005–2012*, ** [total, cumulative] Governance 1000 Environment Society 800 Human rights • Supply chain 600 responsibility Privacy 400 HP people 200 Social innovation Economic impacts 0 Data dashboard: 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Society About this report Total initial audits 78 154 204 235 260 293 330 398 Total follow-up audits 7 57 144 221 292 320 340 379 Total full re-audits 0 0 6 30 39 68 94 116 Total audits 85 211 354 486 591 681 764 893 * Data for past years may differ from previous reports because HP receives the details of some audits after the Global Citizenship Report publication deadline. Includes production suppliers only. ** Ernst & Young has provided assurance over 2012 reported data only. The graph above shows the cumulative total audits per audit type for 2005–2012. Please see Ernst & Young’s Report of Independent Accountant on page 137 for the number of audits by type completed in 2012. The graph below shows a decrease in the number of minor and major nonconformances against HP’s EICC Code of Conduct from initial audits to full re-audits that were conducted in the years between 2005 and 2012, and an increase in the number of provisions that had no findings. We attribute this improvement to our validation system, which focuses on collaborative audits and corrective actions, and our efforts to build our suppliers’ capabilities. Distribution of audit findings, 2005–2012* [percentage of findings] 2. Distribution of audit findings, 2005–2012 (percentage of findings)* 100% No nonconformances 80% Full re-audit Initial audit 60% 40% 20% 0% 20% 40% Nonconformances 60% No nonconformances Minor Major * Production suppliers only. 86 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents The chart below shows the percentage reduction in nonconformances found during production supplier audits between Governance 2005 and 2012. It illustrates the effectiveness of our validation and improvement process, which involves auditing supplier sites and requiring corrective actions to address nonconformances. Across all provisions of HP’s EICC Code of Environment Conduct, 75% of all major and minor nonconformances found during initial audits were either reduced in severity or Society confirmed to be closed in subsequent full re-audits. The chart also demonstrates that nonconformances have been Human rights easier to address for some sections of the code, such as General and Environmental, health, and safety management system, than for others. • Supply chain responsibility 3.Nonconformances reduced by section of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, Nonconformances reduced by section of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, 2005–2012* [percentage] Privacy 2005–2012 (percentage)* HP people Overall Social innovation Economic impacts Environmental, health, and safety management system Data dashboard: Society Ethics About this report General Labor and ethics management system Environment Health and safety Labor 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% * Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits, for comparability. The chart below shows the distribution of major nonconformances across the provisions of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct found during initial and full re-audits in 2011-2012. Health and safety and Labor continue to account for the majority of major nonconformances, similar to 2010-2011. Distribution of major nonconformances by section of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, 2011 2012*, ** [percentage] Health and safety 30% Labor 24% Labor and ethics management system 13% Environment 10% Environmental, health, and safety management system 8% Ethics 8% General 7% * Graph includes only results from initial audits and full re-audits—not closure audits—for comparability. Refers only to production suppliers. ** Ernst & Young (E&Y) has provided assurance over 2012 reported data only. The graph above shows 2011-2012 data. Please see E&Y’s Report of Independent Accountant on page 137 for the 2012 distribution of major nonconformances. 87 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents The graph at right illustrates the correlation between Impact of supplier engagement on audit results* [average Governance levels of supplier involvement in HP’s supply chain SER scores for full audits, 200 is the strongest possible score] program and audit performance. Suppliers with a low Environment 200 level of involvement, which have not participated in HP Society capability-building programs, achieved the lowest average Human rights score in audits (higher is better). Suppliers that completed 150 at least one HP capability-building program achieved • Supply chain responsibility noticeably higher scores. Though our capability-building 100 programs are not all directly related to audit items, the Privacy proactive attitude among companies investing time and HP people 50 resources to engage in SER programs often results in Social innovation enhanced audit performance. The highest scores of all were achieved by suppliers that participate in HP capabil0 Economic impacts ity-building programs and also initiate quality controlled Data dashboard: EICC third-party audits. These suppliers pay for the audit Society Suppliers not involved in HP capability-building programs 115 and therefore take more ownership of the results, and the About this report level of investment and improvements made to prepare Suppliers that have completed at least one HP capability140 are visible. These results inform and support our shift building program toward more of these types of audits in the coming years. Suppliers that have completed at least one HP capability150 For details about other issues identified in audits and building program and initiated a third-party audit HP’s response by region, see Detailed audit findings on * Data covers full audits (initial and full re-audits) of production suppliers, page 88. 2010-2012. Some suppliers are included in multiple categories. EICC-based audits are scored on a 0-200 point scale (200 is the strongest possible score). Scores are based on priority findings, the quantity of major nonconformances identified, and the number of questions reviewed. Case study HP expands nonproduction supplier audit program HP introduced nonproduction sup• Ethics and labor management In space from a building management pliers, such as call centers or labor 2012, we found instances of supplicompany and shares that space agencies, to our supply chain SER ers using unacceptable disciplinary with other firms. As a result, suppliprogram in 2009. In 2011, we perprocedures. These usually related ers sometimes defer responsibility formed the first three independent SER to suppliers deducting wages from for these issues to the building audits of these suppliers in China and workers. HP helped these suppliers management company. Mexico. We increased that number to implement corrective action plans • Management systems This area 13 audits performed in 2012, expandthat removed wage deductions is an opportunity for improvement ing our geographic scope to Brazil, the from disciplinary procedures. and is the most significant area of Philippines, Poland, and Turkey. • Environmental protection We nonconformance. Suppliers often have found this area to not be do not conduct risk assessments or Our findings show that nonproducunderstood well and subsequently put mitigation plans in place, and tion suppliers are approximately five poorly managed. Nonproduction social and environmental objectives, to seven years behind production suppliers frequently do not perform goals, measures, and reporting suppliers when it comes to measuran environmental impact analyregularly do not exist. Internal ing and reporting SER practices and sis of their operations and do not auditing of SER business practices is performance. We believe the need for conduct programs to reduce their also a common area of weakness. supplier education on SER standards impact. This is particularly the at the engagement stage of our procase for waste management, as We continue to support nonproduction gram is critical for successful supplier nonproduction suppliers usually suppliers to help them improve SER development and compliance. defer responsibility to contractors, performance. We have found that some despite evidence of little knowledge suppliers are increasingly recognizing In 2012, our nonproduction supplier about these contractors’ certificathe importance of this, and are willing self-assessments identified a general tions for correct disposal. to work with HP to improve standards. lack of SER policies and management systems, so we have focused on those • Health and safety The working two areas in our capability-building environment for nonproduction initiatives for nonproduction suppliers. suppliers is not classified as hazardous. However, our audit findings Our audits of nonproduction supplier show that health and safety is an facilities have identified nonconforarea of insufficient focus. Often, mance in: a nonproduction supplier rents 88 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Detailed audit findings EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in sites audited* Governance Global findings Major Minor Environment Labor management system Society In 2012, HP conducted 116 audits of our production suppliers (including initial audits, follow-up audits, and Overall 29% 0% Human rights full re-audits). This total number includes one recycling Health and safety • Supply chain audit covering SER management systems. The results of Occupational safety 14% 42% responsibility this recycling audit are not included in the charts below Privacy because the operations of this supplier are different from Emergency preparedness 59% 29% HP people those of our production suppliers and cannot be compared. Occupational injury and illness 11% 30% Social innovation Significant findings Industrial hygiene 28% 29% Economic impacts Globally, we continue to find the most major nonconPhysically demanding work 9% 36% Data dashboard: formances related to working hours and emergency Machine safeguarding 7% 29% Society preparedness. HP found working-hours nonconformances About this report in 63% of audits in 2012, compared with 66% in 2011. The Dormitory and canteen 29% 17% majority of these nonconformances were in China, where Environmental, health, and safety management we are working with the Electronic Industry Citizenship Overall 8% 0% Coalition (EICC) to address this issue. Emergency preparedness major nonconformances increased to 59% in Environmental 2012 from 48% in 2011. We are introducing new programs Environmental permits and reporting 4% 11% to address these issues in countries such as China and Pollution prevention and resource 3% 8% Brazil, where the 2011 major nonconformance rate was reduction 57%. (Although audits in Latin America found a 14% rate of major nonconformance to this provision, the rate has been Hazardous substances 12% 58% significantly higher in previous years, so we still believe Wastewater and solid waste 3% 12% that we need to introduce programs to resolve this issue.) Air emissions 4% 9% Zero-tolerance items Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 41.) In 2012, HP found one zero-tolerance item during a thirdEthics party audit against HP’s EICC Code of Conduct in China. Business integrity 11% 9% The item related to working hours and was considered a zero-tolerance item based on the updated EICC system No improper advantage 5% 9% for categorizing working-hours nonconformances (see Disclosure of information 0% 1% HP’s approach to supply chain responsibility). The supplier subsequently established a corrective action plan to deal Intellectual property 1% 1% with the issue. HP confirmed through a third-party closure Fair business, advertising, and 11% 5% audit that this item has been resolved. competition Protection of identity 24% 8% Community engagement 0% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in sites audited* * These data reflect the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits Major Minor conducted in 2012. They do not necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. General ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC EICC Code awareness 5% 16% Code does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks Compliance with laws 0% 0% to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered a major nonconformance but do not necessarily signify the presence of Supplier management program 34% 16% workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s Labor EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2012, no child labor was uncovered. Freely chosen employment 7% 26% *** A major nonconformance in the working-hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: Child labor avoidance ** 0% 62% • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the Working hours*** 63% 13% facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to Wages and benefits 32% 29% which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least one day off per seven workdays on Humane treatment 3% 28% average. Nondiscrimination 8% 9% Freedom of association 1% 14% 89 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Greater China EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in sites audited* Governance The main findings in our China audits are consistent with our global findings, with working hours and emergency Major Minor Environment preparedness being the main sources of nonconformance. Health and safety Society These issues are a key focus of our refreshed programs Occupational safety 18% 43% Human rights that will help HP move toward a sustainable supply chain Emergency preparedness 78% 20% • Supply chain (see Program direction on page 76). Although workingresponsibility hours nonconformances decreased globally, the majority Occupational injury and illness 15% 38% Privacy of the nonconformances occur in China, which is where Industrial hygiene 45% 35% our excessive working hours key performance indicators HP people (KPI) program continues to focus. We are asking suppliers Physically demanding work 10% 58% Social innovation to participate in management system assessments and Machine safeguarding 0% 40% Economic impacts training that will help identify shortcomings in health and safety areas such as emergency preparedness, and to Dormitory and canteen 45% 20% Data dashboard: Society facilitate mitigation/improvement actions. In addition, we Environmental, health, and safety management will increase surveillance events for health and safety in Overall 3% 0% About this report Greater China. Environmental Environmental permits and reporting 8% 5% Audits conducted in 2012 Pollution prevention and resource 5% 8% Location Initial Follow-up Full Number of reduction audits audits re-audits workers Hazardous substances 15% 60% at sites audited Wastewater and solid waste 3% 13% China 29 11 13 309,200 Air emissions 3% 13% Total 29 11 13 309,200 Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 41.) Ethics Business integrity 8% 8% No improper advantage 5% 10% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in sites audited* Disclosure of information 0% 0% Major Minor Intellectual property 0% 0% General Fair business, advertising, and 3% 5% EICC Code awareness 3% 20% competition Compliance with laws 0% 0% Protection of identity 28% 3% Supplier management program 30% 20% Community engagement 0% 0% Labor * These data reflect the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits Freely chosen employment 8% 25% conducted in 2012. They do not necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. Child labor avoidance ** 0% 78% ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, Working hours*** 85% 10% an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered Wages and benefits 43% 38% a major nonconformance but do not necessarily signify the presence of Humane treatment 3% 30% workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2012, no child Nondiscrimination 10% 5% labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working-hours provision of HP’s EICC Code Freedom of association 0% 0% indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: Labor management system • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). Overall 33% 0% • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least one day off per seven workdays on average. 90 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Asia Pacific EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance Governance in sites audited* In Asia Pacific, the most significant audit findings relate to excessive working hours and emergency preparedness, Major Minor Environment Society similar to our China and global findings. These issues are a Health and safety key focus of our refreshed programs that will help HP move Occupational safety 16% 37% Human rights toward a sustainable supply chain (see Program direction Emergency preparedness 53% 21% • Supply chain on page 76). We aim to take the lessons from our excesresponsibility sive working hours KPI program in China and implement Occupational injury and illness 11% 32% Privacy them in Asia Pacific to address this issue. We are asking Industrial hygiene 16% 16% HP people suppliers to participate in management system assessments and training that will help identify shortcomings in Physically demanding work 0% 5% Social innovation health and safety areas such as emergency preparedness, Machine safeguarding 21% 21% Economic impacts and to facilitate mitigation/improvement actions. Dormitory and canteen 16% 26% Data dashboard: Society Environmental, health, and safety management Audits conducted in 2012 About this report Overall 21% 0% Location Initial Follow-up Full Number of audits audits re-audits workers Environmental at sites Environmental permits and reporting 0% 5% audited Australia 0 1 0 200 Pollution prevention and resource 0% 11% reduction Japan 1 0 0 1500 Hazardous substances 11% 58% Malaysia 8 7 1 15,600 Wastewater and solid waste 5% 11% Philippines 2 2 0 8,300 Air emissions 5% 5% Korea 0 1 0 7,200 Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 41.) Singapore 3 2 0 4,200 Ethics Thailand 2 1 2 22,500 Business integrity 16% 21% Total 16 14 3 59,500 No improper advantage 0% 5% Disclosure of information 0% 5% Intellectual property 0% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in sites audited* Fair business, advertising, and 32% 5% competition Major Minor General Protection of identity 26% 16% EICC Code awareness 11% 11% Community engagement 0% 0% Compliance with laws 0% 0% * These data reflect the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits conducted in 2012. They do not necessarily represent results from the same Supplier management program 37% 5% supplier sites reported on in previous years. Labor ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, Freely chosen employment 11% 32% an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered Child labor avoidance ** 0% 47% a major nonconformance but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s Working hours*** 63% 26% EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2012, no child Wages and benefits 32% 26% labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working-hours provision of HP’s EICC Code Humane treatment 5% 21% indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the Nondiscrimination 11% 11% facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). Freedom of association 5% 32% • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. Labor management system • Workers are provided with at least one day off per seven workdays on Overall 37% 0% average. 91 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Europe EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in Governance In Europe, audit results show considerably better perforsites audited* Environment mance than the global average. Our main findings relate to Major Minor supplier management programs. We are asking suppliers Society Health and safety to participate in management system assessments and Human rights training that will help identify shortcomings in this area, Occupational safety 10% 40% • Supply chain and to facilitate mitigation/improvement actions. Emergency preparedness 30% 60% responsibility Privacy Audits conducted in 2012 Occupational injury and illness 0% 0% HP people Location Initial Follow-up Full Number of Industrial hygiene 0% 30% audits audits re-audits workers Social innovation at sites Physically demanding work 10% 10% audited Economic impacts Machine safeguarding 10% 0% Czech 0 3 0 3,700 Data dashboard: Dormitory and canteen 0% 0% Republic Society Environmental, health, and safety management Hungary 1 0 1 1,100 About this report Overall 10% 0% Israel 2 0 0 2,100 Environmental Netherlands 1 1 0 800 Environmental permits and reporting 0% 20% Poland 1 0 1 1,300 Pollution prevention and resource 0% 10% Russia 0 0 1 200 reduction Slovak 1 0 0 900 Hazardous substances 0% 70% Republic Wastewater and solid waste 0% 10% Turkey 1 1 0 400 Air emissions 0% 10% Total 7 5 3 10,500 Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 41.) Ethics Business integrity 20% 0% EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in No improper advantage 20% 20% sites audited* Disclosure of information 0% 0% Major Minor Intellectual property 10% 10% General EICC Code awareness 10% 10% Fair business, advertising, and 10% 10% competition Compliance with laws 0% 0% Protection of identity 10% 10% Supplier management program 50% 30% Community engagement 0% 0% Labor * These data reflect the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits Freely chosen employment 0% 0% conducted in 2012. They do not necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. Child labor avoidance ** 0% 40% ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code Working hours 0% 0% does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to Wages and benefits 0% 10% prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered a major nonconformance but do not necessarily signify the presence of workers Humane treatment 0% 10% under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2012, no child labor was Nondiscrimination 0% 30% uncovered. Freedom of association 0% 30% Labor management system Overall 10% 0% 92 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Latin America EICC Code provisions Rate of nonconformance in Governance In Latin America, audit results show considerably better sites audited* Environment performance than the global average. Our main findings Major Minor related to supplier management programs, excessive workSociety Health and safety ing hours, and physically demanding work. We aim to take Human rights the lessons from our excessive working hours KPI program Occupational safety 0% 43% • Supply chain in China and implement them in Latin America to address Emergency preparedness 14% 57% responsibility this issue. In collaboration with Social Accountability Privacy International and the Rapid Results Institute, we are askOccupational injury and illness 0% 29% ing suppliers in Brazil to participate in the Brazil Worker Industrial hygiene 0% 29% HP people Engagement program, which is designed to help Brazilian Social innovation factories improve health and safety in the workplace. Physically demanding work 29% 29% Economic impacts Machine safeguarding 0% 29% Audits conducted in 2012 Data dashboard: Dormitory and canteen 14% 0% Society Location Initial Follow-up Full Number of audits audits re-audits workers Environmental, health, and safety management About this report at sites Overall 0% 0% audited Environmental Brazil 2 6 2 7,600 Environmental permits and reporting 0% 43% Mexico 3 1 1 3,800 Pollution prevention and resource 0% 0% Total 5 7 3 11,400 reduction Hazardous substances 14% 29% Wastewater and solid waste 0% 14% EICC Code provisions Rate of Air emissions 14% 0% nonconformance in sites audited* Product content restrictions (See Materials on page 41.) Major Minor Ethics General Business integrity 0% 0% EICC Code awareness 0% 14% No improper advantage 0% 0% Compliance with laws 0% 0% Disclosure of information 0% 0% Supplier management program 29% 0% Intellectual property 0% 0% Labor Fair business, advertising, and 0% 0% Freely chosen employment 0% 57% competition Child labor avoidance ** 0% 43% Protection of identity 14% 14% Working hours*** 29% 14% Community engagement 0% 0% Wages and benefits 14% 14% * These data reflect the results of HP’s initial audits and full re-audits Humane treatment 0% 57% conducted in 2012. They do not necessarily represent results from the same supplier sites reported on in previous years. Nondiscrimination 0% 0% ** A major nonconformance in the underage worker provision of HP’s EICC Code does not necessarily indicate the presence of child labor. For example, Freedom of association 0% 29% an auditor may uncover insufficient management systems and age checks to prevent child workers from being employed. These would be considered Labor management system a major nonconformance but do not necessarily signify the presence of Overall 14% 0% workers under the legal minimum, or the minimum age specified by HP’s EICC Code. While there were nonconformances uncovered in 2012, no child labor was uncovered. *** A major nonconformance in the working-hours provision of HP’s EICC Code indicates that at least one of the following requirements was not met: • The average hours worked in a workweek over the last 12 months at the facility did not exceed 60 hours or the legal limit (whichever is stricter). • Workers are allowed mandated breaks, holidays, and vacation days to which they are entitled. • Workers are provided with at least one day off per seven workdays on average. 93 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Capability building Rev. David M. Schilling Governance Senior Program Director, Environment We work with suppliers on programs that improve their Interfaith Center on ability to deliver substantial and lasting SER performance Corporate Responsibility Society improvements on a broad range of issues. Our work Human rights builds knowledge and strengthens processes, educating During the last decade, HP has • Supply chain employees throughout supplier organizations and instillbeen a leader in the IT industry responsibility ing behavioral changes. in several areas related to supply Privacy chain responsibility. Highlights of this leadership include: HP works with local NGOs and training groups to deliver HP people • Cofounding the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition our capability-building programs, which are directed Social innovation toward supplier management and workers. As we transi• Publishing a list of suppliers representing more than 95% Economic impacts tion audit activities to third parties, we will increasingly of HP’s production supplier spend Data dashboard: focus more of our resources on programs that target the • Working with stakeholders and nongovernmental orgaSociety most critical supply chain SER issues (see Program direcnizations to educate workers on their rights tion on page 76). About this report • Joining multi-stakeholder initiatives related to impleDemonstrating results mentation of the Dodd-Frank Act addressing “conflict Since HP started our capability-building programs in 2006, minerals” in the Democratic Republic of Congo we have: • Focusing on capability building among suppliers and workers to address systemic issues • Carried out 22 programs in 12 countries on topics such as antidiscrimination, energy efficiency, labor rights, and • Imposing new limits on the employment of students and women’s health temporary agency workers at supplier factories in China • Directly trained approximately 2,850 managers and In the next decade, however, HP will need to build on this nearly 300,000 workers leadership and improve performance in the face of major • Reached 85,000 students through our predeparture global supply chain challenges. These challenges relate training to collaboration, expanding influence to subtier suppliers, • Trained 155 second-tier suppliers and improving transparency. For example, HP will need to join other companies, NGOs, and governments to end • Verified that suppliers engaging in capability-building the human rights abuses of marginalized workers, parprograms have improved performance by comparing ticularly migrant and temporary workers, who are most before and after audit results (see Impact of supvulnerable to exploitation by unscrupulous labor recruitplier engagement on audit results* [average scores ers. The company will also have to move deeper into the for full audits, 200 is the strongest possible score] on supply chain globally, in the same way it has done through page 87) industry and multi-stakeholder initiatives related to “conflict minerals.” Finally, HP will need to embrace a level of In addition, these programs have established supplierand transparency in which stakeholders—workers, communipeer educator-run programs that have provided training to ties, suppliers, and investors—understand clearly that HP a much larger number of workers. “knows” its human rights impacts and “shows” what it is doing to address them. I believe HP has the values, experiSee Impact of supplier engagement on audit results* ence, commitment, and ability to collaborate with multiple [average scores for full audits, 200 is the strongest stakeholders, which is essential to effective leadership. possible score] on page 87 for a graph illustrating performance improvements made by suppliers that have participated in HP capability-building programs compared to suppliers that have not. Introducing new suppliers We introduce new suppliers to our supply chain SER As our relationships with suppliers develop, we work to program each year and hold supplier education forums to instill good practices among lower-tier suppliers as well. communicate our SER expectations. Since 2010, we have HP has trained 155 second-tier suppliers through proeducated more than 220 managers in Brazil, China, Israel, grams conducted jointly with our first-tier suppliers. and Mexico. In 2012, HP held three supplier forums, one each in Brazil, Israel, and Mexico. Combined, these forums reached 103 managers from 71 suppliers. The Brazil and Mexico forums included nonproduction suppliers as well as production suppliers. All three forums helped communicate expectations and requirements regarding HP’s EICC Code of Conduct to new suppliers. 94 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP’s 2012 capability-building initiatives • Predeparture training Governance Audience: Facility and school trainers (180 trainers, Student, dispatch, and foreign migrant labor rights Environment reaching nearly 85,000 students) protection Society Location: China • Migrant labor training Human rights Year program began: 2011 Audience: Management (85 managers from 37 suppliers) • Supply chain Partner: Labour Education and Service Network (LESN) responsibility Location: Malaysia and Singapore Program overview: HP’s predeparture training teaches Privacy Year program began: 2011 facility and school trainers how to prepare interns HP people Partner: Goodwill Network for work life, including knowledge of labor rights and Social innovation Program overview: HP’s migrant labor training program occupational health as well as how to adapt to city life. delivers best-practice training to suppliers’ senior Each participant received a guide on how to deliver the Economic impacts managers. It addresses topics such as migrant labor training. Suppliers involved in the Dutch Sustainable Data dashboard: Trade Initiative also attend the predeparture training. Society management and the responsibilities of the labor agent and the hiring company throughout a migrant worker’s We developed the program in response to concerns About this report raised by NGOs about suppliers in China recruiting labor employment. It also gives suppliers practical steps to incorporate HP EICC Code of Conduct requirements and from vocational schools under the pretense of internhuman rights principles into the company’s manageships to learn technical skills. Reports suggest these ment system. HP developed the program in response to young workers are instead used as unskilled labor for rising issues regarding the use and treatment of migrant manufacturing. In addition to our work to improve supworkers in Southeast Asia. pliers’ understanding of HP’s EICC Code of Conduct, we have implemented predeparture training for suppliers 2012 update: In 2012, 52 managers from 37 firstand and schools to address the issue. second-tier suppliers from Malaysia and Singapore participated. 2012 update: In 2012, we held a session in Jiangsu, China. Since 2011, we have reached nearly 85,000 graduates and interns through the program in the Chongqing, Guangzhou, Jiangsu, and Wuhan regions of China. As part of our efforts to support student workers, in 2013 we released supplier guidelines for the employment and treatment of these workers (see HP’s student worker guidelines on page 80). Case study Chongqing region presents opportunities for supply chain SER in China The Chongqing region in China is an • HP health programs, including the summit. Moreover, three suppliers important center of electronics manHepatitis B (HBV) antidiscrimination participated in the EEP, EICC worker ufacturing. Factories in the region program rights, and HBV antidiscrimination typically do not use as many migrant programs, reaching more than 450 • Predeparture training for student workers as their counterparts in eastmanagers and over 18,000 workworkers ern China, and the region’s growth ers. We also partnered with LESN to presents a strong opportunity to • EICC worker rights training deliver predeparture training to 135 build a manufacturing environment • Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) participants. Finally, HP partnered that improves conditions for workers. with the Chongqing government to We have engaged all our final assemoffer management and communicaTo reduce SER risk and promote bly suppliers operating in the region tions training to 220 supervisors in worker well-being and environmental on our capability-building programs December 2012. protection, we prioritize four capabiland other educational opportunities ity-building programs that target the and are supporting their efforts. For In 2013, we will organize an HP SER most pressing issues in the region: example, in 2012 HP’s senior vice supplier summit in Chongqing and president of operations, Tony Prophet, continue to target our capabilityparticipated in a supplier-hosted SER building programs toward helping resolve critical issues. 95 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Industrial relations workers and suppliers. It raises awareness among workGovernance ers of AIDS and sexually transmitted disease prevention, • IDH: The Sustainable Trade Initiative birth control, and peer education on health issues. For Environment Audience: Workers (nearly 20,000 workers at six suppliers, the program demonstrates the business benSociety supplier sites) efits of encouraging worker health and development, Human rights Location: China including a more healthy and productive workforce. • Supply chain Year program began: 2011 2012 update: In 2012, HP expanded the HERproject responsibility to Malaysia, working with FRHAM to reach nearly Program overview: IDH is a multi-stakeholder initiative 2,000 female workers, including foreign workers from Privacy that aims to accelerate sustainable trade by buildIndonesia. We also continued to run the program in HP people ing partnerships between leading multinationals, civil China, where we worked with five supplier sites and Social innovation society organizations, governments, and other stakereached more than 30,000 female workers. In 2013, we Economic impacts holders. Five HP suppliers participate in the program. will continue to run the program in China and Malaysia, Data dashboard: 2012 update: In 2012, HP cofunded a new IDH program as well as expanding it to Thailand. Society along with other electronics manufacturers that aims to improve the working conditions and environmental per• Hepatitis B (HBV) antidiscrimination program About this report formance of electronics factories in China. The program Audience: Workers and management (34 supplier sites, identifies areas for improvement by assessing suppliers’ 1,400 medical, safety, and managerial personnel, and operations. IDH then creates facility-specific programs nearly 160,000 workers) to improve management systems and encourage better worker-management communication to address Location: China working conditions. IDH aims to reach 500,000 workers Year program began: 2009 through the initiative. Partner: Inno Community Development Organization • Worker management communications Program overview: HP’s HBV antidiscrimination program raises awareness of HBV and attempts to eliminate Audience: Management and workers (more than 23,000 discrimination against HBV-positive workers. Through management and workers from 17 facilities) the program, suppliers set up “Health Corners” where Location: China workers can learn about HBV and how it is prevented. HP Year program began: 2008 considers HBV testing in the employee-hiring process to be a violation of the nondiscrimination provision of HP’s Partners: Home for New Citizen (Chinese NGO), LESN EICC Code of Conduct. Program overview: HP’s worker management commu2012 update: In 2012, we continued to partner with the nications program helps workers better understand their NGO Inno Community Development Organization to train labor rights and how they can raise grievances about nearly 1,400 medical staff and health and safety managtheir working environment. HP also provides training to ers at supplier sites in Chongqing and Canton, China. workers’ representative committees. This enabled them to reach nearly 160,000 workers 2012 update: In 2012, HP expanded the program to since 2009 with subsequent training. The program also Chongqing, China, an important new manufacturing established free worker-health hotlines at supplier sites area in the country. We reached four suppliers in the throughout the Chongqing region. region, and in collaboration with our local NGO partners, we established a hotline that allows workers to raise • Gender Equity Model (Modelo de Equidad de Genero— grievances. MEG) Certification Program Audience: Management (approximately 10 managers at Supplier management systems five suppliers trained and certified) • Health Enables Returns (HERproject) Location: Mexico Audience: Workers (443 managers and nearly 32,000 Year program began: 2011 workers) Partner: Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres Location: China, Malaysia, and Mexico Program overview: HP’s MEG program aims to encourYear program began: 2007 age companies to adopt nondiscrimination policies Partners: BSR, FRHAM and avoid harassment in the workplace by training and certifying suppliers on management systems related to Program overview: HP’s HERproject addresses the gender equality and harassment . The program is led by general and reproductive health needs of women workthe Instituto Nacional de las Mujeres in Mexico, a governing in manufacturing in a range of industries, including ment institution. electronics. The HERproject delivers benefits for both 96 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Conflict minerals Contents • Job-stress prevention Governance Audience: Management (17 managers from 16 facilities) Environment Location: China For more than a decade, the mining of minerals used to Society Year program began: 2010 produce tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold (3TG) in the Human rights Partner: Hong Kong Workers Health Centre Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) has been linked to the • Supply chain funding of armed groups waging a civil war in the country. responsibility Program overview: HP’s job-stress prevention program These metals are widely used in the components and encourages frontline workers to become involved in assembly processes of electrical and electronic products Privacy improving their own working conditions, a preventative and in many other industries. The possibility that HP prodHP people measure aimed at reducing stress. Sessions on workucts contain metals that fund armed conflict in the DRC Social innovation stress management inform workers about the Mental is unacceptable to us, and we are taking a leading role to Health Action checklist, which contains guidelines for establish conflict-free sources in the DRC. Economic impacts workers to help them maintain a healthy, reduced-stress Data dashboard: working environment. Instructors include a well-known This issue has received attention as a result of campaigns Society occupational health professional who previously served by nongovernmental organizations and the inclusion of About this report as the director of Working Conditions and Environment a conflict minerals section in the U.S. Dodd-Frank Wall at the International Labour Organization. Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. We see a 2012 update: In 2012, HP launched a one-year window of opportunity to capitalize on the current level of Participatory Occupational Health and Safety heightened concern and establish the governance frameImprovement by Local Initiative pilot program with supwork needed to enable transparent, conflict-free mineral plier I-Sheng to specifically address mental health and trade in the DRC. An unintended consequence of the Doddoccupational health and safety. The program encouraged Frank Act is the risk of a widespread exodus of trade from I-Sheng to establish its own management system to help the region, worsening the plight of the local population. workers identify mental health issues and other occupational health hazards. The program also helped I-Sheng In August 2012, the Securities and Exchange Commission to establish an occupational safety committee. (SEC) adopted a rule implementing the Dodd-Frank Act requirement that companies publicly disclose the use of Measuring and mitigating greenhouse gas emission conflict minerals originating in the DRC or adjoining counand water use impacts tries. Companies must file their first SEC disclosure reports by May 31, 2014, for the 2013 calendar year. The SEC Rule • Energy Efficiency Program (EEP) creates an administrative incentive to embargo sourcing Audience: Management (75 managers from 50 facilities) from the DRC and adjoining countries, since doing so would be the simplest route to compliance. However, HP’s longLocation: China held values, as well as the United Nations Human Rights Year program began: 2010 Council’s Guiding Principles for Business and Human Partner: BSR Rights, compel us to direct our supply chain spend toward responsible sourcing while doing our best to minimize Program overview: The EEP helps major suppliers conadverse impacts on the people of the DRC. duct energy audits, develop energy improvement action plans, and share best practices that enable companies The deep-rooted problems in the DRC require coordi­ to reduce energy use, cut greenhouse gas emissions, nated action by the business, government, and NGO and lower costs. To date, participating HP suppliers community. HP is focusing on achieving progress through reported energy savings totaling 26.7 million kilowatt multi-­stakeholder forums that facilitate that type of collabhours and avoided CO2 equivalent emissions equal to the orative approach. We not only offer our perspectives emissions from the electricity used in 2,820 average U.S. but also commit resources to education, administration, homes for a year, according to the U.S. Environmental and the development of tools to validate mineral sources. Protection Agency’s Greenhouse Gas Emissions equivalency calculator. See Environmental impacts on page 81 for more information. Approach 2012 update: In 2012, HP expanded our participation in the EEP in China through a low-carbon manufacturHP’s campaign to eliminate conflict minerals while suping capability building workshop co-organized with porting the DRC has five dimensions: WWF-Hong Kong. We now have 47 suppliers and 50 1. Conducting due diligence on HP’s supply chain sites across China taking part in the program, up from eight suppliers and 12 sites in 2011. We are extending 2. Supporting the development of an industry approach the program’s reach throughout 2013 to our secondto due diligence tier suppliers, and to Malaysia and Thailand. 3. Advancing the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Conflict-Free Smelter (CFS) program 4. Supporting in-region mineral certification 5. Advocating policy supporting conflict-free mineral sources from the DRC 97 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents We were encouraged that our efforts garnered recognition • Completing a one-year pilot project of the Organisation Governance by two NGOs active in the DRC and the conflict minerals for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) sphere. In its report “Taking Conflict Out of Consumer due-diligence guidance on conflict minerals. We provided Environment Gadgets: Company Rankings on Conflict Minerals 2012,” feedback to the OECD and supported steps to advise Society the Enough Project named HP as one of four companies companies involved in the conflict minerals supply chain Human rights that have been “pioneers of progress.” HP also ranked secon how to follow the guidance ond out of 24 consumer electronics companies assessed • Supply chain responsibility by the organization. In addition, we received a letter from HP led a team that helped inform the hundreds of industry Free the Slaves, an NGO dedicated to ending all modern members of EICC and GeSI about the CFS program and Privacy supporting tools. HP drafted the training materials and forms of slavery, recognizing our work engaging the U.S. HP people State Department to help resolve issues in the DRC. delivered the training via webinars. The intent of these Social innovation efforts was to encourage companies to adopt a standardized approach to improve information accuracy and reduce Economic impacts Conducting due diligence on our administrative duplication. Data dashboard: Society supply chain About this report We scrutinize our supply chain for conflict minerals at two Advancing the Conflict-Free Smelter entry points: our first-tier suppliers and the smelters iden(CFS) program tified by those suppliers in HP’s supply chain that process mineral ores into metals (see below). HP is one of five company representatives on the Audit Review Committee of the EICC GeSI CFS program. The During 2012, HP resurveyed its first-tier suppliers of committee’s role is to identify and validate smelters that components that may contain 3TG and communicated process only conflict-free minerals. CFS auditors visit and three fundamental expectations for remaining an HP supaudit smelters according to CFS-developed protocols for plier: providing information about the smelters they use, tantalum, tin, tungsten, and gold. The audit protocols have adopting a DRC conflict-free policy, and setting the same been shared with other industry sectors. requirements for their suppliers. We engaged with 790 suppliers through January 31, 2013. In support of this program, HP visited five smelters in 2012, bringing the total visited since 2010 to 16. The database of This year, for the first time, HP is publishing the identity of conflict-free smelters is maintained at www.conflictfreethe 3TG smelters/refiners that we have confirmed to be in smelter.org. To encourage smelters to participate in the our supply chain. We believe there may be other smelters/ CFS program, HP joined with two other organizations to refiners that are yet to be identified, and we plan to update establish a Conflict-Free Smelter Early Adopters Fund. The this list in the future. View list. fund awards grants of up to $5,000 to certified smelters to offset part of their first successful audit. Supporting the development of an industry approach to due diligence Supporting in-region mineral certification HP supports a broad industry solution to the issue of conflict minerals in partnership with the trade organizations To establish a complete conflict-free supply chain, a EICC and GeSI, which are jointly leading the information mineral must be certified at the source and during the and communications technology sector initiative. During chain-of-custody process in the DRC. Creating a validated 2012, our work included: supply of minerals to smelters from the mines poses significant challenges. Since there is no way to distinguish • Development and promotion of a common approach to minerals from different mines, a form of secure traceabilconducting due diligence (see page 19 of OECD Cycle 3 ity at all stages from mine to smelter is needed. Report on 3TT) • Revision of the EICC and GeSI Conflict Minerals Reporting HP is involved in three initiatives working to establish Template, which is used to gather due diligence informain-region certification: The Public-Private Alliance for tion from suppliers and share that information with Responsible Minerals Trade (PPA), Solutions for Hope, customers and the Conflict-Free Tin Initiative. • Updating of the Dashboard tool that facilitates data analysis for the Reporting Template (see www.conflictPublic-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals freesmelter.org) Trade The Public-Private Alliance for Responsible Minerals Trade • Creating YouTube videos explaining how to use the is a joint initiative between the following stakeholders: Template and Dashboard Conflict Minerals Reporting Template Instructions and EICC-GeSI MRPRO Dashboard • International Conference on the Great Lakes Region Instruction (ICGLR) • NGOs 98 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Private sector companies Advocating policy supporting Governance • Trade associations representing a range of industries conflict-free minerals sources Environment • U.S. government Society from the DRC HP was the first corporation to commit to joining the PPA, Human rights In addition to the operational work outlined above, HP and an HP representative was elected to its Governance • Supply chain advocates policies that will encourage conflict-free Committee. During 2012, the PPA established its goverresponsibility sources of 3TG from the DRC and is engaging widely with nance structure and work plan and awarded funding to Privacy policy makers, regulators, NGOs, and other stakeholdtwo organizations operating on the ground in the DRC: ers with this objective. In 2012, our main advocacy and HP people engagement activities were as follows: • Partnership Africa Canada will receive nearly US$350,000 Social innovation to develop a traceable, conflict-free mineral supply chain • HP worked to influence the SEC’s rule implementing the Economic impacts for artisanal gold from Orientale province. conflict minerals clauses of the Dodd-Frank Act. Our Data dashboard: • The National Center for the Support of Development approach has been to facilitate discussion and consenSociety and Community Participation will receive more than sus with a broad group of stakeholders through the About this report US$135,000 to support civil society’s capacity to moniMulti-Stakeholder Group (MSG). The MSG’s prime aim tor transparency, implement an early-warning system, is to avoid a widespread withdrawal of trade from the and build the accountability of the mining sector in DRC following implementation of the SEC rule, which South Kivu province. would adversely impact the people of the DRC. The MSG formally stated its support for the final version of the Solutions for Hope rule adopted by the SEC. HP participates in Solutions for Hope, a project led by • HP is also seeking the support of the U.S. government to major capacitor manufacturer AVX Corporation, and use diplomatic channels to encourage improved security visited the DRC operation in 2012. One of the prime uses and governance in the DRC. Working through the MSG of tantalum is in the manufacture of electrical capacitors. Diplomatic Group, we helped facilitate an MSG letter to Solutions for Hope achieved the first validated source of the U.S. Department of State. The MSG expressed the conflict-free tantalum ore from the DRC through a “closedview that there is a window of opportunity for progress pipe” supply chain that stretches from a mine free of created by current heightened focus on the issue and conflict interference to a validated smelter. that a coordinated diplomatic initiative by major donor countries to the DRC should be organized. Minerals from the Mai-Baridi and Luba mines located in the northern part of Katanga province were transported to the F&X Electro-Materials Limited smelter in Guangdong, China, which has been validated as a conflict-free smelter Next steps by the CFS program. F&X processed the material into During 2013, we will continue pursuing our campaign tantalum powder and wire for AVX, which manufactures for conflict-free minerals through the initiatives outlined tantalum capacitors from the metal. HP has incorporated above. We hope to accelerate the rate of smelter validathese components into selected products. tion so that an increasing range of conflict-free metals and components can be incorporated into HP products. Conflict-Free Tin Initiative Following Solutions for Hope’s success with tantalum, HP joined the Conflict-Free Tin Initiative (CFTI) in October 2012. CFTI has support from the government of the Netherlands, which is establishing a public-private partnership to proSupplier diversity duce tin ore (cassiterite) from the Kalimbi mine in South Kivu Register your interest in becoming a supplier to HP. province of the DRC. The Tin Supply Chain Initiative (iTSCi) is responsible for ensuring traceability of the pilot project Diverse suppliers bring innovation to HP’s supply chain, using the approach developed for tantalum. helping us gain a competitive advantage while supporting our global citizenship efforts. HP’s Global Supplier The government of the DRC and local civil society are Diversity program promotes an HP supply chain that is involved in the initiative, which is structured within the diverse, inclusive, and global and reflects the demographframework of the International Conference of the Great ics of our customers and employees. Lakes Region and will be consistent with the due diligence guidance of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation Supplier diversity is also mandatory for fulfilling contracts and Development. with many government agencies worldwide. Increasingly, large enterprise customers also require HP to demonstrate a commitment to supplier diversity. 99 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our approach such as HP. Our diverse supplier protégés gain access to the skills and resources offered by HP’s Global Governance HP has maintained a Global Supplier Diversity Office for Procurement team. Environment more than 40 years. Its mission is to generate revenue • Tuck Executive Minority Programs HP sponsors Society by enabling HP to fulfill contracts requiring a globally diverse entrepreneurs to attend educational programs. Human rights inclusive supply base. Our supplier diversity program gives These include: • Supply chain diverse companies an equal opportunity to compete for • Building a High-Performing Minority Business, which responsibility HP business. These companies include: focuses on developing and implementing customerPrivacy • Aboriginal/indigenous businesses focused strategic plans HP people • Growing a Minority Business to Scale, which focuses • Lesbian, bisexual, gay, and transgender businesses Social innovation on strategies for organic growth, mergers, acquisi• Minority-owned businesses Economic impacts tions, and strategic alliances • Service disabled veteran-owned businesses Data dashboard: • Small businesses Global Society • Diverse supplier events HP cohosts events with local About this report • Women-owned businesses business councils worldwide. We also participate in • Veteran-owned businesses regional and national events that introduce diverse suppliers to potential HP customers. Global supplier diversity • Donations HP donates technology equipment to select In 2013, we will continue to expand our supplier diversity diversity nonprofit organizations, based on an analysis program beyond the United States and Canada into Asia, of the organization’s needs. Australia, and Europe. We work with governments and diversity-focused organizations to establish regional defiIn 2012, HP procurement professionals participated in nitions of diversity that reflect local society and culture. more than 55 diverse supplier events in Australia, Canada, China, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We are members of over 20 supplier diversity organizations in Asia, Canada, Europe, and the United States. These include: In the United States and Canada these included: • The Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council • Business matchmaking In 2013, HP enters our • Minority Supplier Development UK tenth year as co-sponsor, collaborating with SCORE, a resource partner with the U.S. Small Business • Minority Supplier Development China Administration, to sponsor the multicity Business • National Minority Supplier Development Council (United Matchmaking program. This offers small businesses States) the chance to participate in governmental and major corporate procurement opportunities. These events • National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce have facilitated more than 88,000 seller-to-buyer • Supply Nation (Australia) meetings in the past decade. • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council • HP Connect These summits provide hundreds of • WEConnect International prescreened small, minority, and women-owned businesses the chance to meet HP commodity managers In 2013, HP plans to tailor our supplier diversity program and selected HP tier-one suppliers. in Australia, Canada, China, India, the UK, and the United • Strategic sourcing HP global procurement staff and States to the needs and definitions of diverse suppliers in other business units took part in strategic sourcing each of those countries. roundtable discussions at the Canadian Aboriginal and Minority Supplier Council Procurement Fair. The orgaSupplier development nization’s member suppliers met with HP staff to learn We sponsor and support diverse supplier development about potential procurement opportunities and to learn programs, provide access to technology solutions, and better how to do business with HP. offer educational scholarships. These help diverse suppliers offer enhanced delivery, quality, and service. Notable Globally, examples of our diverse supplier events included: initiatives include: • Negotiating skills HP global procurement employees participated in a panel discussion to help suppliers United States prepare for corporate negotiations. The panel was • Diverse supplier development A mentor program facilitated by Minority Supplier Development UK (MSD designed to foster long-term relationships between HP UK), which connects large corporate organizations and and select HP diverse suppliers. ethnic minority businesses to help them build commer• United States Public Sector Mentor-Protégé Program cially beneficial relationships. HP has been a corporate This Department of Defense program helps small member of MSD UK for many years. diverse suppliers compete for prime contract and subcontract awards by partnering with large companies 100 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents • Sustainability HP’s Global Supplier Diversity team Strategic supplier diversity reporting initiative* Governance took part in an event held at the US embassy in Beijing, 2011 2012 China, which encouraged women-owned enterprises to Strategic supplier ** spend on small, minority, $318 $498 Environment embrace global citizenship. WEConnect International, a woman, veteran, and service disabled-veteran Society corporate-led nongovernmental organization that aims owned business enterprises [$ million USD] Human rights to empower and connect women business owners glob* Figures include production and nonproduction suppliers. ally, cofacilitated the event. Its aim was to use global • Supply chain ** HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of areas relating to responsibility citizenship standards to encourage businesses to be business, engagement, and other macroeconomic indicators. This list is more efficient and therefore more competitive suppliers updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. Privacy to multinational companies. HP people Social innovation Strategic supplier diversity spend reporting Economic impacts We aim to do business with suppliers that use diverse suppliers in their own procurement. HP’s Supplier Diversity Data dashboard: spend reporting initiative expands our overall Supplier Society Diversity objectives by requesting that our most strateAbout this report gic suppliers utilize and report spend activity with small, minority, woman, veteran, and service disabled-veteran owned business enterprises (see right). Progress in 2012 HP’s spend with diverse suppliers*, **, *** 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Small businesses [$ million USD] $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 $4,792 Minority-owned businesses [$ million USD] **** $827 $733 $989 Women-owned businesses [$ million USD] **** $861 $476 $547 * All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. ** Data are for the 12-month period ending September 30, 2012, of the year noted. *** Data beginning in 2009 include HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS) spending. Data prior to 2009 do not. **** Beginning in 2011, we did not include combined spend in the minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses categories, which decreased the total spend compared with the prior year. Related links U.S. government websites: • Small Business Administration Business agencies: • Business Matchmaking • National Gay and Lesbian Chamber of Commerce • National Minority Supplier Development Council • WEConnect International • Women’s Business Enterprise National Council 101 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Goals Contents Governance Environment Society Supply chain responsibility Human rights 2012 goals Progress • Supply chain responsibility Transparency Privacy Promote supplier SER ownership and transparency by engaging with Achieved. Suppliers representing 85% of final assembly spend suppliers representing 90% of final assembly spend to develop stratepublish GRI-based CSR reports. In 2012, we engaged with the HP people gies and/or participate in training for publication of Global Reporting Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) to form a transparInitiative (GRI)–based annual corporate social responsibility (CSR) reports. ency task force to perform capability-building programs and to Social innovation (See Supplier list for information on which suppliers currently publish increase EICC membership requirements to require GRI-based Economic impacts GRI-based reports.) reporting. Through this work we engaged more companies than we previously targeted, and the task force included one supplier that Data dashboard: accounted for another 5% of spend. Society About this report Continue to promote supplier transparency in environmental performance Achieved. and carbon emissions–reduction by collecting carbon emissions data from suppliers representing 95% of first-tier manufacturing, material, and component supplier spend. Outreach Advance outreach efforts by formalizing our supply chain SER partnership Achieved. In 2012, HP formalized our partnership with the Dutch with multi-stakeholder programs and/or governments in high-risk areas. government’s IDH: The Sustainable Trade Initiative and cofunded the initiative’s newest project to improve working conditions at supplier factories in China. Promote worker rights awareness and grievance mechanisms in emerging Achieved. In 2012 we held the Migrant Labor Training and Worker supply chain regions. Rights EICC Training, the latter including grievance mechanisms. Performance management Extend the reach of our highest-priority supplier improvement programs Achieved. In 2012, 77% of high-risk production suppliers (by spend) by requiring 75% of high-risk production suppliers (by spend) with with working-hours nonconformances reported on key performance working-hours major nonconformances to report on key performance indicators. indicators. Expand our audit program by increasing the number of supplier audits by Achieved. We have conducted a cumulative total of 893 audits since 40% from 2011 levels and reaching 850 cumulative audits. 2004. In 2012, we performed 53% more audits than in 2011. Expand the scope of our nonproduction audit program by performing Achieved. In 2012, we audited nonproduction suppliers in Brazil, the audits in new geographic regions. Philippines, Poland, and Turkey. Standardize auditor capabilities by ensuring 100% of HP lead auditors Achieved. All of HP’s lead auditors are trained in the EICC-GeSI Labor are trained in the EICC-Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) Labor and and Ethics Lead Auditor course. We are pursuing certification of all HP Ethics Lead Auditor course and pursue certification of all HP lead auditors lead auditors to the IRCA EICC-GeSI Auditor Certification. to the International Register of Certified Auditors (IRCA) EICC-GeSI Auditor Certification. Promote conformance to SER standards further down in the supply chain Achieved. More than 75% of high-risk production suppliers (by by validating that 75% of high-risk production suppliers (by spend) have spend) have SER programs in place with their suppliers. SER programs in place with their suppliers. Facilitate supplier environmental performance improvements by tripling Achieved. In 2012, 50 supplier sites participated in the program the number of HP supplier sites participating in the Energy Efficiency (compared with 12 supplier sites in 2011). Program (formerly Energy Efficiency Partnership Program) compared with 2011 and sharing energy-saving best practices developed through the program to date. 102 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents 2013 goals Governance Increased supplier ownership and management system discipline Environment Increase proportion of independent supplier audits to 40% in 2013. Society Implement a five-tier SER rating system with each of HP’s top five commodity supplier types. Human rights Tackling new and persistent issues • Supply chain Expand and increase frequency of working hours key performance indicator tracking. responsibility Train 90% of HP final assembly suppliers in China on HP’s Student & Dispatch Worker Guidelines. Privacy Expand programs to enhance health and safety awareness and capability with suppliers in Brazil, Southeast Asia, and China. HP people Implement environmental improvement programs at high-risk top-tier component manufacturing and final assembly suppliers located in waterSocial innovation stressed regions. Economic impacts Expand the Energy Efficiency Program to Southeast Asia, including subtier suppliers. Data dashboard: Society Achieve a rate of 65% of first-tier strategic * nonproduction suppliers reporting on GHG emissions. About this report * HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of areas relating to business, engagement, and other macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. Supplier diversity goals 2012 goal Progress Increase the number of suppliers reporting strategic supplier diverse Achieved. In 2012, HP’s strategic suppliers spent $498 million on small, spending and the total amount of spend. minority, woman, veteran, and service disabled-veteran owned business enterprises, representing an increase of 56% from 2011. 2013 goals Tailor our supplier diversity program in Australia, Canada, China, India, the UK, and the United States to the needs and definitions of diverse suppliers in each of those countries. Increase the total amount of strategic supplier diverse spend reported up to 10%. Report HP’s supplier diversity spend for Canada and the UK. 103 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society Human rights Supply chain responsibility • Privacy HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report Privacy >99% People rely on information technology (IT) to manage many aspects of their daily lives. When they use IT, they expect their privacy and personal information to be protected. HP takes this responsibility to our of permanent employees customers very seriously. In the age of the Internet, completed privacy training protecting privacy can be a challenge. The ubiquitous use of personal information makes products and HP led a consortium that was services more personalized, convenient, efficient, awarded European Community and widely available. However, it also makes personal funding for research on accountinformation vulnerable to misuse. ability models for cloud services Many privacy laws were created before the widespread use of the Internet, and regulators are struggling to HP served as a Trusted Advisor keep pace with emerging technologies. HP is closely to the European Commission and data protection regulators to involved with governments and regulators worldinfluence the development of new wide to shape new privacy policies and frameworks. privacy legislation We support global interoperability between regional frameworks, such as European Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) and APEC Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR), and encourage collaboration between nations and regions to promote relevant, well-defined, and principles-based approaches. 104 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP strives to be the benchmark of trusted companies for HP teams work together to implement and monitor our Governance balancing robust use of information while protecting the privacy program. In 2012, more than 99% of permanent legitimate rights and interests of data subjects. We use employees completed privacy training as part of our Environment accountability and social responsibility as the framework required Standards of Business Conduct course, which Society for addressing new challenges to privacy and we embed now includes an HP Privacy Advisor module. Employees Human rights this concept in our processes, products, and services. This in functions that routinely handle personal information, approach, supported by training and auditing, ensures such as human resources, marketing, and client services, Supply chain responsibility compliance with our privacy policies and commitments. receive additional privacy training specific to their role. As a pioneer of the accountability methodology, we • Privacy continually anticipate and adjust to regulatory changes, Since 2008, our Privacy Office has worked with internaHP people new technologies and business models, and emerging tional regulators and industry groups through the Centre Social innovation consumer expectations. for Information Policy Leadership on a multiyear project to define what it means for a company to be accountable for Economic impacts its privacy practices. Data dashboard: Society Approach The first three phases of this work identified the essenAbout this report HP’s privacy strategy is based on providing transpartial elements of accountability, defined ways to measure ency and choice to our customers. We create a chain of accountability, and developed the governance model that accountability for data privacy and security throughout companies should adopt to implement accountability in our business and apply Privacy by Design in the product the marketplace. In 2012, the fourth phase, sponsored by development process. the EU Data Protection Supervisor’s Office, focused on the specific components of a comprehensive program that The HP Privacy Accountability Framework (see below) companies need to establish and how to demonstrate the represents our comprehensive approach to helping capacity of that program to external parties. This work employees assess and manage the risks associated with continues with a focus on accountability as a foundation collecting and handling personal data. This helps us meet for global interoperability. customer expectations and ensures transparency in our practices. The framework goes beyond legal requirements For more information about our commitment to privacy, and also takes into account our company values, ethiread the HP Global Master Privacy Policy. cal considerations, contractual agreements, and local cultures. HP continues to pioneer and advocate accountability in new regulatory models worldwide to address new challenges. HP Privacy Accountability Framework Oversight Identification of risks and opportunities Integrated governance model Contextual approach Commitment Implementation Validation Solid policies, management Mechanisms to ensure policies Monitoring and assurance commitment, and full and commitments are put into that validate coverage and transparency eﬀect with employees eﬀectiveness of implementation Demonstration Demonstrate capacity to internal and external stakeholders and individual data subjects. 105 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Daniel Pradelles Privacy and Data Protection Board Governance HP employee since 1979 Environment The HP Privacy and Data Protection Board (PDPB) is With the advent of technologies responsible for privacy oversight and risk management at Society such as cloud computing, social HP and is part of our overarching Ethics and Compliance Human rights media, e-commerce, cookies, governance structure. The board, which meets quarterly, Supply chain and smart mobile devices, issues comprises executives from business units and functions responsibility surrounding privacy and data throughout the company. • Privacy protection matter now more than ever. HP’s rigorous data privacy programs and practices are evidenced by, among The PDPB assesses privacy risks facing HP each year, and HP people other recognition, the acceptance of its Binding Corporate identifies appropriate ways to mitigate these risks. In 2012, Social innovation Rules by the European Data Protection Authorities. the PDPB identified numerous risks, including cloud comEconomic impacts puting, outsourcing, and data destruction. We rigorously The motivating factor in these efforts, says Daniel Pradelles, address issues and mitigate risks through company-wide Data dashboard: Society HP’s privacy officer for Europe, Middle East, and Africa projects with specific programs to increase interactions (EMEA), is trust. “Today, with the close relationship between between internal stakeholders. About this report the individual and the Internet, it is very important that we keep the trust of the data subject, or individual citizen, and ensure that his or her data are handled in the right way.” Monitoring compliance This requires not only complying with an evolving set of HP monitors compliance with privacy policies through an laws but also continuing to meet heightened user expectainternal privacy audit and assurance program. We also tions in this area. Daniel works to ensure that HP does both monitor compliance through third-party certifications, through the company’s accountability approach to privacy. dispute-resolution mechanisms (for example, TRUSTe and the Better Business Bureau), and robust monitoring “We advocate that companies should act in a responsible of customer and employee feedback. way, often exceeding minimum legal requirements, and also account for a range of other important factors. HP is Our Privacy Assurance program assesses internal complione of few companies seen as a thought leader in regards ance with our privacy policies and standards, and tracks to safeguarding privacy,” he says. and mitigates risks and potential noncompliance. The program covers all business units and functions that colIn addition to working internally, Daniel also helps HP have lect, use, access, or store personal information. Following a a broad impact on the global privacy agenda, with regulacompliance audit, we develop detailed remediation plans tors and the industry, in the EMEA region and worldwide. where necessary. He meets regularly with European Union privacy officials to build partnerships and shape best practices. Europe has All suppliers and third-party vendors who handle HP some of the most stringent privacy protection regulations customer and employee data are contractually bound globally, with privacy codified as a fundamental human to comply with terms to ensure the proper handling and right in the EU charter. security of personal data. HP Enterprise Services is responsible for handling clients’ personal data and defines our Daniel also coordinates with his privacy officer counterprivacy and security commitments in our client contracts. parts in the Americas and Asia Pacific and Japan regions on efforts to bridge differences in privacy laws and regulaEmployees and customers can contact our Privacy Office tions across borders. This is essential to implementing in more than 30 languages with queries, concerns, or comglobal interoperability, a framework to responsibly manments. We follow detailed protocols to ensure we handle age worldwide flows of data. inquiries and requests appropriately and promptly. In 2012, the Privacy Office handled more than 70,000 inquiries. Daniel believes that the importance of privacy to HP and its customers will only continue to grow. “In terms of global citizenship, respect for individual privacy is essenPrivacy in products and services tial,” he says. “And as technology becomes even more widespread, data protection will increasingly become a We use a variety of tools and resources to help ensure critical business requirement, which is why staying ahead that our products and services meet the highest privacy gives us a competitive advantage.” standards. Privacy by Design We integrate privacy and data protection into our new products and services through a practice known as Privacy by Design. Privacy by Design embeds company-wide standards in the product development process to ensure consistency and compliance across our portfolio. 106 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP Privacy Advisor Dr. Larry Ponemon Governance The HP Privacy Advisor tool is an answer-driven dynamic Ponemon Institute Environment questionnaire that helps employees apply our privacy standards by guiding them through a privacy impact For nearly a decade, Ponemon Society assessment and risk-management process. Our business Institute research has shown HP Human rights groups use the HP Privacy Advisor tool and consult with to be one of the most trusted Supply chain the Privacy Office to assess new and existing products companies throughout the world responsibility and services in development for compliance with privacy for privacy and the protection • Privacy standards. of personal information. Maintaining a high level of trust among consumers, business customers, and other stakeHP people HP Labs holders is a daunting task, especially in today’s digitally Social innovation Scientists at HP Labs continue to work with our Privacy connected world. Further, striking a balance between good Economic impacts Office and external partners to develop new ways to proprivacy practices and the growing demand for more and tect privacy, with a focus on data stored in the cloud. better data about consumers and customers is very diffiData dashboard: Society cult to achieve. Finally, HP’s truly global footprint requires HP Labs is leading a consortium of 13 organizations, it to comply with a proverbial “patchwork quilt” of privacy About this report including Cloud Security Alliance, SAP, and top universities and data protection regulations that appear to be in a state in Europe, in the A4 Cloud research project that launched in of rapid change in all major regions of the world. October 2012 following the award of European Community funding. The research project is exploring the developI believe HP has the ability to confront and withstand ment of accountability models for cloud services. These challenges that would otherwise diminish its privacy are intended to help users hold cloud service providers commitments to consumers, customers, and other accountable for processing their data in the cloud and to stakeholders. What impresses me the most about help those service providers provide better privacy protecHP’s privacy program is its exceptional team of privacy tion and demonstrate compliance in a global environment. experts and strong, positive leadership by the compaIn addition, HP Labs is working with Cloud Security Alliance ny’s chief privacy officer. I’m impressed with HP’s ability to promote guidelines, research, and education related to to integrate good privacy and data protection practices enhancing security in the cloud. into its core business processes throughout the world. I’m also impressed with HP’s ability to align privacy program objectives with the company’s core values and Streamlining global regulations strategy. In short, when it comes to honoring its privacy commitments, HP is one of the few companies that New policy frameworks worldwide are increasing walks the walk. expectations for privacy and shifting organizations’ legal responsibilities away from basic liability. Businesses must Despite the many accomplishment made by HP’s privacy now demonstrate that they have comprehensive programs team to date, it is clear that technology changes—such as and the capacity to protect privacy and effectively manthe rise of smart devices, cloud computing, virtualization, age risks. HP works closely with regulators, industry, and social media, and big data—can potentially impact the consumer advocates to contribute to the development of company’s positive privacy culture. It may be helpful for such frameworks, which are based on accountable and the company to establish an external advisory counsel to responsible global practices in the form of coregulations, help the privacy program navigate through potential techsuch as Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) and Cross-Border nological changes that might impact privacy and the stewPrivacy Rules (CBPR). ardship of personal information. Members of the advisory counsel should represent a cross-section of leaders from Although some variation in laws by country is inevitable, the privacy community, information security experts, and it is possible to achieve global practices that create a technologists. Another optional suggestion would be for more consistent, reliable, and transparent set of guideHP to conduct and publish an independent audit of its prilines. Global coregulations work toward greater global vacy program and related commitments to stakeholders. interoperability and provide increased transparency for consumers. Though the specific requirements of each framework differ by geography, all are based on recognized standards such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development privacy principles. of alternative methods of compliance for international data transfers. HP aims to be one of the first companies to European Union apply for BCR for Processors, ensuring confidence for our HP is one of the few U.S. companies that have been customers as we assist them in transferring their personal granted approval for BCR for Controllers. This approval customer data to group companies outside of Europe. This is granted by European data protection authorities and will be of particular benefit to our cloud service customers. allows multinational companies to demonstrate that they have adequate programs and processes to uphold We continue to share our business insight as a Trusted the requirements of European data protection law when Advisor to the European Commission and data protectransferring data between group companies located in diftion regulators as the region revises its data protection ferent countries. BCR removes the administrative burden legislation. In 2012, we provided a detailed response to the 107 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents EU’s public consultation on the proposed data protection The Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) minisGovernance regulation and consulted with key stakeholders, emphaters of trade endorsed the implementation of the APEC sizing the need to develop law that promotes innovation, Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) to reduce barriers Environment protects consumer rights, streamlines data protection to information flows, enhance consumer privacy, and Society rules, and builds trust in the cloud. promote interoperability across regional data privacy Human rights regimes. In 2012, the United States was approved as the Asia Pacific first APEC member economy in the CBPR system, and HP Supply chain responsibility The privacy environment in Asia Pacific continues to remains actively involved with the framework’s implemenevolve as more countries adopt data privacy regulations or tation. HP is committed to being one of the first companies • Privacy certified in the CBPR system, when it becomes available. update existing legislation to meet current demands and HP people trends. HP works with governments to help shape regulaSocial innovation tions, such as: Latin America Economic impacts We have provided guidance to several Latin American • Engaging with the Ministry of Information, countries as they introduce new privacy regulations. For Data dashboard: Communications and the Arts in Singapore on new example, HP worked with the Ministry of Commerce and Society data privacy and Do Not Call Register legislation business groups in Colombia to enact a new privacy law in About this report • Providing feedback to the Australian Attorney General’s 2012. Specifically, we contributed to the development of Department on proposed mandatory data breach notifisecondary regulations and provided industry comments. cation regulations This will be the first of a new generation of laws to inte• Providing insight on the introduction of a data user reggrate traditional concepts of privacy with innovative policy istration and classification system by the Department of approaches such as binding coregulatory corporate rules. Personal Data Protection in Malaysia HP provided similar consultation to the legislative process in Mexico, where new legislation came into effect in 2011. Goals 2012 goals Progress Continue to participate in key privacy initiatives to expand external We participated in the following global initiatives: thought leadership and drive next-generation policies and practices, • European Binding Corporate Rules (BCR) for Processors working with regulators, nongovernmental organizations, and industry. Our aim is to advance new concepts of accountability and to further • U.S. Multi-Stakeholder process, which develops codes of conduct develop meaningful choice and protection for consumers that also that relate to the principles in the Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights allows companies to innovate. • World Economic Forum “Rethinking Personal Data: Strengthening Trust” working group • European Commission consultation on draft regulation • Accountability project, which in 2012—sponsored by the EU Data Protection Supervisor’s Office—focused on the specific components of a comprehensive privacy program that a company should establish Participate in the international implementation of the Asia-Pacific We continue to participate in the implementation of APEC CBPR. Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR). CBPR were endorsed, and two APEC member nations have applied for certification. Integrate current HP Records Management team into the HP Privacy We have integrated our teams to create a new Privacy and Information Office to create a Privacy and Information Management organization. Management organization. 2013 goals Maintain HP’s position as the most trusted private sector advisor to regulators by upholding an industry-leading privacy program that anticipates trends such as big data, cloud computing, Internet of Things, and evolving consumer marketing methods. Certify HP in the new APEC CBPR system. Continue to advocate for accountability and global interoperability by providing industry input on the mapping of the two coregulatory systems of the Article 29 Working Group (EU Binding Corporate Rules) and APEC Privacy Subgroup (APEC CBPR). Provide industry input to the draft EU Privacy Regulation to ensure a balanced approach that promotes privacy as a fundamental right and protects HP’s current and planned business interests. Support the development of BCR and CBPR for Processors by EU and APEC regulators by participating in the first trial of the new programs. 108 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy • HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report HP people HP’s people are integral to our success. We hire, develop, and retain employees who make our business thrive, now and in the future. We offer supportive, 10,000 employees took part in leadership motivating workplaces where everyone can flourish. training sessions Our culture is based on listening, sharing, inspiring, 40% helping, and learning, and we regularly seek feedback on how we can perform better. Our global workforce of approximately 331,800 employees worldwide responds to the rapid pace of 1 increase in participation in our change in our industry and anticipates future business mentoring programs needs. We support their careers and development wherever we operate. Investing in people benefits our business, customers, shareholders, local communities, and society at-large. We aim to continually improve our people’s experience of working at HP, as illustrated by examples throughout this section. 1 As of October 31, 2012. 109 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Employment policies Engaging Contents Governance our people Environment Our global employment policies reflect our commitment to treat all employees fairly and to promote a culture of Society integrity and ethical decision making everywhere we operHuman rights ate. Our policies often set a more demanding standard An engaged workforce strengthens company perforSupply chain than local laws or customs require. mance. Employees who are invested in HP’s success responsibility perform well, promote our brand, and stay with the Privacy Our Standards of Business Conduct set out the fundamencompany. They also build quality relationships with our tal principles that govern our ethical and legal obligations. • HP people customers, communities, and other stakeholders. We Social innovation promote engagement through several key programs. Our Best Work Environment Policy defines the standards Economic impacts of personal conduct that we expect employees to meet to contribute to a positive, productive work environment. Data dashboard: Forums and networks Society Our Nondiscrimination Policy outlines how we aim to About this report Our employees often work across time zones and contimaintain a work environment free from discrimination. nents, so virtual collaboration is essential. Our Harassment-Free Work Environment Policy describes Our people exchange ideas and views and collaborate how we strive to achieve an environment where customthrough online and in-person forums, as well as Employee ers, employees, suppliers, business partners, visitors, Resource Groups (ERGs). The first ERG was formed more and shareowners are treated with dignity, respect, and than 30 years ago, and HP now has more than 120 across courtesy. 30 countries. One of the largest ERGs, the HP Sustainability Network, helps employees learn about and share enviOur Global Citizenship Policy focuses on social and environmental practices that can benefit our employees, the ronmental areas that have been identified as priorities for company, and the planet. It has 36 chapters worldwide our industry and broadly defines how HP integrates global with thousands of members. citizenship into our operations. Social media plays an increasingly important role in Our Open Door Policy reflects our commitment to open engaging our people. In 2012, we launched OneHP, a social communications and a workplace where each person’s network that allows employees to post their profiles and voice is heard. share their projects, interests, skills, and expertise with Our Global Human Rights Policy commits us to fair treatother staff members. Through OneHP, employees can also ment of all employees wherever we operate, and to connect with like-minded colleagues and seek help with promote human rights throughout our business. problem-solving or finding experts in specific fields. We provide employees with the ability to report policy violaMany employees also use WaterCooler, another internal tions anonymously, and we fully investigate all issues raised. business social network, to stay connected and expand their contacts. The HP Connections network additionally supports See a full list of policies related to global citizenship at HP conversations about products and sales-related topics. in Policies and standards on page 25. Employee feedback HP gathers employee feedback through formal and informal channels. One of the most important is the annual Voice of the Workforce (VoW) global survey. In 2012, 79% of all employees took part in this confidential survey, available online in 28 languages—compared with 78% in 2011. Of the 45 items covered by the 2012 survey, 43 had scores that either improved or stayed the same. Areas of strength included employee engagement, teamwork, the relationship between employees and their immediate managers, and integrity and ethical practices. 110 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Voice of the Workforce 2010-2012 category scores [% favorable] Employee volunteerism and giving Governance Environment HP employees contribute their time, skills, and expertise to My team their communities while also supporting our global social Society innovation programs. Many employees make financial Human rights contributions to support their local communities and assist My manager Supply chain in disaster relief. For more information, see Community responsibility engagement on page 125. HP environment Privacy • HP people My organization Retiree engagement Social innovation Economic impacts Our approximately 85,000 retirees are important ambasMy work Data dashboard: sadors for HP. We stay connected with them through Society communications, social networking, and the HP retiree Employee engagement index website. In addition, HP plays an active role in the HP About this report Retiree Advisory Board and contributes content to local Senior management/ retiree clubs worldwide. the company 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% As part of the 2012 U.S. enhanced early retirement program, we recognized the significant contributions of our 2012 2011 2010 longer-service employees through retirement celebrations at 61 sites, attended by around 17,500 retirees, colleagues, and guests. The celebrations were an opportunity for HP HP managers use VoW survey results to better undermanagement and employees to thank retirees for their stand employees’ perceptions of their experiences at work dedication and commitment and to let them know that we and to identify areas for improvement. We also use the look forward to their continued involvement in the broader findings to help measure the impact of employee-related HP community. programs and assess how to improve them. After the VoW survey each year, leaders across the company work to address the issues highlighted. Follow-up Taking our children to work actions are implemented HP-wide at the business unit level and within business groups. As of 2012, these One effective way of engaging our employees is by encourimprovements have concentrated on four key areas: pride aging them to bring their children on a visit to HP. As part in HP, work environment, recognition and rewards, and of our “Take our children to work” initiative, in 2012 and the growth and development. beginning of fiscal year 2013 more than 12,000 children 8–15 years old visited HP workplaces with their parents In addition to the VoW survey, HP regularly carries out at 96 sites across 36 countries. These events enhance targeted surveys to seek employee feedback on specific employees’ pride in HP, introduce children to the world of programs or issues. For example, the staffing organizawork and HP’s technologies, and encourage them to think tion routinely asks employees recruited into new roles about future work options—possibly even with HP. about the quality and effectiveness of the recruiting and onboarding process. Open dialogue with leadership Building careers HP has a long-standing commitment to recruit, develop, Employees can ask questions of HP leaders and review and retain the most skilled employees in our industry. To answers to common queries through the HP intranet Top foster the best talent, we provide extensive opportunities of Mind feature, as well as in all-employee meetings. for continual learning and growth. Topics addressed in Top of Mind relate to HP’s business and strategy. Employees can pose questions using an online form or by video submission. Recruiting talent Most leaders also stage town hall meetings or coffee talks We focus on developing and promoting talent from within to share information and respond directly to employee before considering external applicants. When recruitquestions, and on the intranet our “CEO Perspective” ing externally, we emphasize university hiring at intern, feature helps top executives frequently communicate with undergraduate, and graduate levels. Our businesses the company and receive feedback. set targets for hiring interns and graduates from a wide 111 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents range of backgrounds. We conduct outreach and engage HP encourages this type of support through the Mentoring Governance job candidates in digital forums, including TalentBrew, @ hp intranet site, which includes a directory of mentoring Twitter, LinkedIn, and Facebook. Once at HP, recruits receive programs as well as advice and resources, both for menEnvironment extensive training about our company and its operations. In tors and for those seeking a mentor. In 2012, participation Society addition, they are mentored and coached by managers and in our mentoring program increased by about 40% from Human rights senior leaders. 2011, to more than 6,300 people. Supply chain responsibility Privacy Learning and development Enabling a high-performance culture • HP people HP offers all employees the opportunities and resources Sustaining a high-performance culture is a critical comSocial innovation to excel in their jobs and prepare for new challenges. Our ponent in HP’s success. In 2012, we made it a priority to Economic impacts global presence and networked workforce allows employhelp managers provide employees with rich feedback ees to learn from each other in many different ways through robust and engaging conversations about their Data dashboard: and across a wide spectrum of specialties. We provide performance and careers—and it made a difference. Close Society development opportunities through face-to-face training, to 87% of our employees had performance and career About this report live virtual training, and self-directed online courses. The conversations in 2012, compared to 79% in 2011. vast majority of our training courses (97%) are delivered in virtual sessions or self-paced online modules. These These conversations facilitate internal movement and can reach more employees and allow flexible access for promotion, helping employees fulfill their long-term people to learn anywhere and anytime. We offer more career goals. In 2012, our VoW survey showed that 62% than 10,000 courses, and employees completed 6.9 milof employees felt they could meet their career goals at lion training hours in 2012. HP—a slight increase from 2011 and a 10% improvement since 2009. In 2012, we focused our learning and development training as follows (covering 2.6 million enrollments across all Having these types of conversations with our employees delivery types): not only helps sustain our high-performance culture, it also increases employee satisfaction, retention, and • Business and functions: 36% productivity. • Technical: 31% • Sales: 24% Leadership development • Professional skills: 5% • Leadership: 2% Every HP employee leads, influences, and drives business results, regardless of his or her job description. Leaders of • Onboarding: 2% all types perform in various roles. Employees also attend conferences, seminars, and trainThe HP Leader Attributes underpin our approach to ings at accredited institutions, often receiving technical leadership development. We redefined the attributes, certifications. which outline expectations for every HP employee, in 2012 for implementation in 2013. Employees can self-assess We continually assess how we can raise awareness of, against these attributes, discussing areas of strength and and increase access to, the most relevant learning and opportunities for improvement with leaders at any time. development opportunities. Between 2009 and 2012, the percentage of respondents to our Voice of the Workforce HP’s Global Talent and Succession team promotes leader(VoW) survey who replied that the learning opportunities ship development across the company for people at all they need are available to them increased by 12 percentlevels—from employees with leadership potential to vice age points. presidents. In 2012, the team conducted a company-wide review of leadership training to identify opportunities Learning communities for improvement. Based on the results of this review, we Employees may opt to join more than 30 learning and have begun to build a new leadership curriculum that will professional communities at HP to meet and interact with be rolled out during 2013. We have already implemented colleagues. Using virtual platforms, they can participate some changes, such as our new Align program, which in trainings, share experiences, and gain access to tools, accelerates development of HP’s high-potential directors. presentations, podcasts, and videos. Topics range from global sales development to technical career paths. Virtual During the year, nearly 10,000 HP employees participated programs simulate HP sites around the world so that new in leadership training sessions. The majority were locally hires can visit them without having to travel. delivered, face-to-face sessions that encouraged people to network and share their experiences. Mentoring Among the best professional development resources In the second quarter of 2012, we introduced a two-day available to HP employees are the skills and expertise of Management Excellence course aimed at supervisors their coworkers. through experienced managers. By the end of the year, 112 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance 4,500 people had completed the course at more than 180 locally delivered sessions across all HP business units. Participants scored the course 4.5 out of 5.0 on average Diversity Environment Society for satisfaction, quality, and relevance. and inclusion Human rights Our Leadership Development Central portal gives all A workforce that includes men and women from differemployees access to material on leadership, and it Supply chain ent nations, cultures, ethnic groups, generations, and responsibility attracted nearly 60,000 page views in 2012. We also backgrounds, with a wide range of skills and abilities, gave HP employees the chance to use a new Leadership Privacy helps us understand and reflect our customers’ values and Learning in a Box training package, which contains 11 • HP people demographics. A diverse and inclusive workforce is also modules in an easy-to-use kit format for team or indivital to attracting and retaining the best employees, and it Social innovation vidual development. The package was used more than helps drive creativity and innovation. 9,000 times during the year. Economic impacts Data dashboard: HP’s diversity and inclusion policies and practices help Other programs offered in 2012 included: Society foster a positive work environment. We expect and require About this report • Five “Leading Ideas” live webcasts with senior executives, every employee to treat others with dignity, respect, and who offered candid insights and personal stories about courtesy. We do not, under any circumstances, tolerate distheir experiences of leadership and lessons learned crimination or harassment. We comply with diversity laws • “Leaders teaching leaders” programs used by around as basic minimum requirements, and our policies often set 400 HP leaders a higher standard than is legally required. • Training in management skills, through programs such as We encourage employees to report suspected discriminaManaging @ hp, New Manager Excellence, Experienced tion or harassment by contacting local human resources Manager Excellence, and Excellence in Interviewing, which departments or using our confidential and anonymous reached a combined 5,500 people in 2012 24-hour GuideLine. In Canada and the United States, the • Key Talent programs for our high-potential vice presiGuideLine number is 1-800-424-2965. For employees outdents, directors, managers, and supervisors, reaching side of those countries, we publish numbers on our intranet. more than 700 participants Our chief diversity officer is responsible for compliance with these policies. Our vice president and chief ethics and HP Advisors compliance officer is responsible for the GuideLine. Working through the Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship and Global Health Corps, HP supports Working with diversity nongovernmental organizations that have demonstrated organizations the ability to drive social change but require access to professional business skills to reach their goals, by pairing HP has developed partnerships with organizations whose seasoned HP professionals with social entrepreneurs. missions align with our strategy of developing a diverse Learn more in Social innovation on page 120. workforce and creating an inclusive work environment. HP sponsors Catalyst, a leading nonprofit organization that Workforce restructuring works with businesses to build inclusive workplaces and expand opportunities for women. We use Catalyst’s global We support employees when business decisions such database of research to inform and support our diversity as restructuring and realignment affect their positions and inclusion efforts. We also participate in Catalyst’s by allowing managers to match the competencies and annual awards dinner and attend many local events. skills of eligible employees with current job openings. Reassigning eligible employees to open positions within Since 2008, HP has supported the Anita Borg Institute the company helps us retain internal talent and gives for Women and Technology, a nonprofit organization employees the opportunity to apply their skills to other that seeks to increase the global impact of women on all HP jobs. aspects of technology. HP provides office space for the institute’s staff at our Palo Alto, California, facility, and In 2012, we redesigned our U.S. Workforce Reduction we sponsor and participate in the organization’s events. program to include a preferential rehiring period for U.S. HP uses the institute’s research, recommendations, and employees affected by workforce reduction. Eligible programs to provide support to women in HP’s Technical employees can continue to apply and be considered for Career Path program. internal HP positions during this designated period. 113 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP has sponsored Out & Equal Workplace Advocates’ We track gender diversity globally and ethnic diversity in Governance Workplace Summit for more than 10 years. Out & Equal is our U.S. workforce. The charts below detail our perfora nonprofit organization dedicated to achieving workplace mance over the past five years. Environment equality for LGBT people. At the summit, HP employSociety ees present workshops, demonstrate HP products, and In 2012, 23.5% of our top U.S. executives (director level Human rights talk about job opportunities at HP. The Human Rights and above) were women, down slightly from 23.9% in Campaign, a U.S.-based LGBT civil rights organization, 2011. In the United States, minorities constituted 16.3% Supply chain responsibility included HP on its 2012 list of best places to work. of our top executives, up from 13.4% in 2012. Privacy A few of our many partners in our diversity and inclusion We also promote diversity in our supplier base. See • HP people efforts include GettingHired, Leadership Education for Supplier diversity on page 98 for details. Social innovation Asian Pacifics, the National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, the National Society of Black Engineers, Economic impacts Worldwide workforce demographics, 2008–2012 Professional BusinessWomen of California, Simmons Data dashboard: [women as a percentage of total employees] * Leadership Conference, and the Society of Hispanic Society Professional Engineers. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 About this report Americas— 30.8% 35.0% 34.3% 33.3% 33.1% employees Building cultural competence Americas— 25.2% 28.3% 27.8% 28.7% 30.1% managers With approximately 331,800 employees worldwide,2 we are truly a global organization. As such, our employees’ Asia Pacific and 30.9% 32.5% 33.1% 32.3% 32.6% ability to interact effectively with people of different Japan—employees cultures is essential to our success. To boost cultural comAsia Pacific and 20.2% 21.2% 21.8% 22.3% 22.2% petency, we have created CQ, a training program designed Japan—managers to increase our employees’ “cultural intelligence quotient.” Europe, Middle 28.1% 30.0% 30.5% 29.8% 30.0% We successfully piloted the program in 2012 and will East, and launch it worldwide in 2013. Africa—employees Europe, Middle 18.5% 20.0% 19.8% 20.9% 22.4% East, and Progress in 2012 Africa—managers Worldwide— 30.1% 32.9% 32.9% 32.0% 32.1% We are committed to building an inclusive workplace employees where all employees can contribute and succeed. In 2012, Worldwide— 22.0% 24.3% 24.1% 24.8% 25.5% for example, we: managers • Piloted “cultural competence” educational sessions for * 2009 data exclude Brazil. employees that focus on how to interact effectively with people from different cultures • Hosted International Women’s Day 2012, engaging more Global new hires, 2008–2012 [as a percentage of total]*, ** than 2,500 employees in 24 countries to support the success of HP women 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Gave financial and practical help to allow employees in Female 34.9% 35.6% 35.2% 32.7% 34.6% four countries to take part in a series of PrideFest events Male 65.1% 64.4% 64.8% 67.3% 65.4% that celebrate the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgen* 2009 data exclude Brazil. der (LGBT) community ** 2009 data reflect the time period January 1 to November 30, 2009. • Delivered more than 200 events related to diversity topics through our Employee Resource Groups— which bring together people with common interests and backgrounds • Sponsored the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology’s annual Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing conference in India 2 As of October 31, 2012. 114 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents 2012 U.S. workforce demographics [as a percentage of total] Governance Native Environment Hawaiian or other Two or Society All Pacific more Native Human rights Male Female White minorities Black Hispanic Asian Islander races American Total Supply chain Officials and 72.12% 27.88% 81.57% 18.43% 3.56% 4.48% 9.75% 0.00% 0.30% 0.34% 11.52% managers responsibility Privacy Professionals 67.96% 32.04% 73.05% 26.95% 5.06% 5.14% 15.67% 0.08% 0.53% 0.47% 71.60% • HP people Technicians 80.84% 19.16% 69.33% 30.67% 13.86% 7.51% 7.31% 0.22% 1.16% 0.61% 9.87% Social innovation Sales workers 66.28% 33.74% 66.42% 33.58% 7.17% 14.05% 9.22% 0.22% 2.41% 0.51% 1.56% Economic impacts Office and 37.73% 62.27% 66.23% 33.77% 19.81% 7.77% 4.22% 0.24% 0.96% 0.77% 4.76% Data dashboard: clerical Society Operatives 51.97% 48.03% 56.58% 43.42% 15.78% 9.87% 16.45% 0.66% 0.00% 0.66% 0.17% About this report (semiskilled) Laborers 47.63% 52.37% 40.63% 59.37% 16.03% 24.15% 18.28% 0.00% 0.23% 0.68% 0.51% Total 67.09% 32.91% 73.04% 26.96% 6.57% 5.67% 13.53% 0.09% 0.61% 0.49% 100.00% U.S. new hires, 2008–2012 [as a percentage of total]* Our reintroduced Employee Stock Purchase Plan, which enables employees to buy HP shares at a 5% discount, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 attracted significant support in 2012. More than 2,000 White 67.2% 65.0% 61.7% 52.4% 64.8% employees enrolled in the year ending April 2012, mainly All minorities 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% 34.9% in Canada, the UK, and the United States. More than 22,000 employees now participate in the plan. Black 8.1% 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% 10.8% Hispanic 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% 7.5% Senior executive compensation once again attracted interest from our shareholders at HP’s annual meeting in March Asian 15.7% 12.5% 10.5% 14.6% 12.6% 2012, where our executive compensation packages were Native 0.6% 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% approved by a vote. Our president and chief executive American officer, Meg Whitman, continues to receive a fixed annual * Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of salary of $1 USD and works under the same open-ended “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for contract as all employees. Her nonsalary compensation “All minorities” because some people do not declare or do not fall into these is strictly tied to company performance and is paid via HP categories. “White” and “Black” figures for 2011 are markedly lower from stock, not cash. other years, as 16.1% of respondents placed themselves in a new “Other” category, which does not allow identification by ethnicity. Senior executive remuneration is based not only on financial targets but also on factors such as business objectives, customer satisfaction, and people development. Rewards and During 2012 we began to grant more restricted stock units to managers below senior executive level. This change aligns performance-related pay with a longer-term outlook benefits and provides a stronger link to shareholder expectations. These restricted stock units, which release (or “vest”) HP shares to the employee at various times over a three-year We acknowledge and reward our people for their work period, are less likely to be affected by share price volatility. through our compensation, benefits, and recognition programs. In response to feedback from our 2011 Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey, during 2012 we more clearly explained how pay relates to performance. We held preCompensation sentations and town hall meetings worldwide about how we rate performance and also discussed our “Focal Point After several years of tough business conditions, 2012 was Review”—the annual cycle where we plan annual salary the first full year that employee pay returned to pre-2009 increases, bonus awards, and long-term incentive awards. levels. Moving forward, we plan to return to “business as usual”—an annual cycle of pay and benefit awards globally. 115 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents We also increased transparency about the expected In 2012, we reviewed our recognition programs to look at Governance value of performance-related stock options over time, so how we can improve and expand them. Changes that we employees know what to expect when their options vest. plan to implement during 2013 and 2014 include: Environment • Launching a new “celebrating service” program to Society Our 2012 VoW survey showed a four percentage point thank employees for milestone years of service Human rights increase, compared with 2011, in the proportion of employees (57%) who felt that HP rewards staff members • Establishing a colleague-to-colleague recognition Supply chain according to their job performance. program, called Living Our Values, that encourages responsibility employees to acknowledge each other’s day-to-day Privacy support and achievements • HP people Benefits • Setting up a program that allows managers to reward Social innovation employees with HP points that can be redeemed for Economic impacts HP’s benefits programs recognize each employee’s needs, merchandise, experiences, travel, or charitable giving allowing them to build a portfolio that fits their budget and Data dashboard: rewards them for their work. In addition to base and perforSociety Wellness mance-related pay and stock ownership, we offer benefits About this report everywhere we operate. These benefits may include: • Health and wellness plans We take a holistic view of wellness that emphasizes emo• Income protection insurance covering risks from injury tional health and financial well-being as well as physical or illness health. We are committed to making wellness a focus • Retirement and savings plans worldwide. We piloted our initial program in the United States, and we have since worked in more than 30 other • Time-off programs countries to tailor wellness programs to local needs. • Discount programs Our 2012 Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey found We continually adapt benefits programs, and during 2012 that 80% of HP employees felt managers take a genuine we made numerous improvements. Some examples interest in their wellness, compared with 79% in 2011. included: Reflecting our strength in this area, HP was named a • The U.S. launch of MyHPBenefits, a website outlining HP 2012 Best Employers for Healthy Lifestyles winner by benefits information the Washington, D.C.–based National Business Group on Health for the second year in a row. We also achieved a • Expanded wellness and maternity care benefits in sevGlobal Distinction from the same organization. eral countries • Enhancements in health benefits in countries such as Colombia and India Maintaining work-life balance • Expanded parental leave and backup childcare benefits We offer programs to help our employees manage perfor U.S. employees sonal and work commitments, as the pace of our industry can be demanding. In many countries, these include HP conducts annual benefits enrollment in the United concierge services, backup childcare services, and stressStates and other countries, including Canada, Ireland, management resources. Malaysia, Mexico, Puerto Rico, Singapore, Spain, and the UK, so that employees can change their benefits if desired. Our annual VoW survey shows that flexible work arrangements are one of the features of the HP work environment For more details, visit the HP Benefits website. that employees value most. These arrangements include: • Flex time Working a normal eight-hour workday, but Recognition programs adjusting start and finish times • Part time Working reduced hours on an ongoing or Appreciating the efforts and achievements of employees temporary basis at all levels has always been important at HP. We acknowledge employee accomplishments through Recognition @ • Telework Working full time from home HP, a program that promotes appreciation for good work. • Flexwork Occasionally working from home, but primarOur 2012 VoW survey showed that 67% of employees felt ily based on HP premises that HP was good at recognizing their accomplishments, up by three percentage points from 2011. 116 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Additional programs that help employees improve work• Philippines We held a day-long wellness celebration, Governance life balance vary by country, including: HappinessPalooza. Environment • Adoption resources and assistance • United States We sponsored a breast cancer awareness campaign, lunch-and-learn sessions on wellness, Society • Dependent care resources and the Know Your Health Numbers biometric screenHuman rights • Education resources ing program. Supply chain • Family and medical leave responsibility • New parent leave Other initiatives Privacy • HP people • Vacation and paid time off Additional wellness projects during 2012 included: Social innovation • Power of Pink initiative, aimed at increasing breast In 2012, we increased the help we provide to employees who Economic impacts look after children or elders, and added concierge services. cancer awareness among employees and their families Data dashboard: in Austria, Denmark, Ireland, Sweden, the UK, and the Society United States through educational programs and onsite About this report Wellness Ambassador network screenings, a dedicated website, and mobile mammography units in the UK and the United States. More than 350 Wellness Ambassadors globally promote • Protect the Skin You’re In program, which offers free skin HP wellness initiatives at a local level around the world cancer screenings at HP’s on-site health centers. and help raise employee awareness of our programs. They plan events and work with local company leadership • Updating 30 HP fitness centers in 12 countries. We to integrate health, financial, physical, stress management, also built two new centers at HP facilities in the United and other well-being strategies into daily employee rouStates, bringing the total number to 48 in 13 countries. tines and special activities. Wellness Ambassadors also meet virtually as a group to share best practices. Global wellness Health and safety One of our key commitments is to providing safe and In 2012, we invited all employees to take on various global healthy workplaces for our employees. This reflects our wellness exercise challenges. More than 40,000 employvalues and also makes good business sense. Employees ees in 80 countries participated, with many saying the are most productive when they are healthy—and the dischallenges changed their lives for the better. “I have lost ruption caused by lost workdays costs us time and money. more than 20 pounds and regained confidence,” said one employee. “I now feel good about myself, and I have During 2012, we continued to increase our focus on health also been able to motivate my family to have a healthier and safety at non-HP business locations, as a growing lifestyle. The program has been priceless.” Participants number of employees work from home or at customer walked or ran more than 7.5 billion steps collectively in locations. We updated our Environment, Health, and just six weeks. Together, they clocked more than 32 milSafety (EHS) policy and EHS management system to lion minutes of exercise—or over 60 years. Ninety-four reflect this trend and to improve support for employees percent of those who took part were satisfied with the working at non-HP worksites. experience. For more information, see our video on YouTube. In addition, we created a new version of our health and safety training course for non-HP business locations. This During 2012, we also held numerous successful wellness two-part course helps employees better understand the events around the world, including: risks they face working off-site and the preventative measures they can take. The first part reviews information for • Austria Employees were offered free muscle function work conducted in typical office environments, while the and reaction tests on-site as well as the chance to use a second looks at the risks encountered in unique locations, biofeedback machine that allowed them to see and hear such as oil refineries and mines, or for other work activities activity inside their bodies. that are more complex than a typical office environment. • China HP teams competed in The Amazing Race events in Beijing, Chengdu, Chongqing, Nanjing, Shanghai, and Our health and safety programs are part of a compreWuhan. hensive EHS management system that meets or exceeds • Colombia 50 employees took part in a race up the applicable regulatory requirements globally. This system 48 floors of the Colpatria Tower in Bogotá. aligns with the internationally recognized Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) standard • Costa Rica 2,000 employees joined a Ross Foundation OHSAS 18001 as well as the ANSI Z10 and ILO OSH 2001 event to fight breast cancer. standards of the American National Standards Institute • India We opened three on-site clinics in Bangalore, and the International Labour Organization, respectively. which in the first four months attracted more than Five HP sites—in Ireland, Romania, Scotland, Singapore, 6,000 employee visits. and South Africa—are registered to OHSAS 18001. 117 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Our health and safety data-collection and tracking system, which we use to monitor injury trends at the individual Progress in 2012 Governance site and corporate level, adheres to the ILO Code of Practice Our primary performance metrics for work-related injuries Environment on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents are lost workday case rate and recordable incidence rate Society and Diseases. (see definitions in footnotes to graphs). Human rights Supply chain responsibility Communications and training Lost workday case rate, 2008-2012* Privacy In 2012, we increased communication to employees 0.20 • HP people worldwide about our online ergonomics training and Social innovation risk-assessment guidance. It is important for members of 0.15 Economic impacts our increasingly mobile workforce to evaluate their home offices, shared or dedicated workspaces, and customer Data dashboard: locations to optimize health, safety, and productivity 0.10 Society wherever they work. About this report Increasingly, the EHS organization is asked to provide 0.05 information in support of our sales, service, and contract teams when responding to customer requests, complet0.00 ing new sales bids, implementing service agreements, or 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 renewing contracts. In 2012, we published a new web page with typical questions and appropriate responses to help G lobal 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.07 address such requests. A mericas 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13 0.12 We emphasize health and safety from an employee’s first Europe, 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 0.08 day at HP by providing our employees with an overview Middle of our health and safety policies and insights into how to East, and prevent and respond to workplace injuries. Employees Africa also receive training tailored to specific jobs and take A sia Pacific 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 courses that help them reduce risks in different work and Japan environments, including offices, manufacturing plants, * Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result laboratories, and warehouses. in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around the globe Ergonomics training focuses on reducing the risk of injuand using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on ries and illnesses related to materials handling and daily employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2011 for the data processing, hosting, and related services office work. We offer a training program in five languages industry was 0.2. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, on our internal learning and development website. If Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, employees need material in additional languages, they Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Macedonia, Poland, Slovakia, South Africa, can access the HP Safety and Comfort Guide, which was Spain, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents originally designed for customers and is available on HP’s occurring in Japan and Singapore. external website in 35 languages. Our online ergonomics risk-assessment tool, offered on our EHS website and on our internal learning and development website, helps The lost workday case rate decreased slightly in 2012 employees identify and reduce office ergonomic risks. compared with 2011 in all regions except Asia Pacific and Japan, where it remained unchanged. Slips, trips, and falls To prepare for implementation of the Globally Harmonized continues to be the leading category for lost workday inciSystem (GHS) for chemical management in various coundents, up slightly to 45% from 40% in 2011. We continually tries, we developed a framework to train our chemical look for ways to improve in this area during our audits, users and to help us adopt labeling that complies with relinspections, and accident investigations. We also work evant emerging regulations. In 2013, the focus will be on closely with Global Real Estate to identify potential risks, training our employees on new GHS formats for conveying and make improvements, at our HP sites. We educate chemical information. employees on preventative actions in several of our EHS training programs and in our web-based health advisory Investigating work-related incidents is important to underon this subject. In our training course for working at nonstand root causes and establish preventative measures. HP business locations, we emphasize the importance of For example, in response to concerns about the possibility proper manual handling of materials and equipment. We of injury due to large server cabinets tipping over when are encouraged that the percentage of lost workday cases being moved, we developed a guidance document in 2012 caused by incidents involving the manual handling of that describes the risks and presents actions to prevent materials dipped from 20% in 2011 to 12% in 2012. this from occurring. 118 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Recordable incidence rates continued to decrease gradually Recordable incidence rate, 2008-2012* Governance in 2012, with the most notable reduction in the Americas 0.8 region compared with 2011. Environment Society In 2012, the leading causes of all recordable incidents 0.6 Human rights remained similar to 2011, although ergonomics—materials handling decreased slightly, and slips, trips, and falls, as Supply chain 0.4 responsibility well as incidents related to being struck by or cut by an object, increased slightly. Privacy 0.2 • HP people In 2012, the majority of recordable incidents were at HP Social innovation sites. However, 22% of the recordable incidents occurred on customer premises, which is why in 2012 we focused 0.0 Economic impacts on revamping training courses for employees working at 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Data dashboard: non-HP business locations. Society G lobal 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22 0.20 About this report A mericas 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41 0.36 Leading causes of lost workdays, 2012 2011 2012 Europe, 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 0.18 Middle Slips, trips, and falls 40% 45% East, and Africa Ergonomics—materials handling 20% 12% A sia Pacific 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 Ergonomics—office environment 12% 11% and Japan Automobile accidents 11% 11% * Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a Struck by/against/cut by 6% 14% full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around Other 11% 7% the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2011 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.6. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Location of lost workdays, 2012 Canada, Colombia, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Macedonia, Poland, Slovakia, 2011* 2012* South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and HP sites 50% 53% Japan includes incidents occurring in Japan and Singapore. Customer sites 27% 23% Business travel 15% 15% Location of recordable incidents, 2012 Telecommuting/home office 5% 6% 2011* 2012* Events/team building 3% 2% HP Sites 54% 57% * Totals do not add up to 100% due to rounding. Customer sites 25% 22% Business travel 14% 13% Leading causes of all recordable incidents Telecommuting/home office 5% 6% (with and without lost time), 2012 Events/team building 2% 1% 2011 2012 * Totals do not add up to 100% due to rounding. Slips, trips, and falls 32% 35% Ergonomics—materials handling 16% 12% Ergonomics—office environment 20% 20% Automobile accidents 10% 10% Struck by/against/cut by 11% 15% Other 11% 8% 119 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Goals Contents Governance Environment Society Engaging our people Human rights 2012 goals Progress Supply chain responsibility Increase employee engagement by 5% as measured by the Employee The EEI employee engagement score increased by 2% compared to Engagement Index (EEI).* 2011. Privacy Increase HP versus industry score on “Recommend HP as a great place Our VoW survey showed that the percentage of employees who said • HP people to work.” they would recommend HP as a great place to work was up two points Social innovation from 2011. Economic impacts * HP’s EEI is a set of survey questions that rate employees’ experiences related to productivity and engagement, measured in HP’s annual Voice of the Workforce (VoW) survey. Data dashboard: Society About this report Building careers 2012 goals Progress Develop and deliver world-class learning across onboarding, leadership, In 2012, 85% of learners “agreed” or “strongly agreed” that HP sales, professional skills, and technical development priorities. provides high-quality learning solutions. Drive next-generation learning strategies through learning and developIn 2012, we provided learners with access to training from their ment innovation, technology, and tools. desktop or mobile devices, offered “augmented reality” digital training for sales reps, and allowed new hires to “visit” HP sites around the world through virtual simulations on their computers. Diversity and inclusion 2012 goals Progress Expand global focus on diverse talent to align with business need. Cosponsored Working Mother’s Global Advancement of Women Conference in São Paulo, Brazil, delivering insights for designing women’s career strategies while increasing their impact on the business landscape. Broaden focus on inclusion to drive employee engagement. More than 9,000 HP Employee Resource Group members participated in more than 60 community events across all HP regions organized by HP’s Office of Sustainability and Social Innovation. 120 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people • Social innovation Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society Where in the world? About this report View our map Social innovation Our world faces serious challenges, such as meeting the needs of a fast-growing population, addressing the effects of climate change, advancing global health 2 million entrepreneurs have taken part in solutions, and improving literacy and economic HP LIFE since 2007 stability. As a leading global technology company operating in more than 170 countries, HP is uniquely positioned to contribute to solutions—by uniting the power of people and technology. 200,000+ infants in Kenya and Uganda were We focus the collective power of our people, portfolio, tested for HIV/AIDS through the and partnerships where we can have the greatest HP Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) impact. This includes education, health, and community. project Solving complex social issues requires collaboration across a broad range of organizations. By combining the expertise of approximately 331,800 employees world$85+ million* wide with that of our partners, we make technology 1 work for people in ways that create a positive impact worth of volunteer hours were donated by HP employees on the world. 2 Click map above for more detailed information about * Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. our projects around the world. 1 As of October 31, 2012. 2 Some of the data reported on social innovation programs in 2012 are based on information provided to HP from partner organizations. 121 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Collaboration Governance Innovation and collaboration go hand in hand. We pursue Barbara Bush Environment all of our social innovation efforts in partnership with CEO and co-founder, Society organizations that can increase our impact and broaden Global Health Corps Human rights our reach. We cultivate relationships with diverse stakeSupply chain holders, such as governments, academic institutions, Barbara describes how collaboration with HP and the comresponsibility nongovernmental organizations, customers, thought pany’s technology and thought leadership support Global Privacy leaders, social entrepreneurs, and industry peers. We also Health Corps in its mission. collaborate across HP business units, including HP Labs, HP people our main research and development facility. Together we Education • Social innovation develop holistic, successful, and scalable solutions that Economic impacts benefit communities over the long term. Data dashboard: Society The following are a few examples of our collaborations Education drives innovation, entrepreneurship, and ecofrom 2012: nomic growth in communities worldwide. It is fundamental About this report • Collaborating with multiple stakeholders HP worked to finding solutions that will help address the critical issues with the Clinton Health Access Initiative, the Kenyan outlined in the Millennium Development Goals. Ministry of Health, and Strathmore University to develop the Early Infant Diagnosis project to test and treat At HP, we deploy our technology solutions, expertise, and infants exposed to HIV. partnerships to help teachers, students, and entrepreneurs build 21st-century skills that are essential to the • Working with customers The United Nations is a digital economy. These skills include science, technology, long-term customer of HP, and together we supported engineering, math, global collaboration, innovation, and Community Technology Access (CTA), a program of associated disciplines—collectively known as STEMx.3 Our the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) that provides forcibly aim is to enable the next generation of leaders, innovadisplaced people and host communities in 22 countries tors, and workers to leverage their full potential in a global with access to technology. In 2012, with HP technolworkforce and IT-driven world. ogy and financial support, UNHCR built CTA centers in Bangladesh, Belarus, Ecuador, Iraq, and the Ukraine. • Teaming with government agencies HP joined the Progress in 2012 United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and the Achievements in education government of Italy to provide essential capabilityNumber of students impacted ~130,000 students worldwide building and business skills training to young entrepresince 2010 launch of HP Catalyst 50+ innovative models ready to Initiative neurs and enterprises with high employment potential, be scaled through the HP Learning Initiatives for Entrepreneurs Amount invested in HP Catalyst $14 million USD and an additional (HP LIFE) program. Initiative consortia $11 million USD from non-HP funding sources • Collaborating with NGOs HP is working with the NGO mothers2mothers to transform the organization’s Amount invested in Education $2 million USD ($1 million in information technology infrastructure and develop new, Innovation Funds Education Innovation Fund China and $1 million in Education more efficient processes for information access and Innovation Fund India) management. Impact of HP LIFE since 2007 Reached more than 2 million people “We are in a unique position to help solve social Helped establish and expand more than 25,000 businesses challenges by uniting the power of people and Created over 57,000 new jobs technology, but we cannot do it alone. We need Expanded to an e-learning to leverage the power of our partnerships and solution networks. Effective collaboration among all relevant stakeholders—companies, governments and NGOs—is the only way to make a real social impact.” —Gabi Zedlmayer, vice president, sustainability and social innovation 3 The “x” in “STEMx” refers to disciplines such as language arts, computer science, digital media, and other related subjects. 122 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Innovations in Education Measuring Learning Consortium Governance HP Catalyst Initiative • The Colorado School of Mines in the United States developed InkSurvey, a free, web-based polling tool Environment This global network of educators explores transformathat measures student comprehension during science Society tive approaches to STEMx education. The goal of the HP instruction. Using HP tablet PCs and digital pens, stuCatalyst Initiative is to advance the teaching and learning dents input answers to open-format questions posed by Human rights of these critical subjects—from secondary education the instructor. The real-time survey results help teachSupply chain through university, both inside and outside the classresponsibility ers adjust instructions to enhance student learning. room—and to inspire students to apply what they learn Privacy in their chosen careers. An additional research study of InkSurvey showed that student understanding of chemical engineering topics HP people Members include schools, universities, nonprofits, and was enhanced beyond what can be learned by simu• Social innovation lations alone. From a pretest average score of 45%, social enterprises that are placed into six research-based Economic impacts consortia. Each consortium receives technology, cash, student understanding increased to 58% with simulaData dashboard: and professional support. In April 2012, the HP Catalyst tions alone, but rose to 78% when real-time polling was Society Initiative held an annual summit in China for participants to also used to support an interactive teaching approach. share experiences, exhibit projects, exchange knowledge, Members of the wider HP Catalyst community are now About this report and identify areas of possible collaboration. piloting the program. In 2012, HP gave 10 leadership awards to Catalyst institu• Through the Collaborative Assessment Platform for tions. HP contributed $2 million USD in 2012, bringing our Practical Skills (CAPPS), Amrita University in India is total investment to $14 million USD since the initiative improving STEM learning for students in rural locations launched in 2010. In addition, Catalyst members have using virtual teaching. Running on donated HP mini secured nearly $11 million USD from other sources to notebooks and PCs, CAPPS enables teachers to conduct support their research and expansion. The 56 member simulations and virtual experiments online as well as organizations in 15 countries estimate that the initiative monitor student performance. In the pilot program has impacted approximately 130,000 students worldwide. across nine schools and involving 3,400 students, 90% of teachers found CAPPS to be effective and 70% of stu2012 highlights from the HP Catalyst network include: dents considered it to be a useful tool to support more individualized and self-guided learning. In 2012, the Multiversity Consortium program expanded to 36 schools and more than 9,400 • Northwestern University in the United States developed registered users. The target is to reach 50,000 students Project ACCESS to enhance STEMx education in underby 2014. funded public middle and high schools. The innovative program provides students with access to professional In 2013, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and caliber laboratory equipment via their web browser. Development (OECD) produced a comprehensive report Teachers receive training in curriculum development for about the HP Catalyst projects and opportunities for use of online labs and other cyberlearning resources in scaling up. the classroom. Northwestern lends tablets to participating schools that lack adequate technology. Education Innovation Funds In a 2009 pilot test with twenty teachers and nearly HP’s Education Innovation Fund China (EIFC) and Education 600 high school students, researchers observed an Innovation Fund India (EIFI) are country-specific funds overall 15% increase in test scores in the remote online worth $1 million USD that promote changes in teaching lab unit. Participation in the Catalyst initiative and and learning to enhance 21st-century skills education. Project ACCESS has helped to grow the remote online labs global network by 79% from 2011 through early In China, HP’s fund supports teacher training through 2013, to more than 5,800 students. Zheijiang University and the National Commission of the People’s Republic of China for the United Nations • A parallel project in Canada at Thompson Rivers Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization. The fund University created the British Columbia Integrated will provide training for more than 5,000 teachers from 500 Laboratory Network (BC-ILN) to bring modern scienrural and urban schools in Hangzhou, Zhejiang province, tific experiments to small rural schools and colleges and Chengdu, Sichuan province, for two years, impacting that lack funding and infrastructure for a full laborathousands of students annually. HP will then invite these tory. BC-ILN enhances science education in remote educators to enter a competition for innovation in educalocations by providing HP tablets and workstations, tion, which will directly contribute to China’s National Plan, access to online labs, and remote lab instrumentation including its National Strategy in ICT Education. and curriculum. Early feedback suggests that engaging students with modern scientific equipment sparks In India, the EIFI is a collaboration between HP and the interest in science education. By the end of 2013, BC-ILN India Council for Integral Education (ICIE), an initiative will analyze more than 1,500 students’ samples from of the Sri Aurobindo Society. The fund invited project 10 participating campuses. proposals from all organizations with a project capable of 123 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents significantly changing how technology, pedagogy, or social HP Learning Initiatives for Entrepreneurs (HP LIFE) supGovernance process is used in education in India. EIFI awarded grants ports enterprising individuals and young unemployed to more than 50 projects, including those at a stage ready individuals worldwide who want to start or expand small Environment to scale for mass delivery, and projects emerging from businesses but lack expertise, IT skills, and resources. The Society research, pilots, or models. Acknowledging the value of program provides access to technology and training in IT Human rights a young person’s perspective on education, EIFI awarded and business skills. Since launching in 2007, HP LIFE has: several smaller grants for the best ideas from young Supply chain • reached more than 2 million people with training, access responsibility learners (11-14 years old) and young innovators (15-18 to IT, and online activities years old). Privacy • helped establish and expand over 25,000 businesses HP people The Education Innovation Funds build on the HP Catalyst • helped create approximately 57,000 jobs • Social innovation initiative, which, through a multidisciplinary, collaborative, and global approach, convenes experts from various The Obama administration’s Startup America Initiative has Economic impacts educational institutions to advance STEM education. highlighted the HP LIFE program as a best practice model. Data dashboard: Society An evaluation study conducted with participants of the Watch a video to learn more about the HP Catalyst USAID-funded Educational Quality Improvement Program About this report Initiative or visit our website for a full list of the network 3 (EQUIP3) found that HP LIFE helped improve participants’ members. income and employability, as well as the efficiency of business operations. Learn more about the report findings. HP VideoBook and Lab-in-Box solution In 2012, HP piloted an innovative cloud-based applicaIn 2012, we relaunched HP LIFE as a free, cloud-based tion that allows students to access additional information e-learning program to exponentially expand its reach when they need it. HP VideoBook supports personalized worldwide. The expanded e-learning platform allows learning by extracting topics from an online textbook and students, entrepreneurs, and small business owners to automatically sourcing related videos from the Internet. access business and IT coursework on their own time, at Initial results from our two pilot schools in India were their own pace, wherever they are. Developed with our impressive: NGO partner, Education Development Center Inc., HP LIFE e-learning offers skills training focused in four core areas: • Students who used VideoBook learned significantly finance, marketing, operations, and communication. The more than those who didn’t use the tool, improving online platform will also introduce new modules, webiperformance by up to 40%. nars, and e-mentorship from HP employees. All modules • Weaker students showed the most improvement. are currently available in English, and we will roll out translations in four languages in 2013. • Students and teachers strongly agreed that videos enhance the learning experience. In the first six months after the relaunch, there were approximately 30,000 registered users of HP LIFE e-learning In October 2012, HP Labs India received top honors for in more than 200 countries. VideoBook in the Education Innovation category of the Wall Street Journal Technology Innovation Awards. Social Innovation Relay Lab-in-Box is another initiative that improves access Through our partnership with Junior Achievement Young to technology in schools that need it most. In 2012, HP Enterprise, we inspire social innovation and entrepreneurdeployed Lab-in-Box at a pilot school in Ahmedabad, India. ship in students aged 15 through 18. Launched in 2011, the Lab-in-Box transforms a shipping container into a fully Social Innovation Relay (SIR) is a worldwide competition operational, self-contained learning lab, equipped with 15 that challenges students to create innovative business HP MultiSeat Thin Client computer terminals, a multifuncsolutions that address social needs. Using interactive tional printer, wireless connectivity, electricity, furniture, meeting technology and online resources supported by fans, and air conditioning. HP, students collaborate and receive mentorship from HP employees throughout the competition. In 2012, more Learn more about how HP’s Lab-In-Box is giving students than 22,000 students participated from 13 countries and in India access to education. over 220 HP employees volunteered as facilitators, mentors, and judges. A team of students from South Africa HP LIFE e-learning won the 2012 competition with a concept for a solarEntrepreneurs are the backbone of our global economy powered lamp to replace traditional kerosene lamps used because they build the small businesses that create jobs during power outages and in locations without municipal now and in the future. However, many new business ownelectricity. Kerosene lamps create indoor air pollution and ers lack IT and business skills that are critical to turn good are damaging to health. ideas into economic success. Moreover, according to the In 2012, we engaged Warwick University in the United International Labour Organization’s Global Employment Kingdom to evaluate SIR. Survey results from nearly 1,300 Trends for Youth 2012 report, there are more than 75 milSIR participants showed that 98% rated their SIR experilion unemployed youth around the world who need access ence positively and 74% had learned to collaborate in new to educational resources that could help them develop or ways to address social needs. support a business idea. 124 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents The report further highlights the role of the HP Mentor, HP 3G printer Governance face-to-face or virtually. Survey respondents reported For many families living in remote locations, healthcare that their mentors positively influenced the way the services are provided by local clinics with no computers Environment respondents considered social issues (80%) and that these or Internet access. However, mobile phones are commonSociety mentors provided examples and stories that could not to place, with 3G access available across much of Africa. To Human rights be found in books (75%). Almost two-thirds of responcapitalize on this opportunity, we developed an all-in-one dents reported that their mentor had inspired them to HP OfficeJet 6700 printer equipped with a modem that can Supply chain responsibility consider starting up a social business. connect to virtually any 3G network using local SIM cards. Privacy After a successful pilot test in Nairobi, we are rollingout 200 of these unique 3G-enabled printers in Kenya, HP people Health Uganda, and India. Patients’ results can now be sent • Social innovation securely via e-mail and text message, and clinic staff can Economic impacts also use the printer to check and distribute health reports. Data dashboard: Good health is fundamental to quality of life. Yet access Society to even basic health services remains beyond the reach of In the future, we plan to expand distribution of 3G printers billions of people. Public and private health systems are through EID and in partnership with other health initiaAbout this report tives around the world. We are also investigating how to struggling to deliver effective care in developed as well as in emerging markets. improve the technology to better serve local clinics and governments. Through better use of technology, we improve access to lifesaving information and quality care, reduce barDigital Patient-Safety Dashboard riers, and strengthen health systems around the globe. HP and the Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital (LPCH) By rethinking processes and innovating solutions with in Palo Alto, California, are jointly piloting an electronic governments, the private sector, and NGO partners, we Patient-Safety Dashboard that helps prevent human error can make a positive impact on global health systems in medical settings. Currently deployed in the Pediatric worldwide. Intensive Care Unit, the dashboard provides a centralized location for hospital personnel to access critical In setting priorities, we take into account the UN patient data and alerts that highlight care needs by level Millennium Development Goals, which seek to address of urgency. Early findings suggest that the technology global health challenges, including reducing child mortalprompts improved care for one-third of young patients ity, improving maternal health, and combating diseases every day, such as by reminding staff of overdue care or such as HIV/AIDS and malaria. Through our partnerships to alter the type or quantity of medication. Read more or and technology, HP is connecting people to quality healthwatch a video about the Patient-Safety Dashboard. care everywhere. Mirebalais National Teaching Hospital with Partners in Health Progress in 2012 Following the 2010 earthquake in Haiti, health facilities located in and around the capital, Port-au-Prince, were left Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) project in ruins. With the NGO Partners in Health, HP is providing In Africa, thousands of infants born with HIV die each year the IT infrastructure, software, services, and solutions for because outdated processes delay essential testing and the new Mirebalais National Teaching Hospital. Just 30 treatment. Early treatment is critical in helping control the miles north of Port-au-Prince, the flagship site provides virus and improves survival rates. Working with the Clinton high-quality education for the next generation of Haitian Health Access Initiative and the Kenyan Ministry of Health, nurses, medical students, and resident physicians. we developed the HP Early Infant Diagnosis (EID) project Powered largely by roof-top solar panels, the 180,000 to enhance early testing and treatment of infants exposed square foot, 320-bed hospital, which opened in April 2013, to HIV. By using technology to connect remote clinics, test offers video conferencing access to U.S.-based medical results can be delivered in days instead of weeks, enabling resources for teaching and learning. Learn more. life-saving treatment to start on a timely basis. mothers2mothers As of 2012, six state-of-the-art HP data centers connect HP helps the NGO mothers2mothers (m2m) bring better with five laboratories, providing a platform to speed data care to 20% of the world’s HIV-positive pregnant women. transmission in both Kenya and Uganda, countries that The Mentor Mothers program employs mothers with HIV have tested more than 200,000 infants. The program will to mentor pregnant women and new mothers who are expand to Nigeria during 2013. HIV-positive. Mentor Mothers work side-by-side with doctors and nurses in health facilities to educate and support In 2012, HP received the Justmeans Social Innovation women on managing their medicine and health as well as Award, the Computerworld Honors Award, the GBC Health caring for their babies. HP provides m2m with enhanced Award, and the mHealth Award for the EID project. Read information management and data analysis, enabling more or watch a video about EID. more efficient communication between Mentor Mothers and their mentees. 125 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents eHealth Centre (eHC) USD to nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) and Governance In rural and remote areas of developing countries, access schools through the cash, product, and disaster-relief to healthcare can be hindered by a lack of infrastructure matching programs. Environment and medical personnel. To help address this problem, HP, • HP employees who volunteered in HP board-service, Society along with partners, developed the eHealth Centre (eHC), pro-bono, or skills-based volunteering are 13% more Human rights a mobile health center that can be rapidly deployed to likely to recommend HP as a great place to work comSupply chain provide affordable primary healthcare in remote areas. pared with employees who did not volunteer through HP. responsibility Privacy The eHC rapidly deployable cloud enabled healthcare soluOur approximately 331,800 employees worldwide7 have a tion consists of an easily transportable standard shipping wealth of skills to share and a passion to give back to their HP people container equipped with built-in connectivity and electriccommunities. We encourage and support volunteer efforts • Social innovation ity, with vital diagnostics equipment integrated directly by providing four paid hours each month for employees to Economic impacts to a cloud-hosted Electronic Medical Records database. A share their skills with the community. first of its kind, eHC contains vital diagnostics equipment Data dashboard: Society integrated directly to a cloud hosted Electronic Medical Our employees and retirees have expertise in high-value Records database. Video conferencing connects paramedfields such as technology, engineering, human resources, About this report ics with specialist medical personnel. We successfully finance, supply chain, and manufacturing. We encourpiloted eHC in a rural village in India in 2012, providing age them to offer their talents to resource-strapped health services to more than 4,000 patients in the first NGOs in need of these skills. In some regions we provide 100 days of operations. Learn more about eHC. Scopeathons, programs that bring together HP professionals with local NGOs—matching skills and needs. Community Progress in 2012 engagement Skills-based volunteering HP is committed to delivering meaningful volunteering projects to communities. Below, we describe examples of The drive to do good runs deep among HP employees. volunteer models that HP employees use around the world. Each year we support the many communities in which we live and work by giving back our money and time. HP Hackathon In May 2012, 200 employees in Bangalore, India, volunDuring 2012, thousands of HP employees worldwide volteered for the HP Hackathon, a competition that brings unteered or donated money to support local communities together programmers and developers to create innovative and assist in disaster relief efforts. solutions to real world problems. HP hosted the Hackathon as a global partner of Random Hacks of Kindness, an • HP employees donated more than 1.4 million hours5 to online community of programmers who create applicationvolunteer projects, valued at more than $85 million USD.6 based solutions to social challenges. The winning idea • HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company was iTAD (Intelligent Tracking of Accessible Donors), a tool Foundation together donated more than $12 million designed to track the nearest registered blood donor in a 4 HP definition of employee volunteering/community involvement For an employee activity to be considered as volunteering/community involvement under HP’s Social Innovation programs, it needs to meet these three criteria: Serve the public good The activity should serve a charitable cause for the public at-large, such as alleviate poverty, improve reading skills in underprivileged children, or clean up public waterways. If the service is conducted through a faith-based organization, it needs to benefit the public at-large and not only members of that organization or faith. Be conducted through a formal or informal organization that is not for profit (including, for example, sports leagues and clubs, libraries, K-12 schools and universities, social clubs, community-based organizations, government agencies, and nongovernmental organizations) or through HP’s Social Innovation program. Please note: A favor or charitable gesture toward a neighbor, friend, or other independent individual does not qualify as volunteering/community involvement. Be unpaid Employees should not receive compensation of any kind from the organization for their service, including cash, services, or other perks. Service conducted on HP time, and thus receiving employment compensation, is not considered paid and qualifies as volunteering / community service. HP employee volunteering / community involvement can be: • Conducted during paid work time per HP employee volunteerism policy (with management approval) • Conducted on an employee’s own time, completely independent of HP • Time invested to make a cash or goods donation, such as the time dedicated to shopping for toys that will be donated, giving blood, or walking for a charitable cause • Conducted as part of an HP department or team service project • A contribution of skills or talent, such as board service, professional services, or technology support • Any other form of service that serves the public good, is conducted through a formal organization and is unpaid, as specified in the defining criteria above • Conducted by HP employees who are leading or organizing events in support of Social Impact initiatives (such as Social Impact country and site leads) but who are not members of the Social Impact team 5 Figures represent only those employees who reported their volunteer efforts to HP or donated money through company channels. 6 Hourly rate based on type of volunteering: $150/hour for Board, Service Corp, Pro Bono, and Skills-based; $20/hour for Hands-on and undetermined, adjusted using International Monetary Fund data for purchasing power differences across countries. 7 As of October 31, 2012. 126 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents specific region. iTAD will be used by a Rotary Blood Bank Dave Bruscino Governance in Bangalore, which has recognized its potential as a valuHP employee since 2007 able aid in finding donors with rare blood types. Environment In addition to his role as HP’s vice Society Team-based capacity building president and deputy general Human rights In Brazil, a dedicated team of HP volunteers helped counsel, Dave Bruscino devotes strengthen the operations of the Center for Digital time to the company’s pro bono Supply chain responsibility Inclusion (CDI), a nonprofit that uses technology to fight legal program. Yet, in early poverty and stimulate entrepreneurship. The team 2012, he felt he had more to give, so he applied to the HP Privacy undertook a variety of projects, such as guiding CDI Advisors Program. HP people through a website and e-mail migration process, setting • Social innovation up a help-desk tool, and leading a large project manageThe program helps address pressing social issues by pairment initiative, that are expected to help the organization ing leading nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) with Economic impacts improve efficiency. seasoned HP professionals who impart their business Data dashboard: Society skills and experience to help the NGOs achieve their goals. HP Advisors About this report NGOs face many challenges, but some of the most sigDave, who is fluent in Spanish and Portuguese and nificant relate to a lack of access to senior management recently relocated to Palo Alto, California, after working counsel and expertise. The HP Advisors Program bridges for more than a decade in Latin America, Asia, and Europe, this gap by pairing seasoned HP professionals with social jumped at the chance to partner with an Argentinean NGO. entrepreneurs. Working through the Schwab Foundation “I had lived and worked in Latin America, so the opportufor Social Entrepreneurship and Global Health Corps, HP nity to work with an impactful organization in that part supports NGOs that have demonstrated the ability to drive of the world was very exciting,” he says. Soon he was in social change but require access to professional business Buenos Aires with Marcela Benitez, founder and executive skills to reach their goals. director of the NGO Responde. Employee giving Since it was established in 1999, Responde has helped The Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation provides small rural villages develop social and economic projects employees in the United States with one-to-one cash that according to the organization have enabled tens of matching for gifts to qualified nonprofit organizations, up thousands of villagers to stay in their communities. The to $1,000 USD per employee, per fiscal year.8 In 2012, HP mass exodus of native populations from small towns over employees in the United States pledged cash donations the past few decades has severely impacted Argentina’s totaling $4.2 million USD, with a respective match of $3.5 cultural and historical heritage and exacerbated the probmillion from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation. lems caused by rapid population growth in large cities while contributing to environmental degradation. In addition, U.S. employees can donate HP technology to qualified charitable organizations or schools. Employees “We spent an entire day together and Marcela shared the contribute 25% of the product list price, up to $5,000 USD, history of Responde, what their key projects and chaland HP contributes the remaining amount. In 2012, HP lenges are, and the vision for the organization,” Dave and its employees in the United States donated products explains. worth approximately $4.7 million USD. Since 2008, HP and employees have donated products valued at approxiRegular conversations and follow-up face-to-face meetmately $34.9 million USD. ings with Marcela followed. Dave helped her create a strategic plan to pursue her long-term goals—between now Disaster relief and 2021 the organization intends to expand to 500 rural In 2012, HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard villages (up from 85) and potentially to regions beyond Company Foundation donated money, equipment, and Argentina. He continues to work with her on a variety of expertise in response to natural disasters, including organizational and operational matters. He has acted as a ongoing help to tsunami victims in Japan. Each month, HP sounding board, one who understands the challenges of Japan organizes a four-day trip to a central hub city where an entrepreneur. employee volunteers are dispatched to small coastal fishing towns to work on a variety of projects, such as picking “I can’t say enough about Dave,” says Marcela. “Having the up debris, cleaning houses, and unclogging roadways. In ongoing advice of a business expert is so wonderful.” Shinono-me, HP employees teach residents who lost their homes basic IT skills, such as how to use the Internet to Dave says he feels privileged to have been a part of the connect with relatives, discover new interests, and stay program: “It has given me an opportunity to use experience up to date with current events. They also teach residents I’ve gained over the years in a really meaningful way and to valuable job-search skills. As of September 2012, more continue to develop leadership and general business manthan 200 HP Japan employees have participated, donating agement skills that are important for my career at HP.” more than 3,000 volunteer hours. See video. 8 Excluding disaster relief cash matching. 127 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Christian Pobre Below are the approximate values of cash and product conGovernance HP employee since 2006 tributions from HP employees, HP, and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation in response to 2012 disasters:9 Environment For Christian Pobre, an HP service Society 2012* delivery manager based in Taguig 2012 donations for disaster relief [$ USD] Human rights City, the Philippines, global American Red Cross Annual Disaster Giving $500,000 Supply chain citizenship means investing time Program (including international and domestic and effort to help his local comfund programs) responsibility Privacy munity. Since 2008, he’s taken a leading role in volunteer Hurricane Sandy (United States) $650,000 initiatives through Inspire@HP, a company employee HP people Northern Colorado, United States Wildfires $87,600 group in that country focused on a range of social and (including matching funds) • Social innovation environmental activities. Thanks in part to his commitEconomic impacts ment, HP has become an active contributor to community Philippines flooding $25,000 building in that area. Philippines Typhoon Washi $25,000 Data dashboard: Society Thailand Southeast Asia flooding $618,000 “I’ve always felt that I wanted to help those in need, espeAbout this report cially since I live in a developing country,” says Christian. Turkey earthquake $50,000 “When I learned of this volunteer club called Inspire@HP, * The totals shown in this table represent the total donation per disaster and I knew I had to join it.” may span fiscal years. Christian has been making an impact ever since, directing projects and providing guidance in various leadership roles. Inspire@HP volunteers have helped with everything from flood relief operations to tree plantings. But Christian says two initiatives stand out in his mind. Performance HP addresses critical social needs through a powerful The first involved a series of activities in partnership with union of innovation and collaboration, measuring our an affordable housing NGO in Manila. The project began as progress by the positive impact of our programs. The a volunteer house-building effort and grew to incorporate insights we gain through these metrics help us strengthen the donation of dozens of houses through support from HP. our programs. In past years, we tracked the total amount invested by HP in our programs. In 2011, we also began Team members continued their commitment to the comusing metrics to measure: munity and organized a medical mission to provide residents with free basic medical assistance and then waste • Social impact We measure how many people and management and livelihood training in partnership with places we impacted through our programs. two local organizations. The training courses triggered the • Business impact We measure how our programs creation of a local cooperative that now makes products impact our competitive advantage and reputation. such as soap and dishwashing liquid. • Operational excellence We track how many employees support our programs and completion of milestones. The second initiative, called the Computer Lab SWAT event, helped public schools keep their computers working well. • Financial impact We track total investment by HP and Says Christian: “We sent volunteers with skills in troublefunding by partners in support of our programs. shooting hardware and software problems to public schools to repair broken computers. They helped restore dozens of The total value of our social investments, including contricomputers—it was as if we donated them brand new.” butions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and HP plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours, Christian says his volunteer events have become so sucwas $118.6 million USD in 2012. cessful that whenever he sends out a call to HP employees for help, the slots fill up in a matter of minutes, with hundreds on the waitlist. Christian finds this truly inspiring. “Seeing the results of the work we do,” he says, “always motivates me to work even harder.” 9 Figures are for the 2012 calendar year. 128 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Social investments, 2008–2012* [$ million USD] We currently report employee volunteerism and contribuGovernance tions data for U.S. employees only. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Environment Overall Society Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Cash Giving Total $52.5** $56.1 $44.9 ** $51.5 $118.6 Program, 2008–2012 [number of employees] Human rights Percentage of 0.50% 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% N/A*** Supply chain pretax profits 8,000 responsibility Type Privacy 6,000 Cash $24.9 $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 $22.3 HP people 4,000 • Social innovation Products and $27.5 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 $96.3 services**** Economic impacts 2,000 * Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations Data dashboard: from the HP Company and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation, plus Society the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data exclude contributions to 0 About this report the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations but 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 include HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the HewlettPackard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation Participation 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 7,100 to other organizations as a part of these data. All years represented in this in the HP U.S. chart have been updated to reflect these contributions. Employee ** Due to rounding of this total, the sum of the constituent parts of this figure Cash Giving listed under the types of investments below does not match this figure. Program *** In FY2012, HP recorded a net loss, therefore a percentage of pretax profits cannot be calculated. **** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Beginning in 2010, services includes the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. The number in 2012 is considerably higher than 2011 due to increased employee programs and more complete volunteer hour data. Cash and products donated by employees and HP and Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds [$ million USD] 15 12 9 6 3 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 C ash donated by U.S. employees* $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 $4.2M C ash from Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched funds* $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 $3.5M Value of products donate by U.S. employees ** $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 $1.2M Value of products from matched funds** $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8 $3.5M Total $12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 $12.4 * Figures reflect the cash donations pledged by HP employees and the respective match from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation in each fiscal year. Variances to actuals can occur based on attrition. Fiscal year totals also vary based on the payment cycle completing after the fiscal year end. Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. 129 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Governance Environment Society Human rights Supply chain responsibility Privacy HP people Social innovation • Economic impacts Data dashboard: Society About this report Economic impacts HP contributes to economies worldwide. Our full economic impact results from both our financial transactions and the value we create across the wider economy: • Direct impacts include customer sales as well as employee salaries, supplier and tax payments, sharePerformance in fiscal year 2012 holder dividends, and social investments. The table below summarizes our direct and indirect • Indirect impacts occur when the money we spend economic impacts on our main stakeholder groups during circulates through the economy, for example when fiscal year 2012 (FY12). The Data dashboard: Society on employees, suppliers, and investors spend their earnpage 130 summarizes HP’s economic performance. For ings from HP. In addition, HP products and solutions may more details, please see our financial statements, interachelp make businesses and other organizations more tive stock chart, and annual report and 10-K. efficient and profitable. Group Direct economic impacts in FY12 Indirect economic impacts in FY12 Suppliers HP made purchases from more than 1,000 production Our spending continued to support employment in suppliers (defined as suppliers that provide materials supplier companies. Suppliers and their workers in for our products) and tens of thousands of nonproducturn pay taxes and support local economies, and tion suppliers worldwide. suppliers may pay dividends to their investors. Employees HP provided compensation and benefits to approxiHP’s employees pay taxes and generate further mately 331,800 employees worldwide.* economic activity by spending some of the money they earn. Customers HP’s net revenue was $120 billion USD. We continued to help customers improve productivity and reduce their environmental impact by offering reliable, high-quality products and services. For business customers, this may increase the jobs they create and taxes they pay. Customers can save money through improved energy efficiency of our products and services. Sales, marketing, and distriHP helped create business for sales and service partOur partners’ commercial relationships with HP can bution partners ners worldwide. contribute to their growth. Local, state, and national HP paid net cash income taxes of $1.75 billion USD. Taxes paid help enable government spending and governments programs. Investors HP paid $1.015 million USD in dividends to Investors may pay taxes on dividends. shareholders. * As of October 31, 2012. 130 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Data dashboard: Society Contents Governance Environment Public policy 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Society Contributions to U.S. state and local candidates, political member$1,035,650 $1,052,400 $1,284,900 $1,136,447 $1,422,375 Human rights ships/sponsorships, and ballot measure campaigns [$ USD] Supply chain HP Political Action Committee contributions* [$ USD] $219,600 $260,000 $378,000 $542,200 $529,450 responsibility * Reflects combined HP Political Action Committee and legacy EDS Political Action Committee contributions. Includes minimal operating expenditures. Privacy HP people Social innovation Economic impacts Supply chain responsibility 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Data dashboard: Suppliers engaged in SER program [total, cumulative] 630 720 879 907 958 Society SER audits conducted* [total, cumulative] 486 591 681 764 893 About this report Initial audits 235 260 293 330 398 Follow-up audits 221 292 320 340 379 Full re-audits 30 39 68 94 116 Audit findings (See Detailed audit findings on page 88) Suppliers engaged in capability building [total, cumulative] 55 68 80 126 216 Production supplier GHG emissions performance ** (estimated) Aggregated first-tier production suppliers’ Scope 1 direct and 4,100,000 3,500,000 4,500,000 3,500,000 Scope 2 indirect emissions [tonnes CO2e] Coverage [% of first-tier supplier spend captured] 86% 91% 95% 95% Aggregated production supplier Scope 3 indirect emissions *** 3,100,000 [tonnes CO2e] Coverage [% of first-tier production supplier spend reporting Scope 48% 3 emissions] Production supplier GHG emissions intensity [tonnes CO2e/first96% 96% 88% 76% tier production supplier spend, 2007 = 100%]) Nonproduction supplier GHG emissions performance **** Aggregated first-tier nonproduction suppliers’ Scope 1 direct and 480,000 Scope 2 indirect emissions [tonnes CO2] Coverage [percentage of first-tier supplier spend captured] 51% Supplier water consumption† Aggregated water withdrawn for use [cubic meters] 28,000,000 Coverage [% of first-tier supplier spend captured] 38% Companies with company-wide water strategies, plans, or 38% policies [% of first-tier supplier spend captured] continued 1 Some segments do not add up to total due to rounding. 131 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Supply chain responsibility 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Governance HP’s spend with diverse suppliers Environment U.S. purchasing with small businesses†† [$ million USD] $3,365 $3,691 $4,316 $4,400 $4,792 Society U.S. purchasing with minority-owned businesses††, ††† $827 $733 $989 Human rights [$ million USD] Supply chain U.S. purchasing with women-owned businesses††, ††† $861 $476 $547 responsibility [$ million USD] Privacy Strategic supplier spend on small, minority, woman, veteran, $318 $498 HP people and service disabled-veteran owned business enterprises†††† [$ million USD] Social innovation * Data for past years may differ from previous reports because HP receives the details of some audits after the Global Citizenship Report publication deadline. Economic impacts Includes production suppliers only. • Data dashboard: ** Refers to first-tier suppliers for manufacturing, materials, and components. Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of Society HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. 2010 figure for “Production supplier GHG emissions intensity” has been updated to reflect revised supplier revenue data. We continue to About this report report the original number for the purposes of the Carbon Disclosure Project. Previous 2010 figure: 94%. *** Numbers only take into account Scope 3 categories that suppliers report on. The World Resources Institute defines Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions in its Greenhouse Gas Protocol; see www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/faq. **** Emissions are estimated based on suppliers’ emissions and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. † Consumption is estimated based on suppliers’ consumption and their dollar volume of HP business compared with their total revenue. The majority of these companies report on a calendar year basis. The year 2011 is the most recent for which data are available. †† All figures are for U.S. purchases from U.S.-based businesses. Data are for the 12-month period ending September 30 of the year noted. Data beginning in 2009 include HP Enterprise Services (formerly EDS) spending. Data prior to 2009 do not. ††† Beginning in 2011, we did not include combined spend in the minority-owned businesses and women-owned businesses categories, which decreased the total spend compared with the prior year. †††† Figures include production and nonproduction suppliers. HP considers suppliers strategic based on a number of areas relating to business, engagement, and other macroeconomic indicators. This list is updated annually and never includes more than 100 suppliers. HP people 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of HP employees (approximate) * 321,000 304,000 325,000 350,000 331,800 Worldwide workforce demographics-employees** [women as a percentage of total employees] Americas 30.8% 35.0% 34.0% 33.3% 33.1% Asia Pacific and Japan 30.9% 32.5% 33.1% 32.3% 32.6% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 28.1% 30.0% 30.5% 29.8% 30.0% Worldwide 30.1% 32.9% 32.9% 32.0% 32.1% Worldwide workforce demographics-managers** [women as a percentage of total managers] Americas 25.2% 28.3% 27.8% 28.7% 30.1% Asia Pacific and Japan 20.2% 21.2% 21.8% 22.3% 22.2% Europe, Middle East, and Africa 18.5% 20.0% 19.8% 20.9% 22.4% Worldwide 22.0% 24.3% 24.1% 24.8% 25.5% Global new hires, by gender *** [as a percentage of total] Female 34.9% 35.6% 35.2% 32.7% 34.6% Male 65.1% 64.4% 64.8% 67.3% 65.4% continued 132 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents HP people 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Governance U.S. workforce demographics (See Diversity Environment and inclusion on page 112 for detailed data) Society U.S. new hires, by ethnicity **** [as a percentage of total] Human rights White 67.2% 65.0% 61.7% 52.4% 64.8% Supply chain All minorities 32.4% 34.5% 34.8% 31.1% 34.9% responsibility Privacy Black 8.1% 11.2% 14.5% 7.7% 10.8% HP people Hispanic 6.9% 7.1% 7.1% 6.7% 7.5% Social innovation Asian 15.7% 12.5% 10.5% 14.6% 12.6% Economic impacts • Data dashboard: Native American 0.6% 0.7% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% Society Lost workday case rate † About this report Global 0.07 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.07 Americas 0.13 0.17 0.16 0.13 0.12 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.08 0.04 0.11 0.11 0.08 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.01 0.01 0.02 0.01 0.01 Recordable incidence rate †† Global 0.31 0.30 0.24 0.22 0.20 Americas 0.66 0.57 0.43 0.41 0.36 Europe, Middle East, and Africa 0.25 0.29 0.18 0.17 0.18 Asia Pacific and Japan 0.05 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.01 * As of October 31 of the year noted. Numbers are rounded. ** 2009 data exclude Brazil. *** 2009 data exclude Brazil and reflect the time period January 1, 2009, to November 30, 2009. **** Sum of “White” and “All minorities” does not equal 100%, and the sum of “Black,” “Hispanic,” “Asian,” and “Native American” does not equal the total for “All minorities” because some people do not declare or do not fall into these categories. “White” and “Black” figures for 2011 are markedly lower from other years, as 16.1% of respondents placed themselves in a new “Other” category, which does not allow identification by ethnicity. † Lost workday case rate is the number of work-related injuries that result in time away from work per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2011 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.2. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Macedonia, Poland, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Japan and Singapore. †† Recordable incidence rate is the number of all work-related lost-time and no-lost-time cases requiring more than first aid per 100 employees working a full year. Rates are calculated using OSHA definitions for recordability around the globe and using OSHA calculation methodologies. The figures are based on employees working an average of 2,000 hours during a full year. The U.S. average in 2011 for the data processing, hosting, and related services industry was 0.6. Americas includes incidents occurring in Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Puerto Rico, and the United States. Europe, Middle East, and Africa includes incidents occurring in Austria, Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Macedonia, Poland, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Asia Pacific and Japan includes incidents occurring in Japan and Singapore. 133 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Social innovation 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Governance Social investments* [$ million USD] $52.2 $56.1 $44.9 $51.5 $118.6 Environment Cash $24.9 $21.1 $27.3 $20.3 $22.3 Society Products and services** $27.5 $35.0 $17.7 $31.2 $96.3 Human rights Supply chain Social investments [% of pretax profits] 0.50% 0.60% 0.41% 0.57% N/A*** responsibility Participation in the HP U.S. Employee Cash Giving Program 6,700 5,400 5,600 7,000 7,100 Privacy [number of employees] HP people Cash and products donated by employees and HP and Hewlett$12.8 $11.3 $10.8 $12.0 $12.4 Social innovation Packard Company Foundation matched funds**** [$ million USD] Economic impacts Cash donated by U.S. employees**** $3.6 $3.4 $3.2 $3.8 $4.2 • Data dashboard: Cash from Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation matched $3.0 $2.3 $2.7 $3.1 $3.5 Society funds**** About this report Value of products donated by U.S. employees† $1.5 $1.4 $1.2 $1.3 $1.2 Value of products from HP matched funds† $4.7 $4.2 $3.7 $3.8 $3.5 * Social investments include all grants made to nonprofit organizations from the HP Company and the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation, plus the valuation of employee volunteer hours. Data exclude contributions to the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation and employee donations but include HP’s matching contributions and contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations. Prior to 2010, HP did not report contributions from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation to other organizations as a part of these data. All years represented in this chart have been updated to reflect these contributions. ** Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Beginning in 2010, services includes the valuation of HP employee volunteer hours. Valuation rates are based on CECP standards. The number in 2012 is considerably higher than 2011 due to increased employee programs and more complete volunteer hour data. *** In FY2012, HP recorded a net loss. Therefore, a percentage of pretax profits cannot be calculated. **** Figures reflect the cash donations pledged by HP employees and the respective match from the Hewlett-Packard Company Foundation in each fiscal year. Variances to actuals can occur based on attrition. Fiscal year totals also vary based on the payment cycle completing after the fiscal year end. Does not reflect donations made to disaster relief efforts. † Product donations are valued at the Internet list price. This is the price a customer would have paid to purchase the equipment through the HP direct sales channel on the Internet at the time the grant was processed. Economic impacts 2010 2011 2012 Net revenue [$ million USD] $126,033 $127,245 $120,357 Net investment in property, plant, and equipment [$ million USD] $3,531 $3,540 $3,089 Research and development spending [$ million USD] $2,959 $3,254 $3,399 Number of patents (total, approximate) 37,000 36,000 36,000 401(k) expense * [$ million USD] $535 $626 $628 Advertising cost (approximate) [$ million USD] $1,000 $1,200 $1,000 Total dividend payments [$ million USD] $771 $844 $1,015 Share repurchases [$ million USD] $11,042 $10,117 $1,619 * HP match and expenses for employee 401(k) retirement accounts. Contents Governance Environment Society • About this report Overview Assurance Report of Independent Accountant UN Global Compact GRI index About this report 135 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Overview Metrics and goals Contents Governance Environment The metrics and goals in this report are established by the This report describes HP’s global citizenship policies, HP teams responsible for measuring and achieving them, Society programs, and performance through the 2012 fiscal year in consultation with internal, and in some cases external, About this report (which ended October 31, 2012). It provides in-depth stakeholders, and taking into account leading practices. • Overview information to stakeholders including customers, industry This ensures that our metrics provide a meaningful and analysts, socially responsible investors, nongovernmental balanced picture of HP’s performance, and that our goals Assurance organizations, employees, sustainability specialists, and are realistic yet challenging. Report of Independent others. We report yearly on our progress, changes to our Accountant business, emerging issues, and our responses to stakeCollecting data from hundreds of sites worldwide is UN Global Compact holder feedback. To improve our disclosure, we consider complex, and the process can vary by issue, business unit, GRI index external standards such as the Global Reporting Initiative function, and geography. As a result, it can be difficult to and the United Nations Global Compact, as well as reportdefine and implement measures for the entire company. ing trends and best practices. We also include perspectives We continue to standardize our measurement systems from external experts about our global citizenship efforts. and metrics. Data are rounded as needed to reflect the appropriate level of certainty. Our global citizenship website provides summary information for readers seeking a higher-level overview of our Reporting performance beyond our immediate operations approach and performance. Previous reports are available can also be challenging. For example, we must make at the downloads page of our global citizenship website. assumptions when estimating Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, product energy consumption and the resulting GHG emissions, and the percentage of HP products sold Reference pages that are recycled. The pages listed below provide quick access to commonly Wherever possible, we describe the context for perforrequested information. mance data so readers can understand any limitations and draw appropriate conclusions. In this report: See Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Data • Report of Independent Accountant on page 137 dashboard: Society on page 130 for more detail. • Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 and Data dashboard: Society on page 130 • Global Reporting Initiative index on page 140 Your feedback • UN Global Compact index on page 139 Your comments and suggestions are important to us. Please provide your feedback on HP’s global citizenship On our global citizenship website: performance, website, or report using our online form. • Affiliations and memberships • Awards Forward-looking statements • EcoSolutions • Policies and Standards This report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions Scope, dates, and measures prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking • The information in this report is current as of the date of statements and assumptions. All statements other than its initial publication. This report has not been updated statements of historical fact are statements that could to reflect any changes that may have occurred after be deemed forward-looking statements, including but such date, including, among other things, any changes not limited to statements of the plans, strategies, and to HP’s business or strategy. HP assumes no obligation objectives of management for future operations, including and does not intend to update this report to reflect any the expected development, implementation, and achievesuch changes. ment of environmental, social, and governance policies, • The information in this report covers all HP operations goals, and objectives; statements concerning the existbut does not cover joint ventures. ing or expected development, performance, addressable market, or market share relating to products or services • All references to years are to HP’s fiscal year, which ends and the impact of those products and services on global October 31, unless otherwise stated. issues, the environment, and other elements of society; • All references to dollars are to U.S. dollars (USD). statements regarding current or future macroeconomic or market trends and events and the impact of those trends • “Tonnes” refers to metric tonnes. (One metric tonne is and events on HP and its financial performance; stateequivalent to 2,205 pounds.) ments about the merits of an investment in HP securities; 136 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents any statements of expectation or belief; and any stateFor a full listing of the indicators within scope of E&Y’s Governance ments of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. review, please see their Report of Independent Accountant Risks, uncertainties, and assumptions include the need on page 137. Environment to address the many challenges facing HP’s businesses; Society the competitive pressures faced by HP’s businesses; risks In addition, the following data in this report received exterAbout this report associated with executing HP’s strategy; the impact of nal assurance during the year: macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; the Overview • Product reuse and recycling In 2012, HP completed our need to manage third-party suppliers and the distribution • Assurance fifth round of reuse and recycling vendor audits under of HP’s products and services effectively; the protection our expanded program guidelines. Our third-party Report of Independent of HP’s intellectual property assets, including intellectual Accountant auditing firm, Environmental Resources Management, property licensed from third parties; risks associated audited 18 reuse and 13 recycling vendor facilities in 17 UN Global Compact with HP’s international operations; the development and countries. Learn more in Vendor audits on page 54. transition of new products and services and the enhanceGRI index ment of existing products and services to meet customer • Supply chain responsibility HP engages third-party needs and respond to emerging technological trends; the audit firms to conduct verification audits of our suppliexecution and performance of contracts by HP and its supers. These include suppliers associated with a specific pliers, customers, and partners; the hiring and retention allegation in nongovernmental organization reports. of key employees; integration and other risks associated We also use third-party audit findings to validate our with business combination and investment transactions; internal audit results. Learn more in Our approach on the execution, timing, and results of restructuring plans, page 76. including estimates and assumptions related to the cost • Financial data E&Y also provided independent assurand the anticipated benefits of implementing those plans; ance over data included in HP’s 2012 Annual Report. the resolution of pending investigations, claims, and Selected data from that document appear in this report. disputes; and other risks that are described in HP’s filings Learn more in HP profile on page 8 and Economic with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including impacts on page 129. HP’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2012. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements. Other external reviews As part of HP’s global ISO 14001 and site OHSAS 18001 Assurance registrations, we are assessed by independent, accredited auditors, including Bureau Veritas Certification and BSI Management Systems. We believe that obtaining assurance helps demonstrate that the information provided in our Global Citizenship Report describes our performance accurately and comInternal Audit and review pletely. Our approach to assurance combines external reviews of selected content, other forms of third-party HP Internal Audit assesses risk and evaluates control envireview, and assessment by HP’s Internal Audit group. ronments for several operations, including, but not limited to, financial transactions and reporting, systems security, and process flows. Compliance and ethics, privacy, and External verification environment, health, and safety management processes may also be evaluated, depending on the nature of the In 2012, HP engaged external assurance provider Ernst business operation and the scope of the audit. & Young (E&Y) to perform an independent review of a selected number of key performance indicators in our In addition, qualified HP professionals conduct internal 2012 Global Citizenship Report in accordance with AT 101, audits of the environmental, health, and safety manageStatements on Standards for Attestation Engagements, of ment systems at our operations, and we report the results the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. We to senior management. plan to expand the scope of this independent assurance in future years. 137 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Report of Independent Accountant Contents Governance Environment Society To the Board of Directors and Management of Hewlett-Packard Company About this report Overview We have reviewed selected quantitative performance indicators (the “Subject Matter”) included in the Assurance Schedule of Reviewed Performance Indicators (the “Schedule”) below and as presented in the HewlettPackard Company (“HP”) 2012 Global Citizenship Report (the “Report”) for the year ended October 31, 2012. • Report of Independent We did not review all information included in the Report. We did not review the narrative sections of the Accountant Report, except where they incorporated the Subject Matter. HP management is responsible for the Subject UN Global Compact Matter included in the Schedule below and as also presented in the Report, and for selection of the criteria GRI index against which the Subject Matter is measured and presented. Our review was conducted in accordance with attestation standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and accordingly, included: • inquiries of persons responsible for the subject matter; • obtaining an understanding of the data management systems and processes used to generate, aggregate and report the Subject Matter; • analytical procedures over the accuracy and completeness of the Subject Matter; and, • performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. A review is substantially less in scope than an examination, the objective of which is an expression of opinion on the subject matter. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion. Nonfinancial information contained within global citizenship reports are subject to measurement uncertainties resulting from limitations inherent in the nature and the methods used for determining such data. The selection of different but acceptable measurement techniques can result in materially different measurements. The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary. Based on our review, nothing came to our attention that caused us to believe that the Subject Matter described above is not presented, in all material respects, in conformity with the relevant criteria as disclosed in the Report. April 10, 2013 San Jose, California 138 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents Hewlett-Packard Company, Inc. schedule of reviewed performance indicators for the year ended October 31, 2012 Governance Indicator Name Scope Unit Reported Value * Environment Scope 1 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Global Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents (tCO2e) 246,000 Society Scope 2 GHG emissions Global tCO2e 1,643,000 About this report Scope 3 GHG emissions** Global tCO2e 76,720,000 Overview Scope 1 energy consumption Global Million kWh 379 Assurance Scope 2 energy consumption Global Million kWh 3,729 • Report of Independent Accountant Renewable energy consumption Global Million kWh 496 UN Global Compact Water consumption Global cubic meters 8,493,000 GRI index Recordable incidence rate *** Global Number of recordable incidents / 0.20 200,000 work hours Lost workday case rate *** Global Number of lost work day injuries / 0.07 200,000 work hours Identified smelters in HP’s supply chain Global Number of identified smelters 195 reported to supply conflict minerals**** Supply chain social and environmental Global Number of SER audits conducted in Initial audits: 68 responsibility (SER) audit program results 2012, by type Follow-up audits: 39 Full audits: 22 Global Distribution of major nonconformances General: 8% by section of HP’s EICC Code † Environment: 9% Health and safety: 31% Labor: 22% Ethics: 10% Environmental, health, and safety management system: 8% Labor and ethics management system: 12% Total cash donations Global $USD million $22.3 * All indicators are reported for the year ended October 31, 2012, except as otherwise indicated. ** Carbon Accounting Explanations document available at: www.hp.com/globalcitizenship. Scope 3 emissions reported in the 2012 GCR reflect data for the year ended October 31, 2011. *** Recordable incidents and lost workday case rates are determined at December 1, 2012, for the 2012 fiscal year. **** The term “conflict minerals” is defined by Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission and includes: tungsten, tantalum, tin, and gold. HP’s supplier survey process as described in HP’s GCR Report was reviewed with respect to the identification of smelters as of January 31, 2013. The number of known smelters is subject to change as additional information is provided to HP. † Includes initial audits and full re-audits only; EICC stands for Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition. 139 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report UN Global Compact index Contents Governance Environment HP is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, a officer, Meg Whitman, expresses HP’s support for the Society set of voluntary commitments for companies to improve Global Compact in her executive letter. The table below About this report human rights, labor conditions, the environment, and links to the sections of this report that address the Global Overview anticorruption controls. Our president and chief executive Compact’s 10 principles. Assurance Report of Independent Principle Information in report Accountant Human rights • UN Global Compact Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Human rights on page 73 GRI index proclaimed human rights; and Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Conflict minerals on page 96 Privacy on page 103 HP people on page 108 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Conflict minerals on page 96 Labor standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recogniHuman rights on page 73 tion of the right to collective bargaining; Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Diversity and inclusion on page 112 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Materials on page 41 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environmental sustainability on page 27 Products and solutions on page 35 Product return and recycling on page 50 HP operations on page 55 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Products and solutions on page 35 technologies. HP operations on page 55 Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Anticorruption on page 21 extortion and bribery. Supply chain responsibility on page 75 140 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Global Reporting Initiative index Contents Governance Environment We considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) when preparing this report. Society HP self-declares this report to GRI Application Level B+, as stated in the table below. About this report Overview Assurance GRI Guidelines Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Key Report of Independent Self-declared X Full coverage Accountant Partial coverage UN Global Compact No coverage • GRI index GRI guideline Coverage Location Vision and strategy 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the Letter from CEO Meg Whitman on page 4 organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Global citizenship strategy on page 10 Performance and challenges are described throughout the report. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization. HP profile on page 8 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. HP profile on page 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main HP profile on page 8 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint HP Annual Report ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. HP profile on page 8 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and See a list of HP’s major operations in our 2012 Annual names of countries with either major operations or that are Report (page 35). specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in Detailed audit findings on page 88 the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. HP profile on page 8 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors HP profile on page 8 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). HP Annual Report 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. HP profile on page 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding HP Annual Report size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Overview on page 135 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). June 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Overview on page 135 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Feedback contents 3.5 Process for defining report content. Global citizenship strategy on page 10 Overview on page 135 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidHP operations on page 55 iaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). Detailed audit findings on page 88 Overview on page 135 141 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 the report. Environment Data dashboard: Society on page 130 Society Overview on page 135 About this report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Overview on page 135 facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can Overview significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ Assurance or between organizations. Report of Independent 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculaData dashboard: Environment on page 67 Accountant tions, including assumptions and techniques underlying Data dashboard: Society on page 130 estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and UN Global Compact other information in the report. Noted in relevant sections as appropriate • GRI index 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restateData dashboard: Society on page 130 ment (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Noted in relevant sections as appropriate 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the Data dashboard: Society on page 130 report. Noted in relevant sections as appropriate 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in Global Reporting Initiative index on page 140 the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Assurance on page 136 assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Global citizenship governance on page 13 committees under the highest governance body responsible Ethics and compliance on page 19 for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Corporate governance 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Corporate governance is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state Corporate governance the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or nonexecutive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Contact the board recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Corporate governance guidelines highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Corporate governance guidelines ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Corporate governance guidelines the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes Policies and standards on page 25 of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Global citizenship governance on page 13 the organization's identification and management of Ethics and compliance on page 19 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliHP’s approach to supply chain responsibility ance with internationally agreed upon standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 142 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's Corporate governance guidelines own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Environment environmental, and social performance. Society 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary Materials on page 41 About this report approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Overview 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social Management and compliance on page 57 Assurance charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organiSupply chain responsibility on page 75 zation subscribes or endorses. Report of Independent Health and safety on page 116 Accountant UN Global Compact index on page 139 UN Global Compact 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) Affiliations and memberships on page 16 • GRI index and/or national/international advocacy organizations. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder engagement on page 14 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Stakeholder engagement on page 14 whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including Stakeholder engagement on page 14 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through Stakeholder engagement on page 14 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Performance: economic Disclosures on management approach. Economic impacts on page 129 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Data dashboard: Society on page 130 revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. (Core) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for HP operations on page 55 the organization’s activities due to climate change. (Core) We report this information yearly through the CDP EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligaHP Annual Report tions. (Core) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. (Core) EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared with local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. (Additional) EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally Supplier diversity on page 98 based suppliers at significant locations of operation. (Core) In fiscal year 2012, HP spent approximately $1 billion USD with local nonproduction suppliers in the United States.* EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. (Core) EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Social innovation on page 120 and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. (Core) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Economic impacts on page 129 impacts, including the extent of impacts. (Additional) * In this case, HP defines “local suppliers” as suppliers with a corporate office located within the same city as a significant HP facility. “Nonproduction suppliers” refers to suppliers that provide goods and services that do not go into the production of HP products, excluding logistics service providers (LSPs). Performance: environmental 143 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance Disclosures on management approach. Environmental sustainability on page 27 Environment Products and solutions on page 35 Society Product return and recycling on page 50 About this report Management and compliance on page 57 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 Overview Assurance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. (Core) Paper on page 32 Report of Independent Materials on page 41 Accountant Packaging on page 44 UN Global Compact EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input matePaper on page 32 • GRI index rials. (Core) Materials on page 41 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. (Core) Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. (Core) Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improveEnergy and GHG emissions on page 57 ments. (Additional) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energyUse on page 46 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. (Additional) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reducEnergy efficiency on page 58 tions achieved. (Additional) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. (Core) Water on page 63 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Water on page 63 (Additional) EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. (Additional) EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Remediation on page 65 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Remediation on page 65 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (Core) EN13 Habitats protected or restored. (Additional) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Remediation on page 65 impacts on biodiversity. (Additional) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. (Additional) EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Energy and climate on page 29 weight. (Core) Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Energy and climate on page 29 (Core) Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reducEnergy and climate on page 29 tions achieved. (Additional) Transport on page 45 Use on page 46 Energy efficiency on page 58 Renewable energy on page 60 Travel on page 60 Environmental impacts on page 81 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. (Core) Ozone-depleting substances on page 65 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and HP does not report on this indicator because its emisweight. (Core) sions in this area are insignificant given our current operations. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. (Core) Data dashboard: Environment on page 67 144 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. (Core) Waste and recycling on page 61 Environment EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (Core) Remediation on page 65 Society EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste About this report deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste Overview shipped internationally. (Additional) Assurance EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Report of Independent water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Accountant the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. (Additional) UN Global Compact • GRI index EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Paper on page 32 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. (Core) Products and solutions on page 35 Product return and recycling on page 50 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Product return and recycling on page 50 that are reclaimed by category. (Core) EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. (Core) EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Transport on page 45 and other goods and materials used for the organization's Travel on page 60 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. (Additional) EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. (Additional) Performance: labor practices and decent work Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 HP people on page 108 Diversity and inclusion on page 112 Health and safety on page 116 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, HP people on page 108 and region. (Core) LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. (Core) LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Rewards and benefits on page 114 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. (Additional) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. (Core) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. (Core) LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. (Additional) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Health and safety on page 116 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. (Core) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Health and safety on page 116 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. (Core) LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. (Additional) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Building careers on page 110 employee category. (Core) 145 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Building careers on page 110 support the continued employability of employees and Environment assist them in managing career endings. (Additional) Society LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Building careers on page 110 About this report and career development reviews. (Additional) Overview LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Diversity Assurance employees per category according to gender, age group, and inclusion on page 112 minority group membership, and other indicators of diverReport of Independent sity. (Core) Accountant LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee UN Global Compact category. (Core) • GRI index Performance: human rights Disclosures on management approach. Human rights on page 73 Supply chain responsibility on page 75 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. (Core) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Supply chain responsibility on page 75 have undergone screening on human rights and actions Summary audit results on page 84 taken. (Core) Detailed audit findings on page 88 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. (Additional) HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Supply chain responsibility on page 75 taken. (Core) Detailed audit findings on page 88 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom Supply chain responsibility on page 75 of association and collective bargaining may be at signifiDetailed audit findings on page 88 cant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. (Core) HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Supply chain responsibility on page 75 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimiDetailed audit findings on page 88 nation of child labor. (Core) HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Supply chain responsibility on page 75 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute Detailed audit findings on page 88 to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. (Core) HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. (Additional) HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. (Additional) Performance: society Disclosures on management approach. Corporate ethics on page 18 Public policy on page 22 Management and compliance on page 57 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and HP operations on page 55 practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. (Core) SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. (Core) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's Anticorruption on page 21 ­anticorruption policies and procedures. (Core) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. (Core) SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Public policy on page 22 development and lobbying. (Core) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Public policy on page 22 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. (Additional) 146 HP 2012 Global Citizenship Report Contents GRI guideline Coverage Location Governance SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Environment (Additional) Society SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of About this report nonmonetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (Core) Overview Performance: product responsibility Assurance Disclosures on management approach. Products and solutions on page 35 Report of Independent Accountant Product return and recycling on page 50 Privacy on page 103 UN Global Compact • GRI index PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Paper on page 32 products and services are assessed for improvement, and Products and solutions on page 35 percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. (Core) Life cycle assessment on page 37 Research and development on page 38 Design on page 39 Materials on page 41 Packaging on page 44 Transport on page 45 Product return and recycling on page 50 Environmental impacts on page 81 PR2 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR3 Type of product and service information required by proceProducts and solutions on page 35 dures, and percentage of significant products and services HP provides a wide range of information related to many subject to such information requirements. (Core) of its products, including material safety data sheets (MSDS), eco declarations, Energy Star and eco labels information, technical regulations and certificates, and product disassembly instructions for recyclers. PR4 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. (Additional) PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary HP’s Standards of Business Conduct and corporate codes related to marketing communications, including guidelines set expectations regarding its advertising advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. (Core) practices. These resources require that advertisements and marketing collateral be fair, factual, and complete. Advertising claims must be formally substantiated with current factual data before publishing. HP sells its products in compliance with laws in the jurisdictions in which it does business. PR7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (Additional) PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. (Additional) PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. (Core) © Copyright 2013 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. ENERGY STAR and the ENERGY STAR mark are registered U.S. marks.
