Sustainability Report 2012 35 m journeys for children are free of charge every year at DB 500,000 customers used Call a Bike in 2012 1.9 m standard containers reach their destination via DB Schenker Logistics on the world’s oceans 12,000,000,000 kWh were supplied by DB Netze Energy in Germany in 2012 – enough energy for the Berlin metropolitan region for one year 2.6 bn passengers used DB Bahn Regional’s services in 2012 300,000 employees 5,100 freight trains are operated by DB Schenker Rail throughout Germany and Europe daily work at DB in more than 500 different fields 250,000 fans have liked DB’s two Facebook pages since they launched in December 2011 Figures have been rounded. Additional figures can be found on the back inside cover. Sustainability Report 2012 Table of contents Preface03 04 Pioneering environmental protection 70 Defining targets and areas for action 72 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy04 Expanding climate protection 74 Going green with the BahnCard 78 Creating harmony between economic, Improving noise protection 80 social, and environmental dimensions 06 “We need society’s acceptance” 82 A portrait of DB 08 Enhancing material and resource efficiency 84 Opportunities and risks in the market environment12 Reducing air pollutants 86 Realigning the Group’s strategy and objectives 14 Protecting nature and biodiversity 88 Anchoring sustainability management in the Group structure 17 Communicating with stakeholders  18 05 Playing a responsible role in society 90 “DB can set an example in the energy turnaround” 22 Defining targets and areas for action 92 Building on competences 92 02 Achieving profitable market leadership 24 Five kilometers against the current 96 A new approach to corporate citizenship 98 Defining targets and areas for action 26 Providing sponsorship 100 Heightening customer satisfaction 28 Investing in technology and infrastructure 30 Providing more customer information 31 06 Upholding integrity 102 Improving service quality 33 Driving innovation forward 34 Defining targets and areas for action 104 Smartphones and tablet computers Complying with corporate governance  105 make traveling easy 36 Expanding data privacy 105 Safeguarding profitable growth 38 Firmly anchoring compliance 107 Developing passenger services further 40 Partners and business practices with integrity 110 Integrating transport and logistics Developing procurement processes further 112 at international level 42 Strengthening infrastructure 44 Providing supporting services 47 07 Facts and figures 114 The roads of Europe are Arriva’s laboratory 48 About this report 116 Key performance indicators and other factors 117 03 Becoming a top employer  50 Awards133 Memberships134 Defining targets and areas for action 52 UN Global Compact communication on progress 135 Strengthening cultural change 55 GRI index 136 Shaping employment conditions 58 GRI statement 143 Combining work and study via just Independent Assurance Report 144 the right duty roster  62 Glossary145 Promoting staff development 64 Challenge and encourage 66 Attracting employees 68 Contacts147 Imprint148 Dear Reader, In 2012, Deutsche Bahn posted its best result in the company’s history. March 2012 also marked the birth of the DB2020 strategy, which will ensure that success of this kind is sustainable – and secure society’s acceptance. The core of this strategy is that creating harmony between economic, social, and environmental objectives is the only way to make our Group one of the world’s leading mobility and logistics companies by 2020. With our realignment, we are actively tackling the different challenges and opportunities presented by the world today. For example, increasingly volatile markets are making it more and more difficult to predict economic development trends. On top of this, our customers are looking for intelligent yet simple solutions in an increasingly complex world. Meanwhile, demographic change means that qualified workers are becoming scarce in many of our key markets. Last but not least, climate change and dwindling resources are gaining in importance. As a profitable market leader, we want to offer our customers first-class mobility and logistics services. That means we need to do more than just grow and enhance efficiency. We need to offer outstanding service, top quality, and intelligent solutions. As we need dedicated, enthusiastic employees to achieve this, we also want to offer our staff good, future-proof jobs – throughout their working lives if possible. With the DB2020 strategy, we have set ourselves the goal of becoming one of Germany’s top ten employers and also expanding our position at international level. At the same time, an intact environment is essential for a sustainable society. With this in mind, we have made environmental friendliness a core principle and we will continue to consistently pursue our goal of becoming an eco-pioneer. The following pages describe what we have achieved on this road so far. To name a few examples: by 2012 we had reduced our global specific CO₂ emissions by 12.3 percent as compared to 2006. The 2012 employee survey in more than 40 countries was the first worldwide questionnaire in the history of DB. 61 percent of employees had their say. We take their suggestions and criticisms very seriously and are carrying out a highly intensive follow-up process throughout all levels of the Group. Our many stakeholders – from policy-­makers, associations, and customers to industry partners and investors – are also extremely important to us, as is shown by the invitation to the first DB Sustainability Day, which we issued in the reporting period. A second dialog event of this kind will be held in 2013. As a member of the UN Global Compact, we have pledged to align our activities with the initiative’s ten principles and report regularly on our progress. In the future, our reporting will no longer take the form of a separate annual report as well as a sustainability report. Instead, we plan to publish a single integrated report for financial year 2014. We hope you enjoy reading this report. The DB Group Management Board Dr. Richard Lutz Gerd Becht Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch Dr. Rüdiger Grube Ulrich Weber Dr. Volker Kefer Ulrich Homburg 3 Berlin, Group Headquarters: Dr. Rüdiger Grube, Chairman and CEO, and Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch, Member of the Management Board responsible for Transport and Logistics and Chief Sustainability Officer at Deutsche Bahn 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy DB strives for sustainable success. That is why it has initiated its DB2020 strategy. DB aims to become a profitable market leader, a top employer, and an eco-pioneer by 2020. To achieve this, it will seek to create harmony between its economic, social, and environmental activities. Creating harmony between economic, social, and environmental dimensions Driven by an awareness that sustainable business practices are the only way to safeguard long-term success, DB realigned its corporate strategy in 2012. With its DB2020 strategy, the company aims to bring economic, environmental, and social dimensions into harmony. Chairman and CEO Dr. Rüdiger Grube and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch explain how the DB2020 strategy came about. thousands of new employees every year, partly because a lot of experienced people are leaving DB as they reach retirement age. Particularly in light of the increasingly tense situation on the labor market, we need to work hard to improve our image. Dr. Grube: Environmental issues are also gaining in importance – for future generations, our customers, our staff, and our company. At the end of the day, it all boils down to nothing Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch, Member of the Management Board responsible for Transport and Logistics, Chief Sustainability Officer of Deutsche Bahn AG less than a new, sustainable strategy: we can only impress our customers and be profitable if our employees are satisfied. At the same time, we must not do business at the expense of the environment. On top of all this, a company like DB has to achieve social recognition. Bearing all Dr. Rüdiger Grube: this in mind, we soon came up with three dimensions: Lots of employees were unsettled following the changes economic, social, and environmental issues. A series of to the Management Board in 2009. Up until then, the discussions then began, which centered primarily on company’s strategy had been oriented toward eventually putting these in order of priority. going public. When the IPO (initial public offering) was called off in the midst of the economic crisis, a new apDr. Rausch: proach was called for. There was a huge need for orienThe breakthrough came at an executive breakfast in tation which went beyond the firm’s standing in the capiMunich, when we reached a consensus on harmonizing tal markets. We needed a vision that everyone could the three principles. Until then, there had been a number identify with – along with a comprehensive strategy outof conflicting opinions. For example, one executive argued lining how this could be achieved. We started off by that economic interests must be given priority because listening intently to our staff. nothing could be achieved without commercial success. Others countered that the firm could only generate Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch: profits if its staff was motivated and it took ecological At the same time, we had to face up to major challenges challenges into account. The solution was to give all such as dwindling resources and demographic change. As three objectives equal weight. This is the only way to a company which had been under considerable pressure put the principle of sustainability into practice. to reorganize its finances since 1994, we are now looking in an entirely different direction. We currently need 6 Die DB ist in über 130 Ländern aktiv. Dr. Grube: Almost inevitably, we also realized that we needed to rethink our approach to strategy and leadership: a strategy without leadership is ineffective, while leadership without a strategy is aimless. We have to meet each Dr. Rüdiger Grube, of our employees where they stand, motivate them, and Chairman and CEO of Deutsche Bahn AG inspire them. Everyone should know where our journey is headed. And they have to have the opportunity to get involved. That is the only way to make sure the strategy is supported throughout the company, which is crucial for the implementation of a multi-dimensional strategy Dr. Rausch: like DB2020. We have already achieved a great deal. In 2012, we invested € 8 billion – € 3.5 billion of which was own funds – Dr. Rausch: in new vehicles, the quality of our networks, and the rail With this in mind, we spent the first half of 2012 engaged infrastructure. We also completed the most extensive emin in-depth discussions – first within the Management ployee survey in the company’s history and launched our Board, then gradually involving executives and staff. employer campaign, “Kein Job wie jeder andere” (A job That is how we came up with our DB2020 strategy. But like no other), which has already successfully attracted we didn’t stop there. We also discussed it and put it to new employees. In addition to this, we achieved a further the test at our first DB Sustainability Day with all our important milestone with our green long-distance travel. stakeholders – from passenger groups and environmental associations to staff representatives and financial anaDr. Grube: lysts – and it met with a very positive response. We examine almost everything we do to check that it conforms with the three dimensions of the DB2020 Dr. Grube: strategy. In the end, every member of staff should come Each business unit has now developed a plan of action up with their own answers to the question: what contriwhich ties in with the Group strategy. We have an ambibution can I make? We still have a long way to go until tious system of targets which applies to all business we achieve our goals and we need to bring about a units and is therefore valid internationally. This forms cultural change. But we have made a start. I can sense the basis for decision-making in line with the three susthat our DB2020 strategy is widely accepted within tainability criteria. The system of targets sets out twelve the company. It will help the DB to overcome the many goals and is part of our medium-term planning. It will challenges we face. serve as a management tool in the future as well. 7 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy A portrait of DB  The DB Group is an international provider of mobility and logistics services and operates in more than 130 countries around the world. DB employs 300,000 people – a third of them outside of Germany. DB already occupies top positions in Europe and the world as a whole. By 2020, it aims to be the world’s leading mobility and logistics company. DB is active in more than 130 different countries. DB shapes and operates the transport networks In the 2012 financial year, the company generated of the future revenues of € 39.3 billion and posted an operating DB takes people and cargo from one point to another profit (EBIT) of € 2.7 billion. by adopting an integrated approach to transport and DB has been a stock corporation under German law infrastructure operations and by linking all modes of since it was established in 1994. This means that it has transport intelligently with economic and environmental a dual system of management and control with a manobjectives in mind. agement board and a supervisory board. The company In the Passenger Transport division, the Group carries is wholly owned by the German government. more than ten million people a day on trains and The DB Group’s portfolio comprises nine business buses throughout Europe. Meanwhile, its Transport and units. With one exception, these are allocated to three Logistics division hauls approximately 400 million tons operating divisions – Passenger Transport, Transport of freight by rail and some 95 million consignments by and Logistics, and Infrastructure – and overseen using road every year using its European network. Its global an integrated management structure. The DB Services networks handle more than 1.1 million tons of air business unit is managed directly by the Management freight and over 1.9 million twenty-foot equivalent Board member responsible for Rail Technology and units (TEUs) of ocean freight. In Germany, DB operates Services. The structure is completed by centralized the longest rail network in Europe, spanning a total of Group and service functions. These provide services 34,000 kilometers. On top of all that, DB is Germany’s under the name DB AG or DB Mobility Logistics AG (DB fifth-largest energy supplier. ML AG). The Group also complies with the unbundling 8 requirements of European and national law. This means expertise in worldwide contract logistics. The Transport that the infrastructure companies are separate firms and Logistics division is made up of the following two with their own balance sheets, statements of income, business units: and bookkeeping systems. Responsibilities are also separated at functional level, ensuring that DB Netz DB Schenker Rail AG makes independent decisions about access to infraDB Schenker Rail is the only rail freight carrier which structure and pricing. is present throughout Europe. It is backed by a EuroThe German railway still forms a focus of the Group’s pean production network, which has been steadily business operations. However, DB has successively enhanced further in recent years. This ensures that expanded its portfolio, particularly since 2000. Its cross-border transport services are provided in an Europe-wide passenger services now include bus transefficient, customer-friendly, and environmentally-­ port and intelligent networks incorporating other modes compatible fashion. of transport. The Group internationalized its transport and logistics operations at an early stage. These business DB Schenker Logistics activities comprise all modes of transport: rail and land The three business units within DB Schenker Logistics transport services are provided at European level, while provide European land transport, worldwide air freight ocean freight, air freight, and contract logistics are and ocean freight, plus comprehensive logistics offered globally. solutions and global supply chain management from a single source. DB Schenker Logistics also has a strong DB’s divisions and business units at a glance market position in the automotive, high-tech, and consumer goods industries and is a respected provider Passenger Transport division: of exhibition logistics, special transports, and services The Passenger Transport division includes DB’s offering for major sporting events. in Germany plus long-distance, cross-border passenger rail services provided under the name DB Bahn. All Infrastructure division: regional transport activities outside Germany have DB Netze encompasses DB’s product portfolio relating been bundled in the DB Arriva business unit since 2011. to infrastructure. The associated business units lay the The Passenger Transport division is made up of the foundations for safe, reliable, high-performance, and following three business units: efficient rail transport in Germany. The Infrastructure division is made up of the following three business units: DB Bahn Long-Distance The DB Bahn Long-Distance business unit provides DB Netze Track long-haul rail transport services in Germany and on DB Netze Track provides train-operating companies cross-border routes into neighboring countries. This in Germany with track, facilities, and timetables. It portfolio is complemented by car transport and night manages operations across the 34,000-kilometer rail train services provided by DB AutoZug plus long-­ network. DB Netze Track is also responsible for maindistance bus travel. taining and repairing existing facilities, building new lines, and extending existing routes. DB Netze Track DB Bahn Regional bundles all of DB’s rail infrastructure competence. The The DB Bahn Regional business unit offers connections DB Netze Track business unit comprises DB Netz AG, in both urban and rural areas with its extensive DUSS GmbH, DB Fahrwegdienste GmbH, and DB regional transport network. DB Bahn Regional is RegioNetz Infrastruktur GmbH. the largest business unit in the Passenger Transport division and therefore an important source of revenues DB Netze Stations for the DB Group. It also operates national and interDB Netze Stations is currently responsible for some national bus routes and provides local public trans5,400 stations. This makes it the largest operator of port services. railway stations in Europe. With its blanket coverage of Germany, the business unit safeguards access to the DB Arriva rail system for over seven million passengers a day. DB Arriva is DB’s European growth platform in the passenger transport industry. It operates in twelve DB Netze Energy European countries. DB Arriva’s business is split into The DB Netze Energy business unit provides the power three segments: UK Bus, UK Trains, and Mainland that rail carriers need to operate. DB Netze Energy Europe (rail and bus services). strives for maximum availability as well as sustainable energy procurement. The business unit also offers Transport and Logistics division: electricity, diesel, gas, heat, and innovative energy With its DB Schenker brand, DB has positioned itself services to other corporate customers via its high-­ as one of the world’s leading transport and logistics performance infrastructure. service providers. It has closely knit networks for European rail freight/land transport and for global air freight and ocean freight as well as industry-­specific 9 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy A successful network: DB integrates passenger services, transport and logistics, as well as infrastructure. DB Services business unit Holding structure The DB Services business unit provides vehicle mainSince the 2008 restructuring, DB AG has managed the tenance, internet and communications technology (ICT), DB Netze Track, DB Netze Stations, and DB Netze facility management, security, and fleet management Energy business units directly. The other six business services, primarily for companies in the DB Group. units are managed by the wholly owned subsidiary DB Business units of DB Passenger Transport Transport and Logistics Infrastructure Domestic and European-wide Intelligent logistics services via land, Efficient and future-oriented rail mobility service air and the sea infrastructure in Germany  D  B Bahn Long-Distance  D  B Schenker Rail  D  B Netze Track Long-distance rail passenger transport¹ European rail freight transport Rail network  D B Bahn Regional  D B Schenker Logistics  D B Netze Stations Regional/urban passenger transport (GER) Global logistics services Traffic stations  D  B Arriva  D  B Netze Energy Regional/urban passenger transport (EU)² Traction current DB Services Integrated range of services 1) Within Germany as well as cross border traffic 2) In UK with Arriva-affiliate “CrossCountry” also long-distance passenger transport 10 Mobility Logistics AG (DB ML AG). DB AG and DB ML The company’s success is based on four factors AG each act as management holding companies with Four factors play a key role in ensuring that DB develops central Group management roles. positively: Leading market positions in Europe and throughout 1. Business alignment the world In the course of the rail reform, DB consistently aligned The dovetailing of the Passenger Transport, Transport itself as a commercial enterprise. This essentially meant and Logistics, and Infrastructure divisions gives the DB building up a modern, efficient organization and instilling Group an effective business model. It enables DB to act a value-led leadership culture with the aim of establishing as a full-service provider and means that the Group is a good standing in the capital markets. Drawing a clear a successful player in all segments of the transport line between government and corporate responsibilities market with its national and international services. played a significant role in making the rail reform in The Group has a leading position in each of these Germany a success in terms of both transport and sectors. The company operates worldwide and has budgetary policy. more than 2,000 sites in over 130 different countries. DB aims to be the world’s leading mobility and logistics 2. An integrated group company in 2020. As a system integrator in Germany, DB optimizes the The DB Group is the number two provider of local entire road/rail system and acts as an important techrail passenger transport, long-haul rail passenger transnological driving force. The Group’s network enables port, and bus transport in Europe. DB is the largest rail synergies to be leveraged and allows the infrastructure infrastructure company and station operator in Europe. to be consistently geared towards efficiency, market It is also number one for European rail freight and land requirements, and cost-effectiveness. By international transport. At global level, it is number two for air comparison, the Group is subject to highly developed, freight, number three for worldwide ocean freight, and strict regulations. Together with the Group’s internal number five in the contract logistics segment. DB incode of conduct, these ensure that the rail infrastructends to further expand its market positions. ture does not distort competition. This allows all train operating companies in Germany to benefit from the Leading market positions in Europe and throughout advantages of an integrated structure. the world 3. International positioning DB is successfully positioned with a focus on the European passenger services segment and the Europe-wide/ global transport and logistics industry. This allows it to cater to its clients’ need for cross-border services No. 2 No. 1 No. 1 and capitalize on growth opportunities at the same Long-distance Rail freight Rail infrastructure passenger rail transport time. Particularly in the network business, economies transport of scale are hugely important. No. 1 No. 1 Operations of No. 2 Land transport railway stations 4. Intermodal solutions Local rail passenger DB offers its customers a full range of mobility and transport No. 2 logistics solutions from door to door. This includes Air freight linking different modes of transport intelligently No. 2 with economic and ecological objectives. Providing Bus transport No. 3 additional services plays an important role in the transOcean freight port and logistics segment. No. 5 Contract logistics 11 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy Opportunities and risks in the market environment  DB’s business environment is constantly changing. The company has to adapt with it – and actively help to shape change in line with its sustainable strategy. In the future, DB will face a growing number of interlinked trends as well as changes in its regulatory environment. These are important as they define the framework for the DB Group’s future business activities and its long-term commercial success. Economic growth based on increasingly regionalized goods flows Globalization is a key trend on the global markets in which DB operates, primarily via DB Schenker. The international division of labor means that global flows of commodities continue to be important. However, the structure of the emerging economies is changing at the same time as these countries’ domestic markets develop. In the future, flows of goods within these regions will become much more important. For DB, this means strong demand for regionally traded goods DB Schenker’s air freight hub in and rising to the challenge of offering tailored logistics Frankfurt am Main solutions around the world. The domestic market in Europe is also becoming more close-knit. The further liberalization of the European transport markets is opening up new opportunities for option – the company is constantly working to make an DB. At the same time, however, it means that compeimportant contribution towards climate protection. As tition is becoming tougher on DB’s home market in a pioneer in the provision of green products, DB sets Germany. Constantly improving products and services standards for climate-friendly mobility and logistics. will be a pivotal success factor in the liberalized mobility and logistics market of the future. Digital life and intelligent simplicity The uncertainty surrounding future economic develThe smartphone and mobile Internet are the biggest opments presents an additional challenge. The current innovations to emerge in recent years. They provide economic and financial crises risk increasing global the intelligent simplicity which many people long for: economic volatility long term. As a global mobility and people want effortless ways to fulfill their various lifelogistics service provider, it is crucial that DB is flexible styles and needs – products and services should supenough to react to changes in economic developments. port this desire for simplicity instead of making things more complicated. A whole host of new business ideas Climate change and growing scarcity of resources have emerged on the basis of this technology, which Increasing prosperity still means improved quality of will also shape tomorrow’s mobility. Mobility is being life for many societies. However, there will be a stronger made simpler by these technological developments befocus on the negative ecological impact of this trend in cause they enable people to search for and link modes the future. That is because prosperity is still based of transport, book and pay for them, and organize largely on the use of oil and other non-renewable reintelligent alternative routes – all in real time. These sources for the production and transportation of goods. intelligent yet simple technologies will be an even On one hand, this means that natural oil reserves and greater part of people’s everyday lives. other resources are becoming increasingly scarce. On Young people have always set and accelerated imthe other hand, the use of fossil fuels damages the portant trends. For this customer group, the desire climate because it is associated with CO₂ emissions. for simple solutions is already a key factor when they In the future, there will be less and less acceptance chose which mode of transport to use. A pragmatic among customers and society as a whole for business attitude toward mobility sets the current generation of models which do not make a contribution towards mitiyoung people under 30 apart from previous generagating climate change. DB takes climate change very tions. These days, owning a car is no longer a symbol seriously. By increasing rail haulage and linking different of freedom. Instead, the members of this generation modes of transport with rail – which is a very eco-friendly simply combine different modes of transport without 12 tying themselves down with their own car. The trend for the future points towards interlinked mobility – and not just among young people. Providers who can impress customers with intelligent yet simple interlinked travel solutions will play a major role in shaping the mobility market of the future. Demographic change and competition for talented individuals Demographic change and the resulting competition for talented individuals are two important developments in DB’s social environment. Societies in many parts of the world – especially DB’s European home markets – are growing older. As well as facing the challenge of providing forward-looking mobility and logistics solutions … and long-term prospects. for aging societies, we need to consider the impact of demographic change on the labor market. Competition between DB and a large number of other employers is becoming tougher when it comes to hiring the most Regulatory framework suitable talented workers – from recent high-school and As the owner and largest user of Germany’s rail infrauniversity graduates to people with extensive professtructure, the DB Group operates in a strictly regulated sional experience. DB will sharpen its focus on recruiting environment. These regulations primarily govern access to ensure that it can attract enough new staff over the to the infrastructure, charges for its use, and requirecoming years. As people now expect more from life and ments regarding the company’s structure, such as rules our achievement-oriented society demands a great on the independence of the infrastructure operator. It is deal of them, it has become harder to strike a healthy of fundamental importance for DB’s ongoing successful work-life balance. We need to find answers to this development that the regulatory environment continues problem – especially in the light of demographic to allow DB to act entrepreneurially. The main bodies change – to ensure that employees at different stages which regulate the rail sector and its further developof their lives and careers are satisfied. ment in Germany are the German Federal Network Agency for Electricity, Gas, Telecommunications, Post and Railway (BNetzA) and the German Federal Railway Authority (EBA). The year 2012 saw a major development in the fundamental regulatory framework in the shape of a decision to recast Europe’s First Railway Package. The Member States must now translate the directive into national legislation by June 15, 2015. In addition to clarifying various issues and tightening the regulatory framework, the new requirements give railway regulators in Europe a much greater role. Preparations also began for a new European legislative initiative, known as the Fourth Railway Package. The European Commission will submit its proposals for the new package in January 2013. It will include regulations on the liberalization of passenger rail services, the technical interoperability of the European rail system, and the further separation of the rail infrastructure. At national level, the German government passed DB offers various entry-level opportunities … draft legislation reforming regulation in the rail sector in September 2012 and subsequently initiated the parliamentary legislative process. The draft legislation includes the introduction of an incentive system for track usage and station fees as well as tighter regulation of service facilities. There are plans to introduce a specific supervisory body to monitor abuse in the sale of tickets and traction current. 13 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy Realigning the Group’s strategy and objectives 9 DB presented its new sustainability-focused Group strategy, DB2020, to the public at the end of March 2012. The challenge now is to anchor the DB2020 strategy more firmly in the individual business units and put it into practice. Creating a lasting harmony among economic, Integrated system of targets ensures implementation social, and environmental dimensions of the DB2020 strategy With its realigned strategy, DB is tackling tomorrow’s Based on these strategic directions, an integrated system challenges and capitalizing on their potential. The of targets has been defined for the Group and the objective of the DB2020 strategy is to create a lasting business units in connection with the DB2020 strategy. harmony among economic, social, and environmental In this way the strategy can be made more concrete and dimensions. In this way, the company aims to safeguard progress can be measured. Three targets have been set in its long-term commercial success and secure social each of the four strategic directions for a total of twelve acceptance. The firm’s vision is still to become the targets overall. This ensures that the sustainability drive world’s leading mobility and logistics company. To is put into action in a balanced way. achieve this, DB has set itself ambitious targets for all In the strategic direction of customer and quality, three dimensions: it wants to be a profitable market the Group will examine customer satisfaction, product leader, a top employer, and an eco-pioneer by 2020. quality – especially punctuality – and innovativeness. Four strategic directions have been defined spanning Profitable growth will primarily be quantified using key all three aspects: customer and quality, profitable performance indicators such as revenues, ROCE (return growth, cultural change and employee satisfaction, and on capital employed), and free cash flow from operaresource preservation/emissions and noise reduction. tions. When it comes to cultural change and employee Harmony between sustainability dimensions safeguards DB’s long-term success Vision We aim to become the world’s leading mobility and logistics company Sustainable business success and social acceptance Sustainability dimension Profitable market leader Top employer Eco-pioneer Economic dimension Social dimension Environmental dimension Top 1 10 Top Top 1 Strategic direction 1 Customer and quality 3 Cultural change/ 4 Resource preservation/ employee satisfaction emissions and noise reduction 2 Profitable growth 14 Key targets of the DB 2020 strategy by strategic directions Customer satisfaction 1 Customer and quality Innovation activity Product quality Market position 2 Profitable growth Profitability Financial stability Demographic preparedness 3 Cultural change/employee satisfaction Employer attractiveness Employee satisfaction Reduction in CO₂ emissions 4 Resource preservation/emissions and noise reduction Noise reduction Material/resource efficiency satisfaction, the Group will look closely at employees’ Strategic direction: profitable growth work satisfaction, its attractiveness as an employer, DB’s customers expect integrated mobility and logistics and its ability to cope with demographic change. Resolutions from a single source. To meet these expectaducing CO₂ emissions and noise pollution as well as tions, DB needs to proactively further develop its increasing efficiency with regard to materials and retransport networks, capitalize on liberalization opporsources are DB’s most important environmental goals. tunities in the European passenger services industry, and The basic structure of this system of targets applies keep enhancing its productivity and capacity utilization. throughout the Group. The concrete targets and weightSynergies which arise within the integrated Group are ing will be set in a differentiated fashion (“principle leveraged as a matter of course. of internal differentiation”). In this way, the specific Concrete targets point the way towards becoming a challenges faced by the individual business units will be profitable market leader: DB is striving for a leading taken into account. The system of targets should ensure market position by increasing its revenues to € 70 billion that concrete measures can be derived and highlight by 2020. It has set itself the target of at least ten percent any conflicts of aims affecting the Group’s ability to harreturn on capital employed (ROCE), which is of vital monize economic, social, and environmental consideraimportance. The Group also intends to achieve retions. Ongoing steps to monitor target achievement will demption coverage of 30 percent to safeguard its chart the company’s progress in implementing the financial stability. DB2020 strategy. Targets: profitable market leader Economic dimension Leading Appropriate Financial DB wants to become a profitable market leader by 2020. market position returns stability To do this, it needs to offer its customers highest-quality Revenues in € billion ROCE in % Redemption coverage in % mobility and logistics solutions. It is concentrating on two strategic strategic directions in this regard: customer ≥ 70 ≥ 10% ≥ 30% and quality remain a priority, along with maintaining its profitable growth path. Strategic direction: customer and quality 6% 18% 34.4 +100 % DB wants to impress its customers with an outstanding offering and first-class products. It is investing heavily to achieve this. The company aims to invest a total of € 86 billion (€ 34 billion of which will be own funds) in the period between 2010 and 2020. The majority of this will go towards infrastructure, followed by investments 2010 2020 2010 2020 2010 2020 in passenger services and the transport and logistics segment. DB is also striving to boost customer satisfacSocial dimension tion by making ongoing improvements and providing By 2020, DB wants to be one of the top ten employers comprehensive information and a first-class service. In in Germany and also be a top-ranked employer in interterms of innovativeness, the focus is on developing national markets, making it a prime employer. This will new products and services which cater to tomorrow’s enable DB to attract and retain qualified staff who are requirements, such as intelligent simplicity. enthusiastic about working for the company and its 15 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy customers. To achieve this goal, the Group will keep Targets: eco-pioneer working to bring about a cultural change. DB wants to Specific Share of renewable Rail noise substantially increase employee satisfaction and its CO₂ emissions DB energy in the DB rail attractiveness as an employer. energy mix DB has initiated the process of changing its corporate culture by means of numerous central and regional ≥ 35% events. Intensive dialog between executives and em–20% –50% ployees forms a central part of this change. This also forms the basis for embedding a new understanding of leadership, which places greater emphasis 20% +75% on elements such as leading by example and inspiration. The new approach is founded on a spirit of cooperation which seeks to recognize individuals, incorporate their skills, as well as create an atmosphere of partnership and mutual respect. By breathing life into this new corporate 2006 2020 2010 2020 2000 2020 culture, DB hopes to achieve its aim of significantly improving employee satisfaction. In response to the growing need for qualified workers and skilled staff, DB needs to intensify its efforts to retain DB has attracted additional customers and helped employees and promote staff development, thereby to reduce CO₂ emissions with its green products, its making it more attractive as an employer and making it “Umwelt-Plus” passenger services, and “Eco Solutions” prepared for demographic change. This means offering in the field of transportation and logistics. The company people prospects at every stage of their careers and lives hopes to further establish its green products and and finding answers to employees’ changing values. This actively generate demand by marketing them more aspect of the company is becoming increasingly imporintensively. tant, especially in the light of demographic challenges DB is working hard to reduce noise pollution with and as the organization works towards promoting growth. a wide range of measures. It aims to halve the amount of noise associated with rail transport by 2020, as Environmental dimension compared with 2000. DB aims to become an eco-pioneer by 2020, primarily DB also intends to make substantially more efficient by reducing its CO₂ emissions and the amount of noise use of materials and resources. A concrete target is pollution generated by rail transportation. With this in currently being developed. mind, its products set standards in the efficient use of available resources. Environmental friendliness is part System of targets reflected in employee incentives of DB’s brand promise and mission statement. Rail is The DB Group has never had such a broad, far-reaching already substantially eco-friendlier than other modes system of targets. As part of the annual planning process, of transport. goals were set for every aspect of the new system of DB’s prime objective in this strategic direction is targets and introduced in the business units in the reto cut the company’s specific global CO₂ emissions by porting year. This enabled the company to gather initial 20 percent between 2006 and 2020. This means noexperience, which will be used to continue developing ticeably reducing the emissions produced by all modes the system of targets on an ongoing basis. The relevant of transport in relation to transport volume. To achieve data collection processes used to constantly monitor this, DB intends to increase energy efficiency in its target achievement are meanwhile being expanded operations and production activities and by renewing and optimized. its fleets of vehicles. In addition, the percentage of Elements of the new system of targets will play a key renewable energies used for traction current is targeted role in performance-related remuneration in the future. to rise to at least 35 percent by 2020. The aim is to use In financial year 2013, customer and employee satis100 percent renewable energy by 2050 to make rail faction plus environmental considerations will play a transport in Germany CO₂-free. key role in determining performance-related pay, in addition to economic KPIs. Approximately 3,000 managerial-level employees and 1,700 employees not covered by collective-bargaining agreements receive a variable end-­of-year bonus at the DB Group. The DB2020 strategy will be incorporated into the bonus system via Group and business unit components and, in some cases, through the personal targets set for staff. 16 Anchoring sustainability management in the Group structure  Sustainability is a core consideration at the DB Group. It is anchored in DB’s organizational structure, mission statement, Group directives, and draft resolutions. Sustainability is embedded in the entire company May 2012 the Sustainability Competence Center has The issue of sustainability is not just dealt with in the met seven times in 2012. DB has also established the DB2020 strategy – it is anchored in the DB Group’s Sustainability Management department as part of its organizational structure as well. In the reporting year, Corporate strategy activities. The department’s remit the position of Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO) was includes developing general regulations relating to susintroduced. The CSO is responsible for sustainability tainability for the DB Group. It additionally supports issues throughout the DB Group. Dr. Karl-Friedrich and oversees their Group-wide implementation. Rausch, member of the Management Board responsible for Transport and Logistics at DB Mobility Logistics AG, DB2020 strategy is also an integral part of the was appointed to the new position. DB has also estabmission statement and Group directives lished the Sustainability Competence Center – a comThe three aspects of the DB2020 strategy have been mittee where all key business areas are represented by incorporated into DB’s mission statement and Group the executives of the Group’s specialist departments. directives. The Competence Center operates within a framework The mission statement reads: “We build our position defined by the Group Management Board and is overof leadership along the economic, social and environseen by the Head of Corporate Strategy. It serves as mental dimensions of sustainability. We harmonize a Group-wide steering and coordination body for all these dimensions to ensure the sustainable business sustainability-related issues and projects, especially success of our company as well as its social acceptthose which span several divisions and business units. ance.” As a consequence, all resolutions by the Group The specialist departments and business units are still Management Board starting with this reporting year responsible for the content of such initiatives. In addihave included details of social and environmental tion, the Competence Center sets up working groups impacts in addition to the usual assessment of the dedicated to specific issues. Since its establishment in financial and staff-related consequences. Anchoring sustainability in the organization Management Board Dr. Karl-Friedrich Rausch Member of the Management Board responsible for Transport and Logistics Chief Sustainability Officer Sustainability Management Competence Center Operations Management Competence Center Head of Head of Sustainability Management Corporate Strategy and Corporate Foresight Members Head of Procurement Head of Management Representative for Senior Vice President Strategy DB Schenker Chief Compliance Officer Competition and Regulatory Affairs Senior Vice President Corporate Head of Corporate Controlling Head of Strategy Passenger Transport Communications  Head of HR Programs and Projects Head of Strategy Board Divison T, Senior Vice President Group Strategy Rail Technology and Services Infrastructure and Service Sectors Head of Environmental Center 17 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 01 Successfully implementing the DB2020 strategy Communicating with stakeholders  In order to create a basis for future dialog with stakeholders, DB has published a stakeholder charter. The first DB Sustainability Day was held in December 2012. Transparent stakeholder dialog is important to DB. For example, private customers can regularly air their views via the DB Advisory Board and by taking surveys. DB seeks to use opportunities for a comprehensive Its role is to question the DB Group’s viewpoints, dialog with its stakeholders discuss them with the Management Board, and support DB sees itself as part of society and of public life. dialog with the professional public. Broad-based social acceptance is therefore crucial for Stakeholder dialog is nothing new for DB – what is new, its activities and its commercial success. however, is the Group-wide discourse on the subject. To be perceived as a sustainable company, the Group This is designed to make the various units’ stakeholder needs to pursue dialog with its stakeholders at eye level activities more transparent. Furthermore, the Group aims and maintain a trusting relationship with them based to conduct its stakeholder dialog based on comparable on integrity, continuity, and transparency. DB sees this principles and include all stakeholder groups in the dialog as an opportunity to promote understanding for process. its own views. At the same time, it gives the company DB has set out these principles in a charter dedicated information and input for a sustainable approach to to treating its stakeholders responsibly. Among other business. DB proactively enters into direct dialog with things, the charter states that: a wide range of different individuals and groups. StakePlacing certain expectations on a company is legitimate holder communication at DB includes activities such and is something that DB welcomes. as discussions, workshops, surveys, and dialog events. Stakeholders provide important information about Important bodies in this context are the Customer what is expected of DB. They are important as they Committee and DB Advisory Board. The latter is a enable the DB to develop solutions together at an early group composed of well-respected individuals from stage. academia and business. DB Advisory Board was esAny conflicts are assessed in the context of corporate tablished in 2002 as a source of independent advice. and social responsibility and resolved consensually wherever possible. 18 DB’s key stakeholder groups Private travelers in passenger transport Business customers in passenger transport, Members of the transport and logistics, media/press and infrastructure Private customers General Business public/media customers Interest groups, Policy-makers and NGOs, citizens’ Interest Policy makers authorities at the initiatives, the groups/experts and regulators EU, federal, state scientific community and community level Suppliers Employees Investors Suppliers, transport Employees and subcontractors executives, works Owner, credit institutions, councils, unions banks, institutional investors In the future, DB wants to take an even closer, more DB has learned: targeted look at its various stakeholders’ expectations more transparency for “Stuttgart 21” project and become more proactive in this regard. This is imThe “Stuttgart 21” construction project featured portant because a wide range of expectations is placed prominently in discussions in 2012. These discussions on the company, some of which are contradictory. are ongoing. DB has learned from its experience in the earlier disputes and is now ensuring that comFocusing on issues relevant to stakeholders prehensive information about this important infraDB wants to record its stakeholders’ various expectations structure project is provided in a timely fashion. In as precisely as possible so that it can discuss these and this way, DB is participating in a transparent, constructake appropriate action. For this reason, the company tive discussion of the work to extend the railway line. is constantly refining the tools it uses to determine and The company’s priority is to openly provide people categorize these expectations. The Group is monitoring living in and around Stuttgart with important inforstakeholders’ reactions to its DB2020 strategy, for inmation. This includes details of funding contracts, stance. This process is also being continually improved building laws and regulations, disruptions during spein relation to other issues. It enables DB to see which cific construction phases, and even the contractors issues are important to various stakeholder groups, which have been hired. DB uses the possibilities proallowing it to address them accordingly. vided by the Internet to keep the public informed. An analysis of dialog activities in recent years revealed The company is also involved in the coordination five topics of prime importance from our stakeholders’ committee of a public forum called “BürgerFORUM,” point of view: which was established as a result of the arbitration Optimization of the areas of customer and quality in proceedings. Representatives of DB regularly take part passenger services and freight transport in expert forums examining specialist topics, which Europe-wide liberalization and developments in the are broadcast live online. This makes the debate comregulatory framework prehensible and interactive. Reduction of environmental impacts and noise pollution It always has been – and remains – important to Strengthening DB’s position as an attractive employer DB to involve external experts prior to any formal Infrastructure development and funding proceedings. The company also aims to include the public as early on as possible. DB’s information events are aimed at both political mandate holders and members of the public. 19 Charter for responsible dealings between DB Group and its stakeholders 1. Fundamental definition As a mobility and logistics company which operates in Germany and bilateral and personal contact (answering questions, sharing around the world, DB is committed to doing business sustainably, information and data, etc. verbally and in writing), responsibly, and transparently. Stakeholders provide important inand long-term, organized dialog with stakeholders (e.g. events, formation about what legitimate expectations are made of DB. joint projects, partnerships, research). 2. Definition of stakeholder groups 8. Principles of fair dialog DB defines stakeholder groups as loose or legally constituted (interTo guarantee a fair dialog with stakeholders, DB is guided by the nal and external) groups of people and/or organizations/companies/ following principles: individuals who have certain expectations of DB – regardless of consistency and reliability; keeping its promises. If the underlying where they are based and their sphere of activity. conditions change fundamentally or new facts emerge, this must be communicated. 3. List of stakeholder groups Transparency: the information provided is complete and up DB’s key stakeholder groups are employees (employees and executo date. tives, works councils and unions), private and business customers, Relevance: DB voluntarily shares significant information about investors, policy-makers and regulators (e.g. policy-makers and topics which are relevant to stakeholder groups. authorities at the EU, federal, state and community level), suppliers, Advance information/regularity: details of new developments the general public/media (e.g. journalists), interest groups and exwhich emerge are made available to interested stakeholder perts (e.g. interest groups, NGOs, citizens’ initiatives, the sciengroups as early on as possible. tific community). Comprehensibility: DB fosters stakeholder dialog by using understandable language and/or data formats to communicate 4. Expectations information. Placing certain expectations on a company is legitimate and is Integrity: DB is committed to maintaining an honest dialog with something that DB welcomes. The expectations and interests exits stakeholders pressed by stakeholders provide important information which can This does not affect its legal obligations and entitlements with be evaluated during the corporate decision-making process and can respect to certain stakeholders or individuals. subsequently be used as a benchmark for the steps which are taken. They are important because they clarify different interests and enable 9. Dialog process the DB to develop solutions together at an early stage as necessary. DB maintains public as well as confidential/non-public dialog. The type of dialog envisaged by DB in each case is shared with the 5. Decision-making responsibility stakeholder(s) prior to (if possible) or at the beginning of the The responsibility for corporate decision-making rests with the dialog process so that they can decide whether to proceed. A corporate management bodies and representatives. They assess mutual decision is reached once the dialog process has been comany conflicts between the stakeholders and DB Group as well as pleted – or earlier – as to whether the outcome should be docubetween the different stakeholders in line with corporate and mented and in what form the content and results should be social responsibility principles and help to resolve issues to the utilized. Should disagreements subsequently arise as to the subsatisfaction of everyone concerned wherever possible. ject and outcome of a dialog, the process can be initiated again from the beginning if necessary. 6. Objectives of stakeholder dialog For this purpose, DB provides ongoing, transparent information 10. Limits of dialog and talks collaboratively with its stakeholders with the following Dialog does not extend to legitimate business interests, third-party aims in mind: rights, or the obstruction of an ongoing internal discussion and listening to what is expected of the company, learning from decision-making process. DB also ensures that no information is one another, jointly developing solutions, provided to stakeholders that first has to be presented to other providing information to affected and interested stakeholders parts of the Group or bodies within it in line with legal or internal about corporate strategy, targets, and decisions, regulations. and maintaining an open, constructive two-way dialog of different positions between stakeholders and DB Group. 11. Shared principles In order that the dialog functions properly, both parties need to 7. Dialog tools be guided by the same principles. DB expects its stakeholders to The main stakeholder dialog tools are: behave openly and trustingly in a way which fulfills the same press and public relations work (e.g. press releases, press constandards as DB has set itself. ferences, online information, pamphlets, newsletters, etc.), Charter for responsible dealings between DB Group and its stakeholders published on December 5, 2012 as part of DB Sustainability Day 20 Stakeholder dialog takes place at national and international level The importance of Germany as a market for DB is reflected in the intensity of its stakeholder dialog there. DB’s dialog activities are not limited to Germany, however. The company uses various tools to communicate with key stakeholders around the world. These include personal top-level talks, regular working meetings, numerous joint specialist events, and committee work – with groups such as passengers, public authorities, other transport companies, industry, and academics, Stakeholder Q&A with the DB Management Board about for example. The two-day workshop “Passengers, the the DB2020 strategy at the 2012 Sustainability Day Environment, and Transport” has proved to be a successful dialog format. It has been held every year since 1997. Approximately 50 representatives of passenger and environmental associations as well as associations level vis-à-vis political and administrative institutions for the disabled from around 30 institutions attended and political parties, associations, and the scientific the most recent workshop. fields relevant to the company. In this way, it aims to DB strives to make company decisions transparent make a constructive contribution towards the opinwith its stakeholder dialog activities, thereby fostering ion-forming process with objective arguments. trust. They also aim to provide an opportunity for stakeThe principles of the stakeholder charter also apply to holders to enter into a discussion with decision-makers. dialog with policy-makers. In addition to this, DB has set strict internal standards for its involvement in political Very positive response to first DB Sustainability Day processes. These are laid out in the “Corporate Principles – Approximately 100 representatives of all DB’s stakeEthics – Code of Conduct” (DB Code of Conduct), which holder groups attended the first DB Sustainability Day apply throughout the Group. Among other things, this in Berlin and Potsdam on December 5 and 6, 2012. The document stipulates how to handle monetary and non-­ objective of this pilot event was to provide a platform monetary gifts of all kinds and donations. for a far-reaching dialog with all stakeholder groups. A survey of the participants conducted at the end Social media have a fixed place in communication showed that they considered the event to be relevant. DB is constantly expanding its online communication When asked about their main reasons for participating activities. Various social media channels have been in the Sustainability Day, attendees cited to build up an integral part in corporate communications since and expand the social and business network along with December 2011, when a Group-wide team of experts an interest in information about DB’s sustainability was set up. The Group’s aims here include extending its strategy and in other stakeholder representatives’ dialog in line with specific media and target group reviews and expectations. quirements, developing stable relationships with customers, and getting users involved by means of regular Dialog with politicians is strictly regulated campaigns. Open, transparent, and personal communiAs a major mobility and logistics service provider, DB cation with Internet users is an important objective. is subject to a virtually unparalleled level of public and political scrutiny. The company is therefore often asked to take part in public debates. DB adopts its own stance on transport policy at national and international Dr. Richard Lutz, CFO, during a discussion about financing infrastructure 21 22 “DB can set an example in the energy turnaround” Former German Secretary of State Joschka Fischer talks about the need for sustainable business and how Deutsche Bahn can set a positive example. A sustainable approach to business is not a luxury. It is absolutely essential if we want to overcome the challenges of the 21st century. If everyone on earth is rightly striving for the prosperity which we in the developed nations have already achieved, we must be the first to make a move and go far beyond our current level of efficiency. This is not just a means of helping to distribute resources fairly. Leading by example is also the only way we can convince emerging economies of the long-term advantages of sustainable business, for instance. Joschka Fischer, In order to make the best possible use of the dwindling former Secretary of State of Germany ecological opportunities, we need to sever the interdependence of economic growth and the exploitation of resources. The energy turnaround is a major step towards doing this, and mobility is one of the areas where its effects will be obvious to everyone. As a growth market which still uses far too much fossil energy, it presents a great opportunity to move this turnaround forwards. Green long-distance travel sends out a clear signal to the public in this context, with every holder of a BahnCard – or rail card – making a contribution towards reducing CO₂ emissions. However, there is more to sustainability than the environment. The Deutsche Bahn strategy, DB2020, is exemplary in showing that we need a cultural shift towards greater humanity which does not relinquish economic interests but places them on a par with ecological and social considerations. This also means adopting a corporate culture that enables women to rise to managerial positions, for instance, by making it easier to reconcile their professional and family commitments. Deutsche Bahn is predestined to serve as an example here, not just because of its size. The fact that the German government is the sole owner of the integrated Group also means that it has to act particularly responsibly. On top of this, DB is constantly subject to critical public scrutiny more than any other company in Germany. It therefore forms a nucleus from which the principle of sustainability can spread throughout Germany, Europe, and around the world. The DB2020 strategy is the best possible starting point. If Deutsche Bahn makes this crucial contribution, it will have done a lot to increase global prosperity. I wish the company every success in achieving this goal. 23 Frankfurt am Main Central Station: Ulrich Homburg, Member of the Management Board responsible for Passenger Transport, meets Heinz-Hermann Hoops, a member of DB’s Customer Committee. 02 Achieving profitable market leadership As a profitable market leader, DB offers its customers firstclass mobility and logistics solutions. Two strategic directions are of prime importance in this regard: continuing to focus strongly on customer and quality, and maintaining a profitable growth path. 25 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Defining targets and areas for action As part of its DB2020 strategy, DB has set itself the goal of becoming a profitable market leader because profitable growth safeguards the company’s competitiveness and its future. At the same time, DB is consistently working to maintain the highest levels of customer satisfaction and product quality. DB is on course for growth on an international scale so that it will be able to offer its customers first-rate It is DB’s vision to become the world’s leading mobility services in the future as well. and logistics company. In order to become a leading With its global network and broad range of products, player in the various markets, the company’s business DB has a varied customer base. It is important to the units must grow profitably. As an integrated Group, DB company to offer each and every customer the best is constantly developing the overall railway system in possible service and high-quality products. Germany further. DB is in a good position to achieve its objective of DB Bahn: the comfortable way to go on vacation, becoming a profitable market leader. It has embarked commute, or travel during leisure time on a clear growth path, which translated into higher DB Bahn is the divisional brand for the Group’s passenger revenues, profits, and return on investment (ROI) in transport services. It includes services and products the 2012 reporting year, despite economic challenges. throughout the travel chain, such as ICE (high-speed Cash flow also developed positively. DB already occupies trains), IC (inter-city rail services), regional connections, leading positions in the various mobility and logistics S-Bahn (suburban railways), Call a Bike, Flinkster (car markets around the world. sharing), and bus services. The range of passenger services is geared towards the needs of individual cusLiving up to different customers’ high expectations tomer groups: DB Bahn serves everyone from business On the way towards becoming a profitable market travelers and commuters to families, vacationers, and leader, DB is continuing to focus strongly on customer handicapped passengers. Purchasers of public local satisfaction. DB aims to fulfill the expectations of its transport services – such as regional and local authorities customers – who all have different needs – by running or their commissioners – are another important punctual connections, providing comprehensive inforgroup of clients, as these issue tenders for regional mation, and investing heavily in its fleet and infrastrucand urban transport services. ture. In addition to this, DB is pushing innovations DB Bahn’s customer base ranges from business travelers and commuters to families and vacationers. 26 Loading air freight in reefers at Frankfurt-Hahn Airport DB Schenker: integrated logistics and global units at the stations, and – in the case of DB Energy – freight transport customers from industry, trade, and the service sector. The divisional brand DB Schenker pools the Group’s DB’s infrastructure can be used by all train-operating world­wide transport and logistics offerings. It has several companies authorized to operate in Germany. hundred thousand clients, ranging from trading and industrial companies to family-run firms to multinational groups. DB Schenker offers individual logistics solutions for a wide variety of client groups. Large-scale customers stand to gain the most from DB Schenker’s extensive industry expertise and integrated solutions. Especially companies in the steel, automotive, chemical, construction, and consumer goods industries as well as energy suppliers are among DB Schenker Rail’s key accounts. DB Schenker Logistics provides special industry solutions aimed specifically at clients from the automotive, electronics, and consumer goods sectors. In addition to this, DB Schenker Logistics boasts particular experience with special requirements, e.g. for the logistics of expos or major sporting events. DB Netze: reliable infrastructure for train-operating companies Reliable and innovative large-scale transport and energy networks are developed and marketed under the DB Netze brand. They include Europe’s longest and highest-­ performing rail network, railway stations in Germany, and a stable energy network. These services are priDB Schenker Rail offers its clients marily used by train-operating companies. However, individual industry solutions. the division’s clients also include tenants who rent 27 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Heightening customer satisfaction Satisfied customers and high-quality products are crucial if DB is to remain a profitable market leader in the long term. It is therefore investing in its fleet of vehicles, infrastructure, and innovative products – with the aim of further heightening customer satisfaction and punctuality. Approximately 3,000 service staff are available at stations to provide DB customers with assistance. High quality paves the way for customer satisfaction services. In the year under review, DB spent € 298 million DB strives to offer its customers first-rate mobility and on this program. Of this total, € 150 million were inlogistics solutions because customer satisfaction is the vestments. DB’s performance in the key aspects of opkey to sustainable growth. In order to safeguard this, erational stability and customer satisfaction developed DB is constantly optimizing its services. positively in many areas. However, it is prone to fluctuaImportant factors for customer satisfaction at DB tion over the course of the year due to unusual events are reliability, customer information, service quality, and challenges. Since 2009, the company has met all and offering innovative products. the quality targets set out in its Servicing and Financing To guarantee good quality in general, continuous inAgreement (LuFV) with the German government, which vestments must be made in the fleet of vehicles and relates to the country’s existing network of railways. infrastructure. Quality problems – such as service Three key performance indicators (KPIs) were anchored disruption caused by winter weather – have a negative in the Group-wide system of targets in 2012 to enable DB impact on customer satisfaction. DB is very aware of to measure and manage its own quality standards more the responsibility it has for its customers. A large numefficiently. These are customer satisfaction, product ber of projects to stabilize operating conditions during quality, and innovation. adverse winter weather have already been completed and new solutions have been developed. Assessing customer satisfaction provides the basis for improvements  Ongoing focus on customer and quality DB sets great store by its customers’ opinions. Customer Under the leadership of the Group Management Board, satisfaction surveys play an important role in every DB continued to pursue its customer and quality initiabusiness unit. The company uses the surveys’ findings tive in 2012, which was launched in 2010. With its help, to take appropriate action to bring about improvements. steps are being taken to boost customer satisfaction Data on customer satisfaction is collected and evaluated and to increase the operational stability of DB’s rail by independent market research institutes on behalf of 28 DB. They conduct up to six waves of surveys each year, Overview of punctuality figures for rail services1  which involves contacting passengers and business partners by phone, in person, and online. This gives apin percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 proximately 140,000 passengers and 1,800 business DB Bahn Long-Distance (high-frequency lines) 79.1 80.0 72.6 partners the chance to have their say. In the Transport and Logistics division, more than 800 of DB Schenker DB Bahn Regional Rail’s business partners in Europe take part in the survey – Regional trains² 93.3 93.2 89.6 process every year. At DB Arriva (UK Trains, Bus), – S-Bahn suburban rail services customer satisfaction is measured using a specially (alternating current)² 95.6 95.5 94.9 commissioned survey and via annual research conducted – S-Bahn suburban rail services (direct current)² 96.9 98.0 97.0 by the independent British passenger association DB Arriva³ 91.9 93.6 91.9 Passenger Focus. Viewed as a whole, this points towards a stable level of overall satisfaction with DB’s inDB Schenker Rail (Europe) 69.9 68.0 –⁵ dividual business units. The results reflect the respondDB Netze Track – all train-operating companies (Germany) 94.3⁴ 94.4⁴ –⁵ ents’ satisfaction with specific services and/or their current journey. The customer satisfaction surveys are 1)  Reporting year, Germany Punctuality criteria for passenger transport < 6 min. delay (except DB Arriva) being expanded successively. For example, DB Schenker and freight transport < 16 min. delay Logistics initiated a survey of clients in its global netBecause a different method was used, the figures for 2010 are not directly 2) work in fall 2012. There are also plans for the first 3) comparable with subsequent years. Denmark, UK, Netherlands, Poland, Sweden; study looking at bus passenger satisfaction in 2013. punctuality criteria depend on the transport contract Unlike in the Annual Report 2012, this includes S-Bahn suburban rail services 4)  Customer satisfaction at DB at a glance  using direct current (Berlin and Hamburg). Because a different method was used, no figure for 2010 available. 5)  using a satisfaction index (SI)¹ 2012 2011 2010 Punctuality figures remain stable DB Bahn Long-Distance (current journey) 75 76 74 Punctuality is a key consideration when customers rate DB Bahn Long-Distance 63 62 61 product quality, especially in the rail sector. DB’s perDB Bahn Regional² (current journey) 76 77 76 formance in this regard is at a consistently high level DB Bahn Regional² 67 66 67 on regional services. Long-distance services do not meet this high standard of punctuality because they DB Bahn Sales³ 82 80 83 span the whole country. The percentage of on-time DB Arriva 84 83 83 services fell from 80.0 percent (2011) to 79.1 percent DB Schenker Rail⁴ 63 62 – in the reporting year, largely due to infrastructure and vehicle faults. In this context, the key challenges are DB Netze Track 73 74 73 safeguarding connections, maintaining the mobility DB Netze Stations chain, and keeping DB customers informed. – Passengers and visitors 69 68 68 Punctuality is also a central indicator of product – Train-operating companies and purchasing quality in freight transport, especially in the rail sector. authorities 59 56 53 In the year under review, DB Schenker Rail improved its – Tenants 73 74 70 punctuality in Europe by nearly two percentage points compared with 2011 (from 68.0 to 69.9 percent). AnDB Netze Energy 77 77 76 other major challenge in a highly competitive market Reporting year, Germany environment is the reliable processing of consignments 1) Satisfaction is rated on a scale of 1 to 6, with 1 being very good (except at DB Schenker Rail, where a scale of 1 to 7 is used). The resulting scores are across national and cultural boundaries. transferred to a satisfaction index(SI). This converts the scores using a new scale of 0 (very dissatisfied) to 100 (very satisfied). Systematic drive to innovate Figures for DB Arriva are based on the weighted individual scores for UK Bus (excluding London because no survey was completed there) and UK Trains. Intelligent simplicity, demographic change, and climate The scores reported are translated into the SI. change are important trends which DB must react to 2) Comprises regional rail services (excluding buses) with innovative solutions. This does not just mean de3) Satisfaction with the current purchase (sales channels) 4) Europe, no survey conducted in 2010 veloping and launching new products – it also means novel processes and business models. In response, DB wants to anchor innovations even more deeply and systematically in its business activities. To achieve this, it also aims to strengthen its culture of innovation. 29 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Investing in technology and infrastructure Reliability is one of DB’s primary quality criteria. For this reason, the Group works hard to maintain the full technical functionality and availability of its fleets of vehicles. On top of this, less weather-related disruption to operations and modern station equipment significantly enhance reliability. DB trains’ design and technology are being DB invests heavily in rail infrastructure modernized Reliable transport needs a sound infrastructure. At DB, DB is investing heavily in a modern fleet of vehicles: this means the rail network, energy supply, and stations. the technology, design, and specifications of the ICE 2 In the year under review, DB invested € 4.4 billion in are all being modernized by mid-2013 at a cost of over structures such as tunnels or bridges and in control and € 100 million. By the end of 2014, approximately 770 safety systems. A total of 29 electronic interlockings becarriages used for InterCity services will be revamped came operational and numerous bridges were renovated. using a design resembling the ICE and given a technical One of the largest projects was the Rheinvorlandbrücke overhaul, costing € 250 million. Work has also started near Worms, Germany. In addition, approximately to fit the ICE T with the modern European Train Control 3,400 kilometers of track and 1,900 switches were refurSystem (ETCS). In addition, 100 electric multiple-­unit bished. At the same time, some 2.4 million new crosstrains for local transport and 21 double-deck coaches ties were laid and around 3.9 million tons of ballast were bought for € 470 million in 2012. The first 75 of well were processed. Strong efforts and further substantial over 400 double-deck coaches were fitted with more investments will be needed in the coming years to safemodern passenger compartments. guard the quality and availability of the rail network. In 2012, bottlenecks in the availability of vehicle fleets were primarily caused by delays in both approving Better integration of rail and sea transport and delivering new vehicles. In the regional transport DB and the German government launched the immediate sector, this affected the Talent 2 (ET 442), which had action program “Seaport Hinterland Transport” in 2008 been scheduled to operate in many areas as early as to optimize links between ports and rail services and to 2010 and 2011. The ICE 3 series 407 has not yet been boost route capacity. This program is part of the “Freight approved, affecting long-distance services. It was origiTransport and Logistics Master Plan” designed to ennally due to be used from December 2011 onwards, hance Germany’s standing as a logistics hub with a total primarily for international routes and to relieve presinvestment volume exceeding € 300 million. In the resure on domestic services. When it will be cleared to porting year, measures were largely implemented in the operate remains uncertain. Bremen area, on the Hamburg–Berlin route, and on the Nuremberg–Passau main line. On the new Munich–Berlin route, the bridge being built to span the Saale-Elster valley will be the longest rail bridge in Germany, spanning 6.5 km. 30 Work to modernize stations continues units are now available to prevent delays to mainteBy 2013, 260 stations are due to be modernized as nance work in the long-distance services. The number of part of the German government’s infrastructure imheating units at DB Bahn Regional has been increased provement acceleration program (IBP) initiated at the to 287 and there are now 18 external cleaning facilities beginning of 2012. The IBP provides extra funding of with thawing equipment. Another eleven snow-clearing € 100 million in addition to the € 700 million DB invests vehicles have been added to the DB Netze Track fleet, in maintaining and modernizing stations every year. The taking the number to 62. More than 21,000 DB staff planned improvements focus on the stations’ overall apmembers and external service providers are also on hand pearance, safety, passenger information, and wheelchair to clear snow and ice from platforms and tracks and to accessibility. As part of the program, platforms are beensure safe operations in difficult weather conditions. ing raised or rebuilt and new elevators and escalators are being installed. In addition to this, lighting, sound Central management speeds up international equipment, and passenger information systems are betransport processes ing fitted and shelters built. DB Schenker Rail introduced European Operations Management (EUROM) in 2012 – an international production Better equipped for wintry temperatures and transport management system which enables conDB has worked hard to put staffing, technical, and orsignments to be handled faster and more efficiently ganizational measures in place to guard against weatheracross borders. In the year under review, the program was related disruption to its operations. Despite lengthy rolled out for all intermodal and automotive services periods of cold weather in winter 2012/2013 with a on the North–South axis, including Alpine transits. great deal of snow and ice, DB was able to offer its customers a stable service to a large extent. In direct comparison with the severe disruption to air and road traffic, rail services suffered from comparatively few cancellations, even on days with extreme weather. Eight thawing Providing more customer information The workflows involved in transporting cargo and people every day are complex. DB’s aim to provide its customers with detailed information as quickly as possible therefore poses a challenge. The company is constantly working on long-term solutions in this field. DB provides a wide range of modern media to inform customers as simply as possible and provide a good level of service. Modern communication channels for prompt Information for bus passengers has also been optiinformation mized. For instance, DB Bahn Regional introduced a As more and more passengers are using their smartcomputer-aided control system – known as “RBL-Light” – phones while they travel, DB has expanded its email in 2012 and fitted it in a number of buses. This improves alert service for delays and disruption. Customers can connections between buses and trains and provides now register at www.bahn.de for information about up passengers with more detailed information. The majority to six connections without having to book a ticket on of DB’s fleet of buses is to be retrofitted by 2014. those routes. Travelers who buy their tickets offline also benefit Dynamic visual display units at around 3,000 stations from the new service. They can request emails about DB now uses dynamic visual display units to tell traveldelays of ten minutes or more. This is particularly useers about deviations from the train timetable at small ful for commuters: they can set up alerts for several stations as well. The information is automatically genregular connections over an extended period of time. If erated and forwarded. A total of around 3,900 stations there is a risk of passengers missing a connection, DB now have dynamic visual display units and other elecinforms customers who have registered with the service tronic displays. By the end of 2015, almost all stations and suggests alternatives. are due to be equipped with electronic customer in31 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership New DB Schenker website dbschenker.com formation systems. This will mean that electronic Online tools show the environmental impact of displays or announcements reach 99.8 percent of rail passenger and freight transport customers. Firms can use EcoTransIT World to calculate how many harmful substances their shipments generate and deterBahn.de now includes international connections mine their environmental impact. This tool enables The new, clearer user interface at www.bahn.de makes clients to gauge emissions on all routes around the it easier to buy tickets or exchange them, for example. world, for all modes of transport. It is available online at The “Saver Fare Finder” can now also be used to find www.ecotransit.org. international connections and the DB online travel adIn the passenger transport segment, DB’s “Eco-movisor gives travelers even more personalized support in bility check” tool on the www.bahn.de/umc website just a few steps. In particular, DB has improved its shows customers which mode of transport is the most website for mobile devices such as tablet computers. environmentally friendly on their selected route. This can be used to compare the environmental impact of DB Schenker makes its website even more traveling by rail, car, and plane in relation to journey user-­friendly time, energy consumption, and emissions of CO₂ and In the transport and logistics segment, the company other harmful substances. has completely overhauled the www.dbschenker.com website. Thanks to a user-friendly interface, customers Consignments can be tracked globally with the DB can now find product solutions and contact details SCHENKERsmartbox family more simply and directly. In addition to a clearer naviThe DB SCHENKERsmartbox family service offered by gation structure, the website offers a wide range of inDB Schenker Logistics is an individually customizable formation including news and reports. tracking service for shipments sent by air, sea, land, and rail. Customers can not only see online where their goods are, but can also monitor parameters such as room temperature or humidity with the aid of state-ofthe-art technology. 32 Improving service quality Service quality is of crucial importance for the company’s sustainable success. For this reason, DB continuously strives to improve its service. It aims to take each customer group’s specific wishes into account. Critical customer feedback is seen as a chance to learn and initiate improvements. DB Schenker processes customer input individually DB continues to improve barrier-free access At DB Schenker Logistics, there are clearly defined Offering handicapped passengers barrier-free travel contacts and processes for customers around the world wherever possible is an important goal. In the future, relating to the handling of queries and complaints at all newly acquired vehicles for long-distance travel will both branch level or more centralized entities dependbe equipped with integrated boarding aids. Barrier-free ing on customer size. There are also systems in place to access is also considered when designing new trains for support the customer service teams at DB Schenker regional services. DB now ensures that help with Rail, whose work is geared towards the specific industry boarding and alighting is available at stations without in question. With their help, complaints fell by around on-site service staff. To receive this help, passengers 25 percent in the 2012 reporting year. with mobility issues simply contact the Mobility Service Center in advance. Train drivers, customer assistants, DB Dialog deals with feedback from passengers  and service staff at the station will then help passengers The Passenger Transport division has a special business to board and alight the train. Wheelchair access was unit dedicated to communicating with DB’s passengers. provided at an additional 96 stations in the year under DB Dialog – a subsidiary of DB Bahn Sales – processes review. Severely disabled passengers have been able and responds to customer feedback. DB Bahn Sales to use local transport services free of charge since the then systematically records the results and assesses fall of 2011. them. On this basis, the specialist departments initiate appropriate measures to bring about improvements for customers. Delays and uncomfortable traveling conditions accounted for the majority of complaints in 2012. Customer Committee initiates improvements in conjunction with DB  The idea of working together with customers for the customers prompted DB to establish its Customer Committee, which pools customers’ insight and gives them a platform to jointly develop and implement improvements. The Customer Committee has accompanied a number of projects in the past nine years. Several ideas were discussed in 2012, including concepts for sales in 2020 and the new layout of online tickets. In addition to this, the members of the Customer Committee were involved in various projects and workshops at DB, such as initiatives to optimize the information provided at stations and improve communication with customers. A train driver on the S-Bahn RheinNeckar suburban rail service assisting a passenger to board 33 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership attractive deals for families: children under six travel free of charge on long-distance and regional services, except in a few cases where charges apply on integrated transport networks. In addition to this, children under 15 travel for free when accompanied by their own parents or grandparents. Children aged between six and 15 traveling alone receive a 50 percent discount. Award for data protection on DB’s travel apps  Data privacy must not be compromised by the growing use of digital technologies. DB has therefore developed apps which supply extensive information and provide A member of the railway mission accompanying children the best possible protection for customers’ data at the traveling alone – a cooperation program with DB. same time. “DB Tickets” and “DB Navigator” have both been awarded the “Trusted App” stamp of approval by Trains and stations with enhanced child-friendliness the independent rating company mediaTest digital. DB Bahn Regional is making compartments in its reWith this move, the firm certified that both apps treat gional trains more child-friendly in order to improve the users’ data confidentially and sensitively. Furthermore, way it caters for families in the future. When ordering no prohibited data sharing – especially with external new trains, there is the option to commission a children’s servers – takes place at any time. DB’s far-reaching play area. In addition to this, the third of five planned data protection measures prove that it is well aware of children’s lounges opened in Cologne in September its responsibility to its customers. 2012. These facilities can be used by children traveling alone or parents with young children while they wait. The children’s lounges are operated by the respective branch of the railway mission dedicated to offer assistance at stations and are funded by DB. DB also offers Driving innovation forward DB is enhancing its competitiveness by acting on new ideas for products and services. This is particularly clear in relation to environmentally friendly product options, which are proving increasingly popular. DB expands its “green mobility” offering employees will automatically travel using green power When it comes to environmental protection, DB sets on long-­distance trains within Germany. This means that standards in the efficient use of available resources. approximately 75 percent of all long-distance journeys The firm launched its first CO₂-free products in 2009. will be completed using 100 percent eco-friendly power In 2012, 1.6 million employees from more than 100 in the future. 4.9 million customers held a BahnCard as participating companies used the bahn.corporate of the end of 2012, making them part of the customer “Umwelt-Plus” service – a 60 percent rise on 2011. DB base for green rail services. employees using the train for business trips in Germany also travel using 100 percent green energy. Since 2010, Electric mobility for urban areas: DB promotes the same has applied to the S-Bahn suburban rail netsharing concepts work in Hamburg and the local rail services operated DB’s Flinkster program has the most extensive car-sharing by DB in Saarland. In April 2012, private customers network in Germany, with around 3,000 cars in more were offered a green Trial BahnCard, giving passengers than 140 cities. An additional 2,500 cars can be booked the option of traveling CO₂-free by train. Starting in Austria, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. In eight in April 2013, customers with BahnCard rail cards German cities, environmentally conscious customers or temporary travel passes, all business customers can also travel CO₂-free by train and continue their enrolled in the bahn.corporate program and all DB journeys in one of around 70 electric and hybrid cars. 34 Thanks to a cooperation agreement with Citroën from China to Europe: transport time by rail is more Multicity, the approximately 212,000 customers registhan 50 percent faster than ocean shipping and genertered with Flinkster have access to another 100 elecates considerably less CO₂ emissions than air freight. tric cars in Berlin. The potential of these trains is growing as more The Call a Bike system offering 8,900 rental bicycles and more manufacturers are setting up business in had some 537,000 customers in Germany in the reportChina’s hinterland. ing year. These customers can also use 130 pedelecs in Stuttgart and Aachen. DB Train Radar monitors trains in real time DB Netz AG provides real-time information about train movements for some 400 train-operating companies. This is made possible by real-time data relating to specific train numbers, which shows companies where a particular train currently is. The application is designed to optimize operations and is therefore of interest to a large number of DB clients. At present, the DB Train Radar is in the testing phase. Touch&Travel – cellphone tickets for buses and trains Touch&Travel is an intermodal ticketing service for smartphone users which offers a customer-friendly solution for the use of local and long-distance transport services. Now, all users have to do is log in before DB’s e-Flinkster car sharing program their journey starts and log out when it ends. The system calculates the relevant fares and determines the cost of the journey. An invoice at the end of the month lists all Further additions to the fleet of green buses trips in detail; customers pay by direct debit. Even if DB is also pushing environmentally friendly modes of users change from a bus to a train, for example, they transport abroad. DB Arriva has been using hybrid-­ do not need to log in again. Touch&Travel is ideal for powered double-decker buses since March 2007 – makoccasional users of regional and integrated transport ing it the world’s first bus operator to do so – and is services. It also has benefits for flexible long-distance constantly expanding its eco-friendly fleet. In 2012, travelers, BahnCard holders, and business customers. the company bought 77 new hybrid-powered double-­ Customers with the latest generation of phones have deckers. These diesel-electric hybrid buses have 40 to also been able to touch in and out using near-field 50 percent better exhaust gas values than conventional communication contact points since 2012, making the models. They are used in the UK. In addition to this, 21 process even easier. Touch&Travel can be used for all MAN Ecocity gas-powered buses were acquired in DB long-distance services and in the Berlin, Potsdam, 2012, which are fueled by CO₂-neutral biomethane. and Frankfurt city zones. The service was also rolled out in the Rhine-Main integrated transport network and Eco-friendly freight transport gathers speed on the island of Sylt in December 2012. Touch&Travel DB’s business partners in the freight transport sector has been well received by the transport market. The also benefit from the company’s environmental focus. service is being expanded further. DB Schenker offers its customers means of avoiding, reducing, or compensating for CO₂ emissions throughout Customers use innovative dialog formats the supply chain. For rail freight, these include the DB actively seeks dialog with its customers in order to CO₂-free “Eco Plus” option certified by TÜV SÜD. This uses make ongoing improvements. It launched an innovative electricity from 100 percent renewable sources and series of tests in December 2011 – the “Train Lab” – promotes greater use of renewables: ten percent of the which systematically analyze passengers’ wishes and additional revenues go towards a fund for new power-­ suggestions for all kinds of train models. In September generating facilities. Meanwhile, the intermodal trans2012, for example, train fittings and the interior concept port system DB SCHENKERskybridge allows clients to for double-decker coaches were tested in Magdeburg as combine the advantages of air cargo and ocean freight. part of the Train Lab. With the relevant authorities’ apThis significantly reduces CO₂ emissions. Environmenproval, the findings of the tests are taken into account tally friendly land transport solutions are also available when new vehicles are fitted and redesign programs are thanks to the company’s fleet of low-emission vehicles launched. They are also a source of inspiration for inand contract logistics using energy-efficient, sustainable novations. Customers have a say when it comes to delogistics centers. veloping regional bus offerings and products as well. For example, a group of senior citizens was asked to Container train uses the Eurasian Land Bridge walk through a bus as part of a survey. This provided The vast majority of companies move goods between concrete input on what elderly passengers need, such Asia and Europe by ocean vessel or aircraft. Now, DB as the number of grab handles, their preferred seats, or Schenker offers its customers rail logistics solutions the font size for advertisements and flyers. 35 Smartphones and tablet computers make traveling easy Selecting a train and booking a ticket can be so easy. 36 “Paper is a thing of the past,” says Jenny, who’s sitting on the ICE train to Frankfurt as she swipes across the screen of her smartphone. “I can’t forget my ticket anymore. And I don’t need to carry crumpled sheets of A4 paper with printed online tickets around in my handbag either.” Jenny always books tickets using her smartphone nowadays. That way, the ticket is immediately saved and she just has to show the conductor the code on her screen. “It was really easy,” says Jenny. She already had an account with “My Bahn” and she’s been using the “DB Navigator” app to help her out with long-distance and local public transport for three years. “I’m virtually lost without it.” All she had to do was download the free “DB Tickets” app and log in using the access details for her online account, then she could buy a ticket on her smartphone right away. “It’s more of a virtual ticket really.” Because there is no need to print anything out anymore, customers also use less paper and ink. That has a positive effect on their wallet – and her environmental impact too. All this talk has aroused the curiosity of the man sitting next to her. At the moment, he only has the “DB Navigator” on his phone, but he’s already got an account with “My Bahn.” “I’m going to try that right now too. I’ve got to go to Osnabrück next week anyway.” He does a bit of tapping and swiping, and just a few minutes later he has booked his ticket and reserved a seat with very little help from his new acquaintance. Thoughtfully, he looks at the code, which resembles a map for a complicated maze. “It’s so easy,” he says happily. While he is booking his ticket, he comes across the delay alert tool as well. All he has to do is click on the button with the name of the tool. If a train is running more than ten minutes late, he will receive an alert by email or as a push message on his smartphone. “You can even use it for routes you travel on regularly, without having to book a ticket for each individual train,” Jenny points out – “really important for commuters.” 37 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Safeguarding profitable growth Profitable growth gives companies scope to do business sustainably. Consistently utilizing market opportunities and focusing on efficiency improves market presence, the way the firm approaches customers, and competitiveness. As a result, DB has set itself clear targets regarding leading market positions, return on capital employed, and financial stability. Continuous growth safeguards DB’s competitiveness DB’s customers are increasingly looking for integrated mobility and logistics solutions from a single source. This calls for a presence in the relevant markets. Leading market positions in tandem with further profitable growth are therefore crucial for DB’s competitiveness. Access to customers, the range of services, and service efficiency also play an important role. The focus is on proactively further developing the transport networks, capitalizing on opportunities arising from the liberalization of Europe’s railways, and constantly improving capacity utilization and productivity. Targeted growth is generated in line with customers’ needs and the Group’s potential. DB strives for an appropriate level of profitability from the investments it makes. The return on capital employed must at least cover the cost of capital. DB also leverages the potential arising from synergies within the integrated Group. An appropriate level of profitability paired with robust financial policy lays the foundations for financial stability. This meets with external recognition as well: On course for growth: DB Schenker Logistics opened new adequate, stable cash flows and an appropriate capital logistics centers in Europe, China, India, and Mexico in 2012. structure are rewarded with very good credit ratings. Ratings assessments  With this in mind, DB has set itself the goal of beLast ShortLongcoming a profitable market leader by 2020. At a financial First issued confirmation term term Outlook level, this DB Group strategy is expressed through Standard & Poor’s May 16, 2000 Dec. 19, 2012 A-1+ AA stable three concrete targets for 2020: Moody’s May 16, 2000 Jan. 18, 2013 P-1 Aa1 negative Leading market position: growth (revenues) > € 70 billion; this means doubling Fitch Feb. 17, 2009 Feb. 11, 2012 F1+ AA stable revenues within ten years Appropriate profitability: ROCE ≥ 10 percent Financial stability: redemption coverage > 30 percent DB grew profitably in the reporting year DB came a step closer to achieving its targets in 2012, recording increases in its revenues, adjusted operating profit (EBIT), and ROCE. Revenues were up 3.7 percent compared to 2011 at € 39.3 billion. Nearly all business units contributed towards this growth. DB Schenker Logistics, DB Arriva, and DB Bahn Long-Distance saw the largest absolute increases. 38 Revenues by business unit  2012 2011 Total revenues External revenues € million Total revenues External revenues Total revenues External revenues ∆ absolute ∆ in % ∆ absolute ∆ in % DB Bahn Long-Distance 4,074 3,941 3,794 3,666 +280 +7.4% +275 +7.5% DB Bahn Regional 8,907 8,819 8,718 8,628 +189 +2.2% +191 +2.2% DB Arriva 3,757 3,751 3,367 3,365 +390 +11.6% +386 +11.5% DB Schenker Rail 4,925 4,596 4,924 4,635 +1 +2.0% –39 –0.8% DB Schenker Logistics 15,389 15,335 14,867 14,808 +522 +3.5% +527 +3.6% DB Services 1,498 125 1,413 137 +85 +6.0% –12 –8.8% DB Netze Track 4,709 980 4,642 961 +67 +1.4% +19 +2.0% DB Netze Stations 1,102 416 1,077 400 +25 +2.3% +16 +4.0% DB Netze Energy 2,832 1,079 2,853 1,084 –21 –0.7% –5 –0.5% Others 1,028 254 927 217 +101 +10.9% +37 +17.1% Consolidation –8,925 –8,681 –244 +2.8% DB Group 39,296 39,296 37,901 37,901 +1,395 +3.7% +1,395 +3.7% Reporting year, Group worldwide Return on capital employed (ROCE) also edged up ROCE  by one percentage point to 8.3 percent, taking it closer to the target of over 10.0 percent. This is primarily be€ million 2012 2011 ∆ absolut ∆ in % cause adjusted EBIT climbed by € 399 million to € 2.7 EBIT adjusted 2,708 2,309 +399 +17.3% billion. At the same time, capital employed rose on the / Capital employed back of sizable investments in all the business units. as of Dec 31 32,691 31,732 +959 +3.0% Gross capital expenditures totaled € 8.1 billion in = ROCE in % 8.3% 7.3% 2012. Of this, around 62 percent was invested in the Reporting year, Group worldwide DB Netze Track business unit. After deducting investment subsidies received, DB’s own share (net capital Thanks to the positive earnings trend, operating expenditures) came to € 3.5 billion. It was therefore cash flow increased by € 337 million to € 4.7 billion higher than depreciation. last year despite the high level of capital expenditures. Adjusted net financial debt remained largely stable. As a result, the debt redemption coverage has improved to 22.1 percent. Capital expenditures by business unit  2012 2011 less less investment = Net investment = Net Gross capital Net capital Gross capital grants capital Gross capital grants capital expenditures expenditures € million expenditures received expenditures expenditures received expenditures ∆ absolute ∆ in % ∆ absolute ∆ in % DB Bahn Long-Distance 173 0 173 139 –2 137 +34 +24.5% +36 +26.3% DB Bahn Regional 709 –43 666 393 –28 365 +316 +80.4% +301 +82.5% DB Arriva 468 –1 467 300 –4 296 +168 +56.0% +171 +57.8% DB Schenker Rail 371 0 371 260 0 260 +111 +42.7% +111 +42.7% DB Schenker Logistics 321 0 321 246 0 246 +75 +30.5% +75 +30.5% DB Services 268 0 268 247 0 247 +21 +8.5% +21 +8.5% DB Netze Track 5,033 –4,071 962 5,143 –4,378 765 –110 –2.1% +197 +25.8% DB Netze Stations 552 –374 178 547 –403 144 +5 +0.9% +34 +23.6% DB Netze Energy 149 –77 72 207 –115 92 –58 –28.0% –20 –21.7% Other/consolidation 9 0 9 19 –2 17 –10 –52.6% –8 –47.1% DB Group 8,053 –4,566 3,487 7,501 –4,932 2,569 +552 +7.4% +918 +35.7% Reporting year, Group worldwide 39 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Redemption coverage  Particularly due to the more positive earning situation, operational value added (i.e. adjusted EBIT before € million 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % personnel expenses) increased by € 1.1 billion compared to 2011 to € 16.5 billion. Operating cash flow 4,736 4,399 +337 +7.7% This enabled the company to finance a € 0.7 billion rise /Adjusted net financial debt in personnel expenses, which came in at € 13.8 billion. Dec 31 21,441 21,420 +21 +0.1% Other stakeholder groups also benefit from this perfor= Redemption coverage in % 22.1% 20.5% mance: the government receives higher income tax Reporting year, Group worldwide payments, providers of debt see greater interest income, and the owner retains a higher profit for the year. Operational value added at the DB Group  € million 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % Operational value added (adjusted) 16,501 15,357 +1,144 +7.4% of which broken down by stakeholder group: absolute in % absolute in % – Personnel expenses (adjusted) 13,793 83.6% 13,048 85.0% +745 +5.7% – Net operating interest income (adjusted) 865 5.2% 742 4.8% +123 +16.6% – Actual taxes on income expenses 156 0.9% 30 0.2% +126 +420% – Net profit for the year 1,477 9.0% 1,332 8.7% +145 –10.9% – Other 210 1.3% 205 1.3% +5 –2.4% Reporting year, Group worldwide Developing passenger services further Profitable growth in the passenger transport segment is essential for DB. Using its leading positions in Europe as a foundation, it is therefore expanding its activities in a targeted manner. In addition to numerous measures in Germany, it is concentrating primarily on further strengthening its international presence. Focus on international market opportunities Secondly, DB needs to further step up its international Since the rail reform, DB’s passenger services in Germany presence. To do this, it is focusing on cross-border have not only faced competition in the shape of other services originating in Germany and tapping new marmodes of transport – they have also had to compete kets elsewhere in Europe. with other rail operators. To safeguard the company’s DB already holds leading positions in Europe. This long-term success in the passenger services segment, DB means it is well placed to offer its customers compretherefore needs to develop additional business models hensive solutions and to profit from the growing liberand extend its activities in international markets as well alization of the European passenger transport markets. as consolidating its position in Germany’s passenger rail transport sector. This growth strategy is in line with travelers’ needs. Travelers want environmentally friendly, simple, end-to-end mobility solutions, and demand is increasing for these to be available internationally. To become a profitable market leader in passenger transport, DB is taking two main courses of action. First, it is working to make its activities in Germany more integrated – both within and beyond the rail network – and to make them more efficient long term. 40 Market positions in passenger transport 2011  No. 2 in European long-distance rail passenger No. 2 in European local rail passenger transport – No. 3 in European public road passenger transport – based on revenues based on revenues transport – based on revenues 1. SNCF 1. SNCF 1. Veolia Transdev 2. DB Group 2. DB Group 2. Régie autonome des transports Parisiens (RATP) 3. Ferrovie dello Stato (FS) 3. Ferrovie dello Stato (FS) 3. DB Group 4. Swiss railways (SBB) 4. First Group 4. SNCF 5. Nederlandse Spoorwegen (NS) + Abellio 5. Go Ahead 5. Transport for London (TfL) Details for competitors are based on annual/research reports and own calculations. Rise in passenger numbers at DB Bahn Long-Distance DB Bahn Regional posts higher profits in a Compared to 2011, the number of passengers and challenging environment volume sold increased substantially in 2012, growing Compared to the previous year, traffic figures and reveby 4.9 percent and 5.0 percent respectively. This imnues developed positively in the regional rail sector, proved the load factor of the trains overall. Buoyed by despite losing a number of service contracts. By contrast, both this and positive price effects, total revenues rose both passenger numbers and volume sold in the bus by 7.4 percent to € 4.1 billion and adjusted EBIT went segment fell in 2012 due to fewer school and replaceup € 207 million to € 364 million. Net capital expendiment services. Despite the challenging environment for tures came in at € 173 million and focused on moderntenders, the business unit’s long-term order volume izing the existing fleet of vehicles. climbed slightly. This is due to developments in fee structures. DB Bahn Long-Distance – Selected key figures  All in all, the regional service provider DB Bahn Regional increased its adjusted EBIT by € 81 million to 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % € 882 million. This trend is primarily attributable to higher revenues, which outstripped cost increases in Passengers million 131.3 125.2 +6.1 +4.9% the rail sector. At the same time, net capital expendiVolume sold million pkm 37,357 35,565 +1,792 +5.0% tures were € 301 million higher than in the previous Volume produced million year, coming in at € 666 million. These investments trainfocused on rail vehicles. path km 145.1 145.5 –0.4 –0.3% Total revenues € million 4,074 3,794 +280 +7.4% DB Bahn Regional – Selected key figures  External revenues € million 3,941 3,666 +275 +7.5% 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % EBIT adjusted € million 364 157 +207 +132% Passengers million 2,565 2,553 +12 +0.5% Net capital expenditures € million 173 137 +36 +26.3% – Thereof rail line of business million 1,892 1,850 +42 +2.3% Reporting year – Thereof bus line of business million 672.4 702.9 –30.5 –4.3% million Volume sold pkm 51,778 51,074 +704 +1.4% – Thereof rail line million of business pkm 44,201 43,152 +1,049 +2.4% – Thereof bus line million of business pkm 7,577 7,922 –345 –4.3% million trainVolume produced, rail path km 496.8 502.5 –5.7 –1.1% million Volume produced, bus buskm 578.2 608.5 –30.3 –5.0% Total revenues € million 8,907 8,718 +189 +2.2% External revenues € million 8,819 8,628 +191 +2.2% EBIT adjusted € million 882 801 +81 +10.1% Net capital expenditures € million 666 365 +301 +82.5% Reporting year DB Bahn Long-Distance is stepping up its presence in other European countries, e.g. with six direct connections to Paris daily. 41 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership DB Arriva is growing successfully sitions. In the year under review, € 467 million were Total revenues and adjusted EBIT developed positively invested in DB Arriva’s ongoing growth. The focus here at the DB Arriva business unit in 2012. The number of was on purchasing buses for new transport contracts in passengers and rail volume sold at DB Arriva were reSweden and the Netherlands. With this move, DB Arriva corded for the first time in 2012. It is therefore not further established itself as a growth platform for DB possible to compare them with the previous year. The in the field of European passenger transport in 2012. positive trends in revenues and profits were mainly attributable to operational improvements of rail services Order book development in passenger transport  in the UK along with newly awarded routes and acqui€ billion 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % DB Arriva – Selected key figures  DB Bahn Regional 60.9 59.6 +1.3 +2.2% 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % – Secured 40.2 38.0 +2.2 +5.8% – Unsecured 20.7 21.6 –0.9 –4.2% Passengers million 1,421 – – – million DB Arriva 18.6 18.9 –0.3 –1.6% Volume sold (train) pkm 7,628 – – – – Secured 8.1 8.1 0 0% million Volume produced train– Unsecured 10.5 10.8 –0.3 –2.8% path km 116.7 110.2 +6.5 +5.9% Total 79.5 78.5 +1.0 +1.3% Volume produced million buskm 814.3 840.9 –26.6 –3.2% – Secured 48.3 46.1 +2.2 +4.8% Total revenues € million 3,757 3,367 +390 +11.6% – Unsecured 31.2 32.4 –1.2 –3.7% External revenues € million 3,751 3,365 +386 +11.5% As of Dec 31 Long-term revenues are classified either as secured revenues, which are directly EBIT adjusted € million 238 160 +78 +48.8% related to existing transport contracts or concessions and are independent of passenger numbers (mainly concession fees), or as unsecured revenues, which are Net capital also generated from existing transport contracts or concessions, but which are expenditures € million 467 296 +171 +57.8% dependent on passenger numbers (mainly farebox revenues). Reporting year Integrating transport and logistics at international level DB believes that DB Schenker also has great potential for growth. However, an extremely flexible and efficient business model is needed given the tough competition and the sector’s cyclical nature. DB is rising to meet the current challenges in various ways, including initiating its “Action Plan for Germany” for rail freight transport. Growing demand for international, integrated clients – many of whom operate globally – holistic translogistics solutions portation and logistics solutions around the world. In recent years, DB’s freight transportation activities have Thanks to its comprehensive business model, DB is also grown far beyond merely offering rail freight transport in in a strong position to cater for the growing demand for Germany. Competition between rail carriers now takes green products by offering climate-friendly transport – esplace at European level, but customers are also increasingly pecially by rail – and making improvements to all modes of demanding cross-border services and intelligent intertransport. modal solutions from a single source. DB recognized the Demand for transport and logistics services is heavily opportunities offered by liberalization of the European rail cyclical. For this reason, DB’s operations in these fiercely freight transportation markets at an early stage and has competitive sectors have to be extremely flexible and effiestablished itself as a market leader in Europe’s rail sector. cient. This poses particular challenges for the asset-intense Through DB Schenker Logistics, it is also able to offer its rail freight transport with its high percentage of fixed costs. 42 Market positions in transport and logistics 2011  No. 1 in European rail No. 1 in European land No. 2 in worldwide No. 3 in worldwide No. 5 in worldwide freight transport – transport – air freight – ocean freight – contract logistics – based on tkm based on revenues based on t based on TEU based on revenues 1. DB Schenker 1. DB Schenker 1. DHL 1. Kuehne + Nagel 1. DHL 2. PKP Cargo 2. DHL 2. DB Schenker 2. DHL 2. CEVA Logistics 3. Fret SNCF 3. DSV 3. Kuehne + Nagel 3. DB Schenker 3. Kuehne + Nagel 4. Rail Cargo Austria 4. Dachser 4. Panalpina 4. Panalpina 4. Norbert Dentressangle 5. Trenitalia Cargo 5. Geodis 5. DB Schenker Details for competitors are based on annual/research reports and own calculations. DB Schenker Rail recovers despite fall in Profits remain stable overall at DB Schenker Logistics traffic figures The ocean freight volume increased by 8.1 percent in In 2012, the volume of freight carried fell by 3.1 percent, 2012, mainly due to growth on transpacific and inner-­ the volume sold shrank by 5.4 percent, and volume Asian routes. By contrast, the land transport volume produced was down 6.8 percent. This is due to the cyfell by 0.5 percent while air freight volume shrank by clical decline in the demand for transport services as 4.7 percent. In addition to ocean freight, contract well as intensified competition. In spite of this, the logistics and project business developed positively in business unit increased its capacity utilization. This operational terms. This boosted adjusted EBIT by € 15 was made possible in particular through successful million compared to the previous year, taking the figure measures to enhance efficiency, such as the “Network to € 418 million. At € 321 million, net capital expendiRail” project, which is implementing new, integrated tures in the DB Schenker Logistics segment went up by approaches to production. € 75 million compared to 2011. Major investments were Above all, steps were taken to expand the company’s made in expanding the European land transport netcompetitive position as part of the program “Action work and extending freight forwarding facilities. Plan for Germany.” This enabled DB Schenker Rail to boost its profits, despite the difficult environment. AdDB Schenker Logistics – Selected key figures  justed EBIT increased by € 55 million to € 87 million and its margin of total revenues rose to 1.8 percent. 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % Net capital expenditures were also up € 111 million Shipments in compared to the previous year, coming in at € 371 million. European land transport thousand 95,325 95,836 –511 –0.5% These investments focused on acquiring locomotives for the British and Polish markets. Air freight volume thousand (export) t 1,095 1,149 –54 –4.7% However, the business unit remains heavily dependent Ocean freight volthousand on economic developments, which are still volatile. ume (export) TEU 1,905 1,763 +142 +8.1% Total revenues € million 15,389 14,867 +522 +3.5% DB Schenker Rail – Selected key figures  External revenues € million 15,335 14,808 +527 +3.6% 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % EBIT adjusted € million 418 403 +15 +3.7% Freight carried million t 398.7 411.6 –12.9 –3.1% Net capital expenditures € million 321 246 +75 +30.5% million Volume sold tkm 105,894 111,980 –6,086 –5.4% Reporting year Volume produced million trainpath km 203.1 218.0 –14.9 –6.8% t per Capacity utilization train 521.4 513.6 +7.8 +1.5% Total revenues € million 4,925 4,924 +1 0% External revenues € million 4,596 4,635 –39 –0.8% EBIT adjusted € million 87 32 +55 +172% Net capital expenditures € million 371 260 +111 +42.7% Reporting year DB Schenker is the number one for rail freight and land transport in Europe. 43 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Strengthening infrastructure DB makes its infrastructural capacity available to all providers of rail transport services, thereby paving the way for functioning, growing competition. Infrastructure is primarily financed using government funds, which are supplemented by DB’s own funds that it earns on the market. Nearly 400 train-operating companies use the tracks in Germany. Clear rules enable fair competition charges train-­operating companies fees for using the In the course of the German rail reform, the legislator infrastructure. These revenues are used to finance onclearly stipulated the responsibilities of the government going operations, maintenance, some of the investments and the rail infrastructure companies. The German govin the existing network, and projects to extend railway ernment is explicitly responsible for acting in the interlines in Germany and build new ones. The assets financed ests of “the public good, especially regarding transport using these funds must be reported and depreciated needs, when extending and maintaining the federal rail in the balance sheets of DB’s rail infrastructure comnetwork.” On that basis, the German government parpanies. The company has to earn back the associated ticipates in the investments in rail infrastructure. costs of capital. Meanwhile, the German constitution requires DB The regulatory authorities ensure that the same conand its rail infrastructure companies to be managed as ditions for accessing rail infrastructure – which form the “commercial enterprises operating under private law.” basis of fair competition – apply to all train-operating The German government has charged DB with extending, companies. An ever-growing share of non-Group rail maintaining, and operating the rail infrastructure. As operators are using this infrastructure, which proves government subsidies do not fund investments in full that competition is working. The number roughly trior finance operations and maintenance, DB Netze pled between 2003 and 2012. 44 At the same time, DB’s integrated structure ensures in rail freight transport. Other operating income also that the interests of the infrastructure operator and rose. Adjusted EBIT improved by € 179 million to € the carriers who use the infrastructure of the DB carry 894 million despite rising total expenditures, particuequal weight. larly for personnel. The return on capital employed The infrastructure is highly asset-intense. In 2012, (ROCE) therefore climbed to 5.0 percent. Safeguarding the capital employed by DB Netze Track alone totaled needs-based financing for the rail infrastructure re€ 17.9 billion. The costs of capital, which have to be mains one of the key challenges facing DB Netze Track. paid for out of the operating result (EBIT), are correspondingly high. DB Netze Track – Selected key figures  The long-term nature of the investments presents another challenge. For the business to operate sustainably, 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % it needs to consider and optimize both the investment Length of line operated km 33,319 33,378 –59 –0.2% volume itself and the subsequent ongoing maintenance million and operating costs. Carefully considering all the ecoTrain kilometers on trainnomic, social, and environmental effects of infrastructrack infrastructure path km 1,038 1,050 –12 -1.1% ture investments is also crucial for the company’s susmillion tainable success. – thereof non-Group traincustomers path km 230.5 219.8 +10.7 +4.9% Investments remain high at DB Netze Track Total revenues € million 4,709 4,642 +67 +1.4% Gross capital expenditures (investments financed usExternal revenues € million 980 961 +19 +2.0% ing public funds and own resources) at DB Netze Track EBIT adjusted € million 894 715 +179 +25.0% were just 2.1 percent down on the previous year at Gross capital € 5 billion, although several government stimulus expenditures € million 5,033 5,143 –110 –2.1% programs came to an end in 2012. This was largely – thereof investment achieved through a € 197 million increase in own funds. grants received € million –4,071 –4,378 +307 +7.0% Due to net capital expenditures (investments financed Net capital using own resources), capital employed remained expenditures € million 962 765 +197 +25.8% roughly on a par with the previous year at € 17.9 bilCapital employed € million 17,895 17,911 –16 –0.1% lion. Developments at the business unit had a positive ROCE % 5.0% 4.0% impact on earnings, despite falling demand in rail freight transport. While volume produced fell slightly, Reporting year by 1.1 percent, total revenues rose by 1.4 percent or € 67 million to € 4.7 billion in 2012. To a large extent, this was due to positive price effects and higher nonGroup revenues. Non-Group demand increased by approximately 5.0 percent to 22.2 percent of the total train-path kilometers, despite the economic downturn Volume produced by external train-operating companies at DB Netze Track  in millions of train-path-kilometers (trkm) Volume produced by external train-operating companies in millions of train-path-kilometers (trkm) Change compared to previous year in % 22.2% 20.9% Share of external train-operating companies in % 18.9% +5% 16.9% +13% 15.5% 14.0% +15% 12.6% 11.0% +5% +10% 8.8% 7.1% +15% +16% +25% +26% 70 88 110 128 147 162 170 195 220 231 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 45 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 02 Achieving profitable market leadership Maintenance work by DB Netz AG near Nuremberg Growth at DB Netze Stations, largely due to DB Netze Energy tackles the challenges of the non-Group demand energy reform and regulation DB Netze Stations succeeded in increasing its adjusted Both gross and net capital expenditures fell at the EBIT by € 4 million to € 230 million in 2012. HeightDB Netze Energy business unit, mainly because the ened demand for station stops, especially from nongovernment stimulus package came to an end. At the Group rail carriers, had a particularly positive impact same time, the capital employed rose. Adjusted EBIT here. On the expenses side, higher personnel expenses increased by € 11 million to € 91 million despite the were a noticeable factor. At € 552 million, gross capital challenges posed by economic developments, the energy expenditures were slightly higher than in the previous reform in Germany, and the regulatory requirements imyear. Due to the lower percentage of investment grants, posed by law. Demand for traction current, stationary this is mainly a result of a higher share of own funds energy and diesel fuel fell, meaning that total revenues (net capital expenditures) at € 34 million. As net capital came in € 21 million down on the previous year at expenditures exceeded depreciation, the capital em€ 2.8 billion. However, profits generated by procureployed grew by € 53 million to € 2.9 billion. The return ment and portfolio optimization more than compenon capital employed (ROCE) remained unchanged against sated for this. All in all, the return on capital employed the previous year at 7.9 percent in 2012. (ROCE) therefore rose from 8.9 percent in 2011 to 9.4 percent in 2012. DB Netze Stations – Selected key figures  DB Netze Energy – Selected key figures  2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % Passenger stations 5,350 5,391 –41 –0.8 % Traction power Station stops million 143.4 142.3 +1.1 +0.8 % (16.7 Hz) GWh 10,403 10,427 –24 –0.2 % – thereof non-Group Stationary energy customers million 26.5 24.7 +1.8 +7.3 % (50 Hz and 16.7 Hz) GWh 1,699 1,719 –20 –1.2 % Total revenues € million 1,102 1,077 +25 +2.3 % Diesel fuel million l 469.8 480.1 –10.3 –2.1 % – o f which station Total revenues € million 2,832 2,853 –21 –0.7 % expenditures € million 738 717 +21 +2.9 % External revenues € million 1,079 1,084 –5 –0.5 % External revenues € million 416 400 +16 +4.0 % EBIT adjusted € million 91 80 +11 +13.8 % EBIT adjusted € million 230 226 +4 +1.8 % Gross capital Gross capital expenditures € million 149 207 –58 –28.0 % expenditures € million 552 547 +5 +0.9 % – thereof investment – t hereof investment grants received € million –77 –115 +38 +33.0 % grants received € million –374 –403 +29 +7.2 % Net capital Net capital expenditures € million 178 144 +34 +23.6 % expenditures € million 72 92 –20 –21.7 % Capital employed € million 2,906 2,853 +53 +1.9 % Capital employed € million 969 896 +73 +8.1 % ROCE % 7.9 % 7.9 % ROCE % 9.4 % 8.9 % Reporting year Reporting year 46 Providing supporting services DB Services primarily assists the companies in the DB Group. By reducing intra-Group costs and safeguarding a marketable standard of quality and service at the same time, the business unit makes a crucial contribution towards the future of the DB Group. More than 2,300 employees keep DB passengers safe and secure every day. Extensive services for all business units up 2.5 percent compared to 2011, which was mainly Key cross-divisional services are pooled within the DB attributable to DB Systel’s IT business. Services business unit, which primarily supports the This rise in revenues was offset by higher expenses for Group’s other units. However, a number of these services materials, personnel, depreciation, and other operating are increasingly being offered outside of the Group as expenses. As a result, adjusted EBIT fell by € 39 million well. These include vehicle maintenance, information to € 84 million. and communication technology (ICT), facility management, security services, and fleet management. DB Services – Selected key figures  The business unit reduces intra-Group service costs, in addition to safeguarding a marketable standard of € million 2012 2011 ∆ absolute ∆ in % quality and service. Segment revenues 3,416 3,332 +84 +2.5% This is mainly done by enhancing integration into clients’ value chains, – thereof external 389 410 –21 –5.1% leveraging synergies within the network, and – thereof internal 3,027 2,921 +106 +3.6% using non-Group business Total revenues 1,498 1,413 +85 +6.0% to guarantee capacity utilization and for the purpose External revenues 125 137 –12 –8.8% of quality and price benchmarking. This makes the DB Services business unit a very important means of leverEBIT adjusted 84 123 –39 –31.7% aging synergies within the Group. Reporting year The business unit also makes a considerable contribution towards safeguarding jobs in the DB Group. DB Services provides a large number of jobs for employees from the Group-wide labor market, thereby striking a balance between economic and social sustainability. In both 2012 and the previous year, internal revenues accounted for the majority of total segment revenues, which amounted to € 3.4 billion. Segment revenues were 47 The roads of Europe are Arriva’s laboratory DB’s regional transport subsidiary Arriva is an important growth driver in the international passenger services industry DB’s European regional transport subsidiary DB Arriva proves that growth, environmental considerations, and employee satisfaction can go hand in hand. DB Arriva is one of the Group’s growth platforms and an early mover in the liberalized markets, where it aims to further boost its market share. The subsidiary’s operations in Sweden doubled in 2012, for instance. In the Scandinavian country, more than 900 buses and 235 trains (including trams) are now run by Arriva. In Hungary, the joint venture VT-Transman – in which Arriva holds a 49.9 percent stake – has been awarded two contracts for a transport volDavid Martin, CEO of Arriva plc ume of 11.5 million kilometers annually. DB Arriva remains a driving force in its British home market, where the company has also been expanding into the promising market of non-emergency patient transport and social care transport services with the provider Ambuline since mid-2012. CEO David Martin says: “We will grow successfully and proactively by acquiring new firms, securing new contracts, and expanding our existing business by means of organic growth.” DB Arriva is increasingly using its extensive experience in the rail sector to target viable open-access transport opportunities in the UK. DB Arriva is also growing in Eastern Europe: in May 2013 it will be acquiring the Eastern Europe transport division of Veolia Transport Central Europe, adding a further 3,400 vehicles and 6,300 employees. This makes DB Arriva the largest international operator of passenger transport services in Central and Eastern Europe. It is active in 15 countries throughout Europe. To safeguard its long-term success, Arriva is investing € 468 million in new vehicles, including a fleet of biomethane buses in the UK. The environmental aspect is important for business. “We are experimenting with all kinds of alternative energy in the various regions,” says David Martin. “The roads are our laboratory.” If pilot projects are successful, the schemes are implemented in other regions. Martin sees hybrid buses as a medium-­term solution on the way towards CO₂-free local transport, followed by electric buses. “With 130 hybrid buses, we are the largest operator of hybrid buses in London and one of the largest in Europe.” Revenues of € 3.8 billion in 2012 and an order book worth € 18.5 billion: Arriva needs dedicated staff to achieve its ambitious goals. “In my view, people are the major driving force behind our business,” says David Martin. “Employees who are satisfied with their jobs are the best way to ensure that customer satisfaction continues to improve.” With a 93 percent customer satisfaction rating, DB Arriva has achieved an all-time high among British bus passengers. Martin explains Arriva’s philosophy: “We hire local executives in the various countries. They understand Arriva’s values and implement them in a way that suits the relevant country’s culture.” 48 49 Cologne Central Station, DB Lounge: Ulrich Weber, Member of the Management Board responsible for Human Resources, talking with Beverly-Joyce Quijano and Pierre Marcy, transport service assistant apprentices 03 Becoming a top employer The employees give DB its face to the world. Only with the help of well-qualified employees who are enthusiastic about working for DB and its customers will DB succeed in implementing the DB2020 strategy. DB is working hard on its attrac­tiveness as an employer in order to retain good staff and attract new recruits. The aim is to become a top employer and rank among Germany’s ten best places to work by 2020. Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Defining targets and areas for action  DB aims to become a top employer. It is paving the way to achieve this with high levels of employee satisfaction, a strong employer brand, and innovative HR concepts which recognize demographic change as an opportunity. 300,000 people work for DB. More than 100,000 are based outside Germany. Growing need for staff forces DB to act Employees by business unit  Over the coming years, a large number of positions will become vacant at DB as employees leave or retire. The Headcount 2012 2011 2010 statistics clearly show that action is needed: in 2012, DB Bahn Long-Distance 16,963 16,938 16,436 the average age of DB employees in Germany was 46, with more than 40 percent of them aged over 50. To DB Bahn Regional 38,551 38,681 38,257 meet its future requirements in Germany, DB will hire an DB Arriva 42,274 40,051 39,973 average of 7,000 employees per annum over the coming DB Schenker Rail 32,127 32,775 33,387 years. In addition to this, new jobs will be created DB Schenker Logistics 67,005 65,044 61,738 around the world as the firm grows. As well as attracting new staff, the company is striving DB Services 27,466 27,687 26,487 to foster existing employees’ development and retain DB Netze Track 42,066 41,786 41,432 them long term. DB Netze Stations 5,046 5,052 4,937 The total number of people employed in the Group increased from 295,172 to 299,347 between 2011 and DB Netze Energy 1,649 1,603 1,603 2012. The average percentage of female employees also Other 26,200 25,555 25,845 rose year on year, both at DB in Germany (2011: 21.6 perDB Group 299,347 295,172 290,095 cent; 2012: 22.1 percent) and within the DB Group as a As of Dec 31, Group worldwide whole (2011: 22.2 percent; 2012: 22.5 percent). 52 Employees by business unit  Employees by region  Headcount and in percent (%) in full-time equivalents (FTE) 2012 2011 2010 DB Bahn Long-Distance 15,947 15,976 15,270 27.1% DB Bahn Regional 36,959 37,131 36,334 Europe (excluding Germany) DB Arriva 39,545 38,196 38,137 DB Schenker Rail 31,770 32,466 32,618 DB Schenker Logistics 64,199 62,197 58,671 DB Services 26,375 26,556 25,131 4.7% Asia/Pacific DB Netze Track 41,400 41,136 39,849 64.8% Germany 2.6% North America DB Netze Stations 4,797 4,817 4,636 0.8% Rest of world DB Netze Energy 1,626 1,584 1,536 Other 24,890 24,260 24,128 DB Group 287,508 284,319 276,310 As of Dec 31, 2012, Group worldwide As of Dec 31, Group worldwide DB wants to become a top employer by 2020 As of December 31, 2012, the workforce grew by With its DB2020 strategy, the company has laid the approximately 3,200 full-time equivalents compared groundwork for harmonizing its economic, environmental, to December 31, 2011. This increase was primarily and social commitments. Fulfilling its responsibility to due to expansion at the DB Schenker Logistics and DB society forges an important link with the other two diArriva business units. mensions of the DB2020 strategy. Well-qualified, satisThe growth in the workforce (in full-time equivafied employees who are passionate about their work lents) between December 2010 and December 2011 are the basis for high levels of customer satisfaction resulted partly from increased hiring – especially at and therefore the overall success of the DB Group. the DB Schenker Logistics and DB Services business Driven by this conviction, the company has set itself an units – and partly from the statistical effect of working ambitious goal: to become a top employer and rank hour regulations agreed during collective-bargaining among the ten leading firms in Germany’s labor market negotiations. The new agreement requires staff to by 2020. To achieve this, it has defined three key obwork one hour less per week, i.e. 39 hours, bringing jectives, which act as a benchmark for all its activities: weekly labor time in line with the number of hours actually worked. As a result, the number of employees Improving employee satisfaction in the units affected increased on paper by approxiDB wants to bring about long-term increases in emmately 2.5 percent effective March 1, 2011, and wages ployee satisfaction, dedication, and commitment to rose by 2.5 percent at the same time. the company. The firm has therefore been working for In Germany, some 11,000 new employees were hired almost three years on further developing its corporate in the reporting year and around 2,200 apprentices and culture. It is striving to create a culture which is marked cooperative education students were given permanent by a spirit of partnership, regular staff involvement, contracts. This increase was partly offset by staff mutual respect, shared enthusiasm, and exemplary leaving or retiring. Outside Germany, the workforce leadership. The first Group-wide employee survey was grew by approximately 3,300, especially in Europe and conducted in the fall of 2012. It paints a comprethe Asia-Pacific regions. hensive picture of employee satisfaction and enables the firm to derive concrete measures for making imEmployees by region  provements and changes. Headcount 2012 2011 2010 Making DB a more attractive employer DB wants to establish itself as a strong employer Germany 194,020 193,109 189,377 brand for all its target groups – high-school students, Europe (excluding Germany) 81,055 78,686 78,539 university students, and experienced professionals, Asia/Pacific 14,030 12,999 12,017 from both academic and non-academic fields. A high-­ North America 7,704 8,133 8,050 profile, convincing image is important for the company to continue successfully attracting staff in the search Rest of world 2,538 2,245 2,112 for skilled workers and executives. DB has realigned DB Group 299,347 295,172 290,095 its recruitment activities in both organizational terms As of Dec 31, Group worldwide and as regards content. A comprehensive employer branding campaign was launched in November 2012. It presents the DB Group as a diverse, attractive, and responsible company. 53 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Every day, DB employees drive 30,000 trains on Germany’s railways. Enhancing preparedness for demographic change Boosting international integration within the In the future, each employee’s professional developDB Group ment should be tailored more closely to the stage they DB is represented at more than 2,000 sites in over are at in their career and their life, enabling them to 130 different countries. More than 100,000 people spend their entire working life at the firm. Against work for DB outside Germany. A company that operthe backdrop of demographic change, it is becoming ates worldwide needs a more global approach to HR increasingly important for DB to think ahead regarding management as well. An international network of HR its personnel needs and to ensure that staff members executives was set up in 2012, creating the basis for are able to keep performing well and remain in emcloser collaboration between HR departments throughployment. This means providing a variety of developout the Group. In addition to this, cross-divisional, ment opportunities and offering broad health promointernational project groups deal with all important tion programs as well as making sure that workers issues with the aim of implementing DB’s HR strategy have meaningful, multifaceted, future-proof jobs. globally. In the year under review, their cooperation focused on three programs: strategic workforce Strategic HR programs set the course planning, staff development, and further developing As the Group increasingly operates at international level, the corporate culture. a forward-looking, global approach to HR management A number of pilot projects were rolled out in 2012 is becoming more and more important. The HR division as a result: strategic workforce planning initiatives in is contributing towards implementing the DB2020 Poland and Denmark and a staff development program strategy and safeguarding the company’s future by in the UK. The first international Dialogue on the focusing on the following six strategic areas: strategic Future relating to the further development of the workforce planning, talent acquisition, staff developcorporate culture was also held in Spain. These pilot ment, employment conditions, further development of projects will continue in 2013, when they will be corporate culture, as well as optimizing and internationfurther enhanced. alizing HR activities. These six programs are interrelated, systematically build on one another, and together lay Strategic workforce planning increases the cornerstone for operational HR management that transparency will help the firm to become a top employer. In the light of demographic change, greater transparency is needed about how the workforce and staffing Two aspects of these strategic areas illustrate how DB requirements will develop. The DB Group is creating is actively working to achieve its goals in both national this transparency with its strategic workforce planning and international areas: initiative, which is currently examining key employee groups for rail operations in Germany. Approximately 85,000 positions are now included in strategic workforce planning by virtue of Group-wide methods and business scenarios. Simulation software with scenario modules to support the creation of detailed forecasts further increases transparency about future developments relating to personnel capacity, age structures, and training requirements. 54 Strengthening cultural change  With its first Group-wide employee survey, DB has set another milestone for the further development of its corporate culture. The main focus of this cultural change is geared toward heightening orientation on the employees. As part of this, there will be greater employee involvement through different forms of dialog and a new leadership concept. DB is committed to diversity as a success factor. DB’s target of increasing the percentage of women both overall and in managerial positions is a clear indication of this new approach. DB’s cultural transformation is designed to further boost employees’ team spirit and sense of community. Employees are the face of DB To embed the cultural development even more deeply The cultural transformation which began in 2010 is now a in the business units and regions, a total of 14 Regional central element of the DB2020 strategy. By embedding it Dialogues on the Future were held in Germany by spring in this way, the firm has made an even firmer commitment of the reporting year and one International Dialogue to the cultural development process. Employees are the on the Future was held in Barcelona. The dialog at focus of this move because they give DB its face to the these large-scale events – each attended by some 300 world and define its relationships with its customers – people including the Management Board and other exfrom one person to another. DB wants to take further ecutives – was followed by activities across various steps to strenghten its employees’ enthusiasm for their business units, including the “DB culture” dialog map work and the firm. Executives have a special responsibility and the associated workshop concept in Germany. Some in this regard. In the year under review, DB initiated the 850 coworkers identified during the Dialogues on the Group-wide development and embedding of a new underFuture are providing valuable support with DB’s cultural standing of leadership. It places a stronger focus on sodevelopment in Germany. As voluntary ambassadors called transformational aspects of leadership, such as “role and pacesetters they are driving the process forward model function”, “offering inspiration and intellectual and are actively involved in developing the company’s stimulation,” and “treating employees as individuals.” corporate culture further. 55 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer DB takes up employees’ willingness to get involved DB would like to make even greater use of employees’ clearly recognizable willingness to engage with the firm. Working on the leadership culture and lending greater weight to staff suggestions remains an important goal. This is the purpose of some 7,800 binding follow-up workshops in Germany, at which executives will define improvements and areas where action is needed together with their teams. Around 3,000 follow-up activities are planned for 2013 at the international units of DB Schenker Logistics and DB Schenker Rail; 41 action plans are being initiated at DB Arriva. DB intends to repeat the employee survey every two years to constantly improve satisfaction levels among employees with the aid of in-depth analyses, discussions, as well as jointly agreed measures and their implementation. Capitalizing more strongly on diversity as a success factor Staff diversity makes a crucial contribution towards DB’s success. Appreciating the benefits of diversity and utiExecutives and employees use the “DB culture” dialog map and lizing its potential for innovation forms an integral part associated workshops to help shape cultural change locally. of the corporate culture. DB has documented this approach as a signatory and founding member of the Charta der Vielfalt organization (Diversity Charter), a Employee survey provides a realistic picture of corporate initiative to promote diversity in companies. satisfaction levels DB has also set a clear course in organizational terms With its Group-wide employee survey in fall 2012, DB by establishing a separate Diversity Management detook another major step in the cultural development partment in 2012. Its main task is to promote among exprocess. For the first time, this gave nearly all DB emecutives and employees an understanding of the beneployees around the world (almost 300,000 people) the fits of diversity in the workforce and to work with the chance to provide feedback on how satisfied they are business units to create a framework which promotes with the firm and their job. The company did not just the development of diversity. use the findings to gain a realistic picture of the mood among workers. In the spirit of a long-term follow-up process, concrete measures are to be derived, which will bring about changes at all levels of the company – for the firm as a whole, the business units, and individual teams in particular. To make this possible and to roll out cultural change throughout as much of the company as possible, almost every executive at DB has received an individual report summarizing the results for his or her area of responsibility. The participation rate was high at 61.4 percent (approximately 186,000 employees), indicating that staff are very interested in helping to shape their company. On one hand, the survey – which was conducted on behalf of DB by GfK Trustmark – reveals an optimistic mood in many respects, leading GfK Trustmark to conclude that the fundamental mood at DB is “moderately positive.” DB employees are particularly satisfied with their tasks and the work itself. Two thirds of respondents are proud to work for DB and satisfied with their jobs. The same percentage enjoy what they do and are optimistic about the future. On the other hand, the survey also highlights room for improvement. For instance, staff throughout the Group would like to be more involved, see more open DB gave its employees a say in 2012 with the Group-wide communication, and have more opportunities to develop employee survey. their professional skills. 56 DB wants to recruit more women in all kinds of occupations. By 2015, women should hold 20 percent of executive positions in Germany. DB aims for more female employees by 2015 Disabled people are valued employees at DB DB is currently placing a special focus on gender equality. DB has made implementing the UN Convention on the Considering that many of the jobs at the company are Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the workplace a technical, the company has set itself an ambitious goal: priority and has developed a special action plan and it aims to increase the percentage of women in the wide-ranging activities to do this. Together with the overall workforce in Germany from 22.1 percent in the German Group Council representing the Severely Disareporting year to 25 percent by 2015. It also hopes to bled, DB is pursuing the goal of fully integrating disabled increase the percentage of female executives from employees into the working world from the recruitment 16.4 percent to 20 percent. stage onwards. As part of these efforts, the Group signed an internal agreement regarding the “Integration and Percentage of women by business unit  professional development of disabled employees at the DB Group” in June 2010, which will be updated and as percent (%) of headcount 2012 2011 supplemented effective January 1, 2013. At six percent, the percentage of severely disabled DB Bahn Long-Distance 26.7 25.7 employees throughout the Group in Germany is higher DB Bahn Regional 15.3 15.1 than the five percent required by law. The legal requireDB Arriva 10.9 11.0 ment is also fulfilled to the greatest possible extent in DB Schenker Rail 11.0 10.7 many areas of work which may not initially seem particularly suitable for the severely disabled. DB Schenker Logistics 35.4 35.4 DB Services 18.3 18.1 Ombuds service helps staff to resolve conflicts DB Netze Track 16.1 15.9 at work DB also invests a great deal of energy in creating a workDB Netze Stations 46.4 45.5 place which is free from discrimination and bullying. If DB Netze Energy 11.5 10.7 employees feel that they have been treated unfairly, Other 41.3 40.6 they can seek expert support from the ombuds service in Germany, which tries to resolve conflicts construcDB Group 22.5 22.2 tively using mediation and dialog. Some 80 internal As of Dec 31, Group worldwide mediators are available to provide this assistance. DB has developed measures to achieve these targets. In the future, there must be at least one suitably qualified woman on the list of candidates when executive positions are filled. If there is no female candidate within the company, it must look on the external market. In 2012, it was also agreed that high potentials will temporarily be appointed as interim executives to fill executive positions which become vacant due to parental leave or sabbaticals. With this arrangement, DB will actively help these employees to gain managerial experience. 57 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Shaping employment conditions  DB wants to offer its staff good professional prospects at every stage of their lives to keep them at the company long term. With this in mind, it is trying to improve the way it reconciles individual needs with the requirements of the company and its customers. DB hopes to do this by offering more flexible working models, a variety of attractive fringe benefits, arrangements that make it easier to combine work and family commitments, and health promotion programs. DB is taking various steps to cater for employees of different ages. For instance, when servicing vehicles, DB seeks advice from ergonomists. Collective-bargaining agreements offer reliability or irregular shifts along with a certain level of compenand stability satory pay. The new collective-bargaining agreement also For DB, collective-bargaining agreements are an essential comprises a permanent employment guarantee, which means of offering workers attractive, reliable framework rules out redundancies and dismissals due to the loss of, employment conditions, especially in Germany. In 2011, or a reduction in, an employee’s productivity. extensive, industry-wide standards were introduced for wages and working hours in the German passenger rail Sustainability aspects of the DB2020 strategy affect transport sector for the first time. Thanks to legislation executives’ compensation ensuring that the German states comply with standard Work is also constantly under way to further develop the pay rates, these regulations were also taken into account employment conditions for executives and other employwhen public contracts were awarded. ees not covered by collective-bargaining agreements. In addition to this, the challenges of demographic For example, the system of targets employed for the change are being given greater weight in agreements DB2020 strategy with its three sustainability dimenbetween DB and the other parties involved in collective-­ sions was integrated into the payment of variable endbargaining negotiations. In 2012, the German Rail and of-year bonus for financial year 2013. This means that Transport Workers’ Union (EVG), the Mobility and Transperformance-related pay is geared towards the company’s port Services Association (Agv MoVe), and DB agreed sustainable strategy. At the DB Group, variable endto an innovative collective-bargaining agreement deof-year bonus is paid to executives and other employees signed to address demographic change. The aim is to not covered by collective-bargaining agreements, regardoffer DB employees the chance to remain at the firm less of the labor time stipulated in their individual throughout their working lives. The agreement includes contracts. a permanent job offer for all apprentices who complete Effective 2013, managerial-level staff can also choose their courses successfully and the right to work shorter from an extended range of mobility options consisting hours from a set age onwards for employees on regular of the rail card BahnCard100 First and Flinkster (car 58 sharing). In addition, all executives and other employFlexible working models give staff greater freedom ees receiving payment over and above standard salary Making working hours more flexible is extremely im(not covered by collective-bargaining agreements) are portant for enabling the right work-life balance. The offered a flat rate for DB’s own rental bicycles (Call a implementation of the stage-of-life model incorporated Bike). With this move, DB aims to create additional into the new collective-bargaining agreement designed incentives to choose an eco-friendly alternative to the to address demographic change provides a good basis company car. for doing just this. This gives the individual companies within DB more freedom, enabling them to tailor shift Employees enjoy fringe benefits plans even more closely to employees’ wishes. So as to Besides fair remuneration commensurate with each emfind customized solutions to business requirements and ployee’s performance, DB offers a wide range of fringe take local conditions into account, a number of regulabenefits to make it an attractive employer. DB has been tions associated with the collective-bargaining agreeworking with its five biggest social services partners in ments were temporarily lifted. In the future, employees Germany for years. They are: the railway workers’ social covered by collective-bargaining agreements will also be services organization Stiftung Bahn-Sozialwerk (BSW), able to make greater use of flexible working models. the health insurer BAHN-BKK, the association of railway Effective 2013, they will be able to take a sabbatical by workers’ sports clubs Verband Deutscher Eisenbahner-­ using a long-term working time account, for example. Sportvereine (VDES), the insurer DEVK, and Sparda banks. Since 2012, DB has enabled its executives to take These partners develop relevant packages of benefits sabbaticals lasting up to six months to gain a fresh outfor employees. On top of this, all members of staff look and achieve personal goals. These sabbaticals are with relevant collective-bargaining agreements benefit funded in advance by the employer. from a system of company pensions, regardless of the labor time stipulated in their individual contracts. DB also concludes and pays for accident insurance for many groups of employees, executives, and staff working abroad. Partnership between DB as an employer and employee representatives pays off The biggest contributor towards attractive employment conditions is the partnership that exists between DB as an employer and employee representatives. Both are aware of their responsibility in this regard, which primarily takes the shape of regular information sharing and a culture of negotiation founded on mutual respect. In this spirit, collective-bargaining agreements Parent and child offices at selected sites make it easier for in Germany have often been supplemented by internal staff to juggle their work and family. ones which take local needs into account. This partnership has paid off, both in economically challenging and in successful times. Help with childcare for employees Reconciling work and family commitments In conjunction with the railway workers’ social services In the world of work, it is becoming increasingly impororganization Stiftung Bahn-Sozialwerk (BSW), DB wants tant to enable staff to reconcile their professional chalto make it easier for employees to reconcile their work lenges with their family and leisure commitments. DB and family commitments by assisting with childcare. It wants to make it easier for employees to achieve a workdoes this by helping them to find childcare facilities life balance at every stage of life – not just as a means of and by reserving a number of places at daycare centers retaining staff long term. This also makes the company for employees’ children. In addition to this, DB is stepmore attractive to potential employees. The aim is to elimping up its childcare offering for employees’ children at inate disadvantages and to enable staff with family comdaycare facilities near company sites. DB also runs mitments to go back to work and develop professionally. school vacation activities for staff members’ children DB is taking a new approach with mentoring programs at the sites in Frankfurt am Main, Berlin, and Munich such as “Career and Kids,” which has been running under the name “DB RasselBAHNde.” since 2012. The initiative’s aim is to help existing and Childcare coordinators have been on hand to help staff potential executives to return to work easily after paat several German sites since 2012. They are the first rental leave and to support their subsequent further point of contact for advice and help finding local childdevelopment. It is a joint program run in conjunction care facilities. The workers’ social services organization with Deutsche Telekom and the European Academy for Arbeiterwohlfahrt (AWO) runs a service for parents, Women in Politics and Business (EAF Berlin). which also provides information about childcare options – including in emergencies. 59 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Some 2,800 employees advise customers at DB’s travel centers. DB offers support in nursing care Expansion of stress prevention measures and Being family-friendly also means helping staff with any advice for staff under pressure questions they may have about looking after relatives Partly because of its experience with the support conwho need care. DB works with the senior citizens’ service cept for train drivers, DB decided in the reporting year run by the Arbeiterwohlfahrt organization to offer adto expand its stress prevention and needs-based support vice on providing the right care. In addition to this, the measures to make them available to all staff in Germany. company has initiated a pilot project in Northern GerWith the aid of the staff support team, employees and many in conjunction with Stiftung Bahn-Sozialwerk their relatives can find someone to talk to and give and the carer information service Deutscher Pflegering. them advice when stressful professional or personal Among other things, this includes a service portal about situations arise. The team offers completely anonymous, care, an index of service providers, and a hotline staffed free advice on psychological and medical issues. In adby carers. Furthermore, the new collective-bargaining dition to this, the staff support team also provides inagreement designed to address demographic change formation on the many services offered by DB’s coopoutlines a model enabling family carers to take time off. eration partners, from elder care to rehabilitation. Promoting health is a priority at DB Prevention program focuses on health promotion DB wants its employees to stay healthy. It believes that for older employees health promotion makes an important contribution toDB would like to make it easy for its employees to stay wards employee satisfaction, the company’s attractiveat the company for as long as possible – and at least ness as an employer, and its preparedness for coping until the regular retirement age. This is because older with demographic change. members of staff are a valuable source of acquired DB has already established a wide range of preventive knowledge that is difficult to replace. For this reason, DB healthcare services for its staff in Germany. In addition has been trialling a health-oriented prevention program to healthy eating options at company canteens, courses for older employees since 2012. The CLARA pilot project to help smokers quit, and help in dealing with addictions, (“Clever und aktiv in Richtung Alter”) is being run in there are many different types of sport activity options conjunction with the University of Heidelberg, bringing on offer. A special focus is placed on psychological together three key aspects of health promotion: inforwell-being in the workplace. Over ten years ago, a supmation about health and aging, sport and exercise proport concept was developed for train drivers trying to grams, and mental training. come to terms with accident-related experiences. It DB’s health management services have already met combines prevention by preparing drivers mentally for with widespread recognition. In 2012, they were awarded such incidents, immediate assistance in emergencies, the corporate health prize by the German Association and support from trusted mentors, psychologists, and of Company Health Insurance Programs (BKK Bundessocial workers. This approach has proved effective: verband). In the same year, DB also received a Certifimost train drivers are now able to overcome the trauma cate of Excellence after ranking second in the Corpoof their experiences. rate Health Award for the transport and logistics sector. 60 This award is conferred by the German Federal Ministry DB has established an extensive occupational health of Labour and Social Affairs together with the New and safety management system to protect employees Quality at Work Initiative. in the workplace. It is based on the “Health and Safety Management” company guideline, which was introduced in 2001 and revised in 2008, and on the international OHSAS 18001 standard. DB is constantly reducing accident figures with a ten-point health and safety program involving the business units and representatives of various interest groups. These comprehensive safety measures include risk assessments, audits, training, and information about using personal protective equipment, among other things. By linking the issues of technical strategy and health promotion more closely, DB has developed a new approach to modern occupational health and safety which now goes beyond guidelines and state requireHealth as a success factor: DB company canteens at some ments. More importantly, it is about taking older and 100 sites offer staff healthy options. disabled employees’ individual abilities into account since they must be physically and mentally capable of fulfilling their specific role. Occupational health and safety is highly relevant The conceptual phase has now given rise to an initial for accident prevention wave of pilot projects. These focus on two areas: first, Occupational health and safety rests primarily on an engaging experts with close ties to DB and company awareness of what causes accidents. The Group-wide doctors to provide ergonomic workstations and assess accident management system records, processes, and psychological pressures. This has a direct impact on assesses dangerous incidents in Germany. This enables company practices. The second area is making more further improvements to be made to working conditions jobs available for staff with existing or new disabilities. which affect health and safety and helps employees to behave safely at all times. External companies and DB’s partner firms are also included in the occupational health and safety management system. Occupational health and safety is a priority at DB – for example during track work on the rail network. 61 Combining work and study via just the right duty roster An internal working time project at Berlin Central Station helps Stefan Krause to plan his work and further education. 62 Stefan Krause is sitting at the DB information desk in Berlin Central Station, answering travelers’ questions. The 26-year-old transport service assistant has lots of plans: “I want to improve my professional qualifications and I’ve decided to go for a university entrance diploma as a mature student.” There is nothing stopping him now that he is on the daytime duty roster. The 48 members of the station’s service team like to refer to it as the “moms’ roster” because it is most popular with women who have children to look after. “Now, I only work from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., so I can study better afterwards,” says Krause. That means no more early and twilight shifts, but he still works at the weekend. Stefan Krause, DB employee There are service staff on hand around the clock at Berlin Central Station, but the team is considerably smaller at night than during the day. The employees therefore have to be extremely flexible when it comes to working hours. Following a successful internal working time project, staff can choose between several different duty rosters, helping the company to cater for employees’ different needs to the greatest possible extent. The daytime duty roster is one of them. “Now my working hours are more regular, so I can set myself fixed times for studying during the week,” says a delighted Krause. Before the new system was introduced, rostering was done 22 weeks in advance, with everyone doing early, twilight, night, and day shifts. His allocation to the daytime duty roster is currently limited to one year. “The diploma course usually lasts three years,” Krause admits. He goes on to say that his coworkers aren’t envious that he now gets to work the coveted day shift. “They know my reasons.” There will always be “a little bit of jealousy,” he adds, but since the internal working time projects were introduced, every member of staff has been able to choose the duty roster that suits them best. If too many people choose the same option, “parents take precedence,” at least for the daytime duty roster. Once he has completed his university entrance diploma, Krause wants to go to university. “I’d like to work in IT,” he says, adding that he discovered during his military service that he had “a knack” for computers and everything that goes with them. “Naturally” he wants to keep working at DB after his degree course, he says. “After all, I’ve been with DB right from the start.” Every hour and every day, the information desk at the station is irrefutable proof that satisfied employees make for satisfied customers. 63 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Promoting staff development  Well-qualified employees and executives are one of the most important resources for DB in its bid to become a top employer. DB’s HR strategy focuses on two important courses of action: recruiting junior workers at an early stage and promoting existing employees’ development goals. DB is continuing to expand its training initiative: in 2012 the 30th training site opened in Frankfurt am Main. Attracting qualified youngsters with vocational Germany (excluding DB Schenker Logistics) in 2012 training and cooperative education were offered permanent jobs within the Group. DB is not just one of Germany’s largest employers. With more than 11,000 apprentices, cooperative education Apprentices involved in social projects (combined commercial and theoretical studies) students, DB’s training courses teach youngsters the specific and participants in the “Chance Plus” program, it is also content and practical capabilities they need. However, one of the largest companies in Germany to offer vocathey place just as much emphasis on service, social, tional training programs. Vocational trainings, and coand methodical skills, such as entrepreneurial thinking, operative education play a crucial role in ensuring the customer focus, independence, and team spirit. Thinking company attracts the qualified employees it will need and acting in a socially responsible fashion is also at in the future. In the year under review, approximately the heart of the annual competition “Deutsche Bahn 3,800 young people started vocational training at DB Apprentices against Hatred and Violence.” Since 2000, to gain one of 50 or so professions. Roughly another more than 8,000 apprentices have gotten involved in 300 young people started their careers at the DB Group the competition with over 900 projects. In 2012 alone, with a cooperative education program. DB runs more 700 youngsters worked to promote tolerance in 90 proj­ than 20 cooperative education programs which enable ects under the patronage of the band Söhne Mannschool graduates to gain business, technical, and IT heims. As part of the competition, the entrants take a qualifications with the firm’s help. DB has also stepped stand against violence, racism, and xenophobia and up its capacity of vocational trainings it offers. As part develop ways of increasing respect and civic courage of this move, a new training site was opened in Frankwithin society. furt am Main. This takes the total number of training sites in Germany to 30. The high percentage of apprenDB helps young people to qualify for professional tices who are offered a permanent position shows how training dedicated DB is to recruiting young employees. Around Young people who do not yet meet the entry require94 percent of the young people who completed their ments for a traineeship at DB also receive a helping hand vocational training and training at the DB Group in from DB. The preparatory program “Chance Plus” helps 64 school leavers in this situation to get their careers off to a DB Training and DB Academy help employees and successful start. There are more than 300 places on the executives to gain additional qualifications program, which is run at ten sites throughout Germany. The provision of vocational training and continuing In addition to this, DB gives youngsters who would professional development for staff in Germany is overlike to obtain their vocational high-school diploma seen by DB Training – the partner for learning, develthe chance to train within the firm and gain this qualifiopment, and change processes within the DB Group. It cation as part of the “Einsteigen!” (“All Aboard!”) cooperoffers 1,500 training courses for target groups ranging ation project. from apprentices to specialists. In the year under review, DB Training ran events attended by a total of around Tailored programs for university graduates 240,000 people. Of these, approximately 95 percent University graduates can choose between two, equally were DB employees and about five percent were well-regarded entry pathways at the DB Group: the members of staff from other companies. graduate trainee programs (TRAIN Biz, TRAIN Tec, or Since 2011, the DB Academy has been responsible TRAIN ICT, depending on the graduate’s specialty) or the for training around 7,000 executives, employees not direct-­entry route. Both options are ideal preparation covered by collective-bargaining agreements and operafor graduates with a bachelor’s, master’s, or other degree tional executives at the DB Group. In this way, DB ensures prior to an entry-level role. With its international that its employees receive systematic, continuous career euroTRAIL program launched in 2011, DB Schenker support from a single source. In the reporting year, apRail has chosen to place a special focus on attracting proximately 43 percent of the target group benefited future executives with both specialist knowledge and from the training programs. Dialog forums reached intercultural skills. The second intake of participants – around eight percent of the target group. These serve 42 graduates from twelve countries – started this proas platforms for networking and discussing all issues gram in 2012. Meanwhile, the “Talents@DB Schenker of relevance for the Group. Logistics” graduate trainee program is aimed primarily Training is not just a major issue in Germany. DB at university graduates who majored in logistics. In the Schenker, for instance, opened its own staff training reporting year, eleven participants started the program, and development center in China in 2012: the DB which involves working in all parts of the business and Schenker Logistics Academy China in Beijing. With this abroad. move, the logistics specialist is recognizing the growing importance of the Chinese market and investing in its Skills-based development is a major success factor employees’ training. Individual, skills-based staff development plays an important role at DB. Dialogs between employees and exNew leadership concept is key component of ecutives are compulsory at DB in Germany and form DB2020 strategy the basis for assessing performance, skills, and potenExecutives at the DB Group have been developing a tial, as well as agreeing on development. The funding new shared understanding of leadership since 2012 to guidelines for continuing professional development successfully work with the challenges set by the DB2020 that is completed alongside work were updated and strategy and the cultural change process. It is based on agreed on throughout the Group in the year under more transformational leadership, which centers on review. Employees can always find the latest opportuexecutives inspiring and involving their direct teams nities to enhance their professional skills with the help and thereby strengthening the inner motivation of of the online portal “DB Continuing Professional Develtheir staff. This is done via a process of dialog at all opment Compass.” managerial levels, which comprises discussion and reflection events for executives as well as feedback tools Transparent communication of staff development such as 360° leadership feedback and the Group-wide options employee survey. Staff development is extremely important to DB. Defined development pathways provide employees and executives in Germany with orientation for their further professional development. They highlight development opportunities for staff and help the specialist business with succession planning. In 2012, for example, the career model “A Career in Procurement” was introduced for Central Procurement as part of a pilot project. This program systematically supports staff development by offering employees tailored training for each stage of their careers – from procurement assistant to executives of strategic procurement. In the reporting year, DB further extended the overview of possible development pathways across all business units. An online tool that is accessible to all employees increases transparency in this regard. 65 Challenge and encourage What employees from selected international units think about their development opportunities at the Group Hanna Münninghoff, 24, Björn Gäbler, 30, has “a job that inspires me and is a servicing supervisor for the that I enjoy.” She works with the automated metro system at the production alliance Xrail, which women-only Princess Noura Bint aims to strengthen single-wagon Abduhl Rahman University in Riad. load transport efficiency in Europe. “My career plans didn’t actually DB Schenker Rail is a member of include spending time abroad.” this network. She came across her He was working for the S-Bahn dream job during the practical suburban rail network in Stuttgart phases of the Project Engineering in 2011 when his departmental cooperative education program, manager told him that someone which gave her a thorough insight with precisely his qualifications into working practices at various was needed for a metro project DB Schenker sites as well as enain Riad. He accepted the job, DB bling her to complete a degree. Regional allowed him to move to “I always received an exceptional DB International, and now he enlevel of support,” she says. She sures that the metro system at the completed some of her training in women’s university runs smoothly. Denmark. “The option of spending Björn Gäbler’s wife and three-yeartime abroad during my course old son have now joined him. When was really important to me,” says his contract runs out at the end of Hanna Münninghoff. While she was 2013, he says: “I definitely want in Copenhagen, she came across to stay in the region” for the time Xrail, where she now helps to opbeing. “There are so many proj­ timize single-wagon load transects at DB International.” port traffic. 66 Vanessa Holl, 42, Michel Bizot, 57, Andrew Seah, 39, calls the worldwide growth prohas a passion for driving trains. heads up the communications gram “Go for Growth (G4G),” which In his free time, he drives historic and environment team for Asia/ she was responsible for introduclocomotives in France. He only Pacific at DB Schenker. “I work ing by the end of 2011, “my baby at turned professional five years ago, with people in the region and Schenker.” She left the Logistics when he left the sales team at a from all around the world. InterStrategy department in Berlin and telecoms company to join ECR acting with so many colleagues, moved to Essen to work on the (Euro Cargo Rail), DB Schenker clients, and partners gives me all project. Her work on G4G made it Rail’s company in France. “I was kinds of opportunities and lots of clear that “the Western Europe repretty frustrated with my job at chances to learn, which I wouldn’t gion has scope for development,” as the time. In the end, I gathered want to be without.” Seah is a fashe says. Since she can speak three together my courage and rang ther of three and has been workof the countries’ four languages, ECR’s Human Resources departing at DB Schenker in Singapore she was chosen to fill a newly crement.” During his nine-month since 2006. In his role, he sees himated position in Paris. Now, she is training period, he proved that self as “Providing impetus for a responsible for all strategic issues age is no obstacle to getting the change which can alter the charin the region. Vanessa Holl praises job done. “Quite the opposite! acter and soul of the company.” the culture at DB Schenker Logistics: My younger coworkers were glad He adds that this will also have “I like the working atmosphere. It’s that they could benefit from my an impact on the whole system of shaped by humanity, and achieveknowledge.” Now, he drives trains clients, sites, and countries in the ments are rewarded.” near the Spanish border. “Despite long run. “It isn’t easy to bring Currently, she is learning Arabic the unusual working hours, my about change of this kind in such and she can imagine bringing her job gives me a sense of freedom.” a large global company and in a practical experience to bear at And he is still taking on new region which is as complex and Group level or in a DB subsidiary – challenges too: “I want to learn dynamic as Asia/Pacific.” preferably in an international setEnglish.” ting. “I’m always eager to tackle new challenges.” 67 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 03 Becoming a top employer Attracting employees  DB is taking a holistic approach with its new talent acquisition strategy. It is working on important factors for successful recruitment: from a credible employer brand, partnerships with schools and universities, and professional candidate communication to initiatives on the international labor markets. DB launched its new employer campaign “A job like no other” nationwide in Germany in 2012. The advertisements put the spotlight on DB’s actual employees. DB has realigned its talent acquisition approach for the needs of candidates, new employees, and the indipotential employees vidual business units. Seven regional recruiting teams DB introduced a holistic approach to attracting qualiin Germany ensure that DB has a uniform employer fied employees in June 2012 by setting up a new Talent brand and vacancies are filled quickly. Its remit covers Acquisition Division. The Division is responsible for everything from identifying requirements and HR marthe successful strategic alignment of both the DB emketing to selecting suitable candidates. All important ployer brand and recruiting for the DB Group in Germany. target groups are addressed: high-school students, uniIn the course of the review, the processes of recruitversity students, and experienced professionals from ment, application management, and onboarding at DB both academic and non-academic fields. were updated to bring them more closely in line with 68 At the nationwide careers event “Green Day 2012,” DB presented green professions and environmental protection projects to high-school students in Germany. Staff shape DB’s new employer brand broad-based career guidance complete the company’s The new employer campaign “A job like no other” was offering for high-schoolers and university students. launched in Germany in November 2012 and spans a comprehensive range of media, such as TV, print, radio, Attractive programs for junior staff make starting and poster ads. Right from the start, DB employees work interesting were involved in the campaign and made ambassadors. DB opens the door to a successful future in the working The initiative focuses on DB’s employees and presents world. High-school students can choose from a broad them in typical working situations to illustrate the dirange of over 50 different vocational training courses versity and multifaceted nature of DB as an employer, and more than 20 cooperative education programs. which hires people for more than 500 different profesUniversity students can gain initial work experience sions and provides vocational training in over 50 occuand establish important industry contacts while they pations. The new career website is at the heart of the study: through an internship, as a working student, or campaign. This website is supplemented by social as part of their degree thesis paper. At the end of their media channels such as Facebook and Twitter, a new degree course, they can choose between direct entry look for exhibitions, and innovative event formats. The into the company and a graduate trainee program. campaign has met with a very positive response in the external labor market and prompted a sharp 40 perDB communicates with potential employees cent average increase in the number of candidates apabroad as well plying for a job at DB. DB is implementing its internationalization strategy in various fields, including staff recruitment. The firm is DB cooperates with schools and universities to currently taking its first steps in this regard and using attract junior staff recruitment events in Spain and Greece, for instance. It DB would like to forge ties with potential employees at hopes to reach out to civil engineers, electrical engian early stage. Cooperating with schools and universities neers, and mechanical engineers on these countries’ plays an important role in doing just this. DB helps to labor markets and recruit them to work for DB in provide career guidance to over 350 schools and some Germany. The company has also built up partnerships 100 carefully chosen national and international univerwith universities abroad. DB offers an international insities and colleges. DB particularly likes to stage events ternship program for students at these institutions. with a practical focus. For example, the company presented itself as an employer during a day-long train ride with its “DB Careers Express” event. By calling at different stations, the event offered an insight into workshops, building sites, and the variety of professions and areas of work at the company. Grants and 69 A model of the green station is explained to Dr. Volker Kefer, Member of the Management Board responsible for Rail Technology as well as for Infrastructure, by DB architect Marc Ulrich. 70 04 Pioneering environmental protection As a leading international player in the mobility and logistics industry, DB has a special responsibility to minimize the environmental impact of its transport services. As it strives to become an eco-pioneer, DB will therefore boost its energy efficiency and increase the use of renewables and thereby reduce specific CO₂ emissions. It will cut the amount of noise generated by rail traffic by half, make further reductions in emissions of air pollutants, and enhance material and resource efficiency. 71 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Defining targets and areas for action DB is committed to minimizing the impact of transport on the environment and the climate and to preserving the natural resources which are essential for life. It has set itself ambitious goals to pioneer environmental protection. DB is ensuring that it upholds its standard by setting and monitoring Group-wide environmental targets, training staff appropriately, and maintaining intensive stakeholder dialog. Three top objectives are a concrete call to action Clear management processes guarantee that Climate change and the growing scarcity of natural retargets will be met sources are among the biggest challenges faced by our DB has already defined quantifiable targets for its globalized world. Companies therefore have a special climate protection and noise reduction initiatives. responsibility to act with the environment in mind and Targets are being developed for material and resource to use raw materials and other resources efficiently. At efficiency, clean air, and protecting the natural world the same time, both society’s expectations and political and biodiversity. Depending on the business activity in pressure are increasingly compelling businesses to make question, the targets apply at either global, European, or an effective contribution towards preserving the natural national level. Achievement of these targets is measured resources which are essential for life. On top of all Group-wide using defined controlling processes. This is this, more and more customers expect eco-friendly supported on the operational side by an environmental products and services so that they can lessen their own management system, which also applies throughout environmental impact. the Group  and is based on the ISO 14001 standard. DB is addressing its responsibility by offering effiIn 2012, this system had been introduced at a total cient, innovative, and integrated mobility and logistics of 49 percent of active companies in the DB Group. solutions with a strong railway at their heart. In order 27 percent of the companies are additionally certified to serve as an eco-pioneer, it has defined three key in line with ISO 14001.  objectives within its DB2020 strategy. The DB Environment Center is responsible for Group-­ Reducing specific CO₂ emissions around the world by wide eco-management. Its key responsibilities are 20 percent between 2006 and 2020 as one of DB’s developing and monitoring targets and programs in contributions towards climate protection. In addition conjunction with the business units along with managto increasing energy efficiency, making greater use ing opportunities and risks. The DB Environment Center of renewable energy is the key factor to be leveraged and the Group Environment Committee jointly ensure in this regard. DB aims for renewables to account that measures are implemented to achieve the targets. for at least 35 percent of traction current in Germany The Group Environment Committee is made up of by 2020. representatives of all business units at the DB Group. Substantial reduction in the noise generated by rail It has various working committees and expert groups freight. Noise must not be allowed to curb the which evaluate the Group’s environmental protection growth of rail freight, which is an environmentally achievements and develop measures for the key targets friendly mode of transport. DB has therefore set itthat form part of the DB2020 strategy. self the goal of halving the noise associated with rail traffic between 2000 and 2020 – in concrete terms Employees play a crucial role in making DB an this means reducing it by 10 dB (A). eco-pioneer Enhancing material and resource efficiency to make DB’s main approach to making environmental protection economical use of finite resources. The key factors an integral part of its business activities is to capitalize here are reducing consumption, improving recyclaon its employees’ enthusiasm, motivation, and knowlbility, and increasing the percentage of materials edge. They can make a major contribution towards which are recycled after use. DB is developing a reducing the company’s environmental impact with concrete target for this area. their day-to-day work and thereby further increase DB is also taking action on other environmental issues DB’s leadership as a green company. That is why the by reducing emissions of air pollutants and protecting company has developed special advanced training prothe natural world and biodiversity. grams. These are implemented by DB Training – the Group’s training provider – in conjunction with the DB Environment Center. In 2012, DB ran 57 environment courses, training approximately 630 employees. The firm aims to have motivated all DB employees to make 72 DB has had several wind power facilities under contract since 2010 – like this one in Märkisch Linden. a greater commitment to the environment and keep BUND), Deutsche Umwelthilfe e. V. (DUH), the Nature their knowledge up to date. and Biodiversity Conservation Union (Naturschutzbund Deutschland e. V.; NABU), Greenpeace, Verkehrs­club Intensive stakeholder dialog boosts transparency Deutschland e. V. (VCD), and WWF. In addition to this, and fosters trust DB maintains links with the relevant authorities, for Dialog with environmental organizations is firmly anexample by taking part in Germany’s annual expert chored at DB. The company seeks regular contact with conference on nature conservation, which was held for organizations including Friends of the Earth Germany the fifth time in 2012. (Bund für Umwelt und Naturschutz Deutschland e. V.; CPD (continuing professional development) focusing on environmental protection for DB employees Advanced training in environmental protection Workshop – current environmental protection issues Closed-cycle management – implementing electronic waste Nature conservation – current internal and external regulations recording procedures Environmental screening for building projects Closed-cycle management – the new German Recycling Act Prevention of water pollution at specific sites Environmental information system – hazardous substances module Efficient energy usage – lighting Closed-cycle management Basic training in environmental protection An overview of environmental protection Closed-cycle management Preventing pollution – noise and vibrations Environmental protection as a managerial Closed-cycle management Preventing pollution – keeping the air clean responsibility for construction supervisors German Federal Water Act Environmental penal law and the Environmental information system Prevention of water pollution at specific sites Environmental Liability Act – waste module Soil protection and preexisting contamination Conservation basics for planning and Environmental information system construction – waste module Environmental screening for building projects Railway hygiene 73 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Expanding climate protection DB has set itself the goal of reducing its specific CO₂ emissions around the world by 20 percent between 2006 and 2020. Energy-saving driving techniques, deploying modern vehicles, and improved capacity utilization have all already increased climate efficiency throughout the Group. In addition to this, DB wants to steadily expand its use of renewable energies to at least 35 percent of the traction current mix by 2020. Lower CO₂ emissions based freight haulage and air traffic. Climate-friendly DB has been working towards ambitious energy-saving rail transport therefore has a key role to play in reducing and climate protection targets for years. Between 1990 CO₂ emissions. and 2012, the company reduced the specific CO₂ emissions generated by its rail traffic in Germany by over Political framework is crucial for strengthening 45 percent. Absolute CO₂ emissions attributable to rail eco-friendly rail transport traffic also fell by approximately two million tons, alCurrent energy policy does not sufficiently take the though the volume sold rose. These successes prompted competitive situation for eco-friendly rail transport and the company to further step up its climate protection the progress that has been made in climate protection efforts. In 2006, for instance, DB set itself the goal of into account. The legislative initiatives to reduce CO₂ reducing its specific CO₂ emissions by 20 percent by emissions and increase the use of renewable energies 2020. Due to the growth in its business activities, this which have a direct impact on costs – i. e. European target now applies at a global level and for all land, sea, emissions trading and Germany’s Renewable Energy and air transport.  By the end of 2012, DB had Sources Act (Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz; EEG) – already managed to cut specific CO₂ emissions by primarily affect electrically powered rail transport. In 12.3 percent in comparison to 2006.  2012, DB had to buy additional emissions rights for rail traffic at a cost of some € 50 million. DB incurred costs DB’s climate protection targets of around € 45 million as a result of the EEG in 2012. This figure is expected to rise again sharply in the following years – even though these expenses are capped Climate protection program 2020 by the compensation arrangements for railways included in the EEG. Nevertheless, the current climate protection framework as a whole is having a negative impact –20% CO₂ on precisely the form of transport which has proved DB Group overall highly climate-efficient and uses by far the largest percentage of renewables. 1990 2006 2012 2020 2050 –45% CO₂ Traction current supply uses more renewables –100% CO₂  Aside from reducing energy consumption, using CO₂-free or low-CO₂ renewables is the most important DB rail traffic way to achieve climate protection goals. At the end of 2012, energy from renewable sources accounted for 24 percent of the traction current mix.  This places rail traffic in Germany considerably ahead of all other Transport sector has a special duty to protect modes of transport. DB Long-Distance is taking a furthe climate ther step by introducing green products in April 2013. In the light of rising greenhouse gas emissions around By also procuring eco-power for DB’s green long-haul the world, the European Union has made a commitment services, the average long-distance rail journey will to reduce absolute annual CO₂ emissions by 20 percent generate 90 percent fewer CO₂ emissions than trav­ between 1990 and 2020. The German government has eling by car and almost 94 percent less than flying. given an assurance that it will cut greenhouse gases in Germany by 40 percent during this period. DB actively supports the German government’s climate protection targets as part of its own corporate commitment because the transport sector is responsible for around 20 percent of the country’s CO₂ emissions. Absolute emissions are continuing to rise, especially in road74  In recent years, DB has made a number of imCost-effectiveness and reliability are key portant decisions about changing its traction current considerations for water and wind power supply to develop a concrete means of achieving its To ensure that it will achieve the above-mentioned vision of CO₂-free operations in 2050. This shall contribtargets and to safeguard cost-effectiveness and security ute to the objective of renewables comprising at least of supply, DB Netze Energy – which supplies power to 35 percent by 2020.  A number of long-term proDB – maintains long-term partnerships with providers curement contracts have been signed for water and who guarantee a reliable supply of electricity generated wind power to achieve this. using water and wind power. Over the past two years, long-term supply contracts have been signed with RWE, Traction current mix, 2012¹  E.ON, and the Austrian firm VERBUND AG for hydroelectric power. This will take the percentage of hydroelectric Lignite 14.2% Natural gas 8.3% in the traction current mix to over 20 percent starting Other fuels 1.9% in 2015. In addition, DB Netze Energy contracted three wind Renewable energies 24.0% farms in late 2012. Two more will follow in February 2013 in Krummhörn, part of the municipality of Emden. Given the right conditions, the company’s 48 wind turbines together generate some 140 GWh a year, which helps to further lessen DB’s impact on the climate. As wind power is not always available due to Anthracite 31.4% changing weather conditions, additional steps must be Electricity procured separately taken to make it a reliable part of the electricity mix. from 100% renewable sources Nuclear energy 20.2% for DB’s green products This is why DB has been supporting the further development of storage technology since October 2011 with The percentage of renewables increased by 2.2 percentage points to 24 percent its “bonus” for new power-generating facilities. With in the reporting year. DB Netze Energy also procures power for DB’s CO₂-free this initiative, the company is helping to fund the products separately. This power is not treated as contributing towards achieving DB’s target. Instead, the resulting CO₂ savings lessen the impact of DB’s customers world’s first hybrid power plant in Prenzlau (Brandenon the climate. Green energy procured for this purpose totaled 283 GWh in the burg), which uses composite technology to bring toreporting year, which corresponds to approximately two percent of the total gether wind and biomass as energy sources for the first traction current used. time with hydrogen as a storage medium.  With its ¹) Preliminary figures based on final reporting in line with the German Energy new power facility bonus, DB supports innovative proj­ Industry Act ects focusing on expanding the use of renewable energies. The bonus is financed through the green product offerings and thus via 100 percent green power.  With its “bonus” for new power-generating facilities DB is helping to finance the world’s first hybrid power plant, in Prenzlau, for storing wind energy using hydrogen (H₂) as a medium. 75 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Millions of travelers complete their long-distance rail journeys using 100 percent eco-friendly power thanks to DB’s green products. Focus on switching the production method for for a new permit to enable the power plant – which has traction current largely been built – to become operational. Although energy from renewable sources is accounting To prevent acute bottlenecks in the supply of power for a rapidly increasing percentage, the traction current to the rail network, the Ministry of the Environment in supply cannot do without conventionally produced North Rhine-Westphalia has issued a temporary special electricity entirely in the short term. This is due to exauthorization permitting three existing power plant isting contracts, financial considerations, and its aim blocks to keep operating until February 2014. This will of maintaining the greatest possible security of supply. give E.ON time to complete the frequency converters A lively public debate is currently underway regarding which were already planned. how soon it is possible to switch to renewables. The political decision to stop using nuclear power Using modern vehicles reduces CO₂ emissions  following the reactor accident in Fukushima directly led The new generation of 44x-series multiple unit cars is to the Neckarwestheim I nuclear power station being gradually replacing other trains, especially those decommissioned. This plant was directly responsible drawn by locomotives. The 442 series began being opfor generating traction current. The Neckarwestheim II erated in 2012. Thanks to modern traction technology, facility is expected to stop supplying traction current energy regeneration, and flexible configuration options, in 2022. Traction current uses a special frequency of these trains use as much as 50 percent less energy per 16.7 Hertz and is sourced almost entirely via long-term kilometer than those drawn by locomotives, meaning supply contracts concluded between the energy supplier that they also produce fewer CO₂ emissions. DB Netze Energy and power plant operators, stipulating As part of a pilot project subsidized by the German either renewable or conventional energy sources. DB government, DB Bahn Regional is developing the first does not invest in power-generating facilities directly. hybrid railcar, in conjunction with MTU Friedrichshafen As a result of this principle, the company signed a longGmbH. This should enable fuel consumption and CO₂ term power supply agreement with the operator E.ON. emissions to be decreased by up to 25 percent. In adThis should have led to the construction of a new coaldition to hybrid technology, a modern air-conditioning fired power plant block, IV, at the Datteln site to continue system powered by CO₂ helps to increase environmental supplying the same amount of traction current as befriendliness. It is hoped that this will cut energy usage fore. Four older, more inefficient power plant blocks by up to ten percent. The vehicle started operating on were to be decommissioned instead. Once the new a trial basis in 2012 and is expected to be used for regblock went online, absolute annual CO₂ emissions would ular operations from fall 2013 onwards. have fallen by around 780,000 tons a year. The newbuild As a key element of its “Preferred Carrier” strategy in project was criticized by environmental organizations, the air transport sector, the company is using modern action groups, and local residents right from the start. freight planes such as the B777F to reduce CO₂ emissions The objection to the operation permit was upheld in by an average of 20 percent per ton of cargo. In addition the final instance. The operator E.ON intends to apply to pilot training, other important measures include 76 DB Schenker incorporates service providers in the seaborne and air transport sectors into its energy-saving driving concepts via its “Preferred Carrier” strategy. The use of slow steaming in shipping helps reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly: lowering the average speed used on global shipping routes to 18–20 knots made a substantial contribution towards the total reduction of around 36 percent in CO₂ emissions achieved by DB Schenker Logistics between 2006 and 2012. Stationary facilities use less energy DB’s climate protection efforts are not restricted to driving, however. The firm is also setting benchmarks when it comes to infrastructure. For example, it started More than 30,000 DB drivers have taken part building Germany’s first climate-neutral station, in in training courses about energy-saving driving. Kerpen-Horrem, in November 2012 at a cost of € 3.4 million. The “Green Station” pilot project stands for a new generation of station buildings, which combine flight planning based on direct routing. This serves to modern environmental standards with a high level of minimize transport distances. comfort for customers. Another green station is under construction in Lutherstadt Wittenberg, Saxony-Anhalt. Energy-saving driving helps protect the climate  A new biomass heating station fueled by wood chips Driving styles which save as much energy as possible was built at the Südostbayernbahn site in Mühldorf, have great potential in the transport sector. Depending which has been providing the buildings with renewable on the vehicle in question, electricity and fuel usage can energy since September 2011. It supplies almost three be cut by as much as ten percent if these techniques quarters of the heat needed each year for workshops, are used consistently. To make consistent use of this offices, and social buildings. As well as cutting costs by potential, DB does not only teach its own train, truck, 30 percent, this reduces CO₂ emissions by 70 percent and bus drivers to use energy-saving methods. It also compared to the previous arrangement. The fuel is runs corresponding training programs for drivers from sourced from DB land when vegetation is cut back. firms which work on DB’s behalf. DB Arriva is a good example: more than 8,300 buses in seven European countries have built-in on-board electronics which make eco-friendly driving easier. All DB Arriva bus drivers take part in an extensive training program, where they learn about forward-looking driving and optimized braking and acceleration, all of which can save fuel. Photovoltaic facility on the roof of the Berlin Central Station 77 Going green with the BahnCard 75 percent of all long-distance journeys are using green power: that gives DB an “impressive competitive edge” according to Prof. Dr. Harald Kächele, Director of Deutsche Umwelthilfe. From April 2013 onwards, rail network in Hamburg and regional services in Saarall holders of a Bahnland are also supplied with 100 percent green power. Card rail card or a temDB’s Group target to increase the percentage of renewaporary travel pass will bles in the traction current mix is also leading to falling travel on Deutsche Bahn’s specific CO₂ emissions on electrically powered local long-distance trains using transport. “However, apart from the model regions of 100 percent green elecHamburg and Saarland, there are currently no indicatricity, without paying a tions that the authorities responsible for local passensurcharge. In addition, ger rail services are planning to further increase the all business customers percentage of renewable power used by their chosen registered with bahn. operators,” said Peter Westenberger, Head of Environcorporate – DB’s corpomental Principles, Design, and Development. Prof. Dr. Harald Kächele, rate customer program – Director of Deutsche Umwelthilfe will travel completely The director of the environmental organization Deutsche CO₂-free within Germany. Umwelthilfe, Prof. Dr. Harald Kächele, believes that Travelers without a BahnCard can also book the “UmCO₂-free travel gives the railway an impressive competitive welt-Plus” option for € 1 per person and route to travel edge over cars and airplanes. He mentions a large number using 100 percent green energy on long-distance services. of studies which indicate that environmental awareness is on the rise, especially due to concerns about the conseSo that it can offer this program, DB purchases enough quences of climate change. “If this competitive edge is additional eco-friendly power to cover the energy readvertised much more aggressively, I have no doubt quirements of all these routes. This electricity is generthat the climate-neutral argument will encourage more ated entirely from renewable sources – largely water – and more people to travel by train instead of using cars and fed into the traction current network. The quality and planes. However, it is also clear that this is just the control organization TÜV SÜD monitors and checks the first step on the way towards using energy entirely from process. As the majority of long-distance travelers either renewable sources.” have a BahnCard or a temporary travel pass or are business travelers, the percentage of green power used for DB aims to make it possible for rail transport in Germany these services has risen from 24 percent to 75 percent. to be completely CO₂-free by 2050 using renewable This reduces CO₂ emissions in DB’s long-distance transenergy sources. port by some 680,000 tons a year. “With this move, we are making our contribution towards further expanding our pioneering role as an environmentally friendly mode of transport and thereby safeguarding our competitive edge,” said Berthold Huber, CEO and Chairman of DB Fernverkehr AG. CO₂-free rail travel is also becoming increasingly important in individual cities and regions: the S-Bahn suburban 78 79 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Improving noise protection Noise protection poses a special challenge in the light of growing rail traffic. For this reason, the German government and DB are investing in numerous measures to reduce the noise produced both on the tracks and by the trains themselves. This is taking DB closer to achieving its aim of reducing the noise associated with rail traffic by half between 2000 and 2020. DB aims to halve rail traffic noise by 2020 Noise prevention effective on new and old Reducing noise pollution is a key area where action is track sections  currently needed. Especially in the field of rail freight Independently of this, DB fulfills all the legal requiretraffic, steps need to be taken to provide local residents ments for noise prevention on new and old sections of with the improved noise protection they rightly demand, track. The German Federal Emmission Control Act states while still enabling this transport sector to grow. that there is a legal right to protection from traffic noise The fact that more and more people feel that rail and stipulates various maximum levels for different aretraffic noise is a problem is something which DB takes as, e.g. districts with hospitals and schools or residential very seriously. Its aim is to halve the noise associated and industrial areas. All newbuilds and major structural with rail traffic between 2000 and 2020. This is equivaroute changes are affected by the Act. In 2012, 28 kilolent to an average reduction of 10 dB (A). The target meters of noise protection barriers were built and some applies to routes where noise pollution is high. 8,200 apartments were fitted with noise reduction To pool all its noise reduction activities, DB created measures as part of the noise prevention program. the new position of Representative for Noise Protection This means that DB has constructed noise protection in 2012. The company has initiated an extensive package barriers with a total length of 83 kilometers and inof measures for the next few years to ensure it meets stalled soundproof fittings in around 10,200 apartments its noise protection target. These measures relate to as part of these activities, including its noise remedi­ both the tracks and the trains. ation program. Legislators have decided that the so-called track Active and passive noise protection is being bonus will no longer apply to newbuild projects from increased in the existing rail network  2015. This raises the noise protection requirement by The German government is currently providing € 100 5 dB (A). This move towards greater noise reduction million a year for noise protection on railways as part goes hand in hand with a need for more extensive of a voluntary noise remediation program. Both active noise protection. The associated costs must not jeopand passive noise protection measures are being impleardize the expansion of the rail infrastructure. mented. The active measures include constructing noise protection embankments and barriers along with redu­ cing the noise associated with bridge structures. Passive noise protection involves modifications to buildings, such as fitting soundproof windows and wall fans. Pre­ cedence is being given to overhauling sections of track where noise pollution is particularly high and a large number of residents are affected. The overall concept and the resulting priority lists for implementation of the noise remediation program are regularly reviewed and updated in line with developments in the noise situation. This data can be used to support the German Federal Railway Authority’s (EBA) noise mapping activ­ ities and local communities’ anti-noise project planning. In 2012, some 55 kilometers of noise protection barriers were built and approximately 2,000 apartments DB constructed a total of 83 kilometers were fitted with soundproof windows and fans. All in of noise protection barriers in 2012. all, the noise remediation program covers 3,700 kilo­ meters of track, of which over 1,200 kilometers have already been overhauled. 80 services are already equipped with low-noise disk brakes which have no effect on the wheels’ running tread, meaning that the trains are quieter. Track pricing designed to support retrofitting In addition to some 60,000 freight cars owned by DB Schenker Rail, approximately 120,000 freight cars belonging to other German and foreign companies are due to be retrofitted in Germany. To encourage firms to convert their existing freight cars to low-noise brake technology, the German Federal Ministry of Transport, Building, and Urban Development (BMVBS) rolled out a program of subsidies at the end of 2012. This gives railcar owners the right to financial assistance of up to € 211 per axle when they convert their freight cars. In addition to this, DB Netz AG introduced a noise-related track pricing system (LaTPS) on December 9, 2012, to complement the Ministry’s subsidies. Train-operating companies receive a variable bonus for using retrofitted freight cars based on the distance they cover. From June 1, 2013 onwards, noisy freight trains will be subject DB aims to cut rail traffic noise in half by 2020. to a 1.0 percent surcharge which will increase gradually over the next eight years. Quiet freight trains will not be subject to the surcharge. In order to qualify, trains Modern vehicle technology combats noise at its must consist of at least 80 percent low-noise freight source railcars. Income from the LaTPS will be used solely to  While noise prevention and remediation projects finance the bonus. only make a difference locally, steps to modify the actual vehicle cut noise at the source and therefore First innovative technologies ready for use take effect on a much wider scale. The most important Investment programs run by the German government measure in this regard is the use of so-called whisper are also helping DB to roll out innovative technology brakes on freight cars. These innovative composite for active noise protection faster. As part of the govbrake blocks prevent the wheels from becoming rough, ernment’s Economic Package II, DB has made use of reducing the rolling noise produced by the railcars. To13 new technologies via 82 individual measures. They gether with a smoothly polished track, this reduces include rail web dampers, gabion walls, and special rail freight trains’ noise emissions by some 10 dB (A). That grinding techniques. The BMVBS and DB Netz AG premeans they are perceived as making about half as sented their final report on the track-side noise and much noise. DB has been purchasing new vehicles with vibration reduction technologies they tested at the end composite brake blocks since 2001. By the end of of June 2012. Their approval of the innovations which 2012, approximately 7,500 new freight cars with quiet passed the tests means that the number of tools availbrakes were already in use. able for reducing noise is gradually being increased. Existing freight cars also need to be retrofitted to In addition to this, DB is involved in a series of rereduce noise across the board. In 2012, DB retrofitted search projects with partners from industry, transport composite brake blocks to the first 150 of around companies, and universities. A good example of these 1,250 freight cars earmarked for conversion as part of is the “Quiet Trains on Real Tracks” project (LZarG). As the “Quiet Rhine” program subsidized by the German part of this project, the team developed for example Federal Ministry of Transport, Building, and Urban quieter wheels as well as wheel and rail web dampers. Development (BMVBS).  On top of this, DB Schenker These reduce the amount of noise emitted by freight Rail plans to retrofit a total of around 10,000 railcars cars. The researchers also further developed a bogie in 2014 and 2015, provided that the so-called LL (lowwith rubber shock absorbers. Together, these measnoise, low-friction) brake block is approved for use in ures reduce noise by some 5–6 dB (A). The project was mid-2013. This new type of composite brake block is completed in 2012. The components which the team interchangeable with conventional metallic brake blocks. developed – such as rail web dampers and slab tracks – A Europe-wide testing program for the LL brake block are now being put to use. The bogie and wheels have was successfully completed at the end of 2012. All of been launched on the market. Further development DB Schenker Rail’s freight cars are due to be fitted with work will focus on cost-effective ways to make freight whisper brakes by 2020. railcars run quietly. Meanwhile, work to modernize the fleet is progressing faster in the passenger transport sector than in the freight haulage division. Almost all long-distance trains and the vast majority of vehicles used for regional 81 noise protection barriers often aren’t an option in the Middle Rhine Valley as they simply aren’t in keeping with town planning concepts. And people don’t want to sit behind high noise protection barriers when they’re eating out in a restaurant.” Ines Jahnel, Representative for Noise Protection at DB Active noise protection – i. e. reducing rail noise at the source – has a much greater effect. “We need to retrofit freight cars with so-called whisper brakes which stop the “The Middle Rhine Valley is very important to me.” Ines wheels from becoming rough and therefore reduce noise.” Jahnel’s commitment shines through as she talks about A major step in the plan is the use of LL composite brake her number one problem area. Night and day, numerous blocks, which are to be fitted throughout Europe. Infreight trains travel through the fabled valley between stead of just reducing noise in one particular place, they Koblenz and Mainz, causing a lot of noise. Residents in make railcars quieter wherever they are. the communities on both sides of the river are affected. “At the moment, the locals don’t really believe that we’ll Jahnel has been the Representative for Noise Protection actually begin fitting them at some point,” speculates at Deutsche Bahn since August 2012. “My role requires Jahnel. “But things are starting: DB Schenker Rail will me to network with everyone concerned by talking to retrofit 10,000 existing cars by the end of 2015 and residents, speaking at public events, liaising with policy-­ convert another 50,000 until 2020. However, other railmakers and ministries and, of course, interfacing with car owners need to do their part too by switching to other parts of the Group,” she says. Jahnel sees herself as quiet brake technology, otherwise it won’t have the “a central point of contact and the person with overall desired effect.” 120,000 existing cars – two thirds of oversight at the same time.” One of the key challenges the total fleet of railcars in Germany which need retrofor her is to make it clear “that we take this task seriously, fitting – belong to other operators. we’ve got a concept, and – above all – we aren’t insensitive to the issue.” This calls for more networking with both the owners of the railcars and the German government in order to create She has already achieved her first success: the concept incentives. On top of this, the noise remediation program is in place and all noise reduction activities within the funded by the German government needs to keep running. Group have been pooled. DB’s aim is to halve rail traffic Only about a third of the 3,700 kilometers identified as noise by 2020, which means slashing it by 10 decibels having high levels of noise pollution have been overon routes where noise pollution levels are high. hauled to date. Ines Jahnel started by taking a somewhat unconventional Ines Jahnel says: “Reducing noise is in the interests of approach to her work in the Middle Rhine Valley. “I everyone involved. We recognized that it could become a wanted to see what things were like for myself, so I serious obstacle to the growth of environmentally friendly stayed at a hotel that didn’t have modern soundproof rail freight services if we don’t improve noise protection. windows. I wanted to hear how rail freight traffic impacts We need society’s acceptance, so we’re taking action.” on local residents,” said the 50-year-old. Her experience showed her that the € 53 million which the German govDB has pooled its Group-wide noise reduction activities ernment has already invested in noise protection is not and incorporated them into an overall plan. “The results enough for residents in this region peppered with vinethemselves will be our measure of success – and not yards and half-timbered houses. “At the beginning, we just in the Rhine Valley,” promises the Representative concentrated on fitting soundproof windows because for Noise Protection. 82 “We need society’s acceptance” The Middle Rhine Valley is one of the focal points of Ines Jahnel’s work. The Representative for Noise Protection sees herself as a central point of contact and the person with broad oversight. By 2020, DB will retrofit around 60,000 freight cars with whisper brakes. 83 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Enhancing material and resource efficiency DB is pursuing the goal of making the best possible use of raw materials. At the same time, it is striving to minimize its use of natural resources. In line with these principles, DB is implementing programs which are geared towards a high percentage of recycling in the waste disposal process, greater use of recycled materials, and a longer service life for the materials used in its vehicles. An optimized value chain counteracts raw material Increasing the percentage of recycling is crucial shortages Stepping up recycling makes a major contribution toThe growing scarcity of resources coupled with rising wards DB’s resource efficiency strategy. DB is underlining prices pose a major challenge for DB as an international its commitment in this regard by defining a target for mobility and logistics company. This situation increases upping its recycling quota. This target is currently in the the pressure on the firm to act, especially when it comes process of being more concretely defined. By doing so, to the use of materials which are needed for products it is helping to make greater use of secondary materials in its core line of business. DB is not just driven by its throughout the economy and preserve natural resources. aim of minimizing environmental, financial, and supply Furthermore, obtaining secondary materials is often risks. Its stakeholders also have high expectations much more energy-efficient than harvesting natural regarding the further progress DB will make with its resources. Various measures in place to make greater material and resource efficiency. use of recycled materials and extend the service life DB is facing up to this responsibility throughout the of materials in vehicles are also helping the firm to value chain: from procurement and operational use to achieve this goal. recycling and disposal. This includes transforming its waste processes from optimized disposal models to a modern materials management system. DB uses resources efficiently by cleaning ballast. 84 Ballast and concrete cross-ties are reused  Resource efficiency at DB DB has established a closed-cycle management system for the ballast and concrete cross-ties used to regularly renew and maintain the gravel bed. Every year, DB removes three to four million tons of old, worn-out Using Increasing recycled vehicles’ material from the network and replaces it with almost materials service lives the same quantity. Some of the ballast is reconditioned using machinery near the section of track it was reMaterials moved from. This reduces transport costs. The amount added back Reusing needed can then be reused, providing a high-strength to recycling materials used cycle yet elastic track bed once again. In 2012, 3.9 million tons of ballast were used, of which some 660,000 tons were recycled ballast. Much of the remaining tonnage which is no longer suitable for the gravel bed is reused elsewhere, for example as chippings or crushed stone Hazardous materials and waste are transported sand for road building. responsibly Concrete cross-ties also have a limited service life Safety is also a priority for DB when it comes to disposal and have to be replaced. In 2012, 2.4 million concrete management. In the logistics industry, the responsible cross-ties were deployed, of which some 230,000 were transportation of hazardous goods and waste is now recycled cross-ties. The concrete cross-ties which can the order of the day. DB Schenker Rail is a certified no longer be reconditioned in line with the relevant disposal specialist for the transportation of waste of all quality criteria are recycled and used for other comkinds. This certification means that the company is mercial purposes outside of DB. qualified to haul hazardous goods and waste correctly Recyclability is also an important topic for DB and responsibly anytime. Schenker’s logistics operations, where packaging is the main concern. The majority of packaging materials are ICE redesign extends service life and reduces reusable, e. g. pallets and pallet cages. 60 percent of materials expenses the other packaging materials used globally are alFor DB, using materials and resources efficiently also ready recycled. means extending the service life of its fleet of vehicles. DB has its own IT tool to document disposal processes This includes gradually modernizing its ICE and IC fleet, and to optimize waste and recycling flows within the which leads to a substantial reduction in material and Group in Germany: waste management software helps energy usage. During the redesign of the ICE 1 series, users to comply with legal requirements when they 118 driving units and 708 center cars were initially dispose of materials and contributes towards the opticompletely stripped out. All of the components – such mization of disposal processes. as the wall paneling, seats, and on-board restaurants – were removed, cleaned, and replaced with new or overUse of recycled paper making strides hauled units. Following on from the modernization of DB will continue to capitalize on the potential for using the ICE 1 fleet between 2005 and 2008, DB is now rerecycled paper and has set itself the goal of switching designing the ICE 2 and started modernizing its IC railto recycled paper across the board – from graphics apcars in 2012. By mid-2013, all 44 ICE 2 multiple-unit plications to office use. For example, DB purchased trains will have been updated to comply with customers’ some 2,900 tons of paper for offset printing use in 2012. heightened expectations for up to another 15 years. Recycled paper made up approximately 1,200 tons of The redesign cuts material expenses by 80 percent this. Starting in 2013, all material used to provide incompared to purchasing new vehicles. Over their entire formation about building work will be printed on recyservice life, the 44 trains in the ICE 2 fleet will deliver a cled paper. Timetables, rules, and regulations will make performance (passenger-kilometers) equivalent to that the switch in 2014. DB expects to go over to recycled of around 230,000 passenger cars, which would take paper for all its printing requirements in 2015. In addiabout 15 times as much material to make. tion to this, the Management Board resolved in the reporting year to print the company’s Annual Report on 100 percent recycled paper with Blue Angel (Blauer Engel) certification in the future. The Competition Report and the Sustainability Report also comply with this standard. 85 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Reducing air pollutants Traffic-related emissions of nitric oxides and soot particles have a significant effect on air quality. DB believes that significantly reducing emissions of these harmful substances is an effective way to keep the air clean. That is why it uses environmentally friendly locomotives, buses, and trucks. Considerable reduction in emissions of harmful diesel vehicles will remain an important element of the substances that pose a health risk transport mix in Germany and throughout Europe for The transport sector is currently considered one of the the foreseeable future. As a result, DB believes that main causes of air pollution. Nitric oxides and soot parfurther reducing diesel emissions plays a key role in ticles pose a health risk to people. DB takes this risk keeping the air clean. A target to further cut particuvery seriously and is continuously reducing emissions late emissions is currently being developed as part of throughout its whole fleet. Between 1990 and 2012, the its DB2020 strategy. company was able to cut the nitric oxide emissions generated by rail traffic in Germany by a total of 73 perGreater use of low-emission shunting locomotives  cent. During the same period, DB also reduced the DB Schenker Rail used no less than 100 low-emission particulate emissions associated with rail transport by shunting locomotives in 2012. Another 30 vehicles will 89 percent. The high level of electrification in the rail soon be added to this fleet. The engines are fitted with network is a key factor here as it means that the train soot filters which catch up to 97 percent of the soot itself does not produce any air pollution – only that particles. DB Schenker Rail is investing approximately generated during the power generation process needs € 240 million in the new fleet of diesel locomotives. to be taken into account. For their part, the power plants use state-of-the-art filter technology to miniHybrid technology enables a further reduction in mize emissions. emissions  In 2012, Mitteldeutsche Eisenbahngesellschaft (MEG) – Falling diesel emissions play a key role in keeping which belongs to DB Schenker Rail – became the first the air clean company in Europe to start operating four new hybrid DB uses diesel-powered trains for less than 10 pershunting locomotives. During normal operations, they cent of the transport volume in Germany. Nevertheless, are powered by a set of batteries which are recharged 80 percent of DB Schenker trucks in Germany already comply with the Euro V standard. 86 Mitteldeutsche Eisenbahngesellschaft (MEG) commissioned four hybrid shunting locomotives in 2012. by a diesel generator unit. The new vehicles are very ners are obliged to reduce their environmental impact quiet, use up to 40 percent less fuel, and reduce emisby constantly renewing their fleets of vehicles and to sions by as much as 60 percent. submit relevant reports. Moreover, a further 50,000 or so potential contractual partners are being added to a Eco-friendly bus fleet produces less harmful database to step up quality assurance. substances throughout Europe  DB’s efforts to keep the air clean are not restricted to DB is actively involved in international rail traffic. In 2012, all of the new buses purchased by research projects DB Bahn Regional complied with the strictest emissions DB’s efforts to reduce air pollution go hand in hand standard at the time, the EEV (enhanced environmenwith a wide range of research and innovation initiatives. tally-friendly vehicle). The company therefore exceeds The EU project Clean European Rail Diesel (CleanER-D) the current statutory norm, Euro V. On top of this, more is a good example of DB’s activities. 26 partners from than 200 buses used by DB Bahn Regional’s bus comindustry are involved in the program. Projects included panies are powered by eco-friendly gas. This means they retrofitting a 40-year-old diesel locomotive in 2012. It emit virtually no carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, or now complies with the EU’s Stage IIIb requirements, soot particles. DB Arriva uses environmentally friendly which were introduced last year. Work to test and evalhybrid buses abroad. uate the results will be completed in 2013. DB and 16 partners are also involved in the innovation Trucks fulfill high environmental standards platform ERI (Eco Rail Innovation). The organization’s DB’s road haulage activities are also keeping pace primary objective is to find technologies which can be with technological progress as regards the prevention of used to achieve the vision of zero-emission vehicles air pollution. The fleet of trucks owned by DB Schenker and facilities by 2050. In May 2012, ERI also set up an Logistics has already attained a high standard: in 2012, endowed professorship for energy-efficient rail tech80 percent of the trucks in Germany already complied nology systems at Brandenburg University of Applied with the Euro V standard, while the global figure stood Sciences. at 44 percent. Approximately 6,000 contractual partDB Arriva operates 130 hybrid buses in London. 87 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 04 Pioneering environmental protection Protecting nature and biodiversity In many cases, nature and rail traffic exist side by side without any problems – ideally, they even go hand in hand. Whenever conflicts arise, DB starts looking for solutions at an early stage which are both environmentally and economically viable. DB helps Bergwaldprojekt e. V. to protect and maintain woodland in Germany. More than 100,000 trees have already been planted. DB has a special responsibility for flora and fauna Nature conservation issues are always considered Conserving biodiversity presents a challenge for the during construction and maintenance work  human race on a scale comparable to climate change. A It is often impossible to avoid encroaching on nature sound ecological balance forms the foundation for our during newbuild, extension, and maintenance projects. lives and our business activities. Even during the planning stage, DB ensures that bioAreas alongside railway tracks and DB’s other facildiversity is protected and action is guided by conservaities and real estate often provide a valuable habitat tion legislation. The firm starts by identifying possible for flora and fauna and provide a sanctuary in heavily risks for the ecological balance early on. This enables it utilized landscapes. With this in mind, DB believes it to minimize the environmental impact and avoid negahas a responsibility to maintain biodiversity because tive repercussions. Considering nature conservation the firm’s business operations have a direct impact on issues insufficiently or too late can delay important animal and plant species’ habitats. At the same time, building projects or jeopardize them entirely, for exsafe rail traffic operations are DB’s number one priority. ample if protected animal and plant species are found To guarantee this, the company has to regularly maintain on the land to be developed once building work is alits platforms, tracks, and overhead cables. This includes ready under way. removing plants to ensure they do not compromise the DB has anchored its own nature conservation mantrack bed, make it difficult to see signals, or obstruct agement system within the company to help preserve staff and passengers. biodiversity. The system is overseen by the Nature Conservation Expert Group, which consists of specialists from DB’s Environment Center and the relevant sections of the business units. The group’s work includes developing recommended courses of action regarding nature conservation issues to provide members of staff with concrete guidance for their day-to-day work. 88 Vegetation control on and around tracks ensures safe rail operations To ensure that rail traffic can operate safely, facilities must be kept clear of plant growth. Chemical pesticides are only used in close proximity to the tracks; there are no alternative methods of preventing plants from growing in these areas. In 2012, active substances totaling 89 tons were used on more than 57,000 kilometers of track – equivalent to 1.55 kilograms per kilometer. This means that approximately 93 percent of the tracks were treated with chemicals. DB used the active substances flazasulfuron, flumioxazin, and glyphosate, which have been specially approved for track-side use by the German Federal Office of Consumer Protection and Food Safety. DB uses mechanical methods for areas DB is installing nesting boxes for peregrine surrounding tracks, stations, paths, and open spaces. falcons on the newly built Ilm Valley bridge. Compensatory measures promote semi-natural habitats 9 It is impossible to completely avoid encroaching on the ures was completed in 2011. On-site monitoring and natural world with construction projects. Unavoidable management activities to ensure the project’s environimpacts on nature are identified and assessed early on. mental success started in 2012. On this basis, suitable new habitats are created for the animals and plants affected or existing ones are imProprietary geo-information system raises proved. This compensates for the effects of the building awareness of protected areas 9 work. DB often initiates compensatory measures long DB takes special care to respect protected areas. In 2012, before construction starts to avoid compromising the more than 2,300 kilometers of DB’s rail network passed natural world in the first place. For instance, parts of through flora and fauna habitats protected under Eurothe River Main’s banks near Lichtenfels were landpean law. Approximately 950 kilometers ran through scaped to make them more natural when a new section nature reserves, 7,900 kilometers went through protectof track was built between Ebensfeld and Erfurt as part ed landscapes, and 5,400 kilometers passed through of the German Unity transport project no. 8. Areas of areas protected by the German Federal Water Act. The shallow water were created there and river sediment latter are subject to strict legal regulations to prevent was used to make sandbanks. The river bank is also benegative impacts on water as a protected resource. DB ing landscaped to ensure that water flows optimally into compiles all digitally available geographical data to floodways during periods of flooding. These measures create a record of protected areas. This is prepared using help to incorporate the newly constructed track into DB’s environmental geo-information system and is the landscape and promote biodiversity. The relandthen available to employees. With this system, the firm scaped river bank provides a suitable habitat for fish, creates a high level of transparency regarding the probeetles, dragon flies, amphibians, and birds. Most of tected status of sensitive landscapes and helps planthe earthwork associated with the compensatory measners and maintenance staff to go about their work. Compensatory measure for bridge construction in Unstrut Valley in Saxony-Anhalt: DB has commissioned 600 sheep to graze in the Dissaurinne channel in order to keep growth in these areas low by gentle means and thus retain valuable orchid habitats. 89 Berlin, Tiergarten: Dr. Richard Lutz, CFO, reading books from DB’s reading cases with children 05 Playing a responsible role in society DB recognizes its social responsibility, which has a long tradition of upholding in a variety of ways. The company focuses on education and integration projects – especially for children and young people – environmental protection, and humanitarian disaster relief. Via the newly established Deutsche Bahn Foundation targeted action will be taken to develop and expand this commitment further. Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 05 Playing a responsible role in society Defining targets and areas for action DB has dedicated itself to countless social projects in Germany and around the world for years. DB carries a special responsibility for society and children’s development through various initiatives in the environment Sweden, South Africa, and the USA. As one of the world’s leading mobility and logistics  As well as running various projects of its own, companies and a major employer and training provider DB supports a number of cultural and social centers, in Germany, DB has a special responsibility – for its initiatives, and activities by means of donations. The customers, business partners, employees, and society Group donated a total of € 1.1 million to projects of this as a whole. Based on the conviction that success can­ kind in 2012.  not only be measured in financial terms, DB uses its In addition to this, DB sponsors social initiatives and capabilities to make a positive contribution to the organizations. The company primarily supports proj­ development of society and the environment. ects whose objectives coincide with those of its own Its activities are not limited to Germany either: DB is corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities. also involved in numerous social projects at interna­ tional level, from its Environment Week in Australia where groups of schoolchildren learn about DB Schenker Australia’s environmental protection activities and planting programs in Singapore to promoting school­ Building on competences DB strives to help social projects succeed by contributing its own competences. For this reason, its CSR activities concentrate on four main areas: education and culture, integration and social work, climate protection and conservation, and humanitarian aid. DB combines core business with commitment to just one reason why DB believes that combating dis­ corporate social responsibility crimination and violence is just as important as fos­ DB’s corporate social responsibility activities focus tering a culture of tolerance and respect. As part of on areas where its competences can make a positive, projects such as “Bahn-Azubis gegen Hass und Gewalt” noticeable difference. With this in mind, the Group is (Bahn Apprentices against Hatred and Violence), DB has involved in: been working for years to promote a broad-based alli­ ance against xenophobia, racism, and discrimination. Education and culture: As one of Germany’s largest Climate protection and conservation: With its services, employers, DB fulfills its special responsibility in this DB enables eco-friendly mobility, which is a corner­ field. DB uses its competence in this area as part of stone of a sustainable society. Together with various “Chance Plus” program to prepare young people for partners, it supports climate protection and conser­ vocational training. vation projects to achieve this. Integration and social work: DB employs some Humanitarian aid: As a global logistics provider, DB 300,000 people, more than a third of whom work out­ transports relief aid to crisis-hit areas around the side of Germany. With over 2,000 sites in more than world, helping to provide acute humanitarian aid and 130 countries, it is present around the world. This is to rebuild areas affected by disasters. 92 Investing in knowledge is tomorrow’s capital DB is a long-term partner of the German Reading Education is a valuable commodity in today’s knowlFoundation edge-based society. Teaching is a responsibility shared DB believes that reading is an essential prerequisite for by the whole of society and a task in which DB is aclearning. Reading is the key to education. DB has been tively involved. Promoting the development of children involved with the Reading Foundation (Stiftung Lesen) and young people early on is of particular importance since 1996 as a member and sponsor. The foundation to the Group. For this reason, it proactively fosters aims to promote the pleasure of reading and improve reading and media skills, as these are the key to both reading skills. DB is a member of the Founders’ Comeducation and preparing for working life. In addition to mittee and its CEO, Dr. Rüdiger Grube, is a member of this, DB broadens youngsters’ experiences by means of the Reading Foundation’s Board of Directors. educational initiatives focusing on the environment, culture, and history. Furthermore, the company supports DB’s reading (aloud) projects reach children and learning by awarding grants, e.g. as part of partnerships young people with universities. 9 It presented 63 grants in Germany The Germany-wide Day of Reading is a joint initiative in the year under review. 9 by DB, the Reading Foundation, and the weekly newspaper DIE ZEIT. It aims to raise awareness of the imEndowed professorships provide impetus and portance of reading aloud. In 2012, more than 48,000 drive innovation volunteers participated by reading aloud, including DB also seeks collaboration with universities and re700 DB employees. Day of Reading is accompanied by search facilities to build up knowledge for the future. It an annual study which examines the practice of reading is particularly committed to establishing and supporting aloud in Germany. endowed professorships in Germany and abroad. Examples of these include the endowed professorship DB’s reading cases support integration and for energy-efficient rail technology systems at Brandeneducation burg University of Applied Sciences, which was set up The DB reading cases distributed to children’s centers in 2012 by Eco Rail Innovation (ERI). Its aim is to idenare another example of how DB helps with the Reading tify areas where further research is needed and initiate Foundation’s work. The company has been providing research projects that support the goal of zero emissions these resources in conjunction with the Reading Founin the rail sector with competitive, environmentally dation since as early as 2007. The cases contain exciting friendly technologies. stories for all age groups. Since the project began, more than 5,500 children’s homes, social work centers for children and young people, multi-generational homes, and children’s clinics/hospices have received DB reading cases. DB promotes a tolerant and respectful sense of community with its project “Bahn Apprentices against Hatred and Violence.” 93 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 05 Playing a responsible role in society DB has been supporting daycare centers for children with its special DB reading cases since 2010. Another DB reading case called “All the Children of of youngsters who have often had a difficult start in the World” was developed specially for teaching at day­ life. At the camp, they are given the opportunity to care centers. This provides new impetus to encourage showcase their strengths and talents. The sixth camp children to read and places a special focus on integrating was held in 2012. DB started supporting the Off Road children from immigrant families. Its central component Kids Foundation back in 1994 by providing network is a series of nine books telling stories about the every­ tickets, giving the street workers the mobility they day lives of children from German and immigrant fami­ need for their nationwide work. lies. All the daycare centers in the state of North Rhine-­ Westphalia (more than 9,000) were presented with the DB raises awareness of climate protection little red cases in 2010/2011. Hamburg’s over 1,000 day­ and conservation care centers received them in 2012. The daycare centers Protecting the climate and conserving nature is of spe­ in Berlin, Bremen, and Hesse will follow in 2013. cial concern to DB. For this reason, the company also focuses on projects which bring people and nature DB is committed to fostering greater social cohesion closer together. For example, the Bergwaldprojekt e. V. DB also focuses on the area of integration and social (Woodland Project) organization planted its 100,000th work. Its involvement here makes a contribution to­ tree to help protect woodlands, the climate, and biodi­ wards social cohesion. No one should be discriminated versity in early 2012. This was made possible by dona­ against or excluded on the grounds of their age, culture, tions from DB and the use of customers’ bahn.bonus social background, or a physical disability. To break loyalty points to support the organization. DB has been down social barriers, DB promotes strong shared expe­ cooperating with Bergwaldprojekt e. V. since 2009. The riences – e.g. through sport – and offers youngsters new charity has been organizing volunteers to maintain the prospects by giving them access to education. DB also functionality, diversity, and beauty of woodlands for over helps to maintain or improve quality of life through nu­ 20 years. The Group is also active beyond Europe with merous projects. In this regard, the company focuses initiatives such as Environment Week at DB Schenker on preventing violence or intolerance and providing in Australia. The schoolchildren who took part spent a health education. week looking at how environmental protection can be seen throughout the logistics company’s processes. DB Kids’ Camp boosts confidence From recycling to reducing waste and increasing energy Since 2007, DB has been working with the Off Road efficiency, the pupils saw how the company fulfills its Kids Foundation to reward 60 to 70 children and young environmental responsibility. They also found out about people each year from youth social work centers for the different career pathways at DB Schenker and made outstanding school and social achievements with an ex­ their own suggestions for eco-friendly business activities citing week-long stay at the DB Kids’ Camp. The camp is at the company at the end of the week. a way of recognizing and respecting the achievements 94 Rapid disaster relief of February 2013, Deutsche Bahn Stiftung gGmbH (will DB is also active in the field of humanitarian aid. When coordinate the Group’s major charitable initiatives and people are affected by disasters such as floods, earth­ projects. The DB Museum will also be transferred to the quakes, or forest fires, it is important to act quickly. In Deutsche Bahn Foundation. situations like these, DB actively helps people by trans­ The Deutsche Bahn Foundation will further intensify porting the goods they need and assisting with rebuild­ the Group’s wide-ranging CSR activities. In these efforts, ing the affected areas. the Deutsche Bahn Foundation is supported by external A year and a half after the devastating earthquake in experts, whose knowledge is incorporated into and en­ Tohoku, a Summer School for the Reconstruction of the riches its charity work. Up to 0.5 percent of operating Sanriku Coast was held for German students in Japan profits will be contributed to Deutsche Bahn Founda­ with DB’s backing. In September 2012, Schenker Seino tion every year. supported the program with its services. Despite difficult The Deutsche Bahn Foundation pursues three key conditions, the company transported food and cooking objectives: equipment to the area affected within a few days. The Pooling the Group’s charitable activities program was organized by the Grimm Society Japan Expanding these activities and the Japanese-German charity Tochigi. Further professionalizing these activities, for example with the aid of external experts on the specialist DB pools corporate social responsibility projects in committees dedicated to the core areas of Deutsche newly established Deutsche Bahn Stiftung gGmbH Bahn Foundation’s activities DB has decided to pool its corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities within the Group’s newly established non-­ profit organization, Deutsche Bahn Stiftung gGmbH. As DB supports the work of street workers with the Off Road Kids Foundation. 95 Five kilometers against the current More than 100 employees worked extremely hard to help those affected by flooding in Thailand in 2011 and to repair the damage. 96 Together with the initiative Habitat for Humanity and the Thai Rotary Club, employees from DB Schenker contributed their efforts towards rebuilding and supplying drinking water. At the end of October 2011, large parts of Thailand quite literally sank in flooding following months of heavy monsoon rains. More than 400 people died and millions lost their homes or most of their possessions. DB Schenker in Thailand was able to help many of those affected by providing disaster relief. Over 100 employees from DB Schenker took part in the rescue and rebuilding initiatives. “It gives you a great feeling to be able to help in person instead of just donating money!” says Stuart Watkins, General Manager for oil and gas projects in Thailand. DB Schenker started by putting together a rescue team made up of volunteers to help the victims directly. “Thanks to the logistics resources of the land transport team, we were able to draw up a shift plan, which meant we could work 24 hours a day. We did that for about three weeks,” participants recall. They used trucks and boats to rescue people from the flooded parts of the Don Muang region, where the water was often 1.20 meters deep. “In one completely inaccessible place, a fiercely determined, undeterred team of rescuers battled their way to trapped people by wading five kilometers against the current,” reports Toshihiro Koyama, a General Manager involved in supplying a car manufacturer. Time and time again, DB Schenker trucks transported boats, emergency supplies, and consignments of aid to those in need. After the acute disaster relief phase, the management team also set up programs to help staff whose houses had been damaged by the floods with both direct donations and interest-free loans. With the help of two organizations – Habitat for Humanity and the Thai Rotary Club – the relief program was extended to some of Thailand’s poorest areas. The logistics company did not just give financial support to these two organizations; many employees also volunteered as part of a program to rebuild and repair houses and schools affected by the disaster over a three-month period. The Rotary Club focused on constructing and repairing drinking water systems for schools, especially in poorer regions. DB Schenker in Thailand funded many of these systems and also donated play equipment for the schools. This was made possible by generous donations from other DB Schenker national subsidiaries in Asia, such as those in Northern China, Singapore, the Philippines, Indonesia, India, Taiwan, and Australia. As well as making a donation to the Red Cross, DB Schenker in Thailand worked with countless clients to transport their contributions in kind to the affected areas, such as washing machines for an evacuation center, water purifiers, medication, and clean water. 97 A new approach to corporate citizenship DB is pooling its charitable activities within the Deutsche Bahn Foundation. Christina Rau is the foundation’s patron and a member of the Advisory Board. 98 “But I can only represent something if I’m well informed. That’s why I’m on the Advisory Board too.” She says that pooling and expanding its CSR activities fits well with DB as a company. “There’s much more to Deutsche Bahn than just trains.” She lists the Deutsche Bahn Foundation’s four strategic directions: education and culture, integration and social work, climate protection and conservation, and humanitarian aid. The running of the DB Museum forms part of the foundation’s remit as well. She believes that charity work is also important for the “railroader family.” Projects where employees work together make the company more attractive as an employer and foster social cohesion, she says. An example is the provision of humanitarian aid following natural disasters – something a global logistics group like DB is virtually predestined to do. Christina Rau is the foundation’s patron and a member In her view, DB’s involvement with the Reading Foundaof the Deutsche Bahn Foundation Advisory Board. tion bridges the gap between integration and social work on one hand and education on the other. As part of this initiative, “employees don’t just take part in a nationwide Christina Rau has a special relationship with the railroad. read-aloud day; they are also part of a read-aloud club. “I grew up right by a four-track railroad in Bielefeld. They work as reading partners, helping to give children at Whenever my grandfather came to visit from Essen, we partner schools access to education.” stood on the platform and waved to him,” recalls the wife of Germany’s former President Johannes Rau. The Deutsche Bahn Foundation’s work to protect the climate and conserve nature complements the ambitious When she was asked to become patron of the Deutsche environmental targets DB has set itself as part of its Bahn Foundation, Christina Rau agreed. “To be honest, I DB2020 strategy, she adds. Children are particularly have to turn down more requests than I accept. I already close to Christina Rau’s heart, so she is delighted about work for several charities, including the children’s rights DB’s long-standing support of Off Road Kids and the sucorganization Kindernothilfe, and I’m on the board of the cessful launch of a project combating violence at schools. welfare charity Bethel.” Rau is also considering expanding DB’s activities in the field of higher education, for example by supporting Out of conviction, she now wants to make a difference students as part of the Germany Scholarship program. through the Deutsche Bahn Foundation as well. She is eager to do more than just act as patron though: “The Christina Rau comes back to her own personal relationship patron should tell everyone: this organization does with the railroad and recalls her time at school in Scotland. good work,” explains Christina Rau. From Germany to Scotland by train? “Yes, by train and a cross-Channel ferry, then a night train from London. It was nice when they served early-morning tea.” 99 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 05 Playing a responsible role in society Providing sponsorship As a sponsor and therefore a business partner, the company supports a large number of organizations whose work ties in with DB’s CSR objectives. DB supports outstanding athletic achievement – from top-level soccer players to “Youngsters Training for the Olympics.” DB actively uses sponsorship Sport sponsorship to promote integration In addition to its charitable CSR activities, DB supports DB’s stance is illustrated by its role as a main sponsor of various partners by means of sponsorship. The company the school athletic competitions “Youngsters Training intends to make strategic use of sponsorship in the fu­ for the Olympics” since 2012 and “Youngsters Training ture as well. Its aim here is to enhance visibility to the for the Paralympics” since 2010, and by its position general public and important target groups, but also to as co-sponsor of the National Paralympic Committee help tackle social challenges. Germany – a partnership that has been in existence for over ten years. As well as supporting outstanding achievements, this work makes a valuable contribution towards the social integration of disabled schoolchildren and athletes. 100 DB is the main sponsor of the school athletic competitions “Youngsters Training for the Olympics” and “Youngsters Training for the Paralympics.” Sponsorship strengthens identification with DB Close partnerships with sports clubs DB’s sponsorship activities also have an impact within In Germany, soccer is more popular than any other sport. the company. Sport sponsorship enables the firm to With this in mind, DB is active in Germany’s soccer communicate values to staff through sports role models. Bundesliga as the main sponsor of Hertha BSC and a These include dedication, team spirit, fair play, and so­ premium partner of Eintracht Frankfurt. DB also has cial integration. As an employer, DB strives to integrate close partnerships with several clubs that have strong these positive attributes of sport into everyday work. regional ties, such as the THW Kiel, HSV Hamburg, and In this way, sponsorship can increase staff loyalty. SG Flensburg Handewitt handball teams. DB has been the main sponsor of Hertha BSC since 2006. 101 Gerd Becht, Member of the Management Board responsible for Compliance, Privacy, Legal Affairs and Corporate Security, talking with DB Schenker employees Diana Stein and Bukurije Bozaxhi 06 Upholding integrity DB Group follows clear integrity principles as it has a far-reaching responsibility at both national and international level. In addition to good corporate governance, DB focuses on data privacy and compliance as key elements of risk management. With respect to procurement, the focus is more and more on environmental and social considerations, in addition to cost-effectiveness. 103 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 06 Upholding integrity Defining targets and areas for action DB is aware of its responsibility to society as a whole and to its stakeholders. It expects both its own employees and its business partners to comply with integrity principles. This does not just help the company to succeed economically – it also has a positive impact on society. Obligation to act responsibly when choosing business partners. The company makes DB has set itself the goal of becoming the world’s exacting, high demands of its business partners as leading mobility and logistics company. It aims to oriregards integrity in business practices. In the future, ent its leadership role based on economic, social, and DB will only work with suppliers who comply with its environmental considerations (three dimensions). The code of conduct or have pledged to comply with their company has a far-reaching responsibility both nationally own comparable codes. Furthermore, the company and internationally on its way to becoming a profitable evaluates life cycles in the procurement process, market leader. taking both environmental and economic aspects into In its mission statement, DB defines how it intends account when costs are calculated. This distinctly illusto fulfill its aims. The principle of integrity serves as an trates the planned realignment of DB’s procurement important cornerstone in this regard: “We act in an exsystem, which will transform it from an order handler emplary manner, based on the principles of integrity into a strategic partner and ultimately a defining force. and concern for the needs of our stakeholders.” Corporate Clear rules also apply to the way sensitive data is governance guidelines, binding data privacy regulations, handled. The protection of employees’, customers’, clear compliance requirements, and rules that apply to and suppliers’ data is anchored firmly within the whole employees, business partners, and procurement alike DB Group. This is ensured by a Chief Privacy Officer are all strictly followed. and various bodies. DB’s actions as a company are based on various Integrity principles need to be upheld together and standards, including the principles of the UN Global by means of dialog with all those involved. On one Compact and the International Labour Organization hand, this eliminates risks and safeguards DB’s long(ILO) conventions: for DB, freedom of association and term success. On the other hand, it also benefits societhe right to collective-bargaining, the elimination of ty, to whom DB has a responsibility. For this reason, forced labor, the abolition of child labor, and the prohithe company’s clearly defined objective is to observe bition of discrimination in respect of employment and unimpeachable ethics in its business activities. occupation are all non-negotiable. The company focuses on preventing corruption and other forms of white-­ collar crime before offenses are committed. These are the fundamental benchmarks for DB employees’ attitudes and behavior. The same applies Management system of DB Group Mission statement Corporate principles Corporate guidelines Management structure DB process map Guidelines, organizational charts, Together with the mission statement and function descriptions, processes, … the corporate principles, the management system at the DB Group forms the basis for responsible business practices. 104 Complying with corporate governance DB is convinced that good corporate governance is fundamental to its success. Its aim is to safeguard the company’s success while taking the interests of customers, business partners, investors, employees, and the general public into account. Moreover, it aims to maintain and expand the trust in DB Group. DB applies the German Federal Public Corporate plan). The performance-linked component takes susGovernance Code tainability targets as defined in the DB2020 strategy Corporate governance regulations are intended to ensure into account. The compensation report outlining the good, responsible, value-focused company management. compensation system and the individual compensation DB has adjusted its regulations to the requirements of paid to the members of the Management Board and the Public Corporate Governance Code (PCGC), which Supervisory Board can be found in the 2012 Annual outlines special provisions for the management of Report. unlisted companies which are majority-owned by the Federal Republic of Germany. Furthermore, the PCGC Transparency fosters trust comprises internationally recognized standards of good DB sets great store by maintaining a high level of transand responsible company management. parency. The company’s annual statement of compliance with the PCGC and the compensation report can Compensation report discloses Management Board be downloaded from the Internet. DB’s website also and Supervisory Board compensation provides all important information about the consoliThe total compensation for Management Board members dated and annual financial statements, the interim consists of a fixed basic compensation, a performance-­ report, and the financial calendar. linked annual director’s fee, and a long-term bonus program based on multi-year figures (long-term incentive Expanding data privacy Treating data sensitively and confidentially is firmly anchored in all parts of the DB Group. A Chief Privacy Officer and various bodies ensure that information about employees, customers, and suppliers is kept secure. Customer and staff data is treated sensitively 2010 to analyze and assess the challenges associated Clearly defined responsibilities ensure that data relating with commendable Group-wide data protection and to to employees, customers, and suppliers is treated condiscuss them with the Management Board. The indefidentially at the DB Group. The main framework is pendent body is made up of experts from academia, polbased on national legislation such as the German Feditics, impartial organizations, and staff representatives. eral Data Protection Act, on EU regulations, international accords, and internal DB Group agreements. The Group Chief Privacy Officer’s job is to ensure that these regulations are upheld. She receives support from data privacy officers at the subsidiaries, specially trained staff, and data protection representatives. A Data Privacy Advisory Board was established in May 105 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 06 Upholding integrity Protection of employees’ data is constantly being security measures and encryption into its processing enhanced and communication workflows. This enables customers The Group signed an internal agreement regarding emto place their trust in the reliability of DB’s privacy policy ployee data privacy in November 2010. This laid the when they share their personal details with DB. Confoundations for the exemplary protection of staff data. tinual improvement in the use of automated deletion Work to implement the associated regulations continand archiving concepts enables the firm to uphold cusued in 2012. tomers’ right to erase data which is no longer needed. DB abides by the principle that data protection is A high level of transparency, ongoing improvements about protecting people’s right to privacy, not data. to information about data processing methods, prompt This principle was also taken into account when considcommunication, and better contactability – via social ering how to maintain data privacy in conjunction with media, for instance – all lead to increasing confidence the Group-wide employee survey in 2012. Consultations among customers. Customer complaints about the way are also constantly held in relation to internal agreetheir personal details are handled have therefore fallen ments and projects affected by data privacy legislation. noticeably. Further improving the DB Group’s external This ensures that data relating to DB Group employees image remains one of the main focal points of activiis protected in day-to-day working practices. ties of the Customer Data Privacy Unit. Extensive data privacy training courses held The company also displays information and empirical figures relating to data privacy by means of communication and training courses. In 2012, training was provided for a total of 9,200 course participants via 710 measures. The company will continue to provide employees with information about data protection in 2013 with the aid of Internet-based training. DB also completed basic training for key members of the decentralized data privacy organization. Further modules are planned for 2013. Audits raise the standard of data privacy Data privacy audits are regularly completed at the DB Group. The focus is on examining technical/organizational measures related to data processing and compliance with data protection legislations. In 2012, KPI-based Data Privacy Online Monitoring (DOM) was completed for the first time in the form of a self-audit for executives. The results of audits form the basis for data privacy training. Audits help to permanently raise the standard of data privacy by means of a defined procedure for Chris Newiger, measure development and control. DB Group Chief Privacy Officer In 2013, a system will be developed for checking Group contractors as required by law. Protecting customers’ data fosters a positive attitude to DB Exemplary management of personal details contributes towards DB’s positive image as a modern, trustworthy provider of mobility and logistics services as well as a business partner. The Customer Data Privacy Unit constructively accompanies and supports all data processing workflows to ensure that customers’ right to privacy is upheld at all stages of data processing. This is essential given that innovative travel services such as the DB Navigator and ticketing processes like cellphone tickets rely on using personal details. Modern customer data management takes consumers’ both heightened sensitivity and increasingly individual wishes into account. DB has reacted to the growing need for interactive communication via social media by incorporating data 106 Firmly anchoring compliance The DB Group has a special responsibility at both national and international level. The company’s complex structure and international business operations in particular mean that it needs a well-structured compliance organization. The compliance work’s objectives are behavior with Compliance risk analysis is an effective instrument integrity and prevention The compliance risk analysis process is a central part of Compliance means ensuring that all business activities the compliance system. Its aim is to identify significant conform to the relevant legislation and regulations. compliance risks. In addition to this, measures which This includes the respective national laws, legal requirehave already been initiated to minimize risks at the DB ments of the EU and anti-corruption laws which apply Group are recorded and assessed. A high-level risk internationally. analysis covering all business units was conducted as DB sees compliance as risk management with a focus early as 2010. The individual companies within the on prevention. Its aim as a fair, trustworthy business DB Group are also subject to specific risk analyses, partner is to prevent potential infringements before which are conducted on an on-going basis and which they happen. Compliance is therefore an essential part are tailored to the entity in question. of the DB Group’s risk management system. Ever since DB started conducting risk analyses, issues However, it is impossible to dictate that people berelating to human rights have been integrated into the have with integrity. Instead, a formative culture and review, particularly at international level. This area is mindset are needed. This holistic approach is based on currently being expanded and systematized. the following rationale: it is only possible to achieve Compliance process analyses are completed with a sustainable success if all employees and executives risk-based approach. This means that processes are comply with the law in line with the company’s values. examined for potential risks and concrete suggestions They shall not take any unjustifiable risks and shall live for risk minimization are developed. out a value-based corporate culture. The DB Group observes internationally recognized Compliance risk analysis process standards of good corporate governance. Its membership in various organizations shows just how important Company profile this issue is. For example, DB is a corporate member of produced Transparency International. The company is also actively involved in the “Federal Administration and Business Initiative Group: Tackling Corruption Together” (Initiativ­ kreis Bundesverwaltung und Wirtschaft: Gemeinsam Specific questionnaire drawn up gegen Korruption). Furthermore, DB admits to the principles of the UN Global Compact and shares its experience in compliance issues with other multinational companies. Measures implemented/ Self-assessment follow-up process Preventive and comprehensive compliance in practical experience Compliance activities focus on preventing corruption Evaluation, and other forms of white-collar crime. Final report incl. risk assessment and Compliance work aims to achieve the following: proposed measures Foster the compliance culture at the company Recognize compliance risks early on and initiate suitable countermeasures Conduct compliance programs and special programs Review with self-assessor Provide ongoing communication and training Manage and evaluate regular worldwide reporting Improve constantly the existing system DB takes a holistic approach to compliance, which is presented in more detail below. 107 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 06 Upholding integrity DB brochures providing information for employees: the compliance guide “Compliance Wegweiser 2012” Specific compliance programs aim to identify and Special compliance e-learning training courses have minimize risks been developed for the DB Group. These courses – which The DB Group has firmly anchored various compliance are now available in 13 different languages – concentrate programs within its organization. These include, for exon the “Corporate Principles – Ethics – Code of Conduct” ample, guideline management and compliance during (DB Code of Conduct) and therefore cover issues such corporate acquisitions and the integration process folas integrity (anti-corruption) and human rights. Execulowing company takeovers. Compliance programs also tives are required to complete the e-learning courses. affect dealings with business partners, the procurement E-learning training is also compulsory for employees process, contract checking, and the debarment of conin selected companies and units, based on the risk tractors in the case of serious misconduct. In addition position. Furthermore, in-person training has been to this, special projects are initiated if the DB Group enheld for 11,100 attendees. counters increased risks in specific fields. For instance, a specially developed risk minimization program for Compliance reporting enhances transparency the DB Netze division – the Infrastructure Compliance Regular reports are produced throughout the year for Offensive – was put in place in 2012 under the guidance compliance-related occurrences at the DB Group. They of the Compliance department. Furthermore, DB has can be supplemented by special reports. The reports implemented an extensive compliance program relating are produced by the decentralized compliance organito antitrust law throughout the Group. This also includes zation and cover incidents associated with white-collar a system for the prevention of cartel damages which is crime. All of the reports are checked, summarized by designed to stop suppliers from forming cartels and the central compliance team, and finally presented to take fast, effective action against collusion of this kind. the member of the Management Board responsible for Compliance. Creating sensitivity by means of communication and trainings Whistle-blowing system available to employees and Internal and external communications relating to comexternal partners pliance form part of the company’s preventive work. All DB employees have an obligation to report seriChannels used include, for example, the intranet and ous infringements of the law using the whistle-blowing the company’s website. system. This can, for example, be information about corruption or the reporting of violations of human 108 rights. The right to privacy of all those involved is New concepts introduced for checking business strictly upheld and the identity of whistle-blowers is partners protected. This common understanding is laid down in Starting in early 2013, DB International will use softan internal Group agreement between the employer ware – the Business Partner Due Diligence Tool – to and employee representatives in April 2013. check the integrity of its business partners. Due diliReports can be submitted in a personal dialog, by gence means assessing risks with the necessary care email, by mail, or via ombudspersons, i.e. attorneys who and attention. The objective is to provide support for have a legal obligation to confidentiality. In addition integrity checks by means of an IT-based workflow to this, from April 2013 the electronic whistle-blowing when choosing business partners. Tests are currently system is available again around the world in seven lanunder way to examine whether it can also be used in guages. Business partners and customers can also use other parts of DB. this system to submit reports. Furthermore, a manual integrity checking process is being piloted at DB Schenker Rail. There are plans to Dealing with incidents at the DB Group implement this at other DB units as well. As early as 2009, measures were taken to ensure that business practices throughout the Group comply with all the relevant rules and regulations. However, DB again had to deal with events relating to incidents predating this in the year under review. At the subsidiary DB International, investigative proceedings by the district attorney which were initiated in 2010 continued in 2012. Two internal investigations conducted by the auditing firm KPMG and Corporate Security were completed in 2012. Furthermore, a number of remedial measures (immediate and long-term countermeasures) were put in place. DB itself supplied information to the district attorney as early as 2009 which revealed irregularities dating back to 2005. The investigation concerns the suspicion that payments were made to decision-makers abroad. A number of DB Group companies were fined in 2011 and 2012 in the course of antitrust proceedings against global freight forwarding companies. Fines of DB’s ethical and legal standards are based on the principles € 34.9 million were imposed in the EU (the fines of the UN Global Compact. against DB are being challenged before the European Court of Justice) and DB was fined US$ 23.3 million in the USA. The companies were accused of having violated competition law between 2002 and 2007 with respect to fees and surcharges for air freight. As a result, DB Schenker Logistics has established an extensive antitrust compliance program which meets high international standards. Suppliers pledge to observe the DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners The DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners comes into effect on January 1, 2013, and means that suppliers and business partners of the DB Group are obliged to comply with ethical and legal standards. Like the DB Code of Conduct, it is based in part on the principles of the UN Global Compact and serves as an important basis for responsible collaboration founded on a spirit of partnership. The company expects its business partners to act with integrity in every regard. Suppliers and business partners pledge to comply with the Code’s requirements. 109 Partners and business practices with integrity Chief Compliance Officer Dr. Werner Grebe talks about the Infrastructure Compliance Offensive Because of its high level of annual capital expenditure, DB’s Infrastructure division is particularly at risk of becoming a victim of white-collar crime. For this reason, DB launched its Infrastructure Compliance Offensive in 2012. “The offensive has made our employees more confident about taking action and increased their sensitivity to this issue,” explains Dr. Werner Grebe, Chief Compliance Officer at the DB Group. The approach was risk-based and tailored to the relevant target group. Own company insights and insights Chris Newiger, from the German Federal Criminal Police Office have Dr. Werner Grebe, Chief Compliance Officer at DB Konzerndatenschutzbeauftragte been considered. Dr. Grebe: “We started off by working with the responsible persons of DB business units to analyze what risks there might be. One of the key questions was: Are our internal mechanisms and workflows suitable for minimizing risks in our collaboration with third parties?” To answer this question, processes were analyzed and risks in connection with the company’s business activities were examined. “We proactively raised employees’ awareness of risks in their day-to-day work.” To achieve this, a broad communication campaign was launched as well. The results of a survey by Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg provided evidence that there is a high level of acceptance for compliance work within the DB Group. 152 executives from the Infrastructure division took part. DB also approached suppliers and made it clear to them “what standards we expect – i.e. that they need to comply with the principles of the DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners. Experts from DB acted as compliance ambassadors, interfacing with suppliers and industry associations. The aim was to achieve a common understanding of what fairness, sustainability, and integrity mean in the context of business relationships.” If non-compliance nevertheless occurs, DB takes decisive action. “We listen to those involved and take action appropriate to the severity of the case,” explained Dr. Grebe. In serious cases, options include the termination of the business relationship, demanding compensation for damages, and the debarment of suppliers. It is important that DB itself remains a pioneer in this regard. Every single person in the business unit is responsible for conducting business with integrity. 110 Chris Newiger, Konzerndatenschutzbeauftragte Images from the Infrastructure Compliance Offensive 111 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 06 Upholding integrity Developing procurement processes further In the year under review, procurement at DB was brought in line with the DB2020 strategy, meaning that it takes economic, social, and environmental considerations into account. Growing internationalization presents both a challenge and an opportunity. Central Procurement has a special responsibility for managing this. Procurement offers scope for action to increase Binding principles form the basis for supply DB’s sustainability relationships In the past, procurement focused primarily on process DB is facing new challenges as regards its global supply stability and economic aspects. With the introduction relationships. More exacting requirements for compliof the DB2020 strategy, the procurement team has also ance with environmental and social standards mean that started to consistently gear its work towards sustainsuppliers also have to ascribe to these norms. This is ability criteria. The aim is to create harmony among ecoensured by means of a supplier management process nomic, social, and environmental dimensions. Doing which the company has been introducing step by step this will also prepare the procurement system to face since 2010. In 2012, both the process and the system the future challenges arising from growing internationwere developed further. All of the phases – from qualialization at the DB Group. fication and appraisal of suppliers to their developProcurement plays a key role in consistently anchoring ment – are now computer-aided. This means that the sustainability within the Group. On one hand, the departrange of products and services can now be constantly ment is expected to support the goals outlined in the optimized in conjunction with suppliers for the first time. DB2020 strategy and help the business units to achieve The supplier management system enables DB to them. On the other hand, DB also wants to ensure that introduce regulations relating to sustainability criteria environmental and social standards are upheld outside as compulsory standards for its 19,000 or so suppliers. of its own value chain in conjunction with its suppliers. It will come into effect on January 1, 2013. With a purchasing volume of € 29.4 billion in the 2012 The DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners also reporting year, DB has a significant impact on the market forms part of the new system. Developed in 2012, the situation and the competitiveness of the DB Group. Code contains compulsory, binding principles regardCentral Procurement is responsible for more than half ing human rights, the treatment of employees and the of the purchasing volume, making it the most imporcommunity, and guidelines on environmental issues tant interface with the external supply market. and compliance. In the future, DB will make clearly defined demands of its suppliers: they will have to accept Responsibility for purchasing volume at the DB Group the DB Code of Conduct for Business Partners or a comin € billion and in percent (%) parable industry code of conduct (e.g. that of the German Association for Materials Management, Purchasing and Responsibility of international Responsibility of Central business units1 10.3 (35%) Procurement 15.0 (51%) Logistics [BME]) or show that they have their own code which fulfills the requirements. In addition, regulations such as the environmental management standard ISO 14001 and the ILO’s key labor norms have to be fulfilled. Central Procurement furthermore develops product group strategies for each important category of products and services. To do this, it analyzes all the relevant parameters – such as the market, environment, and clients – and derives recommended courses of action for the business units. These tailored strategies help the company to achieve its environmental objectives for Responsibility of Central the specific product group. Procurement, delegated to business units 4.1 (14%) In addition to this, environmental standards are defined at all stages of the supplier management system: 1) Freight and haulage services During the qualification stage suppliers must pledge to comply with minimum environmental criteria. During supplier appraisal, environmental criteria are incorporated into the questionnaire. 112 Phases of the supplier management process Minimum suitability check Suppliers who approach DB of companies – Suppliers who are approached by DB 1 S upplier regardless of commissioning qualification 3 Supplier devel­ Development measures opment implemented depending on Systematic assessment of results of assessment goods and services provided 2 S upplier Phasing out of suppliers appraisal As part of the supplier development process, workInternational procurement is gaining in importance shops dealing with a range of issues, including the As DB becomes more and more international, Central environment, are conducted as necessary. Procurement is preparing to deal with an increasingly global supply structure. Greater focus on life-cycle costs  A differentiated selection of suppliers enables In the medium term, procurement can only achieve cluster risks to be avoided and thus plays a role in sustainable success by taking a holistic approach to opachieving sustainable profitability. Large national suptimizing life-cycle costs (LCC). This can be illustrated pliers are normally used for complex technical system by looking at the way contracts for ICE wheels for DB solutions, whereas products or services used locally – Bahn Long-Distance were awarded to one Japanese and such as clearing ice and snow from platforms for DB one Italian supplier. When selecting suppliers, the purNetze Stations – tend to be of greater interest to rechasers calculated the total cost of ownership, which gional SMEs. SMEs and local suppliers accounted for showed that higher initial costs would pay off after approximately twelve percent of DB’s total supply base – just a few years due to considerably lower servicing or a purchasing volume € 1.8 billion – in the 2012 expenses. The reason for this was a new material with reporting year.  a longer service life which requires less frequent In 2012, the company was able to make targeted use of servicing. As this example shows, it is possible – and the benefits offered by emerging procurement markets – necessary – to take a long-term view rather than a especially those in Asia and Eastern Europe – for specific short-term one. product categories. Notable agreements included a The LCC method does not just help to achieve ecocontract with a Polish supplier for multiple-unit trains nomic goals. It is also important in attaining environto operate DB Bahn Regional’s local transport services mental targets. An assessment of life-cycle costs is and an order for industrial trucks for DB Schenker already being used as the basis for decision-making Logistics placed with a Japanese company. regarding large-scale train investment projects. This When a product or service is needed Group-wide, it takes factors such as servicing expenses, the cost of makes financial sense to pool the requirements of all spare parts, and energy consumption into account, in relevant business units. For the international business addition to the purchase price. One example from units, Central Procurement already provides guidelines 2012 is the procurement of the first series locomotive and stipulates processes with respect to governance. with a soot filter for DB Schenker Rail. As well as reIn addition to this, it has worked in international producing the environmental impact by offering considercurement teams around the world alongside the forably higher air quality standards, its servicing requireeign business units to draft and supply valid master ments make it financially attractive. agreements. In 2012, one such agreement related to As a next step this approach needs to be rolled out the procurement of office supplies from a global proto procurement in other parts of the Group as well. vider. All of the DB Group’s business units benefit from Placing a greater focus on the LCC method is an importhis approach. tant means of reconciling conflicts between economic and environmental criteria in line with the DB2020 strategy. 113 114 07 Facts and figures DB’s economic, social, and environmental KPIs document its progress as it strives to become a profitable market leader, a top employer, and an eco-pioneer. Transparent measurement paves the way for sustainable business practices. 115 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures About this report In this Sustainability Report, the DB Group provides information about the activities it undertakes to fulfill its economic, environmental, and social responsibilities. The report complies with international standards for sustainability reporting and has been audited by independent third parties. The report is divided into six sections, which explain nication on progress (COP) relating to the UN Global the DB Group’s strategic approaches and measures. Compact and the GRI index with its indicators can be The structure reflects the areas for action as defined by found on pages 135 and 136–142. the DB2020 strategy. In line with this holistic approach, The report has also been audited by independent the 2012 Sustainability Report is the result of many third parties. PricewaterhouseCoopers AG Wirtschaftsdifferent specialist departments working together. The prüfungsgesellschaft (PwC) audited key indicators and topics are based on the GRI 3.0 guidelines published passages of text for the 2012 reporting year. Audited by the Global Reporting Initiative. In addition to this, report content is marked in the text with the following the requirements identified during dialog with stakesymbol  . Symbols are used to mark the beginning holders have also been taken into account.  and the end  of individual statements which The reporting year is the 2012 calendar year. For have been independently verified. For more details, comparability reasons, figures from the 2011 and 2010 see PwC’s assurance report on page 144. calendar years are also shown for the majority of key The 2009 Sustainability Report was DB’s last compreperformance indicators (KPIs). The sustainability rehensive report on its sustainability activities. In the folporting system remains a work in progress, so in some lowing years, the company used a brochure for reporting cases it was only possible to provide figures for the purposes. The most recent one was “Facts and Figures 2012 calendar year. about Sustainability 2011.” An increasing amount of inThe report covers all fully consolidated DB companies. formation relating to sustainability was also included Any deviations from this scope are stated in the report. in the Annual Report. Sustainability reporting is now The number of deviations will gradually be reduced also being realigned in conjunction with the DB2020 over the coming years as sustainability reporting bestrategy. The 2012 Sustainability Report marks the becomes more established. ginning of this reorganization. It has a broader scope Following its acquisition in 2010, DB Arriva was first and also uses a different method for collecting data in consolidated on September 1, 2010. For this reason, some cases. This means that some figures are not comcomplete sets of figures for DB Arriva are not available parable with earlier benchmarks, e.g. in the annual refor certain non-financial KPIs for the year under review. port, the sustainability report, or as per the UN Global The methods and principles used to collect and calCompact. In the future, the company wants its reportculate the data in the report are based on the applicaing landscape to reflect the greater weight given to ble standards. In cases where estimates are used, an non-financial aspects by the DB2020 strategy. With explanatory note is added. this in mind, the next publication is due to be the 2014 The Sustainability Report complies with Application “Integrated Report,” which will then appear annually. Level A+ of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of the UN Global Compact. DB’s commu116 Key performance indicators and other factors The DB Group has set itself clear targets for the implementation of its DB2020 strategy. Target achievement is gauged using KPIs and assessed at regular intervals. Key performance indicators are presented and explained here to supplement sections 02 through 06. Achieving profitable market leadership Heightening customer satisfaction the details are supplied when contracts are concluded, e.g. as part of the agreement. For instance, customers High-quality products are an important prerequisite must agree to the company’s terms and conditions for customer satisfaction. Punctuality is an important when they buy tickets online. factor for assessing product quality. Good-quality products – and therefore high customer satisfaction – can Legally compliant, ethical advertising and also have a positive effect on the overall perception of business practices  the Group and its image. For more information, refer DB provides mobility and logistics services. All of to pages 28–29. the restrictions which apply to business operations of this kind – especially export control legislation – are Measuring the Group’s image  observed. The Corporate Reputation Index (CRI) is used to measure DB’s advertising activities fulfill the relevant legal rethe Group’s image. The CRI incorporates the assessment quirements and comply with ethical standards. The of eight image attributes. These include customer fo“Corporate Principles – Ethics – Code of Conduct” (DB cus, attractiveness, product/service quality, and profCode of Conduct), the Corporate Guideline Marketing, itability, among others. The CRI is calculated using the and the sponsorship guideline provide definitive orienresults of an ongoing survey with approximately 2,000 tation for these activities throughout the Group. Imrespondents, conducted by an independent market replementation at DB Arriva is currently also under way. search institute. Equal weight is given to the scores for This information can be accessed via the intranet and/ the eight underlying CRI factors, which ultimately result or the Central Regulation Database. Furthermore, inin a CRI on a scale of 0 (very low) to 100 (very high). DB’s formation about ethical standards forms a fixed part of score improved considerably in 2012. To be specific, it the initial brief issued to advertising agencies. This climbed ten percent from 49 in 2011 to 54 in 2012. means that illegal, discriminatory advertising is proNo data was gathered in 2010. hibited, along with any kind of advertising which could be considered offensive. The Group marketing team ensures that advertising concepts conform to the legal Providing more customer information requirements and guidelines prior to publication. Customer information includes reliably communicating changes in the transport process as well as providing Improving service quality statutory product information. In addition to this, the Group’s advertising complies with legal and ethical Service quality is largely defined by the reliability of standards. For more information, refer to pages 31–32. DB’s products, which the company strives to keep improving. For more information, refer to pages 33–34. Statutory product information  DB provides its customers with extensive product inMeasuring product quality at DB Netze Stations, formation as required by law. This information is pubDB Netze Energy, and DB Netze Track  lished globally on the companies’ websites for private Product quality at DB Netze Stations and DB Netze and corporate customers. Prices and the terms and Energy is measured using the parameters defined in conditions which apply to contracts can also be downthe Service and Financing Agreement (LuFV) with the loaded from these websites. This information is also German government. The quality of facilities at passenger provided as part of DB’s customer service. Furthermore, stations is used to judge the condition of the business unit’s active facilities. As per the LuFV, the security of the traction current supply is used as a benchmark for 117 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures the reliability of the energy supplied for rail operations Mobility services  in Germany. It is calculated as the ratio between the total energy fed in nationwide and the volume of energy Number 2012 2011 2010 less supply outages. At DB Netze Track, product quality Vehicles is measured as the arrival punctuality of services operated by all train-operating companies that use its net– of which Flinkster¹ 3,047 2,710 2,153 work in Germany. – of which e-Flinkster and Multicity² 165 50 17 – of which Call a Bike 8,919 8,568 7,422 Product quality at DB Netze Stations, DB Netze Energy, – of which pedelecs 131 77 0 and DB Netze Track Customers 2012 2011 2010 – of which Flinkster 211,643 171,683 130,659 Quality of facilities – of which Call a Bike 536,535 435,316 301,527 Passenger stations¹ Index² 3.05 3.06 3.09 Security of supply As of Dec 31, Germany Energy¹ % 100.00% 99.99% 99.95% 1) Vehicles which can be booked by end-users in Germany, Austria, and Netherlands 2) Excluding other cooperation partners’ electric cars Punctuality of all train-operating companies³ % 94.3%⁴ 94.4%⁴ –⁵ Reporting year, Germany ¹) Rounded figures, defined using the Service and Financing Agreement with the German government Raising safety standards ²) Scale of 1 to 6, 1 = best value ³) Punctuality criteria for passenger transport < 6 min. delay and freight Safety standards are crucial preconditions for reliable transport < 16 min. delay. transport and mobility services at DB. ⁴) Unlike in the Annual Report 2012, this includes S-Bahn suburban rail services using direct current (Berlin and Hamburg). 5) Because a different method was used, no figure for 2010 available Health and safety impacts of DB’s products  DB is striving to improve the health and safety impacts of its products and services throughout the product Driving innovation forward life cycle. The Integrated Management System (IMS) is used for this purpose in the Group’s rail, bus, and infraDB is constantly expanding its portfolio, particularly in structure divisions in Germany. DB’s IMS – which inthe field of innovative mobility products. The number cludes the Safety Management System (SMS) – is a of BahnCard holders shows how many people use envimanagement tool that is used to plan, steer, oversee, ronmentally friendly rail services. Offerings such as and constantly improve the services provided as reFlinkster (car sharing) and Call a Bike enable customers gards occupational health and safety, hazardous subto make flexible, eco-friendly journeys. The “China train” stance management, emergency management/fire preforms another innovative addition to DB Schenker’s vention, quality, safety, and the environment. Legal portfolio. For more information, refer to pages 34–35. requirements and relevant standards are taken into account during the process. The SMS is obligatory for BahnCard rail cards  train-operating companies and rail infrastructure companies under EU regulations. in thousands DB Schenker Logistics has set up a Global Occupa4,942 tional Health and Safety Management System, which also has a direct effect on customer and third-party 4,638 safety by means of behavioral guidelines (e.g. for safe driving and safe loading/unloading). 4,281 As of Dec 31, Germany 118 Becoming a top employer Managerial-level staff by age  Headcount 2012 2011 2010 Strengthening cultural transformation – living Supervisory Board (DB AG, DB ML AG) 32 32 32 diversity < 30 years old – – – Diversity is part of DB’s corporate culture. The Group 30–49 years old 2 3 5 seeks to recruit and retain long-term qualified, enthusi≥ 50 years old 30 29 27 astic employees and executives regardless of their Senior executives 223 213 204 gender, origins, age, and other social factors. DB is as diverse as society itself. After all, it employs almost < 30 years old – – – 200,000 people from more than 100 different nations in 30–49 years old 102 104 96 Germany alone. Over 42,000 women work for DB. Al≥ 50 years old 121 109 108 most 80,000 of its staff members are over the age of 50; approximately 20,000 are under 30. For more inUpper management 789 773 744 formation, refer to pages 52–57. < 30 years old – – – 30–49 years old 477 484 478 Employees by age, gender, and origin  ≥ 50 years old 312 289 266 Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Middle management 2,094 2,002 1,916 < 30 years old 20,441 19,382 17,026 < 30 years old 8 7 6 – of which women 29.2% 29.8% 32.3% 30–49 years old 1,290 1,230 1,180 30–49 years old 87,608 88,124 88,629 ≥ 50 years old 796 765 730 – of which women 24.8% 24.2% 23.8% Total number of executives 3,106 2,988 2,864 (excl. Supervisory Board) ≥ 50 years old 78,523 76,638 73,924 As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees – of which women 16.9% 16.5% 16.0% in Germany) Total employees 186,572 184,144 179,579 Managerial-level staff by gender and origin  – of which women¹ 22.0% 21.6% 21.4% – of which migrants 7.4% 6.8% 6.2% Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees Supervisory Board 32 32 32 in Germany) Migrants = foreign nationals and/or born in a country other than the one they work in – of which women 9.4% 9.4% 9.4% 1) For your information: total percentage of women working in Germany: 22.1 percent (2012) Senior executives 223 213 204 – of which women 8.5% 8.9% 8.3% Relationship between the basic salary for men and – of which migrants 4.9% 5.2% 3.9% the basic salary for women  DB has a single personnel policy: remuneration, profesUpper management 789 773 744 sional development, and fringe benefits are determined – of which women 13.9% 12.5% 13.4% based on the same uniform principles – largely collective-­ – of which migrants 3.7% 3.0% 3.0% bargaining agreements – for men and women and for all groups of employees. Middle management 2,094 2,002 1,916 – of which women¹ 18.2% 17.2% 17.4% Severely disabled employees by age  – of which migrants 2.5% 2.2% 1.5% Headcount Total number of executives 3,106 2,988 2,864 (excl. Supervisory Board) 227 3,310 8,777 12,314 – of which women¹ 16.5% 15.4% 15.7% 178 – of which migrants 3.0% 2.6% 2.1% 3,363 8,281 11,822 As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) 171 Migrants = foreign nationals and/or born in a country other than the one they work in 3,429 7,689 11,289 No data is collected on the migration status of Supervisory Board members. 1) For information: total percentage of female executives working in Germany: < 30 years old 30–49 years old ≥ 50 years old 16.4 percent (2012) As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany), comprises employees with a severe disability or equivalent status 119 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Shaping employment conditions The percentage of staff in Germany subject to respective collective-bargaining agreements includes civil servWith its competitive, attractive employment conditions, ants because they are assigned to DB by law as stipulatDB offers staff prospects at every stage of their lives ed in Art. 2 Sec. 12 of the German Rail Restructuring Act and careers. Its new collective-bargaining agreement (ENeuOG). On this basis, the negotiated provisions apply designed to address demographic change includes a analogously to civil servants in the same way as they permanent job offer for all apprentices and cooperado to other employees. tive education students who successfully complete their courses, a demographic model to reduce working hours Employees by employment type  for older employees, and a permanent job guarantee in Germany. For more information, refer to pages 58–61. Headcount 2012 2011 2010 Employees with collective-bargaining Employees by working time (full time/part time) agreements 145,145 141,113 135,005 and gender  Civil servants 32,510 34,627 36,544 Employees with individual contracts¹ 8,917 8,404 8,030 Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Total 186,572 184,144 179,579 Full time 172,550 170,789 166,985 As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees – of which women 18.0% 17.7% 17.5% in Germany) ¹) T  he figure for employees with individual contracts primarily includes Part time 14,022 13,355 12,594 managerial-level staff, staff on salaries above the union rate, and employees with individual contractual arrangements. – of which women 70.1% 71.5% 72.6% Total 186,572 184,144 179,579 The number of civil servants is decreasing. Since DB AG As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) was established no civil servants were hired or appointed. The increase in employees with individual Employees by contract type (temporary/ contracts is primarily attributable to a rise in staff on permanent) and gender  salaries above the union rate (employees receiving payment over and above standard salary). Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Number of employees subject to collective-bargaining Permanent 179,269 177,062 173,771 agreement  – of which women 21.6% 21.3% 21.0% Temporary 7,303 7,082 5,808 Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 – of which women 29.9% 27.8% 31.5% Number of employees with collective-bargaining agreements, absolute 177,554 175,653 171,490 Total 186,572 184,144 179,579 Number of employees with collective-bargaining As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) agreements, relative 95.2% 95.4% 95.5% As of Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) External temporary employees  Headcount Minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes  2,491 DB observes statutory information obligations, the 2,967 Group’s values, and company practice by informing the employees affected about major changes at the 3,023 company well in advance by means of suitable measAverage headcount in the reporting year, Germany (companies with approx. ures (such as staff meetings or detailed letters). Infor95 percent of employees in Germany); figures for 2010 extrapolated based on mation about transfers of company units is regularly revenues with external temping agencies. provided in writing at least one month in advance, not least for legal reasons. Employees subject to collective legislation  In Germany, the company ensures that representaEmployment conditions for staff at DB supplement the tives of those affected are informed four to eight weeks legal regulations in each federal state, which are largely prior to any major changes at the company which laid down in collective-bargaining agreements signed affect staff so that they can discuss the measure with with the regional trade unions responsible. the management team if appropriate. This approach is laid down in the relevant internal agreements. DB works in collaboration with staff representatives and sets great store by consensual solutions. 120 Staff turnover by age, gender, and reason for leaving  2012 2011 2010 Headcount and in percent (%) Departing Turnover rate Departing Turnover rate Departing Turnover rate < 30 years old 1,404 6.9% 1,394 6.3% 1,024 5.4% – of which women 377 6.5% 501 7.5% 408 6.5% – of which men 1,027 7.1% 893 5.8% 616 4.8% 30–49 years old 1,893 2.1% 1,732 1.9% 1,396 1.5% – of which women 365 1.7% 229 1.1% 279 1.3% – of which men 1,528 2.3% 1,503 2.1% 1,117 1.6% ≥ 50 years old 5,530 7.3% 4,480 6.2% 3,319 5.0% – of which women 784 6.3% 472 4.1% 426 4.1% – of which men 4,746 7.5% 4,008 6.6% 2,893 5.2% Total turnover 8,827 4.8% 7,606 4.1% 5,738 3.2% – of which other turnover 5,037 2.7% 4,719 2.5% 3,589 2.0% – of which retirement-related turnover 3,790 2.1% 2,887 1.6% 2,149 1.2% Reporting year, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) Figures relate to the turnover rate among established staff with permanent contracts. The turnover figure for retirees includes partial retirees. Return to work and rates of departure after maternity/parental leave  2012 2011 2010 Headcount Headcount Headcount Headcount and in percent (%) of employees Percentage of employees Percentage of employees Percentage Returning employees 1,069 54.3% 1,286 56.8% 1,164 47.7% – of which women 893 50.7% 1,065 53.1% 978 44.7% – of which men 176 84.6% 221 85.0% 186 73.5% Departing employees 104 5.3% 126 5.6% 132 5.4% – of which women 94 5.3% 111 5.5% 127 5.8% – of which men 10 4.8% 15 5.8% 5 2.0% Retention on parental leave 796 40.4% 853 37.7% 1,146 46.9% – of which women 774 44.0% 829 41.3% 1,084 49.5% – of which men 22 10.6% 24 9.2% 62 24.5% Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany); figures refer to employees who were on maternity/parental leave on Dec 31 of the previous year. Returning employees are those who return to work after maternity/parental leave. Departing employees are those who leave the Group during or immediately after maternity/parental leave. Employees who have neither returned to work nor left and were on maternity/parental leave on Dec 31 of the previous year are listed as “Retention on parental leave” Health rate  in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Germany, excl. DB Schenker Logistics¹ 95.1 95.1 95.1 Germany, DB Schenker Logistics only² 96.0 96.0 96.0 Annual average for the reporting year; companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany Health rate = number of working days minus all illness-related absences (with continued pay) ¹) Based on calendar days ²) Based on no. of working days under contract 121 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Agreements on occupational health and The track-side industrial accidents recorded in 2012 safety issues  occurred at different Group companies and were all isoOccupational health and safety at DB around the world lated incidents. The Group companies are individually is based on the OHSAS 18001 standard. In many busiresponsible for investigating accidents in order to derive ness units – including DB Schenker Logistics – it is esappropriate measures. tablished in line with this standard. In addition to this, the company works closely with Health promotion programs  staff representatives, especially in Germany, to strucDB offers its employees training courses, advice, and ture occupational health and safety in internal agreeregular medical checkups to help them stay healthy. ments and regulations. The main focus here is on the In Germany, DB staff and their families have access to DB occupational health and safety management handadvice and training programs run by the company’s welbook and the health management handbook, both of fare organizations (Stiftung Bahn-Sozialwerk [BSW] and which are wholly subject to co-determination involving Verband Deutscher Eisenbahner-Sportvereine [VDES]). staff representatives. The firm’s health management programs focus in particular on dealing with an aging workforce and preOccupational health and safety committees  venting stress. In Germany, there is a legal obligation to form an occuIn Germany, DB completes a risk analysis (German pational health and safety committee at enterprises Occupational Health and Safety Act) to identify the with 20 or more employees (Sec. 11 of the German possible safety and health impacts associated with each Occupational Health and Safety Act). Relevant is the kind of job and defines appropriate measures. These definition of an enterprise (production plant, place of include ergonomic workplaces, training on handling business, collection of several sites which have elected hazardous substances or performing dangerous tasks, to be viewed jointly as a single enterprise). In Germany, and general information about the hazards in a specific DB is largely made up of such enterprises with more than working environment. Each possible hazard which is 20 employees, so the majority of staff (over 75%) are re­p­ identified is described to the employee in writing and resented via occupational health and safety committees. face to face. The firm is not aware of any roles within the organiOccupational accidents and work-related road zation which carry a particularly high risk of contracting accidents  a recognized occupational illness. Training and psychoWork accidents at DB in Germany are recorded and logical support is provided to counteract the specific analyzed using the Group-wide Accident Management psychosocial risks associated with rail operations (shift System (KUMaS) for the Group companies involved in work, third-party violence, and suicide on the tracks). the program. Minor injuries are not recorded in the KUMaS (they are only documented locally in the firstPersonnel expenses   aid log book) and are therefore not included in the figures for occupational accidents. The most important € million 2012 2011 2010 KPI is the occupational accident rate, which is the figure Wages and salaries 11,134 10,656 9,442 most commonly used by accident insurers in Germany and within the field of occupational health and safety. – Employees 9,822 9,298 8,051 It consists of notifiable industrial accidents leading to – Civil servants assigned 1,312 1,358 1,371 time off work in excess of three calendar days after the Social security expenses 2,683 2,420 2,180 date of the incident plus fatal accidents. – Employees 1,817 1,667 1,511 Occupational accidents, work-related road accidents, – Civil servants assigned 277 277 282 and occupational accident rate  – of which costs for adjusting staffing levels 315 211 226 – of which retirement benefit expenses 274 265 161 Headcount and rate in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Total occupational accident rate Total 13,817 13,076 11,602 and work-related road accidents 7,725 7,721 8,525 Reporting year, Group worldwide – of which fatal occupational accident rate 7 2 3 In the 2012 reporting year, personnel expenses at DB Occupational accident rate¹ 3.35% 3.38% 3.65% totaled € 13,817 million. The development in wages Reporting year, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees and salaries was primarily due to an increase in the in Germany) All accidents resulting in more than three days off headcount. Several other factors also affected personnel ¹) Occupational accident rate (excl. work-related road accidents) excluding expenses, especially at the companies in Germany. Above DB Schenker Logistics all, these were the collective-bargaining agreements in spring 2011 and the collective-bargaining agreement with GDL in summer 2012. The figure reported for personnel expenses (social security expenses) includes defined-contribution plans (primarily pension insurance) 122 amounting to € 868 million (2011: € 836 million). ExEnsuring employability  penditure for pensions comprises payments to current A permanent job guarantee has been put in place for employees and to individuals no longer employed at most employees in Germany as part of the new collective DB or their surviving dependants. They result primarily agreement designed to address demographic change. from service expenses, employer contributions towards This rules out redundancies and dismissals due to the supplementary company plans, and payments to Penloss of, or a reduction in, an employee’s productivity. sions-Sicherungs-Verein aG. Employees whose jobs are cut or who can no longer fulDetailed descriptions of the development in pension fill their responsibilities for health reasons are actively obligations can be found in the section on the KPI helped to find a new role within the Group, with the “Pension obligations.” aid of training programs and mobility services if appliPersonnel expenses totaled € 13,076 million in 2011. cable. These measures are supported by compulsory The increase compared to 2010 stemmed primarily regulations covering the way in which Group vacancies from acquisitions in 2010 (especially DB Arriva) and advertised externally are filled. DB JobService GmbH is the collective-bargaining agreement for the German the internal service provider responsible for internal companies in spring 2011. The figure reported for perplacement. sonnel expenses (social security expenses) includes defined-­ contribution plans (primarily pension insurEvaluating performance and planning ance) amounting to € 836 million (2010: € 744 million). development  Evaluating and promoting performance as well as asPension obligations  sessing and fostering skills, potential, and development are core elements of staff management at DB. € million 2012 2011 2010 In order to set a systematic and consistent approach, there is an internal Group framework agreement in Funded obligations 3,684 3,084 2,907 place in Germany which describes the minimum standUnfunded obligations 2,596 1,992 1,937 ards, tasks, objectives, and principles of the specific Total obligations as of Dec 31 6,280 5,076 4,844 modules (management tools). These are performance Fair value of plan assets as of Dec 31 –2,891 –2,597 –2,446 reviews with/without target setting, skills assessments, potential evaluations, training/development, and manUnrecognized actuarial losses –1,078 –305 –197 agerial feedback. As a rule, employees with whom targets Effects due to cost sharing –193 –129 –158 have not been agreed undergo a performance review at Effects due to franchise contracts –106 –64 –109 least every two years, while staff with set targets and executives discuss their progress every year. Unrecognized past service cost 0 0 0 Amount not recognized as an asset due Training and further education  to limitation of IAS 19.58 0 0 0 In the tables below, the DB Group reports on the averAssets recognized in the balance sheet as pension assets 59 0 4 age annual training and CPD (continuing professional development) costs for internal and external service Net liability recognized in the balance sheet 2,071 1,981 1,938 providers. At present, the number of hours spent on Reporting date Dec 31, Group worldwide CPD per employee each year are not recorded in a For more information and explanations, refer to the DB Annual Report 2012 (p. 235 ff.). wholly standardized fashion. For more information, refer to pages 64–65. Promoting staff development Training and continuing professional development expenses (including apprentices and cooperative education students)  DB intends to tailor its professional development activities more closely to the stage each employee is at in in € 2012 2011 2010 their career and their life, enabling them to spend their Total 141,057,187 126,851,566 104,604,898 entire working life at the firm. The aim is to keep staff Per full-time equivalent at DB long term and to ensure that they are able to (FTE) 719 659 558 keep performing well and remain in employment. For Reporting year, Germany more information, refer to pages 64–65. 123 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Attracting employees The DB Group is not just one of the largest employers in Germany. With more than 11,000 apprentices, cooperaAs it strives to become a top employer, DB is working tive education students, and participants in the “Chance hard to attract talents, skilled employees, qualified Plus” program, it is also one of the biggest training professionals and executives. The focus at DB is shifting providers. DB’s own training and cooperative education from reorganization to growth. Over the coming years, programs provide a sound basis for ensuring that sufthere will be a rise in the number of employees retiring ficient qualified staff are available. and therefore the need for new recruits. At the same time, there is increasing competition for young talents Junior employees by type of training  and well-trained professionals. For more information, refer to pages 68–69. Headcount 2012 2011 2010 Apprentices 9,807 8,908 8,338 Recruiting staff locally  DB provides national and international services on the Cooperative education students 998 846 731 mobility and logistics markets. Hiring and promoting Graduate trainees 187 186 124 the development of both male and female talents, Interns 507 465 377 skilled employees, professionals and executives from “Chance Plus” participants¹ 315 400 400 the countries it operates in is one of DB’s fundamental principles and a business necessity. Reporting date Dec 31, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) Comprises junior employees at all stages of training (usually apprentices and New hirings by gender  cooperative education students from three years, intake) 1) “Chance Plus” helps school leavers with limited chances of securing vocational training to prepare for working life. Headcount and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 < 30 years old 4,938 4,149 2,421 Subsequent hirings of junior employees by type of training  – of which women 32.4% 27.3% 33.0% 30–49 years old 4,981 3,930 1,824 Headcount 2012 2011 2010 – of which women 25.0% 21.7% 22.9% Apprentices 2,069 2,183 1,818 ≥ 50 years old 1,180 775 316 Cooperative education students 190 181 172 – of which women 21.1% 18.2% 16.8% Reporting year, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees in Germany) Total 11,099 8,854¹ 4,561² Apprentices and cooperative education students hired following completion of Reporting year, Germany (companies with approx. 95 percent of employees their courses in Germany) These figures do not include apprentices and cooperative education students who were hired or offered a permanent position after completing their courses. ¹) No data available for DB Schenker Logistics for 2011 ²) No data available for DB Schenker Logistics and bus companies for 2010 124 Being a pioneer in environmental protection Expanding climate protection Primary energy consumption of journeys and transport services, specific  DB has set itself ambitious goals in the field of climate protection. On one hand, these involve improving energy in megajoules/passenger-kilometer or megajoules/ 2012 2011 2010 ton-kilometer (MJ/pkm or MJ/tkm) efficiency and thereby reducing energy consumption. On the other hand, the firm is changing the sources Local passenger rail services 1.09 1.12 1.25 used to generate the power needed for its various vehiLong-distance passenger rail services 0.68 0.73 0.74 cles. In 2012, renewable energy accounted for 24 perBus transport 1.25 1.30 1.10 cent of the traction current mix. For more information, refer to pages 74–77. Rail freight 0.39 0.40 0.41 Road transport 1.40 1.44 1.77 Method used to determine KPIs  Air freight 8.77 8.76 8.84 Energy data is recorded for rail transport services in Ocean freight 0.15 0.17 0.16 Germany. This data is then used to calculate CO₂ emissions and CO₂ equivalents. In the logistics area (landReporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, Scope 1–3, excluding precarriage and onward carriage based, air and ocean transport) fuel consumption of own vehicles is recorded (Scope 1, < 5% of total emissions). Scope 3 emissions are calculated on the basis of DB further reduced the specific energy consumption carrier-specific parameters using EcoTransIT World. of its travel and transport services in 2012. A comparThe allocation of data is consignment-specific and has ison with previous years shows that the firm has been been carried out in compliance with the new EN 16258 cutting its specific energy usage constantly for years. standard since as early as 2010. In the course of actualizing calculations, the data from 2010 and 2011 for Primary energy consumption of journeys and transport air freight was extrapolated. The data for bus transport services, stationary facilities  services was also extrapolated. The adjustments to the in percent (%) air and bus transport figures also relate to the way in 1% which air pollutants are calculated. 65% 34% Primary energy consumption of journeys and transport 1% services, absolute  65% 34% 1% in terajoules (TJ) 2012 2011 2010 61% 37% Total 321,582 330,783 303,730 1% Mineral oil/heating oil¹ Electricity² Gas District heating³ – of which local passenger rail services 58,182 58,167 51,737 Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, DB Schenker Rail – of which long-distance passenger stationary facilities in Germany only, Scope 1–3 rail services 25,390 25,943 26,774 1) Including heating oil, diesel, heavy oil, kerosene – of which bus transport 23,620 25,414 8,967 2) In line with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines, electricity is viewed as a primary energy carrier in its own right, even if a resource such as coal was used to – of which rail freight 44,224 47,617 46,504 generate the electricity. For a breakdown of the traction current mix,see below. 3) Including district cooling – of which road transport 43,288 45,504 47,559 – of which air freight¹ 80,861 80,725 83,892 Traction current mix in Germany  – of which ocean freight¹ 44,496 45,903 36,867 in percent (%) – of which other transport² 1,521 1,510 1,431 1.9% Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, Scope 1–3 31.4% 14.2% 20.2% 8.3% 24.0% 1) Including precarriage and onward carriage 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic 1.7% 31.8% 13.4% 22.3% 9.0% 21.8% Primary energy consumption stationary facilities, 2.4% absolute  32.1% 13.0% 22.2% 10.5% 19.8% in terajoules (TJ) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Anthracite Nuclear energy Renewable energies Lignite Natural gas Other fuels¹ Total 22,748 23,422 24,974 Reporting year – of which heat¹ 17% 20% 24% 1) Such as electricity from the public grid which cannot be categorized – of which electricity 83% 80% 76% Reporting year, Group worldwide, DB Schenker Rail Germany only, 2010 excluding DB Arriva 1) Oil, gas, district heating 125 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures DB is continuously increasing the percentage of renewcovers eight hectares and has a maximum output of able energy it uses. Its aim is for renewables to make up 3.9 megawatts peak. The electricity it produces is fed at least 35 percent by 2020. DB Netze Energy procures into the public grid and is enough to supply the annual eco-friendly power for DB’s green products separately. energy needs of approximately 900 homes. In 2012, these products accounted for 2.2 percent of the total traction current used. Other energy-saving measures  DB is already lessening its key environmental impacts Volume of electricity used for DB rail services with 100% by reducing the energy and CO₂ used by its travel and green power, absolute  transport services. In addition to this, it is improving its efficiency in other areas. For instance, greater use is being in gigawatt-hours (GWh) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 made of teleconferences to avoid the need for business Total 283 275 235 trips. A new guideline on company cars was finalized in the reporting year. This means executives can choose a – of which passenger rail¹ 93% 95% 96% network ticket instead of a company car to make their – of which rail freight 7% 5% 4% own personal contribution towards saving energy. Reporting year, tank to wheel (TTW) 1) Incl. business trips by DB employees Challenges associated with climate change  DB has considered the possible consequences of climate Energy regeneration during braking  change in great depth. As part of its research, it has been involved in a number of projects to assess climate imin gigawatt-hours (GWh) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 pacts along with various research bodies, the German Federal Environment Agency, and the German Federal Total 997 929 886 Railway Authority. The results are constantly incorpo– of which local passenger rail services (LPRS) 566 505 468 rated into the company’s planning and the way it uses its – LPRS share of total electricity used 13% 12% 10% production resources. This means that aspects of climate – of which long-distance passenger rail services change also have to be taken into account when plan(LDPRS) 288 280 277 ning permission is sought for new infrastructure. DB – LDPRS share of total electricity used 11% 10% 10% continues to participate in expert bodies examining aspects of climate change so that it will be able to meet – of which rail freight (RF) 143 144 141 the associated challenges. Currently, the focus is on – RF share of total electricity 5% 5% 5% helping to check external technical rules and regulations Reporting year, tank to wheel (TTW) with regard to adjustments which need to be made to vehicular and structural design parameters with a As much as 13 percent of the electricity used for rail direct link to climate conditions, such as external temtraffic stems from the regeneration of braking energy. perature, the amount of rainfall, and wind loads. Every time a train brakes, the kinetic energy is converted into electrical energy, which is fed back into the traction DB’s climate protection target  current network and thereby saved. All modern rail in percent (%) vehicles are fitted with this technology. –12.3% target 2020 Installed output of photovoltaic power facilities  –10.2% in megawatts peak (MWp) –8.4% 6.8 6.03 0 –5% –10% –15% –20% –25% Reduction in comparison to 2006, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva 1.35 Reporting year, Germany The figure for 2011 deviates from the Annual Report due to subsequent data collection. DB’s climate protection target is to reduce carriers’ specific CO₂ emissions by 20 percent between 2006 and DB provides investors with suitable sites for photovoltaic 2020. Unlike the Annual Report, the KPIs quoted here power facilities. The investors construct the facilities include the CO₂ emissions generated by DB Schenker and the electricity generated is subsequently marketed. Rail’s international companies. They were calculated The largest photovoltaic power facility to date went opusing updated conversion factors. erational in 2011 at a DB site in Wittenberge (Brandenburg). It was officially unveiled by DB, the town of Wittenberge, and the investment company Moser Baer Clean Energy in the year under review. The photovoltaic power farm is on the site of a former waste disposal facility. It 126 CO₂ equivalents produced by DB’s rail traffic in Germany by working together with its service providers to improve greenhouse gas  available data. in thousand metric tons (t) 401 CO₂ emissions produced by journeys and transport 75 services plus stationary facilities, absolute  6,006 in millions of tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 Total 22.32 23.01 21.72 – of which local passenger rail services 3.25 3.19 2.91 – of which long-distance passenger rail services 1.48 1.47 1.51 – of which bus transport 1.33 1.47 0.63 – of which rail freight services 2.67 2.86 2.80 – of which road transport 2.97 3.22 3.18 From CO₂ (carbon dioxide) From N₂O (laughing gas) From CH₄ (methane) – of which air freight¹ 5.93 5.92 6.12 Reporting year 2012, greenhouse gases produced during combustion, Scope 1–2 – of which ocean freight¹ 3.39 3.54 3.00 CO₂ equivalents produced by journeys and transport – of which other transport² 0.11 0.11 0.10 services plus stationary facilities, absolute  – of which stationary facilities 1.21 1.25 1.46 Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, well to wheel in millions of tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 (WTW), Scope 1–3 1) With precarriage and onward carriage Total 23.17 23.88 22.72 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic – of which local passenger rail services 3.48 3.42 3.14 – of which long-distance passenger rail services 1.60 1.60 1.65 CO₂ emissions produced by travel and transport services, – of which bus transport 1.34 1.48 0.64 specific  – of which rail freight services 2.84 3.05 2.98 in grams/passenger-kilometer or grams/ 2012 2011 2010 ton-kilometer (g/pkm or g/tkm) – of which road transport 3.08 3.34 3.41 Local passenger rail services 60.7 61.4 70.4 – of which air freight¹ 5.98 5.97 6.24 Long-distance passenger rail services 39.7 41.4 42.0 – of which ocean freight¹ 3.42 3.57 3.03 Bus transport 70.5 75.0 77.5 – of which other transport² 0.11 0.11 0.10 Rail freight 23.7 23.8 24.6 – of which stationary facilities 1.31 1.34 1.53 Road transport 103.9 101.8 102.0 Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3, greenhouse gases produced during combustion Air freight 643.0 643.0 645.2 1) Including precarriage and onward carriage 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic Ocean freight 11.5 13.0 13.5 Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3, excluding precarriage and onward carriage CO₂ equivalents by Scope  in million tons (t) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Total (Scope 1–3) 21.85 22.54 21.19 Improving noise protection – of which Scope 1 14% 14% 11% DB aims to reduce rail traffic noise by half between – of which Scope 2 28% 28% 29% 2000 and 2020. To this end the company is implement– of which Scope 3 58% 58% 60% ing a variety of measures on both tracks and vehicles. Reducing noise produced by freight cars is a particular Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, excluding stationary facilities, greenhouse gases produced during combustion focus. For more information, refer to pages 80–81. Implementation of the track-side noise remediation Allocating CO₂ equivalents to the Greenhouse Gas Proprogram  tocol scopes shows that a high percentage of greenhouse gas emissions – around 60 percent – are attribut2012 2011 2010 able to service providers under contract in the haulage Noise barriers constructed km 55 55 53 and logistics business. This is particularly true for international logistics services and highlights just how comApartments with passive measures number 2,000 2,550 3,500 plex managing reduction measures is. The data quality Total track length with noise remediation measures¹ km 1,335 1,095 960 for the Scope 3 values is largely dependent on the information provided by service providers. DB is 1)  C ompleted sections of track as per Appendix 1 of the overall concept for the noise remediation program with extensions, cumulative 127 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures DB has been implementing the German government’s Use of materials for the rail infrastructure  voluntary noise remediation program since 1999. Every year, some € 100 million is made available for active in tons (t) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 and passive noise protection measures. Total 5,162,814 4,645,827 4,454,339 Implementation of the track-side noise prevention – of which ballast 3,865,739 3,662,879 3,490,419 program  – of which recycled ballast 17% 14% 15% – of which concrete cross-ties 729,406 982,133 962,169 2012 2011 2010 – of which recycled concrete Noise barriers constructed km 28 21 6 cross-ties 9% 6% 11% Apartments with passive measures number 8,229 278 1,679 – of which wooden cross-ties¹ 1,441 815 1,751 Reporting year, Germany – of which steel² 566,228 – – Reporting year, Germany 1) Recycled wooden cross-ties are not available on the market due to the legal Steps are taken to prevent noise in conjunction with requirements for their disposal (thermal utilization). newbuild projects and extension work in line with the 2) No data collected in 2011 and 2010. 16th German Clean Air Act. The specific measures depend on the building works undertaken in the relevant The majority of materials at DB are used for infrastrucyear and therefore vary. ture. An evaluation in 2011 showed that infrastructure accounted for more than 80 percent of the materials Use of composite brake blocks on DB freight cars  used at the Group. DB is therefore concentrating on this figure in its ongoing reporting. The material quantities number 2012 2011 2010 depend on the building works undertaken and may Total number of DB freight cars with therefore vary. composite brake blocks 7,624 6,885 6,347 – of which new DB freight cars with Total amount of waste by disposal type  composite brake blocks 7,472 6,885 6,347 – of which retrofitted DB freight cars with in tons (t) and in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 composite brake blocks 152 0 0 Total waste 5,838,972 5,610,949 5,623,660 Reporting date Dec 31, Germany, cumulative – of which recycling 94% 94% 93% Since 2001, DB has only bought freight cars with com– of which thermal utilization 4% 4% 3% posite brake blocks (K and LL brake blocks). The ex– of which disposal 2% 2% 4% isting freight cars need to be retrofitted to reduce  ercentage of hazardous waste P noise across the board. DB began the retrofitting in the total amount of waste¹ 15% 17% 15% process in 2012. Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, DB Schenker Rail Germany only, 2010 and 2011 excluding DB Schenker Logistics and reorganization management 1) As per the Regulation on the European Waste Catalog, e.g. used oil Enhancing material and resource efficiency Total amount of waste by waste type  DB aims to boost its resource efficiency by recycling a large percentage of its waste, using more recycled main tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 terials, and extending the service life of materials in Total waste 5,838,972 5,610,949 5,623,660 vehicles. In 2012, it already recycled 94 percent of its waste. For more information, refer to pages 84–85. – of which construction waste 5,115,708 4,983,021 4,918,965 – of which scrap metal 557,659 516,735 599,636 – of which waste electronic equipment 3,146 4,563 1,634 – of which municipal waste¹ 119,381 60,979 58,441 – of which paper 9,827 12,013 9,924 – of which used oil 9,884 9,563 11,826 – of which other waste² 23,367 24,075 23,234 Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, DB Schenker Rail Germany only, 2010 and 2011 excluding DB Schenker Logistics and reorganization management 1) Change from 2011 to 2012 due to improved data collection 2) Such as paint, varnish, sludge, and other maintenance-related waste 128 Reducing air pollutants Sulfur dioxide emissions (SO₂) produced by journeys and transport services, absolute  Reducing air pollutants is important to DB as well as cutting CO₂ emissions. The focus here is on using modern in tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 vehicles which comply with high Euro standards and Total 78,767 75,098 63,479 therefore emit fewer pollutants. As a result of this strategy, 28 percent of DB’s own buses complied with – of which local passenger rail services 2,752 2,712 2,827 the Euro V and VI standards, while no less than 92 per– of which long-distance passenger rail services 1,519 1,504 1,533 cent of its cars met the Euro 5 norm, for example. For more information, refer to pages 86–87. – of which bus transport 333 363 341 – of which rail freight 2,939 2,981 2,892 Non-methane hydrocarbon emissions (NMHC) produced – of which road transport 4,024 4,361 4,284 by journeys and transport services, absolute  – of which air freight¹ 8,140 8,125 8,460 in tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 – of which ocean freight¹ 59,000 54,992 43,085 Total 12,590 12,715 11,721 – of which other transport² 61 60 57 – of which local passenger rail services 539 559 583 Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, produced during combustion, well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3 – of which long-distance passenger 1) With precarriage and onward carriage rail services 118 126 137 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic – of which bus transport 228 262 264 – of which rail freight 1,648 1,889 1,719 Particulate emissions produced by journeys and transport services, absolute  – of which road transport 1,717 1,922 1,948 – of which air freight¹ 2,777 2,770 3,149 in tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 – of which ocean freight¹ 5,522 5,146 3,883 Total 10,773 10,276 8,331 – of which other transport² 41 41 38 – of which local passenger rail services 229 232 240 Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, produced during combustion, – of which long-distance passenger well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3; total non-methane hydrocarbons, methane rail services 80 82 84 emissions (CH₄) are included within greenhouse gases (see CO₂ equivalents). 1) With precarriage and onward carriage – of which bus transport 58 70 74 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic – of which rail freight 523 516 452 – of which road transport 473 547 570 Nitrogen oxide emissions (NOx) produced by journeys and transport services, absolute  – of which air freight¹ 643 645 674 – of which ocean freight¹ 8,761 8,174 6,223 in tons (t) 2012 2011 2010 – of which other transport² 6 10 14 Total 168,425 165,418 147,776 Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, produced during combustion, well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3 – of which local passenger rail services 8,962 9,271 9,469 1) With precarriage and onward carriage – of which long-distance passenger 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic rail services 1,922 1,993 2,062 – of which bus transport 3,470 4,123 4,324 Breakdown of DB’s fleet of buses by Euro standard – of which rail freight 15,393 15,769 14,726 in percent (%) – of which road transport 16,025 18,395 19,773 2% – of which air freight¹ 24,368 24,448 26,264 24% 27% 19% 9% 19% – of which ocean freight¹ 97,873 91,007 70,765 3% – of which other transport² 412 412 393 28% 28% 19% 8% 14% Reporting year, Group worldwide, excluding DB Arriva, produced during combustion, 4% well to wheel (WTW), Scope 1–3 32% 29% 20% 7% 8% 1) With precarriage and onward carriage 2) Including DB Fuhrpark, internal traffic Euro I Euro II Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI/EEV Reporting year, Germany, figures for 2010 and 2011 extrapolated 129 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Breakdown of DB’s fleet of trucks by Euro standard DB real estate with contact to protected areas  in percent (%) in square kilometers (km²) 1% Total area of DB’s real estate 1,336 5% 20% 30% 44% Protected landscapes 224 1% Natural parks 346 10% 18% 71% Protected wetlands 290 2% Flora/fauna habitats 100 16% 18% 64% Bird reserves 103 Nature reserves 42 Euro I Euro II Euro III Euro IV Euro V Euro VI Biosphere reserves 20 Reporting date Dec 31, Group worldwide, main carriage; the percentage of National parks 16 Euro V trucks fell between 2011 and 2012 because DB Schenker Sweden sold a number of such vehicles. Reporting date Dec 31, 2012, Germany, protected areas may overlap Breakdown of DB’s fleet of cars by Euro standard Nature conservation measures in conjunction with in percent (%) building projects – an example  0.5% 0.4% DB always completes screening and environmental 7.1% 92.0% compatibility studies as well as checking for nature reserves and protected species when it plans to undertake 0.6% 0.1% 17.5% 81.8% building work and projects. In this way, the DB Group incorporates the impact of building projects on the 0.7% 0.1% natural world into the planning process at an early stage 44.0% 55.2% and initiates compensatory measures. For instance, the following steps were taken along the Waren (Müritz)– Euro 3 Euro 4 Euro 5 Euro 6 Vollrathsruhe–Lalendorf sections of track when the As of Dec 31, Germany Berlin to Rostock route was repaired: Provision of several otter access routes Erection of fences to protect reptiles and amphibians Protecting nature and biodiversity The building work was also limited to certain times of day in order to protect grass snakes, otters, cranes, Protecting nature and the environment is of great imblack and red kites, and red-backed shrikes. portance to DB. Nature conservation issues are relevant to everyday operations, the construction of new lines, Compensatory measures in line with and the extension of existing routes. The firm tries to nature conservation legislation – an example  minimize its impact on nature and biodiversity. For The DB Group puts compensatory measures in place for more information, refer to pages 88–89. flora and fauna in line with nature conservation legislation. This means that substitute land is made available DB routes with contact to protected areas  whenever soil is sealed. For example, a total of five grade crossings were renewed on route 6446 (Bützow– in kilometers (km) Rostock) during implementation of the warning light Total DB route network 33,319 program. In total, approximately 5,000 m² of soil was sealed in conjunction with this construction work. To Protected landscapes 7,873 compensate, semi-natural landscaping work was underNatural parks 6,602 taken on a plot of land spanning around 5,000 m² in Protected wetlands 5,447 the district of Schwaan. A typical biotope was created Flora/fauna habitats 2,343 along the field edges (1,325 m²); shrubs and trees were Bird reserves 1,837 also planted (3,705 m²). This work offsets the impact of Nature reserves 954 all five grade crossings. Biosphere reserves 623 National parks 32 Reporting date Dec 31, 2012, Germany, site within 25 meters of the center line of Other environmental issues the track, protected areas may overlap Climate and noise protection, material and resource efficiency, clean air, and nature conservation are DB’s priority issues for which it has set targets. However, the company is also looking at other areas with regard to the environment where action is needed in order to take a holistic approach. 130 Companies in the DB Group with an environmental Playing a responsible role management system certified according to ISO 14001  in society in percent (%) 2012 2011 2010 Total percentage¹ 27 14 16 In the reporting year, the DB Group upped its expenditure Percentage in Germany 31 20 20 in Germany for social projects to over € 1 million (exPercentage in Europe (excl. Germany) 21 11 12 cluding donations) and increased the number of initiaPercentage worldwide (excl. Europe and Germany) 50 14 18 tives it supports to more than 70. In addition, numerous grants were awarded to schoolchildren and students. Reporting date Dec 31, Germany Increase in 2012 due to more certifications at DB Schenker; slight decline in 2011 For more information, refer to pages 92–95. due to Group restructuring 1) In total, 49 percent of active DB Group companies have an environmental Expenditure for social projects/partnerships  management system, of which 27 percent are certified as per ISO 14001. € thousand 2012 2011 2010 DB’s environmental geo-information system – ISU LENa Expenditure 1,228 884 494 The DB Environment Center has been using the ISU LENa Reporting year, Germany, expenditure excluding donations information system for environmental protection (noise, emissions, nature) since 2011. This IT system combines information regarding noise, harmful emissions, and Social projects/partnerships  environmental protection with each other and thus aids Number companies in their environmental management activities. Before it was introduced, the DB Environment 75 Center had a variety of systems in use to determine environmental impacts. The ISU LENa links data that is 51 relevant from an environmental protection standpoint to DB’s track network and its trains’ travel. The aim of 47 ISU LENa is to identify the affects of rail traffic on the Reporting year, Germany, number of projects/partnerships which were not environment geographically so that the most effective supported solely by means of donations action can be taken in the right places. Awarding grants  Fines and legal proceedings for non-compliance Grants were primarily awarded in Germany as part of with environmental regulations  the Germany Scholarship program (various subjects). There were no fines or legal proceedings for non-compliIn addition to this, the company awarded DAAD travel ance with environmental regulations with a monetary grants, Off Road Kids grants, and scholarships in convalue in excess of € 1 million in the year under review. junction with various universities. These disclosures relate exclusively to Germany. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances  No ozone-depleting substances are released during DB’s production processes. Upholding integrity Major spillages  As a logistics service provider, spillages which occur during the transportation of hazardous goods are relevant for Firmly anchoring compliance DB. If certain quantities are exceeded and/or the incident is particularly serious, such spillages have to be reported Among other things, DB’s compliance work includes recin line with the European agreement on the carriage of ognizing compliance risks at an early stage and initiating dangerous goods by rail and road (RID/ADR). In 2010, DB appropriate countermeasures. It also involves the imSchenker Rail in Germany and DB Schenker Logistics Land plementation of compliance programs, ongoing comTransport in Europe each recorded one notifiable incident. munication, and compliance training. For more inforThere were no reportable accidents in 2011 or 2012. mation, please refer to pages 107–109. Water usage  Risk analysis at the business units  As early as 2010 a compliance risk analysis at business in millions of cubic meters (m³) unit level was conducted throughout the Group covering all business units. 8.23 Individual analyses were completed at 58 companies 8.79 between 2010 and 2012. This means that a coverage in excess of 90 percent on average was achieved at the 7.23 business units analyzed (the coverage is calculated as Reporting year, Group worldwide, 2010 excluding DB Arriva, DB Schenker Rail the income and the average number of employees at the Germany only, public-supply water use 131 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures companies analyzed in the financial year 2012 in relation In-class compliance training courses on integrity to the total income and the total average number of employees at the relevant business unit in the financial number 2012 2011 2010 2010–2012¹ Total year 2012). There are plans to conduct individual onEmployees 6,134 3,009 1,247 710 11,100 site analyses at the business units which have not yet Reporting year, Group worldwide (mainly Europe) undergone individual analyses (DB Schenker Logistics, Training courses for executives and employees, participants selected based on DB Arriva), respectively to integrate them into the a risk profile business unit-specific system of identifying risks start1) Additional training courses spanning more than one year ing in 2013. In addition to risk analysis, measures were in place Training courses for employees focusing on human and support was offered at all business units within the rights  DB Group – such as compliance advice, special commuThe section “Corporate Social Responsibility” is a key part nication measures, and process analyses, aimed at of the “Corporate Principles – Ethics – Code of Conduct” minimizing corruption risks. (DB Code of Conduct). This includes, for example, the subjects human rights, child labor, forced labor, equal Human rights issues integrated into risk analyses  opportunities, and collaboration. The “Corporate PrinSince DB started conducting risk analyses, issues relatciples – Ethics – Code of Conduct” (DB Code of Conduct) ing to human rights have been integrated into risk are covered via an e-learning course. The e-learning analysis, especially at international level. This area is courses are freely accessible to the employees. Due to an currently being expanded and systematized. The indiinternal data privacy agreement, it is not possible to cator “Risk analysis at the business units” explains the determine how many employees have used the e-learning Group-wide coverage with risk analyses in the reportprogram throughout the Group. Therefore, the total ing period. percentage of employees who took part in a training course cannot be presented. Complaints relating to human rights  A “Global Ethics Survey” was conducted at DB Schenker DB is very aware of its responsibility to society. Adhering Logistics, which also includes human rights issues. The to internationally recognized human rights and basic results of this survey are currently being analyzed. freedoms – as laid out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights – is therefore indispensable Anti-corruption measures  for all employees. The number of substantial reports of corruption received Complaints relating to human rights can be filed with centrally via the whistle-blowing system ran into double line managers and local HR executives anytime. The digits. The reports were duly examined. Remedial action central whistle-blowing system is also open at all times. was taken wherever necessary. As part of its work, the DB is not aware of any concrete incidents relating to “Debarment Decision-Making Committee” (Entscheider­ violations of human rights to date. kreis Vergabesperre) regularly makes decisions on the exclusion of supplier firms involved in cases of corruption. Anti-corruption training  Integrity (anti-corruption) is one of the focal points of Fines for violating legal regulations and the training courses (e-learning) about the “Corporate non-monetary penalties  Principles – Ethics – Code of Conduct” (DB Code of A number of DB Group companies were fined in 2011 Conduct). Executives are required to complete the and 2012 in the course of antitrust proceedings against e-learning courses. This e-learning training is also comglobal freight forwarding companies. Fines of € 34.9 pulsory for all other employees in selected companies million were imposed in the EU (the fines against DB are and units, based on the risk position. The e-learning being challenged before the European Court of Justice) courses are freely accessible to all employees. Due to and DB was fined US$ 23.3 million in the USA. The an internal data privacy agreement, it is not possible companies were accused of having violated competition to determine how many employees have used the law between 2002 and 2007 with fees and surcharges e-learning program throughout the Group. Therefore, for air freight. As a result, DB Schenker Logistics has the total percentage of employees who took part in established an extensive antitrust compliance program training (e-learning or in-class) cannot be reported. which meets high international standards. For this reason, the following table shows the data for Two major cases are to be mentioned in the context in-class training courses. In total, in-class compliance of non-monetary sanctions. First, two companies were training on the subject of integrity, including the training marked as restricted contractual partners (debarment on anti-­corruption guidelines and procedures, was held from contract awarding) by the US Department of the Air for 11,100 employees between 2010 and 2012. Force. This step was taken as a result of the above-mentioned antitrust proceedings. The debarment was lifted following a administrative agreement with the US Air Force in April 2012. Second, in another business unit, a business relationship was temporarily suspended by 132 a business partner in connection with investigation child labor, and forced/compulsory labor is also increasproceedings. This business relationship has since been ing in importance. With this in mind, the Compliance resumed, however. and Central Procurement Group functions introduced a code of conduct for business partners at the end of Fines in connection with products/services  2012, which comes into effect on January 1, 2013. This No major fines were imposed in the reporting period serves as a binding guideline on social integrity and is due to violations of the legal requirements relating to used as a benchmark to assess suppliers’ suitability products and services. when initiating a business relationship. The supplier can either accept DB’s code of conduct or produce evidence that they comply with adequate cross-­ industry guideDeveloping procurement processes further lines (such as BME) or their own code of conduct. In the 2012 reporting year and the preceding years, In the course of implementing the DB2020 strategy, DB’s quality assurance team completed on-site supplier sustainability will be anchored more firmly in the proaudits on behalf of Central Procurement. Systems, proc­ curement process. A key aspect of this is the code of esses, and products were checked in the case of supconduct for business partners, which will be intropliers whose products are subject to mandatory quality duced on January 1, 2013. For more information, refer testing and manufacturers who must be approved beto pages 112–113. fore they can supply certain products. Any discrepancies arising from these audits are reported to Central ProContracts with suppliers  curement. In the 2012 reporting year, the audits and In the past, the majority of external suppliers used by other inspections did not find any indication of human Central Procurement were based in Germany. As the DB rights violations, prevention of freedom of association, Group became increasingly international, the percentchild labor, or forced/compulsory labor. age of external suppliers from abroad rose at the same Central Procurement also began analyzing sustainable time. In particular, greater use was made of the emergresponsibility using a recognized external procedure in ing procurement markets, especially those in Asia and the year under review. 55 suppliers were assessed during Eastern Europe. A large number of contracts were a pilot phase. Within this procedure, the sustainability awarded to suppliers in these markets in the 2012 reof the supply chain is evaluated by an external service porting year. Because of this trend, the issue of clauses provider using defined criteria. The results are forregarding human rights aspects, freedom of association, warded to the procurement team. Awards In the year under review, DB received awards for its work in various divisions and business units. The awards listed here are a selection relating to sustainability. DB Schenker again named “Best Road Haulier – Vehicle maintenance subsidiary wins the German Asia” and “Best Green Service Provider – Logistics Ideas Award Operator” in the Asia-Pacific region DB Fahrzeuginstandhaltung GmbH took third place in The Asian Freight & Supply Chain Awards are considthe “Best Idea Management” category for the transport, ered one of the leading accolades for the freight translogistics, and aviation sector. The German Ideas Award port industry in Asia. The prizes honor DB Schenker’s is presented by the German Business Management Inenvironmental standards and investments in green stitute (Deutsches Institut für Betriebswirtschaft, dib). technology as well as its expertise, service standards, and innovations. Both awards went to DB Schenker for Call a Bike number one in Germany in ADAC test the second time. The motorists’ association ADAC tested bicycle rental systems in 40 European cities. Its criteria were: access to the system, customer information, ease of use, and the quality of the bikes. Call a Bike was rated highest out of three operators in Germany. 133 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Personnel policy wins HR Excellence Awards DB Services receives special jury award for DB was commended for creative, innovative projects in corporate social responsibility (CSR) three categories within the scope of its personnel policy: The initiative Hauptstadt Berlin e. V. commended the the South German regional area at DB Netz AG received “DB Future Camp” run by DB Services as part of its capan award for its “DB Netz Camps,” DB Services GmbH ital city award for integration and tolerance. The prize was given a prize for its “Technology Mentors,” and the encourages individuals and companies to foster interegional recruitment team at DB Munich won an award gration and help create a cosmopolitan capital city. for its concept “Next-generation Recruiters.” The awards were presented by the magazine Human Resources Manager in 2012 for the first time. Memberships As a member of numerous national and international organizations, DB is actively driving dialog on sustainability issues forward. Together with its partners, it is promoting initiatives for future-proof development. Involvement in national organizations with a Involvement in international organizations with a sustainability focus sustainability focus DB stepped up its involvement in important national At international level, DB has pledged to uphold the and international organizations with a sustainability principles of the UN Global Compact since 2009. DB focus in 2012. In Germany, for example, DB is a mempresents its progress in a report based on these ten ber of econsense – the Forum for Sustainable Developprinciples every year. This Sustainability Report also ment of German Business – and the 2° Initiative, which comprises the principles and therefore serves as a consists of German business owners committed to procommunication on progress (COP) in this sense. tecting the climate. DB also endorses the German The company intends to become a member of the Council for Sustainable Development’s definition of World Business Council for Sustainable Development sustainability. DB has made this clear by issuing a dec(WBCSD) in 2013. laration of conformity with the German Sustainability Code. On top of this, DB’s corporate membership of Memberships of industry associations Transparency International and its involvement in the In addition to this, DB uses memberships of industry German Federal Ministry of the Interior’s Initiative associations to discuss future challenges and sustainable Group for the Prevention of Corruption underlines the potential solutions. For instance, the Group is actively special importance DB attaches to combating corruption. driving the discussion about the respective sectors’ forward-looking development as a member of the International Union of Railways (UIC) and the German Logistics Association (Bundesvereinigung Logistik, BVL). 134 UN Global Compact communication on progress By joining the UN Global Compact in 2009, DB has pledged to uphold the organization’s ten principles. It produces a regular progress report containing information about its activities and achievements. This was integrated into this publication as part of the sustainability reporting system. UN Global Compact Description Reference Human rights p. 55–61, 64–65, 68–69, Principle 1 Supporting and respecting internationally proclaimed human rights 92–97, 104–113, 118–124, 131–133 p. 55–61, 104–109, Principle 2 Making sure that the firm is not complicit in human rights abuses 112–113, 119–120, 122, 131–133 Labor Upholding freedom of association and the right to p. 58–61, 104, 112, 120, Principle 3 122, 132–133 collective bargaining Principle 4 Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor p. 104, 112, 132–133 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor p. 104, 112, 132–133 p. 18–20, 33–34, 52–61, Principle 6 Eliminating discrimination 92–94, 104, 119–120, 123–124 The environment p. 16, 72–75, 80–81, Principle 7 Taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 87–88, 112–113, 126–128, 130 Undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental p. 16, 34–35, 72–89, Principle 8 112–113, 125–131 responsibility p. 16, 34–35, 72, 75–79, Principle 9 Developing and diffusing environmentally friendly technologies 81, 85–87, 126, 128–129 Anti-corruption p. 21, 104–105, 107– Principle 10 Working against corruption 112, 131–132 For more information, see www.unglobalcompact.org. 135 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures GRI index This Sustainability Report is based on version 3.0 of the international guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative. The GRI index in the table below lists the page numbers where detailed disclosures relating to each GRI indicator can be found. GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior 1.1 decision-maker of the organization p. 3 For confidentiality reasons, details such as Description of key impacts, risks, 1.2 and opportunities p. 12–13 the assumptions used for financial planning are not published. Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization p. 8 Primary brands, products, 2.2 and/or services p. 9–10 2.3 Operational structure of the organization p. 10–11 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters AR 2012: p. 55 Number of countries where the 2.5 organization operates p. 9–11 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 8 2.7 Markets served p. 9–11, 26–27 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization p. 8 Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or ownership p. 116 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 133–134 Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided p. 116 3.2 Date of most recent previous report p. 116 3.3 Reporting cycle p. 116 Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 the report or its contents p. 147 Scope and limits of report The DB Sustainability Report 2012 addresses 3.5 Process for defining report content p. 116 the company’s key stakeholder groups. These main stakeholder groups are listed on p. 19. 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 116 Limitations on the scope or boundary of All key economic, environmental, and social 3.7 the report p. 116 factors are covered by the reporting. Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 136 GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 3.8 subsidiaries, and outsourced operations p. 116 Data measurement techniques and 3.9 the bases of calculations p. 116 Re-statements of information 3.10 provided in earlier reports p. 116 Changes in the scope, boundary, 3.11 or measurement methods p. 116 GRI content index 3.12 GRI index p. 136–142 Audit 3.13 External assurance for the report p. 143–145 Governance, commitments, and engagement Corporate governance p. 8, 16–17; 4.1 Governance structure of the organization AR 2012: p. 55–56 p. 8; 4.2 Independence of the Chair of supervisory body AR 2012: p. 37–39 The DB Group has two separate oversight bodies 4.3 Independence of the company management p. 8 with different members and remits: the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees p. 56; DB Group is wholly owned 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction AR 2012: p. 37–39 by the German government. to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members p. 105; 4.5 of the highest governance body and the orgaAR 2012: p. 40–41 nization’s performance Processes in place to ensure 4.6 conflicts of interest are avoided p. 14–15 Qualifications and expertise of the members 4.7 of the highest governance body p. 17 Internally developed statements of mission p. 17, 104–105, 107, 4.8 or values, codes of conduct, and principles 109, 112 Procedures of the highest governance body 4.9 for overseeing the organization’s p. 14–16, 107, 135–142 performance with respect to sustainability Processes for evaluating the highest p. 105; 4.10 governance body’s own performance with reAR 2012: p. 40–41 spect to sustainability Commitments to external initiatives Explanation of whether and how the 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is p. 107–109 addressed by the organization Externally developed charters, principles, 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization p. 134–142 subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations and/or 4.13 advocacy organizations p. 134 Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 137 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Inclusion of stakeholders List of stakeholder groups engaged by 4.14 the organization p. 19 Basis for identification and selection 4.15 of stakeholders with whom to engage p. 18–20 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement p. 20–21 Key topics and concerns that have been 4.17 raised through stakeholder engagement p. 19 Economic performance indicators DMA EC Management approach p. 26–27, 38–40 Economic performance p. 39, 41–43, 45–47, 92, 131; Direct economic value generated and AR 2011: front inside flap, EC1 distributed p. 105, 107, 109, 115–118, 121, 123, 125, 129–131 Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities due to climate change p. 74, 126 Coverage of the organization’s p. 59–61, 122–123; EC3 defined-benefit plan obligations AR 2012: p. 235–236 The financial assistance provided to the p. 8, 39; DB Group by the government primarily takes Significant financial assistance EC4 received from government AR 2011: p. 136; the form of investment subsidies for infraAR 2012: p. 114 structure projects as well as fare subsidies for regional transport services. Market presence Policy, practices, and proportion of spending EC6 on locally based suppliers p. 113 EC7 Procedures for local hiring p. 53, 124 Significant indirect economic impacts Infrastructure investments and services EC8 provided primarily for public benefit p. 44 Environmental performance indicators p. 16, 72, 74, 80, 84, DMA EN Management approach 86, 88 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume p. 85, 128 Percentage of materials used EN2 that are recycled input materials p. 84–85, 128 Energy Direct energy consumption EN3 by primary energy source p. 74–75, 77, 125–126 Indirect energy consumption EN4 by primary energy source p. 125–126 Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 efficiency improvements p. 76–77, 126 Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 138 GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and EN6 services, and reductions in energy p. 34–35, 76–77, 126 requirements as a result of these initiatives The amount of power saved as a result of individInitiatives to reduce indirect energy ual measures to cut indirect energy consumption EN7 consumption and reductions achieved p. 34–35, 76–77, 126 is not currently recorded. However, the quality of energy reductions is included in reporting. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal p. 131 The DB Group uses water from water suppliers and an insignificant amount of rainwater. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, EN11 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas p. 88–89, 130 Description of significant impacts of EN12 activities, products, and services on p. 88–89, 130 biodiversity in protected areas The DB Group is currently setting up a compensaEN13 Habitats protected or restored p. 88–89, 130 tion register to record the steps it takes to redress its impact and provide substitute habitats. DB always completes screening and environmenNumber of IUCN Red List species and tal compatibility studies as well as checking for EN15 national conservation list species with p. 88–89, 130 nature reserves and protected species when it habitats in areas affected by operations plans to undertake building work and projects. The individual species are not recorded centrally. Emissions, water discharged and waste The DB Group has been reporting greenhouse Total direct and indirect greenhouse EN16 gas emissions p. 76–77, 127 gas emissions in line with the EN 16258 standard since 2010. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emisEN17 sions p. 127 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions p. 74–77, 126 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 131 All relevant emissions produced during combustion in connection with the provision of transport and mobility services are disclosed. No POP emissions are produced by standard EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions p. 129–130 processes and the level of VOC emissions is insignificant. VOCs are produced during cleaning and coloring processes. They are within the legal limits and are emitted both directly and diffusely. The total volume of water supplied and discharged is reported together under water EN21 Total water discharge p. 131 usage because there is no notable difference between supply and discharge at the DB Group due to the production processes used. EN22 Total weight of waste p. 85, 128 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills p. 131 DB is a transport and logistics service provider Weight of transported waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention p. 85, 128 so it does not export or import its own waste to any significant extent. Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental p. 74–81, 85–87, Products to save water and dispose of waste EN26 impacts of products and services 127–128 are not currently recorded. Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 139 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Percentage of products sold and their DB offers transport services. As a result, EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed p. 85 it does not plan to record the quantity of by category packaging materials reclaimed. Compliance with legal statutes Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 non-compliance with environmental laws p. 131 and regulations Social performance indicators Labor practices and decent work DMA LA Management approach p. 52–54 Labor practices and employment Total workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region broken p. 52–53, 57, 120, 124 down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover p. 52–53, 121 The social security benefits provided by DB apply LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 58–63, 122–123 to all employees, regardless of their labor time. Employer-employee relationship LA4 Employees subject to collective legislation p. 120 Minimum notice period regarding significant LA5 operational changes p. 120 Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in LA6 formal joint management-worker health and p. 61, 122 safety committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, No data is recorded for self-employed LA7 lost days, and absenteeism, and number p. 60–61, 121–122 contractors for materiality reasons. of work-related fatalities Education, training, counseling, prevention, LA8 and risk-control programs in place to provide p. 60, 122 assistance regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in formal LA9 agreements with trade unions p. 122 Training and further education It is currently impossible to collect complete data Average hours of training per year on the number of hours spent on training and CPD LA10 per employee p. 58, 60, 64–65, 123 per employee and employee category. There are plans to record this information in 2018. Programs for skills management and lifelong LA11 learning p. 60–61, 123 Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews p. 65, 123 Diversity and equal opportunities Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group p. 56–57, 119 membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women p. 119 Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 140 GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Return to work and retention rates after LA15 parental leave p. 59, 121 Human rights DMA HR Management approach p. 104 Investment and procurement practices Percentage and total number of significant HR1 investment agreements and contracts that p. 133 include human rights clauses Percentage of significant suppliers, HR2 contractors, and other business partners that p. 133 have undergone human rights screening Training on human rights issues is provided in the form of an e-learning program. As due to an Total hours of employee training on internal data privacy agreement, it is not possible HR3 policies and procedures concerning aspects p. 108, 132 to determine how many members of staff have of human rights used the e-learning program throughout the Group, no hourly figure is reported. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and corrective actions taken p. 56–57 Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise HR5 freedom of association and collective p. 133 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents HR6 of child labor, and measures taken to p. 133 contribute to the elimination of child labor Forced or compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents HR7 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures p. 133 to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Human rights Percentage and total number of operations HR10 that have been subject to human rights p. 131–132 reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal p. 132 grievance mechanisms Society DMA SO Management approach p. 92 Local community Percentage of operations with implemented SO1 local community engagement, impact p. 18–21, 92–101, 131 assessments, and development programs Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 141 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures GRI Disclosure Reporting status Reference Comments Corruption Percentage and total number of business SO2 units analyzed for risks related to corruption p. 107, 131–132 Percentage of employees trained in SO3 organization’s anti-corruption policies p. 108, 132 and procedures Actions taken in response to incidents SO4 of corruption p. 109, 132 Public policy Public policy positions and participation in SO5 public policy development and lobbying p. 19, 21 Anti-competitive behavior Total number of legal actions for SO7 anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and p. 132–133 monopoly practices and their outcomes Non-compliance with laws and regulations Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for p. 109, 132–133 non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility DMA PR Management approach p. 26–29 Customer health and safety As a service provider, product-related disclosures are irrelevant and in some cases inapplicable. Nevertheless, service processes Life cycle stages in which health and are constantly monitored, managed, and PR1 safety impacts of products and services p. 118 improved in relation to health and safety are assessed impacts on employees and customers. IMS, SMS, and the Health and Safety Management System form the basis for this process. Product and service labeling As a service provider, product-related disclosures are irrelevant and in some cases inapplicable. Nevertheless, information is Type of product and service information PR3 required by procedures p. 31–34, 117 published about DB’s services online, made available following requests submitted to the provider/business unit, and provided whenever contracts are concluded. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction p. 28–29 Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, PR6 and voluntary codes related to marketing p. 117 communications Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 concerning the provision and use of p. 133 products and services Core indicator Additional indicator Fully reported Partially reported 142 GRI statement Statement GRI Application Level Check GRI hereby states that Deutsche Bahn AG has presented its report “Sustainability Report 2012” to GRI’s Report Services which have concluded that the report fulfills the requirement of Application Level A+. GRI Application Levels communicate the extent to which the content of the G3 Guidelines has been used in the submitted sustainability reporting. The Check confirms that the required set and number of disclosures for that Application Level have been addressed in the reporting and that the GRI Content Index demonstrates a valid representation of the required disclosures, as described in the GRI G3 Guidelines. For methodology, see www.globalreporting.org/SiteCollectionDocuments/ALCMethodology.pdf Application Levels do not provide an opinion on the sustainability performance of the reporter nor the quality of the information in the report. Amsterdam, 10 July 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Nelmara Arbex Deputy Chief Executive Global Reporting Initiative The “+” has been added to this Application Level because Deutsche Bahn AG has submitted (part of) this report for external assurance. GRI accepts the reporter’s own criteria for choosing the relevant assurance The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. The GRI Guidelines set out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. www.globalreporting.org Disclaimer: Where the relevant sustainability reporting includes external links, including to audio visual material, this statement only concerns material submitted to GRI at the time of the Check on 13 June 2013. GRI explicitly excludes the statement being applied to any later changes to such material. 143 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Independent Assurance Report¹ To Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance We also have been engaged to make recommendations engagement on selected data of the Sustainability Refor the further development of sustainability manageport of Deutsche Bahn AG, Berlin, (the “Company”) for ment and sustainability reporting based on the results the business year 2012.² The sustainability information of our assurance engagement. selected by the Company and evaluated by us has been We conducted our work in accordance with the Inmarked with a check mark (  ). ternational Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. This Standard requires that we comply with ethical Management’s Responsibility requirements and plan and perform the assurance Company’s Management Board is responsible for the engagement, under consideration of materiality, to proper preparation of the sustainability report in provide our conclusion with limited assurance. accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-­ Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7 to 17) of the Global gathering procedures are more limited than for a reaReporting Initiative (GRI): sonable assurance engagement (for example, an audit of financial statements in accordance with § (Article) Materiality, Clarity, 317 HGB (“Handelsgesetzbuch”: “German Commercial Stakeholder Inclusiveness, Accuracy, Code”), and therefore less assurance is obtained than Sustainability Context, Timeliness, in a reasonable assurance engagement. Completeness, Comparability and The procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s Balance, Reliability. judgement. Within the scope of our work we performed amongst This responsibility includes the selection and application others the following procedures: of appropriate methods to prepare the sustainability report and the use of assumptions and estimates for inI nquiries of personnel responsible for the preparation dividual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable of the sustainability report regarding the process to in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility prepare the reporting of sustainability information includes designing, implementing and maintaining and the underlying internal control system; systems and processes relevant for the preparation of Inspection of documents regarding the sustainability the sustainability report. strategy as well as understanding the sustainability management structure, the stakeholder dialog and Practitioner’s Responsibility the development process of Company’s sustainability Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on program; our work performed as to whether anything has come to Inquiries of personnel in the corporate functions that our attention that causes us to believe that the data of are responsible for the individual chapters (sub-proj­ the sustainability report of the Company for the business ects) of the sustainability report; year 2012 marked with a check mark (  ) has not been Recording of the systems and processes for collection, prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with analysis, validation and aggregation of sustainability the criteria stated in the Sustainability Reporting Guide­ data and its documentation on a sample basis; lines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. Within the scope Performance of site visits as part of the inspection of of our independent assurance engagement we did not processes for collecting, analyzing and aggregating perform an audit of productand service-related data selected data at (e.g. emission-free services) set out in the sustainability report as well as of data referred to external documents – DB Schenker AG – business unit: DB Schenker or expert opinions. Logistics (Essen, Germany), – Schenker Deutschland AG (Dortmund, Germany), – DB Netz AG (Frankfurt, Germany), – DB Energie GmbH (Frankfurt, Germany), – DB Fernverkehr AG (Frankfurt. Germany); 1) Our engagement applied to the German version of the sustainability report. This text is a translation of the Independent Assurance Report issued in German language – the German text is authoritative. 2) Our engagement refers to the German version of the CR-Report. 144  nalytical procedures on sustainability data of the A Enhancement of IT systems implemented in the sustainability report; context of the sustainability management and transComparison of selected data with corresponding daforming into a standard process; ta in the Company’s Annual Report 2012; Extension and further harmonization of sustainability Gaining further evidence for selected data of the susreporting processes, in particular including foreign tainability report due to inspection of internal docucompanies to provide all material sustainability data ments, contracts and invoices/reports from external worldwide. service providers. Berlin, July 12, 2013 Conclusion Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing PricewaterhouseCoopers has come to our attention that causes us to believe Aktiengesellschaft that the data of the sustainability report of the Company Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft for the business year 2012 marked with a check mark (  ) has not been prepared, in all material respects, in Michael Werner ppa. Aissata Touré accordance with the criteria stated in the Sustainability Wirtschaftsprüferin Reporting Guidelines Vol. 3.0 (pp. 7 to 17) of the GRI. (German Public Auditor) Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations Without qualifying our conclusion presented above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the Company’s sustainability management and sustainability reporting: Further formalization of the internal controls system for sustainability information with view to the planned implementation of Integrated Reporting starting in the reporting period 2014; Glossary Bus-kilometer (buskm) Decibel dB (A) One bus-kilometer denotes a bus traveling the distance A unit of measurement for volume. The volume is stated of one kilometer. in relation to the lower limit of hearing. “A” stands for “adjusted” and denotes a filter which takes into account Capital employed the human sense of hearing in relation to the frequency Comprises property, plant, and equipment (including of a sound. intangible assets) and net working capital. Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) Compliance The operating result before interest and taxes are deCompliance means ensuring that all business activities ducted. conform to the relevant legislation and internal regulations. This includes national legislation, EU directives, Ecological balance sheet and anti-corruption laws which apply internationally. The effect of a product on the environment through various stages of its life cycle (e.g. production, transCorporate governance portation, disposal). The body of rules, regulations, values, and principles which apply to a company and determine how it is managed and overseen. 145 Deutsche Bahn Sustainability Report 2012 07 Facts and figures Full-time equivalents (FTE) Scope (Scope 1, Scope 2, Scope 3) An indicator used in human resources management to The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) categorender employee numbers comparable. Natural persons rizes direct and indirect emissions into three broad are converted into full-time equivalents by taking into scopes: account part-time employees’ share of regular annual Scope 1 covers all direct emissions, such as those proworking time accordingly. duced by fuel combustion in a firm’s own vehicles and at its facilities. German Renewable Energy Sources Act (EEG) Scope 2 comprises all indirect emissions, such as those Legislation which systematically promotes electricity produced by the use of purchased electricity and heat. generated using renewable sources. The regulations Scope 3 includes all other indirect emissions, such as mean that operators of facilities which produce power the emissions generated by subcontractors. from renewable sources receive a fixed rate of remuneration. The feed-in payment depends on the type of elecTank to wheel (TTW) tricity production, the site, and the size of the plant. Key performance indicator for measuring the energy consumption and emissions relating directly to vehicles. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) A foundation which develops guidelines for the producTon-kilometer (tkm) tion of sustainability reports. These contain principles Unit of measurement for the volume sold in freight and indicators which the majority of national and intertransport services. One ton-kilometer corresponds to national companies use for their sustainability reporting. one ton being transported a distance of one kilometer. Intermodal transport Train-path-kilometer (trkm) A multi-stage mobility or logistics chain involving the use Unit of measurement for the distance covered by of at least two different modes of transport, e.g. truck train-operating companies on the rail network (volume and train for freight haulage or bicycle and train for pasproduced). senger transport. Twenty-foot equivalent unit (TEU) International Labour Organization (ILO) Standardized container unit measuring 20 feet in A specialized United Nations (UN) agency which prolength (1 foot = 30 cm). motes social justice and internationally recognized human and labor rights. UN Global Compact A strategic initiative of the United Nations (UN) for Interoperability (technical compatibility) companies. These companies commit themselves to The ability of trains to adjust to different technical standorienting their business activities and strategies ards (e.g. gauges or power systems), allowing them to around ten universally recognized principles from the travel between different countries’ rail networks end to areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental end as far as possible. protection, and anti-corruption practice. ISO 14001 standard Well to wheel (WTW) Definition of globally recognized requirements for enKey performance indicator for a holistic analysis of environmental management systems. To comply, a firm ergy consumption and vehicle emissions from the point needs to specify a corporate environmental policy, enviwhere the fuel is produced (“well”) to its transformaronmental targets, and an environmental program. It tion into kinetic energy in the vehicle (“wheel”). also needs to set up a corresponding management system to help it achieve these goals. Passenger-kilometer (pkm) Unit of measurement for the volume sold in passenger transport services. One passenger-kilometer corresponds to one person traveling a distance of one kilometer. Return on capital employed (ROCE) Key performance indicator for value-based management. Denotes the return on the capital employed by a company. The figure is given as a percentage, defined as (adjusted) EBIT in relation to capital employed. Track bonus Correction factor for evaluating rail traffic noise. The assessment level is 5 dB (A) lower than for road traffic. 146 Contacts Contact information Deutsche Bahn AG Sustainability Management and Corporate Foresight Potsdamer Platz 2 10785 Berlin Germany * nachhaltigkeitsmanagement@deutschebahn.com Deutsche Bahn AG Corporate Communications Potsdamer Platz 2 10785 Berlin Germany * presse@deutschebahn.com This Sustainability Report and other information about sustainability at the DB Group are also available online at www.deutschebahn.com/nachhaltigkeit The Sustainability Report was published in September 2013 in German and published in November 2013 in English. Forward-looking statements This Sustainability Report contains statements and forecasts relating to the future development of the DB Group, its business units, and individual companies. These forecasts are estimates based on all the information available to DB at the current point in time. Should the assumptions on which the forecasts are based prove incorrect or should risks arise, the actual developments and results may differ from those currently anticipated. The DB Group accepts no obligation to update the statements made in this report. 147 Imprint Cover picture Berlin Central Station: The figures symbolize the three dimensions of the DB2020 strategy – profitable market leader, top employer and eco-pioneer. Image credits Bartlomiej Banaszak (p. 41, 49 top and bottom). Christian Bedeschinski (p. 44). Mike Beims (p. 98). Ralf Braum (p. 27 top). Jürgen Brefort (p. 26, 28, 69, 94). Martin Busbach (p. 46). Pablo Castagnola (p. 83, 101 top, 106). George Clerk (p.14 graphic). ClipDealer #70420 (p. 14 graphic). Mark Darchinger (p. 04/05, 06/07). DB Arriva (p. 48). Volker Emersleben (p. 62 top). ENERTRAG/Tom Baerwald (p. 75). Tina Henze (p. 34). Tobias Heyer (p. 38). Matthäus Holleschovsky (p. 88). Günter Jazbec (p. 10 graphic). Martin Jehnichen (p. 87 top). JET-FOTO Kranert (p. 17, 18, 21, 23, 76, 77 top, 81, 93, 99, 100, 110). Jo Kirchherr (p. 14 graphic). Frank Kniestedt (p. 30, 89). Louise Kontala (p. 66 left) Paul Langrock (p. 73, 77 bottom). Max Lautenschläger (p. 8, 10, 35, 36/37, 47, 57, 58, 59, 61, 86, 90/91). Robert Lehmann (p. 78). Arne Lesmann (p. 13, 52, 54, 60). Matthias Lüdecke (p. 06/07). Methodik Media Management International GmbH (p. 68). Uwe Miehte (p. 10 graphic, 80). Christoph Müller (p. 87 bottom). Heiner Müller-Elsner (p. 55). Michael Neuhaus (cover image, p. 12, 24/25, 27 bottom, 36/37, 50/51, 70/71, 82, 102/103). Nik Partou (p. 49 top). Peepo (p. 114/115). Thomas Plassmann (p. 56 bottom). Darius Ramazani (p.111). Philipp von Recklinghausen (p. 56 top). Hartmut Reiche (p. 101 bottom). Petra Schwaiger (p. 43). Thomas Schwörer (p. 22). Axel Stephan (p. 64). Johannes Vogt (p. 33, 95). Michael Wartmann (p. 62 bottom). Claus Weber (p. 14 graphic, 79). Maurice Weiss (p. 10 graphic). Margit Wild (p. 14 graphic). Support for editing, design, and production Scholz & Friends Group GmbH Print ColorDruck Leimen 148 131.3 million passengers used DB Bahn’s long-distance services in 2012. DB reduced its specific CO₂ emissions by 12.3% between 2006 and 2012. The DB Group hired 11,000 new employees in 2012. 1,200 km of track were overhauled in 2012 as part of the noise remediation program. € 39 bn 4.9 million customers have a BahnCard rail card. in revenues were generated by the DB Group in 2012. 1.1 million tons of air freight are transported annually by DB Schenker Logistics. 400,000 1.4 bn passengers were transported by DB Arriva in 2012. times a day a train stops at one of DB’s platforms. Figures have been rounded. Additional figures can be found on the front inside cover. Deutsche Bahn AG Potsdamer Platz 2 10785 Berlin Germany www.deutschebahn.com
