Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress June 2013 Enriching Lives through Corporate Sustainability Table of Contents Table of Contents .......................................................................................................................................... 2 GPIC Letter of Commitment.......................................................................................................................... 3 GPIC Overview .............................................................................................................................................. 4 About This Report ......................................................................................................................................... 5 Our 2012 Performance ................................................................................................................................. 6 Sustainability Focus Areas............................................................................................................................. 9 United Nations Global Compact Principles ................................................................................................. 11 1. Human Rights .................................................................................................................................. 11 Human Rights: Our Commitment....................................................................................................... 11 Human Rights of Women .................................................................................................................. 12 Human Rights of Children ................................................................................................................... 14 Human rights of employees ................................................................................................................ 15 Human rights of contractors ............................................................................................................... 17 Human rights of community ............................................................................................................... 18 2. Labour Standards ............................................................................................................................ 21 3. Environment.................................................................................................................................... 22 4. Anti‐Corruption ............................................................................................................................... 27 Leading Awards 2012 .................................................................................................................................. 28 GRI Performance Indicators Relevant to UNGC Principles ......................................................................... 31 Economic ................................................................................................................................................. 31 Environmental ......................................................................................................................................... 32 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work ............................................................................................... 34 Social: Human Rights............................................................................................................................... 34 Social: Society ......................................................................................................................................... 35 What Others Say About GPIC? .................................................................................................................... 36 UN Global Compact COP Page 2 of 45 GPIC Letter of Commitm C ment 28 April 2013 P/E076/176/13 H.E. Ban Ki‐moon K Secretary General United Naations New Yorkk, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary General, The princciples governing the Unite ed Nations Global G Compaact(UNGC) haave long been extolled byy Gulf Petrochem mical Industries Companyy( GPIC) Bahraain. The Com mpany is an avid supporter and promoter of the UNGC C’s ethical cannon and our commitment c to t this global alliance is worn as a badgge of honour. It therefore gives me great g pride to o confirm ourr membershipp of the UNGC C, as of July 2012. By doing so, we make a solemn de eclaration to the United Nations( UN)) that we willl continue to o promote human rights andd equality, to respect the labour rights of our emplooyees, to prottect the envirronment for ffuture generatioons and to figght corruption in all aspects of our acctivities. Whaat is more, w we will share these values with our partner companiess and espousse their rigorrous use with hin our spherre of influencce. As part of ou ur corporate citizenship anda sustainab bility strategyy, these princciples are alreeady incorpo orated into our business b operations; we will w continue to develop oour strategic plans in linee with the broader developm ment goals off the UN, including both h the Millennnium Development Goalss and the UN NGC’s principless. As one off the leadingg petrochemical and fertillizer industriees in the Mid ddle East, wee are cognizaant of GPIC’s important role in the alignm ment of busin ness ethics wwith those principles upheld by the soccieties from with hin which our staff is drawn, recognizingg our reach inn the national and pan‐Araabian arenas.. Our adhe erence to the e conventionss of the UNG GC underline the Compan ny’s inherentt belief that those businesse es which have e the support and respect of their staakeholders, w which consideer corporate social responsib bility as a key measure of their successs and which hhave an exem mplary conscieence as a ressult of this, are liikely to perfo orm better. Areas for improvement will be defin ned and vario ous actions wwill be taken inn the years to o come. Progrress on these activities a will form the bassis of regular communicatiions to inform m on measurees taken, evalluate progress anda promote the concept amongst those companiess that have not yet joined. Yours sinccerely, Abdulrahm man Jawahery President UN Globaal Compact COP Page 3 of 45 Gulf Petrochemical Industries Company GPIC Overview Shareholders  Equal Partnership between the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain, represented by the Oil and Gas Holding Company (Noga holding), Saudi Basic Industries Corp.(SABIC) of Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Petrochemical Industries Co.(PIC) of the State of Kuwait Date Incorporated  December 1979 Number of Employees  582 including trainees (90% Bahrainis as of 1 June 2013) Principal Place of Business  Sitra, Kingdom of Bahrain Core Products  1200MT/D Ammonia, 1200MT/D Methanol, 1700 MT/D Granular Urea. Key Markets  USA, India, China, South Korea, Australia, Brazil, Taiwan Scale of the Organisation  Medium Total Capitalisation  US $159 million (100% equity) Sales 2012  US$ 430 million Sales 2011  US$ 459 million Total Assets 2012  US$ 539 million Total Assets 2011  US$ 561 million Net Profit 2012  US$ 212 million Net Profit 2011  US$ 265 million Total Products  2012 ‐ 1,454,298 metric tonnes  2011 ‐ 1,575,018 metric tonnes Certifications  ISO9001:2008;ISO14001:2004;OHSAS18001:2007;PAS99:2006; RC14001:2008;ISO27001:2005;ISO31000:2009;ISO22301 implementation in progress Memberships in Key  UN Global Compact; National Safety Council( NSC ‐USA), Royal International Organisations Society for the prevention of Accidents( RoSPA‐UK), International Fertilizer Industry Association( IFA), Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA), Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association( GPCA), UN Global Compact GCC Network Key Awards 2012‐2013(Till  The Arabia Social Responsibility Award , The RoSPA Chemical June 2013) Sector Award, The ASTD Best Award 2012 by American society for training and development, AoN Hewitt‐The Best Employer Award for Middle East and North Africa ‐2013, The IFTDO Global HRD Award 2013 UN Global Compact COP Page 4 of 45 About This Report At GPIC we are committed to being a responsible producer of fertilizer and petrochemicals. We are committed to being open, ethical, good environmental stewards, and above all to operate safely at all times. As a leading Bahrain based petrochemical and fertilizer industry, we are committed to ideals of transparency. This report is a reflection of our beliefs and principles. This report is part of our Communication on Progress and highlights our commitment and shows our progress on the implementation of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. It aims to provide a summarized account of our social, ethical and environmental performance. It covers our business activities for the year 2012 till May 2013. Along with this COP we shall also be posting GPIC’s Annual Report 2012 and some of the latest editions of the Company’s magazine ‘Khaleejieh’ that will shed some light on GPIC’s journey towards Corporate Sustainability. UN Global Compact COP Page 5 of 45 Our 2012 Performance CORPORATE OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS, 2012 Performance Performance Area Objectives Measures Targets 2012 Combined Net backs/ >= 326.07 US$/MT 394.2 Metric ton Operate the company so Total Cost / Metric Ton <=182.30 US$/MT 193.23 as to optimize profits Total Fixed cost/ Metric Financial and maximize revenues <=75.297 US$/MT 87.77 Ton Perspective by minimizing costs and Total Variable Cost/ utilizing the resources <=87.567 US $/MT 86.28 Metric Ton efficiently Liquidity( Quick) Ratio >=2:1 5.23:1 Operate the complex Total combined ensuring that all key >=1,449,235 MT 1,454,298 production activities and processes Business Process are geared to achieve Energy consumption per <=7.99 GCAL/MT 7.87 Excellence the optimum production saleable product ton and export levels in a safe, reliable, efficient 1 Dashboard and 3 IT Business Intelligence Completed and manner effective Elements 1( one contractor LTA SHE incidents (LTA) Zero in October 2012) Promote SHE culture SHE Audits 32 32 within GPIC and also BBS Observations 100,000 147,144 Safety, Health and amongst surrounding 5448*(Higher Environment communities by sick leaves due Reduction by 5% maintaining a zero harm to employees Sick leaves Days (SLD) over 2011( 4,500 workplace nonjob SLD) related surgeries) 6 hours per Safety training 10.67 employee Bahrainisation levels 95% 91% Enhance internal skills Total training hours 20,000 25,794 and competencies by ( including safety training) Learning and providing learning and 10% over 2011 Number of suggestions Growth personal development target figure( 700 751 raised opportunities to all suggestions) employees Employee Retention 97% 98% Environment awareness 30 30 lectures at local schools Completion of ISO 26000: Corporate external Social Responsibility Completed assessment for Promote Social compliance compliance activities and contribute Corporate Social Training external towards the social 160 203 Responsibility industrial trainees welfare of our Contributions, community sponsorships to 90% achievement 100% charities/NGOs and other of donation budget achieved worthy causes. Social and educational 45 45 visits to GPIC complex UN Global Compact COP Page 6 of 45 “GPIC’s objectives for 2013 are a continuation of our overall strategy to be a global player in Corporate Sustainability and to achieve excellence and sustainability in all business areas.” CORPORATE OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS 2013 Performance KPI Objective KPI Name Targets Area To attain the target level of SHE incidents during SHE Incidents the reporting period and maintain high level of Zero LTA ( LTAs) Safety( personnel and environment) Sick leave days: 5175 To ensure the target level of reduction in sick Sick leave days (reduction by 5% over leaves taken by GPIC employees is attained ( SLD) 2012 figure of 5448* SLDs) Safety, Health during the reporting period and To ensure availability and readiness of security Security Environment 100% systems at 100% all the times. readiness (SHE) Embed Enterprise Risk To ensure the company reviews and addresses Management ERM issues addressed: enterprise risk management issues. (ERM) Culture 100% in the Organization Actual Net Profit (ANP) / To ensure the company remains profitable. Budget Net ANP/BNP ≥ 100% Profit (BNP ). Actual Production To ensure that the total cost of production Cost (APC) / (Ammonia, Methanol and Urea) does not exceed APC/BPC ≤ 100% Budget the budget cost. Financial Production Perspective Cost (BPC). Actual Export Quantities To ensure that the actual export of products (AEQ) / Budget (Ammonia, Methanol and Urea) equals to or AEQ/BEQ ≥ 100% Export exceeds the budget export quantities Quantities (BEQ) Actual Netback To ensure that the actual netback equals to or (AN) / Budget AN / BN ≥ 100% exceeds the budget netback. Netback (BN) Actual To ensure that the targeted level of combined Production production (Ammonia, Methanol and Urea) is (AP) / Budget AP/BP ≥ 100% attained during the reporting period. Production (BP). Energy Energy Consumption per To ensure that every saleable tonne of product Consumption saleable tonne < 7.9 Business (Ammonia, Methanol and Urea) is attained per saleable GCAL/MT Process within the target level of energy consumption tonne. Excellence Actual OnStream Factor (AOSF)/ To optimize plants (Ammonia, Methanol and AOSF / BOSF ≥ 100% Budget OnUrea) availability. Stream Factor (BOSF). UN Global Compact COP Page 7 of 45 ISO 22301 To obtain certification for ISO 22301 Societal Societal Security Business Continuity Management Security System. Complete implementation Business by 31st December 2013. Continuity Management System Requirements To ensure the target percentage of Bahrainisation Bahrainisation level: 90 % Bahrainisation is attained at GPIC during the levels. reporting period. Total Training Hours Total Training Hours: Learning and To ensure the target percentage of hours of (including 20,000 (inclusive Safety Growth training is attained during the reporting period. Safety Training) Training). To ensure the target percentage of employee Employee Employee Retention Rate: retention is maintained for the reporting period. Retention 95 % Environmental To ensure that a targeted number of Awareness environmental awareness lectures are delivered 30 Lectures at at Local Schools Local Schools. Number of contributions, To ensure distribution of contribution money to sponsorships worthy organizations and thus helping the local to charities, Utilize 100% allocated NGOs and budget communities . other worthy causes Corporate Social Social and Responsibility To ensure that the target number of educational Educational Social and Educational visits to the GPIC complex during the reporting visits to GPIC visits to GPIC Complex: 45 period is fully achieved. Complex GRI Sustainability To maintain compliance with GRI Sustainability 100% Compliance by 31st and UN Global Reporting and UN Global Compact Principles. December 2013. Compact Reporting. UN Global Compact COP Page 8 of 45 Sustainability Focus Areas GPIC’s sustainability strategy is centered on the United Nations pillars for sustainable development, namely People, Planet and Profit; whereby we measure our success on social responsibility, care for the environment and profitability. Our Responsible Care and Social Responsibility ethic is seamlessly integrated throughout the cultural fabric of our Company, and is an important contributor to our leadership position. In developing our sustainability strategy, we ensure a close‐knit integration between the stakeholders’ interest, the environmental aspects and the core business. Our Sustainability focus areas for 2013 and beyond include; Our Sustainability focus areas for 2013 and beyond include; First and foremost we consider ourselves as a corporate citizen of Bahrain. It ensures that our business model is geared towards Bahrain’s economic needs. We create an opportunity for a far wider community than the direct suppliers and customers; it helps us fulfill the economic promise of the nation as a whole. Secondly We believe that the real key to profitability is being reliable and open for business when the market is good. To achieve this, we have crafted our strategies, prioritised our investments, maintained our assets and developed our human talent to ensure responsible operations and business continuity. Thirdly We believe that in order to add value to the shareholders and to remain competitive and sustainable in this ever‐evolving and challenging global market, we have to grow. In line with this outlook, we have developed a strategic plan ranging until the year 2020 and very soon we are also looking towards a major expansion project to build a multi‐billion dollar, world‐scale ammonia and granular urea plant adjacent to our existing facilities. Furthermore at GPIC we are mindful that our success relies very heavily on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain the highest quality of human talent. This is why, as part of our commitment to people, the first group of stakeholders we identified consists of our own people. Simply put, without our people, our reputation would not be what it is today, so we focus on nurturing them and developing them throughout our careers. Another set of stakeholders we have identified are the communities that host our business and our people. We are aware of the fact that our business and/or negligence may be equally damaging to these communities. We view this as part of our core responsibility to cater to their needs and be aware of their interests. At the same time, the safety of all our employees, contractors and host communities is also paramount. At GPIC, corporate social responsibility is all about how we manage our core business processes to produce an overall positive impact on society. Our social investment strategy is crafted with a commitment to the idea that our stakeholders include a much broader category than only our people, shareholders or financial investors. We have an unwavering commitment to invest in helping address the social needs firstly of our neighbouring communities, but also of Bahrain as a whole. UN Global Compact COP Page 9 of 45 At GPIC we believe in giving back to communities, addressing not just their immediate needs but also their long term ability to lead healthy and productive lives. This is why we have invested heavily in providing and supporting education, technical /vocational training, and health care. Furthermore, we ensure that our social investments reach every segment of the Bahraini society in need. As the world’s climate begins to change, no company can afford to ignore the impact it has on the environment any longer. We have committed ourselves to some of the most stringent standards when it comes to environmental management because we believe that the way any organisation manages environmental issues is a crucial measure of their standards of corporate social responsibility, competitiveness and vision. As part of our continual improvement, and in addition to taking responsibility of our own environmental footprint, we have been accredited to ISO 14001 and Responsible Care management system RC 14001. In essence, our sustainability strategy highlights the commitment to manage the entire business in a manner that does not focus only on profits, but also the social responsibility factors. We believe being successful is about sharing opportunities. It is about trying to be successful in making the world a little bit better, by creating ‘win‐win‐win’ situations for us, our stakeholders and the planet. UN Global Compact COP Page 10 of 45 United Nations Global Compact Principles 1. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Engrained in our organizational fabric, and formalized by our signing of the United Nations Global Compact, is our un‐ wavering attention to human rights in all our business activities. GPIC seeks to ensure that the Company continues to safeguard human rights across its business operations and make its work environment safe, inclusive and diverse. As part of our commitment to our female workforce we continue to build and train new female talent and provide them with ample opportunities of growth. “Playing a role model for women empowerment in the private sector remains one of our top strategic priorities”. Women employees are part of numerous cross functional working committees . GPIC adheres to the strictest principles of merit in recruitment, compensation, and promotion decisions to ensure that all of our employees feel that the organization treats them fairly. We also aim to provide recognition for superior effort through an awards program that seeks to retain the best of our talent by providing them with leadership opportunities. We also ensure that the Company maintains a fair retirement policy ,we have introduced a new retirement policy to provide employees choice for early retirement. By upholding ourselves to these lofty ideals and principles, we continue to attract, develop and retain some of the best human resource of the country. “The achievement of the AoN Hewitt‐ Best Employer award for the Middle East and North Africa 2013 is a true reflection of GPIC’s commitment and dedication towards ensuring a happier workplace along with well‐ being of GPIC employees and their families and we are thrilled to have been recognized by AoN Hewitt for our excellence in employee engagement” Abdulrahman Jawahery, GPIC President Human Rights: Our Commitment  GPIC joined the UN Global Compact in July 2012, the world’s leading corporate citizenship initiative and is committed to implementing its 10 principles and the broader UN development goals. UN Global Compact COP Page 11 of 45 Humman Rights of o Women  GPIC is a rolee model in empowering women in Baahrain’s indusstrial private sector. GPIC has a strategic priiority to emp ploy more women w in va rious positions as alloweed by the law ws of Bahrain  “The Gender ratio at GP PIC and the number n of feemale traineees that has inncreased oveer the years is a tesstimony of the leadership’s commitmennt towards w women empow werment” To otal Female Trainee Fem male Year EEmployees Employeees 2007 38 0 2008 36 1 2009 37 2 2010 37 3 2011 42 4 2012 49 13  GPIC female employees are a part of maany cross fun ctional workiing committeees and has seeveral dedicated laadies workingg committees also such aas the Ladiess working Co ommittee and the Social Activitties Committeee  In June 2013 d 3, as per the directives of HRH H Princess Sabeeka bintt Ibrahim Al K Khalifa, Wife of His Majesty the e King and President off the Suprem me Council ffor Women( SCW); GPIC C has introduced an Equal Op pportunities Committee C i n cooperatioon with the SWC’s integrating Women Nee eds Departme ent.  The Compan ny run kinde ergarten at the t GPIC reccreational clu ub and the ssummer cam mp for employees children c allow w married wom men employeees to pursuee with their prrofessional neeeds  In line with the t UN millen nnium development goals the maternity medical inssurance for feemale employees hash been intro oduced in 201 12 . UN Globaal Compact COP Page 12 of 45 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 13 of 45 Human Rights of Children  GPIC takes strides on human rights of children by deliberate and methodical support to children in education, innovation, environmental awareness, health, safety, and road safety, responsible care and social responsibility  A summer school for employees’ children and a GPIC run Kindergarten (day care center) are one of the few examples.  GPIC employees continue to impart environmental awareness lectures to students in both public and private schools. The total number of students benefitting from this programme has risen to 21962 since launch of this programme in 2001.  For the ninth consecutive academic year, GPIC sponsored the Ministry of Education/GPIC Environmental Research Programme for the GPIC Environment Award for secondary school students. This award has developed momentum and became the best Environment Award available to secondary school students.  Students are provided with industrial training at GPIC. 207 students were provided with industrial training at GPIC in 2012.  As part of its policy and in compliance to local and international laws GPIC does not employ any children at its facilities.  GPIC in cooperation with Bahrain’s Ministry of Education provides on the job training to students between the ages of 15 and 17 to enable them to have industrial experience before graduating from schools and entering the workplace.  GPIC supports InJaz Bahrain programs for students between the ages of 15 and 17.  GPIC provides scholarships to employees’ children and total number of sponsored students was 43.  GPIC also provides scholarships for non‐employee children and the total number of chemical engineering sponsored students from University of Bahrain are 4. UN Global Compact COP Page 14 of 45 Humman rights of o employeess  GPIC provide es a safe, healthy, secure, transparent aand fair workk environment for its employees. Our O safety pe erformance over the yearss is a testimon ny to this com mmitment. ‘Safety asssumes specia al importancee in the petro ochemicals inndustry due tto the naturee of processess that employ flammable gasses, high pressures, electrrical risks andd the presencce of high‐speed machinees. For this purpoose, GPIC emp ploys a stringgent risk management polilicy that has rresulted in acchieving moree than 15 millionn hours witho out any lost‐tiime accidentss. GPIC's recoord of achieveements in saffety is outsta anding by all stan ndards’ Abdullrahman Jawa ahery GPIC Prresident any lost‐tiime accidentss. GPIC's reco ord of achieveements in safeety is  GPIC supporrts the labou ur union and d labour unioon members are part of all the key cross functional committees. c The communication linnk between the labourr union and d the managemen nt is through the t managem ment/ union c ouncil and management/ union committee.  GPIC provide es comprehe ensive health, education aand housing facilities to iits employeees and their families. Medical inssurance is exttended to em mployees and their familiess.  GPIC trains and a developss its employe ees not only tto perform their work mo ore effectively but also to broaden and expand employe wledge. The total investmeent in ees’ social skiills and know training and developmen nt has increassed from 3 m million US$ inn 2002 to oveer 8 million U US$ in 2012.  Mentoring re emains one of o the cornersstones of thee in‐house devvelopment off human reso ources at GPIC. Every managerr and superiintendent seelect a protéégé and impart knowledge to enhance the eir capacity . UN Globaal Compact COP Page 15 of 45 Key training and courses, workshops and conferences attended by GPIC employees in 2012/2013 include the following: • Leadership development for managers and superintendents: Based on 360 degree approach ( In collaboration with Hay Group) • IOSH safety training for supervisors, operators and other staff • Business Impact Analysis( BIA) workshop( KPMG) for Managers and superintendents • GRI Certified Sustainability Report Writing Course • Workshops on Industrial waste management and environmental legislation compliance • Courses and workshops on product stewardship and supply chain • Global Conference on Sustainability and the launch of GRI:G4 guidelines in Amsterdam • Process Safety Management( PSM) refresher presentation to all employees. • Employees at all levels from management to operator/ technician level are given opportunity to attend courses/ conferences/ workshops/ technical exchange visits at both regional and international level.  In 2012 GPIC further enhanced its training and development programme by launching its new Competency Based Training( CBT) philosophy.  As part of its training and development programme, 11 GPIC employees are enrolled in the Bridging programme . The programme’s objectives is to groom identified in-house talent for supervisory positions in the Company by enhancing their education and skills. The programme is launched in partnership with Bahrain Polytechnic.  A new training simulator( OTS) for HP steam boilers was installed in 2013 that will enhance the skills and competency of GPIC employees.  Elearning was started in 2007 at GPIC, to date 17,412 E-Learning hours have been completed by GPIC employees and 734 hours were completed in 2012.  GPIC has a grievance handling system in place and all cases of grievances are filed.  GPIC security staff attended training on human rights (planned for Q3 2013)  GPIC staff attended code of business conduct refresher (2012)  As part of continued improvement in the working conditions and enhancement of facilities, GPIC is providing dedicated telephone facilities in the operator cabins of all the plants UN Global Compact COP Page 16 of 44  Employee Benefit Scheme: GPIC ensures that our people’s compensation and benefit plans are in line with our overall strategy. We have also introduced a new early retirement policy for our Bahraini employees, to improve employee attainability of benefits whilst still ensuring the company’s financial security and business continuity. Other benefits include a savings scheme, health insurance covering all our people and their families, loans, indemnity, annual bonus etc. Allowance & Benefits Bahraini Non‐ Bahraini Social Allowance Yes Yes Minimum 15% of basic salary to a maximum Furnished apartment according to the Housing Allowance of 25% of basic salary depending on the grade of the employee and number of grade of the employee family members Indemnity Yes Yes Saving Scheme Yes No Housing loan Yes No Transport Allowance Yes Yes Medical Insurance Yes Yes Educational assistance for employees Financial assistance for staff grade 14 and Financial assistance for incoming staff children under 18 years above recruited grades 10 and above. Life insurance Yes Yes Canteen food Yes Yes Uniform Yes Yes Scholarship programme for staff Yes No children Human rights of contractors  GPIC provides a safe and healthy work environment for its contractors whereby they are treated as company’s employees.  A common on site catering facilities for management, employees, and contractors alike. If required, the contractors can also be treated at the 24 hours medical facility within GPIC.  A dedicated air conditioned dining and rest area for contractors within GPIC.  GPIC strictly follows the governmental regulation of suspension of work in open sun during peak summer months of July and August from 12pm to 4pm. Moreover juices are provided to employees and contractors during the peak summer months.  As part of its commitments to social responsibility, GPIC has introduced a clause in its standard purchase order issued to all local contractors advising them that GPIC has the right to inspect the contractor’s labour camps/housing accommodations to verify that their rights are respected. UN Global Compact COP Page 17 of 45 Human rights of community  GPIC considers education and development as a basic right for every human being and provides support financially and provides the necessary tools and infrastructure.  GPIC through partnerships with local Non‐Governmental Organizations (NGO) such as inJAz plays a significant role in imparting education to Bahrain’s youth through programmes.  GPIC involves the community and protects its rights through open, transparent, and amicable partnership with NGOs, local charities, sports clubs, ministries, and parliamentary representatives.  GPIC shares with the community its performance indicators and concerns.  GPIC invites local community to its site as verification of its operation and performance. During 2012 we had 45 educational and social visits to the complex.  GPIC ensures that as much as possible all business interactions are done with local businesses to further support local economy and creation of wealth to the community.  GPIC strives to only recruit locals as much as practicable. The Company has achieved 90% Bahrainisation levels till June 2013.  GPIC has made its integrated Quality, Safety, Security, Health, Environment and Social Responsibility Policy available to the public by posting it on its company web site.  GPIC employees continue to impart environmental awareness lectures to school children in Bahrain as part of their CSR initiatives. UN Global Compact COP Page 18 of 45 Environme ental awarreness lecttures Num mber of Schoo ols attendeed 45 41 40 35 34 35 35 35 31 32 30 30 25 21 20 20 15 12 10 6 5 0 Enviironmentaal awareneess lecturess Nu umber of Students S aattended 3500 3195 3000 2717 2640 2535 2500 2250 2300 1770 2010 2000 2000 15100 1500 1190 1000 500 380 0 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 19 of 45  GPIC laun nched a co ountry wide e campaign to reduce road accid dents causeed by distractedd driving GPIC Mobile Phone Ban Campaign ǜ ‘Based onn the statisticcs and the re esearch cond ducted by th he NSC that sshowed a hu uge increase in car accidentss as result of using the moobile phone while w drivingg, the Presideent has issuedd the GPIC m mobile ban princciple while drriving to savve lives and protect p the G GPIC employeees, their fam milies , contraactors and visito ors. Awareness campaignss and Reach out o to commu unity for the same is in prrogress.’ This grouund breakingg initiative that t goes wiith the safetty, well ‐beiing and hum man rights o of the employee es and the coommunities at large was highly h appreciiated by the National Safeety Council, UUSA UN Globaal Compact COP Page 20 of 45 2. Labour Standards Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Businesses should work towards the elimination of all forms of child labor Principle 5 Businesses should ensure effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 Businesses should uphold elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation While GPIC has committed to providing its employees with enriching and rewarding careers, we also recognise the need for our management to be held accountable. To this end, the company is one of the few that permits freedom of association and actively encourages our employees to participate in collective bargaining by forming unions. As on December 2012 , 86%( 501) of GPIC Employees are members of the GPIC Labour Union Our progressive attitude towards union activity stems from our understanding of the fact that companies best serve their interests by working with labour unions rather than against them. A healthy relationship with unions can result in a balance of accountability between the management and employees’ interests. Unionisation also connects well with our aim of inclusiveness, with employees’ interests being represented at every level of decision‐making in the organisation. In addition, we also remain committed to curtailing the implementation of child labor or compulsory labor across our business. Our “Caring Employer” approach has cemented our reputation as a globally competitive organization that seeks to uphold the highest standards in labor practices and rights.  GPIC stand committed not to resort to any form of forced or compulsory service  Each employee has a current job description  Each employee has a contract of employment stating the terms and conditions of service  As an additional benefit to its employees GPIC introduced Morning shift allowance for shift personnel  A number of GPIC employees have been provided with an opportunity to improve their education and are currently studying in Bahrain educational institutions  GPIC revised and reissued its personnel policy in March 2013 which provides further benefits to employee UN Global Compact COP Page 21 of 45 3. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GPIC has consistently demonstrated that a rapidly growing company in a highly competitive emerging market can not only continue to meet its environmental responsibilities but actually improve its profitability as it continues to dramatically improve its environmental footprint. We are proud of the fact that during 2012, despite a challenging year with a mammoth maintenance turnaround in the history of the Company our environmental performance was par excellence. The Company’s policies with respect to the planet began to come to fruition and yielded outstanding results in terms of helping us become a more environmentally sustainable organization. As one of the leading fertilizer and petrochemical industries in the region, our environmental footprint is highly complex, and therefore requires a multifaceted strategy to confront the challenge of an environmentally sustainable business model. GPIC has adopted a multi‐pronged strategy with respect to managing our investments in the environment. Firstly, we actively monitor our greenhouse gas emissions as well as other excursions into the atmosphere and have enacted several measures to reduce our carbon footprint. Secondly, GPIC ensures that it is maximising the efficiency of its resource utilisation – of everything from water to energy to raw materials – so as to minimise the wastage from our manufacturing processes, making our facilities greener and more planet‐friendly. Thirdly, we continue to holds ourselves accountable to some of the highest global standards by pursuing internationally recognised certifications. Our facilities are frequently audited by third parties to ensure that we are holding ourselves to the standards we have committed ourselves to. We are also actively engage in inculcating a culture of environmental responsibility amongst our employees, by launching campaigns to conserve energy, save paper, recycle more. We seek to ensure that our employees become environmentally conscious citizens. And lastly, we ensure that our products are designed to have a minimal impact on the planet, helping to make even our customers’ lives and livelihoods more environmentally sustainable UN Global Compact COP Page 22 of 45 Following are some of our 2012 highlights reflecting our commitment to UN Global Compact’s principles related to environmental sustainability  Use of Chlorine for disinfection of its sea water intake system has been phased out and a new sodium hypochlorite unit installed in 2012 thus reducing the risk of using it with a more environmentally acceptable alternative.  Energy saving through ammonia converter retrofit in 2012 The new basket enabled the reduction in operating pressure from 312 barg to 281barg and an energy saving of 0.17 Gcal/MT of ammonia produced.  Green IT Concept expansion at GPIC has resulted in substantial energy savings.  During 2012, we implemented a noise reduction project by replacing a steam vent silencer in process condensate stripper resulting in a noise reduction from 95decibel to 81 decibel(A).  GPIC organized the first international CSR conference in Bahrain during the period from 3rd‐6th March 2013 .The conference was attended by CSR and Sustainability specialists from around the globe including officials from UN.  Continued efficient run of Carbon Dioxide Recovery( CDR) plant, capturing 450 MT/Day of CO2 that was venting to atmosphere and recycling back. Hence reducing the Company’s carbon footprint in addition to resource efficiency and production augmentation.  Expansion of green belt at the company’s periphery in second quarter of 2013 has increased the green area to 83473 m2 which is 12.64% of the total area of 660000m2  Tree plantation and care for the environment is taken up very religiously at GPIC. At present we have more than 2870 trees and plants at our facilities. Furthermore on the invitation of the HRH Shaikha Sabeeka bint Ibrahim Al Khalifa, wife of his Majesty the King, GPIC distributed Bahraini Lemon trees to all its employees in 2013.  In order to make GPIC free from Ozone depleting substances A phased replacement of aging ACs and ones using R‐22 with environment friendly refrigerant is in progress. During 2012/2013 about 100 units have been replaced with environment friendly refrigerants.  New HP Steam boiler has been installed and commissioned. “One of the salient features is the use of ultra low NOx burners that has resulted in reducing the NOx emissions by 75% as compared to standard NOx emissions”. UN Global Compact COP Page 23 of 45  GPIC’s strive towards energy conservation projects continue. 500 street lights in the complex are being replaced from old high pressure sodium vapour lamps to the energy efficient LED lamps. So far 35 LED fittings have been replaced with a net saving of 12775KWh per year achieved. The energy saving from the total project will be 182500 KWh per year.  Spent catalyst waste disposal area expansion in 2012 has enabled responsible storage of spent catalysts and resins prior further processing(Disposal to recycling agents/or storage at governmental waste disposal sites.)  GPIC – Sponsor of the RoSPA International Dilmun Environmental Award GPIC's strategic partnership with RoSPA(Royal Society for the prevention of accidents, UK) stems from our firm belief that improving health, safety and care for the environment is a borderless pursuit that must be adopted and encouraged by all. GPIC will continue its support of RoSPA to ensure that all responsible global organisations share their endeavours, so that every workplace, home and place of leisure has accident prevention at its core. Participation in the International Dilmun Environmental Award is an opportunity to assist us in removing harmful environmental practices from work places.  Specific training sessions and workshops were arranged for employees related to environmental legislations and waste management, GRI reporting and CSR trends.  As part of its annual contribution to replenish the national fish stock in the territorial waters of the Kingdom, GPIC further enhanced its fish farm to hold 80,000 sea bream fish.  On 25/3/2013 GPIC’s President issued a directive to focus on the potential energy savings projects for further study and implementation at GPIC. This will also include expanding the use of Renewable energy at GPIC such as the Solar Energy. UN Global Compact COP Page 24 of 45  On the occa asion of Wo orld Environm ment Day, G GPIC Presiden nt urges inteeraction with the United Natio ons campaign n to reduce fo ood waste. On World d Environmen nt Day, which h falls on the fifth of Junee of each yeaar, Mr. Abdullrahman Jaw wahery President of GPIC high hlighted the growing g importance of maaintaining thee environmen nt, pointing ou ut the great effo orts made by the United Na ations with reegard to envirronmental isssues. Mr. Jawah hery said that the UN had s d chosen the slogan Think,k, Eat, Save. Through thiss slogan, the a aim is to reduce both wastefu ul food and thhe waste of food, fo a campaaign that encourages us alll to work tog gether to fight against extravvagance in ou ur eating hab bits and to reeduce the moore than 1.3 b billion tons off food wasted ea ach year, acccording to th he United Nations Food a nd Agriculturre Organizatiion (FAO.) SSuch a quantity isi the same amount a ood produced of fo d by all the Suub‐Saharan ccountries com mbined; millio ons of people go o hungry everry day around the world, while more than 20 thouusand childreen a day undeer the age of fivee perish from hunger, dailyy. The Presiddent added th hat as a resullt of this massive imbalancce in lifestylees and its deva astating effeccts on the enviro onment, the theme this year represeents an encoouragement ffor all to be more awaree and consciouss of the enviro onmental imp pact resulting g from the foood choices thhat we taking g in each day,y, as it representts a call to action to make better inform med decisionss in this regarrd, pointing o out that the p planet is struggliing to providde enough ressources, whille the World Health Orgaanization (WH HO) estimatess that one‐third of internation nal global foood production n is either spooiled or throwwn away. He stated d that the waste w of foodd represents an enormouss drain on nnatural resou urces. It is a also a significant contributor to negative effects e on thee environmennt, stressing thhat this year''s campaign in nvites us to takee decisive acttion, starting from f our own n homes. Wee may then see the effectiiveness and p power of collecttive decisionss to reduce the t massive amounts of food waste, save moneyy, and reducce the environmental impact of food produ uction. Mr. Jawah hery added th hat wasting food w fo means wasting all thee resources annd effort used d in the produ uction of these foodstuffs, f inccluding fresh water, land, forests and bbiodiversity, sso making an informed deecision will meann to choose foods f that caause limited environmenta e al impact, ass in organic ffoods, which avoid chemicalss in the prod duction process and the purchase p of loocally producced food whiich can contrribute o the reduction of harmful emissions. greatly to In conclussion, Mr. Jaw wahery called on everyon ne to stop fo for a momennt to reflect about the tw wenty thousand children who o die every day d from hung ger, before ddeciding to w waste food by throwing it iin the trash canss. We may alll contribute thereby t to savve humanity aand the envirronment in wh hich we live. UN Globaal Compact COP Page 25 of 45  Climate Cha ange: GPIC is mindful of th organizations cannot ignorre the he fact that rresponsible o fact that clim mate change is one of the e key challengges that has to be addresssed to ensurre the sustainabilityy of our futu ure generatioons. The folloowing trend shows how GPIC has red duced their carbon footprint oveer the years. UN Globaal Compact COP Page 26 of 45 4. Anti‐Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GPIC’s pursuit of profit is underlined by a pervasive commitment to be ethical in all that we do. As a result, GPIC’s work ethos embodies some of the highest standards of corporate governance in Bahrain, which is in line with the commitment to responsible business as exhibited by the world’s leading organizations. Our pursuit of ethical behavior stems from a Corporate governance strategy built upon mechanisms that ensure responsible behavior across all tiers of interaction throughout the organization’s operations; including who we conduct business with, the employees of the organization, the people of the communities that host us, as well as the government representatives who regulate our business practices. Our Corporate governance policy begins with a very simple and basic premise. All of GPIC’s workings, ranging across all stakeholders, must and do, comply with the laws and regulations of Bahrain. However, as with everything that is GPIC, we aim to go beyond just mere legal compliance, and hold ourselves to an even higher standard. GPIC’s stringent policies ensure that we monitor the action of those connected to the organization in any capacity, thus preventing them having undue advantage of their access to information. At GPIC, Corporate governance is also about preventing a disadvantage to those who interact with the organization. The company makes it a point to pay suppliers on time, as well as fulfilling all other financial obligations without any delays. Furthermore, our governance framework allows for a stringent, frequent and thorough audit of every department where financial transactions are scrutinized and system compliance audits are conducted. Each department is regularly audited and issued audit reports. In 2012, we were successfully able to improve our governance by issuing a revised Corporate Governance Policy and incorporating guidelines on segregation of duties. Following are some of our 2012 highlights reflecting our commitment to UN Global Compact’s principles related to ant‐corruption  New Guidelines on segregation of duties have been issued in 2012.  The corporate governance policy was revised in 2012.  Every employee is given a code of business ethics booklet.  Robust accountability and auditing system prevents any wrong doing.  The three bids system for tendering is yet another step towards anti‐corruption. UN Global Compact COP Page 27 of 45 Leading Awards 2012  The Arabia Corporate Social Responsibility Award GPIC won this award for the second time. This is a pan‐Arabian award which is given to the entity or corporation that is most effective and focused in the areas of social responsibility, sustainability, environmental protection, corporate governance, transparency and other global standards. It is awarded by the Arabia CSR network based in United Arab Emirates.  The RoSPA Chemical Sector Award GPIC won this award for the twelfth time in twelve years. This award is presented by the Royal Society for Prevention of Accidents(RoSPA) and is given to the winner following an extensive evaluation of its Safety, Health and Environment Management Systems, including strength of leadership, effective participation by the workforce, effective communication, risk analyses, performance monitoring and evaluation and personal initiatives.  The ASTD Best Award 2012 GPIC is the only company in the Middle East to win this award This award is presented by the American Society for Training and Development to businesses and companies for the training and development of their people Management Systems  In 2012 GPIC aligned its Enterprise Risk Management( ERM) framework with ISO 31000 Risk Management’s‐ Principles and guidelines, followed by a successful external assessment by BSI, confirming that the company meets ISO 31000 standard requirements.  Societal Security ‐ Business Continuity Management System IS0 22301 implementation is in progress . As part of this process workshops on Business Impact Analysis( BIA) have been conducted for key people within the organization. Key Social Contributions 2012 GPIC ‘s leadership believes that corporate social responsibility goes beyond the traditional Philanthropy. It is about building bridges and partnerships to make the difference.  Donations and Sponsorships (The following are some of the recent examples, for a detailed outlook visit our website www.gpic.com and browse the section press releases and media). UN Global Compact COP Page 28 of 45  Ministry of Social Development  AlRahma Centre for disabled  Bahrain Cancer Society  inJAz, Bahrain  Ministry of Education, Bahrain  Crown Prince’s Scholarship Programme  King Hamad Hospital Campus  Second West Asian Federation for Ladies  Bahrain Women’s Union  First National Occupational Safety and Health Conference and Exhibition  Bahrain Football Association  Bahrain Athletics Association  Bahrain Golf Association  Bahrain Tennis Association  Bahrain Special Olympics for people with intellectual disabilities  GPIC becomes the diamond sponsor to hold the first ever Bahrain international CSR conference  Bahrain Handicapped sports federation  Bahrain Society for child development  UNEP for supporting environmental sustainability  GPICs participation/membership and alliance with several local , regional and international organizations With the aim to be proactively involved and to contribute towards knowledge sharing and professional networking, we participate in several organizations at a national, regional and international level. International/Regional Associations and Committees  UN Global Compact  UN Global Compact GCC Network  Gas Processing Association ( GPA)  Gulf Petrochemical and Chemical Association(GPCA)  Arab Fertilizer Association (AFA)  International Fertilizer Industry Association (IFA)  National Safety Council – USA  Royal Society for the prevention of accidents ( RoSPA) UN Global Compact COP Page 29 of 45 Bahrain Associations and Committees  National Oil and Gas Authority( NOGA) –Bahrain  Supreme Council for Youth and Sport  Bahrain Polytechnic  National Initiative for the Development of Agriculture  InJAz Bahrain  Crown Prince’s International Scholarship Programme  Bahrain Institute of Public Administration  Bahrain Training Institute  University of Bahrain ‐ College of Science and Industrial advisory committee  Organising Committee for Bahrain Companies and Establishment Football League  Major Companies Environment Networking Committee UN Global Compact COP Page 30 of 45 GRI Performance Indicators Relevant to UNGC Principles Economic Performance Description Page UNGC Principle Remarks Indicator The following factors in combination, not necessarily listed in their order of importance are considered in selecting the potential suppliers(Local suppliers are defined as Bahrain based suppliers).  Suppliers’ ability to meet the requirements of the client.  Principal suppliers or original manufacturers. Policy, practices and proportion of  Suppliers’ previous history record EC6 31 Principle 8 spending on locally-based suppliers of performance in similar scope of supply.  Suppliers who have service facilities in Bahrain.  Suppliers with Bahrainisation level of manpower.  Safety. Health &Environment system certifications.  Suppliers compliance to labour laws and other local regulations GPIC is an equal opportunity employer Our HR/recruitment policy highlights the need to tap local talent first prior to looking for alternative talent. Procedures for local hiring and GPIC’s senior management is 100% EC7 proportion of senior management 31 Principle 8 Bahraini. GPIC has a well-established hired from the local community and documented Succession and Talent Management Plan UN Global Compact COP Page 31 of 45 Environmental Performance Description Page UNGC Principle Remarks Indication Energy efficiency remains a key performance indicator: Some of the recent energy saving initiatives are:  Energy saving through ammonia converter retrofit in 2012 The new basket enabled the reduction in operating pressure from 312 barg to 281barg and an energy saving of 0.17 Gcal/MT of ammonia produced  Replacement of ammonia primary reformer tubes with thin walled micro alloy tubes in 2012.  Miscellaneous energy saving initiatives as follows: 1. Shower and change building Electrical water heater replaced with Solar water heating system (Saving of about 5KW load). After ensuring its satisfactory result, Modification raised to replace with Solar water heating system at all BOPA( Building Energy saved due to conservation outside process areas). EN5 22-26/32 Principle 7 and efficiency improvements The total load for BOPA will be about 50KW. 2. LED tube light lights replaced in place of Fluorescent tube at workshop area as testing purpose. Once it is proved working well, it will be replaced in all buildings. Lower wattage with more illumination output. 3. LED Street light fitting replaced near Inner gate for testing. All street lights will be replaced with LED type soon resulting in less power consumption and better illumination level. Old High pressure Sodium vapor lamp wattage of 210W is replaced with 110W LED lamps. It reduces the power consumption by 100W for each fitting. So far 35 LED fittings replaced and saving of 3500W (ie. 3.5KW x 10hrs per day x365 days = UN Global Compact COP Page 32 of 45 12775Kwh saving per year). After completing the replacement of 500 Street light fitting energy saved will be 50000W= 50KW (50KW X 10hrs x 365= 182500 KWh saving per year). 4. Green IT initiatives resulting in significant energy savings Initiatives to provide energyefficient or renewable energy A project is under study to expand the EN6 based products and services and 33 Principle 8 use of renewable energy sources at reductions in energy requirements GPIC, such as Solar energy. as a result of these initiatives A continued operation of carbon dioxide recovery plant since 2009 at Initiatives to reduce greenhouse GPIC captures 450 MT of carbon EN18 gas emissions and reductions 33 Principle 9 dioxide from methanol reformer stack achieved flue gases and recycles back to process. Total number and volume of We did not have any significant loss of EN23 33 Principle 7 significant spills containment in the reporting period. 1. GPIC has established a number of local. initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of its products. One such example is where the company has invested in measures to reduce CO2 emissions by setting up a carbon dioxide recovery unit. 2. Moreover, the company has also set up a fish farm, bird sanctuary, herbal garden and charity vegetable garden at its complex. Initiatives to mitigate 3. To reduce noise pollution we are environmental impacts of products upgrading/ replacing silencers EN26 33 Principle 7 and services and extent of impact on various vents and have mitigation recently installed an improved version silencer on process condensate stripper vent with improved noise abatement benefits. 4. A urea plant ammonia flare project is in progress that will further mitigate the impact of ammonia venting . 5. Another key project of constructing an Evaporation Pond to handle liquid industrial waste, will commence June 2013. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary EN28 sanctions for non-compliance with 33 Principle 7 Nil environmental laws and regulations UN Global Compact COP Page 33 of 45 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Description Page UNGC Principle Remarks Indicator Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided A new benefit as morning shift LA3 17 Principle 6 to temporary or part-time allowance was introduced 2012/2013 employees, by major operations Ratio of basic salary of men to Distinction based on talent and not LA14 34 Principle 6 women by employee category gender Social: Human Rights Performance Description Page UNGC Principle Remarks Indicator As part of pre-qualification of suppliers in addition to other requirements the following are also considered: 1) No inclusion of supplier/ Company owned by a GPIC employee or his/ her Percentage of significant suppliers immediate relative is permitted until its and contractors that have approved by the President as a special HR2 34 Principle 1-2 undergone screening on human case with a clear justification. 2) rights and actions taken Human rights related to health , safety and environment are considered and preference will be to those suppliers who are certified for quality, health , safety and environment management systems. Total number of incidents of HR4 34 Principle 6 None discrimination and actions taken Holding of fair and free elections of the Operations identified in which the labour union in 2011 is one of the right to exercise freedom of measures taken by the Company in association and collective HR5 34 Principle 3 the reporting period intended to bargaining may be at significant support rights to freedom of risk and actions taken to support association and collective bargaining. these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of Our HR policy clearly describes the HR6 child labour and measures taken 34 Principle 5 minimum age of recruitment as 18 to contribute to the elimination of Years. child labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s Human Rights specific training for HR8 policies or procedures concerning 34 Principle 1-2 GPIC security personnel is planned in aspects of human rights that are 2013 relevant to operations UN Global Compact COP Page 34 of 45 Social: Society Performance Description Page UNGC Principle Remarks Indicator Our financial audits both internal and external across the organization ensure that no financial corruption is taking place. Our Enterprise Risk Management also Percentage and total number of covers the risk of a major fraud. SO2 business units analyzed for risks 35 Principle 10 Our Audit, Finance and Risk related to corruption Committee along with an external audit reviews our financial statements and legal/ regulatory compliance on quarterly/ Yearly basis. Actions taken in response to No incident of corruption was reported SO4 35 Principle 10 incidents of corruption during the period 2012-2013 UN Global Compact COP Page 35 of 45 What Others O Say About GPIC? “We at GPIC G give parramount importance to th he feedback and commeents from all our stakeho olders. We believve that this kind k of remarkable engaggement and n networking wwith our stakkeholders en nables excellence and sustainability. It also a keeps uss well informmed of what others thinkk about GPIC C and helps us in maintainin ng excellent internationaal and regionnal relationsh hips. It motivates us to aattain eights and su further he uccesses. Followingg are some of o the examp ples of thesee excellent ccommunicatio ons and nettworking witth our stakeholdders, globallyy” UN Globaal Compact COP Page 36 of 45 T h e N a tio n a l E x a m in a tio n B o a r d in O c c u p a tio n a l S a fe t y a n d H e a lth D o m in u s W a y M e r id ia n B u s in e s s P a r k L e ic e s t e r L E 1 9 1 Q W t e le p h o n e 0 1 1 6 2 6 3 4 7 0 0 fa x 0 1 1 6 2 8 2 4 0 0 0 w w w . n e b o s h . o r g .u k His Excelle ency Mr Abdulrrahman Jawahe ery President chemical Indus Gulf Petroc stries Co. (BSC C) (GPIC) P O Box 26 6730 Manama Kingdom ofo Bahrain 31 Decemb ber 2012 Dear Abdulrahman, GPIC Annual Celebratio on Thank you so much fo or your generrous hospitality during ourr visit to Bahrain. It was a privilege and an honour to o meet with youry Board of o Directors and a share in the celebratiion of GPIC’ss achievements in 2012. It was w particularrly important to t me personally, that yourr own major ccontribution to o health and ssafety was recog gnised. It wa as a wonderfful occasion and I was so o pleased that there wass an opportun nity to celebrate your work in n promoting a health and safety culturre and assistting colleagues in Bahrain n, the GCC and d in the Petro ochemical an nd the fertiliser industries to safeguard d their people and protecct the environme ent. Our Board d of Trustees and I are exttremely grate eful to you forr your continuued support fo or NEBOSH a as our Ambassad dor, and for thet letters you have sent to your busin ness colleagu ues promoting g our qualifica ations and the pa art they can play p in improv ving safety annd productivityy in the workp place. Please lett me know when you will be visiting the e UK. I woulld like to return some of yyour hospitalitty and also Neil would like to o arrange forr you to mee et Lord McKe enzie of Luton at the Hou use of Lords.. The invitation to visit the Health and Sa afety Laboratoory in Buxton still stands a and I know th hat Eddie Mo orland, the CEO would w greatlyy enjoy showing you their facilities f and explaining the work they a are doing on major hazards. I really en njoyed learnin ng more abou ut Bahrain, an nd its history and culture during this viisit, particularrly the Dilmun pe eriod. I am lo ooking forward y d to reading your colleagu e Nancy’s bo ook and her o observations o on the history of Bahrain. I wish youu and your co olleagues in Government G e every successs in promoting g human righ hts and mainta aining peace and d stability in the t Kingdom of Bahrain. I very much vvalue the warm mth and friendship I have found in Bahrain n and I greattly admire the leadership which has b been shown by you and yyour colleagu ues in promoting g education, equality e and health h and saffety. All the vvery best for 2 2013. Yours sinc cerely TERESA BUDWORTH H Chief Exe ecutive UN Globaal Compact COP Page 37 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 38 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 39 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 40 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 41 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 42 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 43 of 44 UN Globaal Compact COP Page 44 of 44
