2012 Communication on Progress (COP) Participant Trilux Asesorías de Prensa Published 2013/03/14 Time period 3/2012 – 3/2013 Santiago, Chile, March 14th , 2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Trilux Asesorías de Prensa reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Albina Sabater Director Trilux Asesorías de Prensa Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a topic that is always respected and taken in consideration in every decision. Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights have considered getting services, paying for them, respecting and obeying the laws and being especially careful in all and each one of the Human Rights, for everyone. Implementation Our business partners and suppliers have been encouraged to adhere to the Global Compact Principles on Human Rights. Measurement of outcomes Our labour field is media. That's why our weapons are words, to communicate the importance of the Ten Principles of the UNGC. That's what we do. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Labour Even if our company is very small, we recognize the right to collective bargaining. And, of course, we do not accept any kind of forced or compulsory labour. Child labour is absolutely out of our minds. We have eliminated any discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our people have the opportunity to work for us without considering their religious position, their political position, sexual orientation, age or any kind of possible discrimination. We are proud to have given the possibility to very old and very intelligent people to work for us, in harmony and joy. All of us do know ILO Core Conventions and other international instruments. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. We also mention this topic when we encourage our business partners to adhere to the Global Compact. We are always trying to raise the awareness of our employees on labour rights and policies. Measurement of outcomes We have tried to include people without any kind of discrimination, without asking about their political, religious or sexual points of view. We have also given the opportunity to work with us to older people, already retired, who have helped us in a wonderful way, with their experience. Our goals in Labour Rights for the upcoming years are to grow as a company, and to give more opportunities to more people, especially disabled ones and older people. Environment Assessment, policy and goals We have tried to support the initiatives that protect our environment from eventual damages, by writing letters or sending e-mails against projects that could harm the environment and the communities around the places where those projects would be settled. We have promoted greater environmental responsibility by repeating that it is a task of everyone of us, and not only a task for the government or other big institutions. For the upcoming years we also would like to have clean energy available, not only at work, but also in our homes. Implementation We have encouraged the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies, by spreading the news about solar energy use, especially by e-mail. Measurement of outcomes We write and talk about the importance of environmental consciousness. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Our company, even if small, is well known by its transparency and honesty. We do not accept any kind of corruption, extortion or bribery. Implementation This is a topic that is talked with everyone who works for us. Measurement of outcomes Our goals, for the future, are to become an example to be imitated in this area. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
