UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LETTER FROM THE CEO To Our Stakeholders, TM Procurian proudly reaffirms our support of the United Nations Global Compact and the ten principals contained therein in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. As the leading industry specialist in comprehensive procurement solutions, Procurian is committed to integrating the ideals and best practices of corporate responsibility into the services we provide to our clients and our own operations. Procurian’s approach to Corporate Social Responsibility starts at the top of our enterprise with clearly defined and regularly communicated policies requiring ethical and responsible operations globally. It is supported by robust governance methods led by our Management Committee and coordinated by our Chief Sustainability Officer. Our efforts include creating a corporate culture around diversity and social responsibility, actively participating in economic development of diverse business communities, and adding value to minority, woman, and disabled veteran business enterprises. In the accompanying annual Communication on Progress, we describe our ongoing efforts to improve the integration of the UN Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders through our website at www.procurian.com. We strive to improve the communities where we live and work and extend the reach of our programs to the benefit of all global citizens, today and tomorrow. Sincerely yours, Carl Guarino Chief Executive Officer UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS Principal 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. TM Procurian supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and our policies and practices are structured accordingly. Our goal is to ensure all employees are aware of the importance of human rights and their individual roles in ensuring these rights are respected. Our efforts include detailing acceptable practices that pertain to universal human rights in the Procurian Employee Code of Conduct which was updated in January 2013. This code is reviewed and signed by all employees annually and accessible online through our corporate intranet. The Procurian Employee Code of Conduct also contains a harassment policy that details the Company’s “zero tolerance for conduct that is inappropriate, including harassment related to race, color, religion, creed, gender, national origin, ancestry, age, marital status, citizenship, veteran or military status, disability status, sexual orientation, and any other factor protected by law.” This policy includes a confidential reporting mechanism that mandates prompt and thorough investigations of all suspected violations and precludes retaliation against any employee for reporting or participating in the investigation. Employees are also advised of their right to additionally report violations to the appropriate government agencies. LABOUR Principal 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Procurian supports each of these labour principals and strives to provide a working environment and culture that is diverse, enjoyable, and rewarding for all employees. Our goals include increasing supplier diversity for ourselves and our clients. In the fourth quarter of 2012, Procurian completed an extensive, multistage project to enable the automation of data capture and reporting on supplier diversity in our TM proprietary business process system, RADIX . This enables us to efficiently and accurately track the participation of minority, women, and disabled veteran business Page 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS enterprises in bids, awards, and existing business relationships across our 27.2 billion USD of global managed spend. This information is being leveraged to assist in our and our customers’ efforts to increase supplier diversity. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Procurian supports global sustainability efforts and actively seeks to spread awareness of our energy management services and reduce energy consumption for ourselves and our clients. Our goal is to reduce energy consumption by 15-40 percent for new energy management services clients. Our proactive energy management services utilize continuous monitoring, analysis, and corrective action plans to achieve the targeted sustainable energy reductions. Procurian solutions include conducting granular energy audits (down to machine level) and implementing the recommendations. Examples include shutting down computers at night, turning off idle equipment, automation of lighting, equipment optimization (changing set-points on heavy machinery and equipment), and investment in high-efficiency equipment. In addition to assisting our clients meet their sustainability goals, we have significantly reduced our own energy consumption. Procurian installed an energy metering and monitoring system in our corporate headquarters to measure and track our energy/GHG use in our Global Data Center, headquarter lighting and HVAC, and office plug loads. We monitor our energy use on a real-time basis. Energy/GHG performance is measured against a performance baseline and against a desired energy/GHG goal. To date, we have reduced our lighting use by 31.7% through a series of operational changes. This year we are implementing an integrated building control system to enable the optimization of the building HVAC operation through advanced scheduling and real-time performance intervention and troubleshooting of systems. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Procurian has a zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery, and extortion. This policy is detailed in the Procurian Employee Code of Conduct, reinforced during training, and reviewed and signed by all employees annually. Our goal is to ensure the Company and Page 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS our employees do not directly or indirectly support corrupt or unethical business practices. To ensure the protection and appropriate use of customer data, Procurian’s Information Security Governance Plan was revised in March 2012. Subsequently, Procurian successfully registered for ISO/IEC 27001:2005 in March of 2013. The registration certifies our Information Security Management System (ISMS) for the operation, maintenance, and delivery of customer owned information and customer identification information. The scope of the certification includes the system, networks, facilities, and personnel directly supporting mission-critical customer owned information and customer identification information. The protocols contained within the revised governance plan are important safeguards that ensure the use of customer data is restricted to its intended, ethical use. Page 3
