CSR Report 2013 Contents Editing Policy 1 Contents / Editing Policy ITOCHU Corporation’s Perspectives on CSR 2 President's Commitment We at ITOCHU Corporation believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in 4 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation building sustainable societies through business activities. This report presents the role we must discharge and our initiatives for it. 5 Basic Policy on CSR and Promotion System 8 Stakeholder Relations HIGHLIGHT 9 The United Nations Global Compact The following two initiatives, which ITOCHU is placing special focus on, are 10 ISO 26000 Core Subjects and ITOCHU's Initiatives presented in this report as highlighted features. 11 Respect for Human Rights 1 Pre Organic Cotton Program 13 Penetration of CSR at ITOCHU Striving to resolve the problems of cotton farmers in India through the supply chain, ITOCHU Corporation has been operating the Pre Organic 15 Highlight Pre Organic Cotton Program Cotton Program since 2008. This section provides information about the amount of cotton handled through this program, which is growing each 17 Highlight Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains vol. 5 year, as well as the conditions of the farmers participating in the program. 20 CSR and Our Business 2 Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains 20 CSR at the Textile Company This year’s report, the fifth in the series, covers lithium-ion batteries (LiBs), 23 CSR at the Machinery Company which will play a major role in the realization of a clean, renewable energy society. 26 CSR at the Metals & Minerals Company Vol. 5: Producing Lithium-Ion Batteries 29 CSR at the Energy & Chemicals Company 32 CSR at the Food Company Disclosure of CSR-related Information 35 CSR at the ICT, General Products & Realty Company To make information on ITOCHU’s CSR initiatives widely accessible, information is disclosed through the following media. 39 CSR at Overseas Offices 45 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Corporate Website CSR Pages 45 Corporate Governance and Internal Control Information is disclosed regarding ITOCHU Corporation’s CSR activities in a format that provides detailed coverage across a wide 51 Compliance range of themes. Moreover, information on activities conducted during the current year is disseminated on a timely basis. 53 CSR in Our Supply Chain www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/ 53 ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains 55 CSR Survey of Supply Chains CSR Report 56 Employee Relations Wide-ranging information covered in detail on the website CSR pages is 57 Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” published in PDF format as an annual CSR report. The reports provide an ongoing perspective of ITOCHU’s CSR activities. 60 Ongoing Promotion of Our Global Human Resources Strategy www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/ 61 Promoting Human Resources Diversification 63 Creating Environments That Bring Out the Best in Employees 65 Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety Annual Report 67 Communications with Employees Aimed at investors and other stakeholders, we provide particularly 69 Basic Data important reporting on ITOCHU’s CSR activities consistent with the core subjects of ISO 26000, along with information such as management 71 Social Contribution results and future growth strategies, in a comprehensive manner. 71 Basic Activity Guidelines on Social Contribution www.itochu.co.jp/en/ir/ 72 Social Contribution Activities 84 Social Contribution Programs to Commemorate the 150th Anniversary Activities to restore the tropical rainforests and conserve Borneo's ecosystem Referenced guidelines A side-by-side comparison of GRI 92 Our Initiatives for the Environment Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2006 guidelines and the UN Global issued by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Compact can be found at: 92 Environmental Activities Policies Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2007 version) issued by the Ministry of the http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/report/gri/ 94 Environmental Management Environment ISO 26000 (Guidance on social responsibility) 97 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks 99 Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses Reporting period Reporting scope 102 Environmental Education and Awareness This report principally covers actual data for the This report covers ITOCHU Corporation (9 fiscal year beginning on April 1, 2012, and domestic offices and 115 overseas offices) 104 Environmental Performance Data ended on March 31, 2013 (FY2013). However, and its major group companies. some of the most recent information on our 109 Environmental Accounting activities and initiatives are also included. Inquiries 110 Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution ITOCHU Corporation Publication information Corporate Communications Division, 112 Third-Party Opinion Publication: September 2013 CSR Promotion & Global Environment 114 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Next publication (scheduled): September 2014 Department Previous publication: October 2012 Tel: +81-3-3497-4069 Global Compact Principles Fax: +81-3-5474-7296 122 Corporate Profile / Financial Overview E-mail: csr@itochu.co.jp 1 President’s Commitment Expanding Corporate Value by Creating Solutions for Social Issues Looking at corporate value from a broader perspective, in the future, corporate management will need to share viewpoints and values with society. In particular, as a general trading company, we will be expected to contribute to resolving social issues by seamlessly linking our products and services, accumulated know-how, and markets on a global scale. For ITOCHU, helping to solve social issues through its core business will become a strength that helps us to succeed in global competition in the long term. ITOCHU founder Chubei Itoh I (1842-1903) held onto the Buddhist spirit as his management ethos. His words, “Trading is compassionate business. It is noble when it accords with the spirit of Buddha by profiting those who sell and those who buy and supplying the needs of society” had advocated the role of commerce to contribute to society. This is in line with the management philosophy of sampo yoshi (Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, and Good for society) that Chubei and other Ohmi merchants had embraced. Today, more than 150 years after its foundation, ITOCHU remains true to the spirit of sampo yoshi and is fulfilling its corporate philosophy of “Committed to the Global Good” as it conducts its business activities in front-line business settings around the world. In part to demonstrate our consistent embodiment of this corporate philosophy in international society, ITOCHU has participated in the United Nations Global Compact since 2009. We are pursuing initiatives targeting the resolution of social issues through our core business activities. These include the Pre Organic Cotton Program, which supports cotton farmers in India during the transition period to organic cultivation. This program was approved as an initiative of Business Call to Action (BCtA) in August 2012. BCtA, a global initiative hosted at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), promotes businesses that aim to achieve both commercial success and sustainable development. To further broaden these types of initiatives, we will strive to build an environment through fostering rigorous implementation of a front-line approach. This environment will encourage each and every employee to take a step further from the work at hand, to take broader perspectives of customers, industry, and society in addressing issues, and to do their utmost to generate solution-focused action. Developing Industry Experts and Encouraging Diverse Human Resources Development A general trading company’s people are its greatest management resource, and they are an important management platform that supports its growth. The human resources who support our business activities should strive not to be generalists but to be industry professionals with advanced expertise in specific areas. For example, even if staff in Division Companies have experience and knowledge in a wide range of areas, with this superficial knowledge they cannot do business on an equal footing with customers who have decades of experience in specific areas. In other words, without a “trunk” there are no “branches.” Human resources who accumulate experience in a single organizational unit and learn the keys to success for business activities in that area are essential for general trading companies, which must operate in business conditions that are increasingly difficult with each year. If employees become experts in the business of a single industry, I believe that they will also be able to apply that expertise to other areas as well. That is why I encourage our people to develop that kind of depth. 2 Presidentʼs Commitment ITOCHU has also sought to develop and deploy diverse human resources. Indeed, under our new medium-term management plan, one of our human resource policies is to “support the further development of female role models in the career track.” In April 2013, ITOCHU became the first general trading company to appoint a female executive officer. By providing meticulous career support for diverse human resources, we will continue to support and promote additional role models and to support female employees who are leaders of the future. An era in which companies must show their true value The emergence and globalization of information technology can instantly alter the balance of power and upturn conventional wisdom around the world. The world now moves at an unprecedented speed. In this era of rapid change, ITOCHU, as a general trading company, is in a position to harness its management resources and view opportunities and risks from a broad perspective. I believe our role in international society will continue to grow in importance. Even in this new era, however, I still believe that a company must retain its true value. ITOCHU has been able to sustain and develop its operations for more than 150 years because it always maintained the notion of “Sharing values with society” – represented by the sampo yoshi spirit – at the core of its operations. I want to again instill this value in all of our employees worldwide and create a corporate culture that defines each individual employee as playing a leading role in resolving social issues. Masahiro Okafuji President and Chief Executive Officer 3 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation ITOCHU Corporation is pursuing multi-facetted corporate activities in various regions of the world and a wide range of fields, and as such, ITOCHU is well aware of how significant its impact on society is. We believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) lies in corporate thought and action on the question of how to play a role in building sustainable societies through business activities. We also believe that our mission is to fulfill our Corporate Social Responsibility as a global enterprise, always working from the viewpoint of whether we are contributing to the countries of the world and to society. ITOCHU Mission and Values ITOCHU founder Chubei Itoh first launched a wholesale linen business in 1858. For more than 150 years since, ITOCHU has passed down the spirit of sampo yoshi (good for the buyer, seller and society), a management philosophy embraced by Ohmi merchants that is the source of its CSR thinking today. After considering ways to demonstrate its commitment to society as an international corporation and to put this commitment into practice, in 1992 ITOCHU formulated “Committed to the Global Good” as a corporate philosophy. The conceptual framework for this philosophy was reorganized in 2009. In order for all employees to properly understand the responsibility that the ITOCHU Group is charged with fulfilling for society and to make this philosophy an integral part of actions everyday, its core element, “Committed to the Global Good,” was set as the ITOCHU Mission for the entire ITOCHU Group. Accompanying this is a new set of five values, called the ITOCHU Values, considered vital for enabling each employee to fulfill their role in realizing the ITOCHU Mission. To embed the ITOCHU Values, ITOCHU has formulated “5 self-tests” that employees can refer to in order to determine that the five values are present in their actions. 4 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Basic Policy on CSR and Promotion System Approach to CSR Promotion at ITOCHU Corporation We at ITOCHU Corporation, in accordance with the ITOCHU Mission “Committed to the Global Good,” believe that fulfilling our social responsibility through our business activities is important. To make sure that CSR is systematically implemented involving the whole organization, we established basic policies for CSR promotion as a corporate-wide policy and drafted CSR action plans in each organization to promote CSR. In addition, we communicate with our various stakeholders to grasp the expectations and demands of society towards our company and leverage these for the promotion of CSR. Basic Policies for CSR Promotion Alongside the drafting of its management plan, ITOCHU formulated basic policies for CSR promotion, with the aim of globally promoting CSR with direct linkages to the management plan. “Basic policies for CSR promotion” during the period of the “Brand-new Deal 2014”, which covers fiscal 2014 to fiscal 2015, were revised as follows in order to further promote sustainable use of natural resources through supply chain management. 1. Strengthening communication with stakeholders through a front-line approach At the business front-lines of all division companies, ITOCHU will work to understand the needs of stakeholders through more intensive communication with them by each and every employee, and take advantage of and reflect those needs in businesses and operations. 2. Promoting businesses that help solve social issues A sustainable society is essential for ensuring the continuity of businesses. In order to ensure the continuation of one's businesses, a company must do what it can for society through its businesses to help solve social issues such as climate change and human rights abuses. ITOCHU aims to help solve social issues through businesses that respond to social needs. 3. Strengthening supply chain management to lead to sustainable use of natural resources with respect for human rights and consideration for the environment ITOCHU's business is closely related to the consumption of all of natural resources (water, air, forest, food, minerals, fossil fuels, and so on). On each frontline, it is essential to grasp the utilization status of natural resources in supply chains of the products we handle, and to reflect them into the long-term business strategy. Simultaneously, it is also important to prevent problems from arising in areas such as human rights, labor and the environment in individual supply chain. Both actions are directly linked to sustainability of our business. Based on the ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guideline for Supply Chains we established in April 2009, we conduct checking of supplier on human rights, labor and environmental conservation every year, and ask our suppliers to understand and practice ITOCHU's stance. 4. Promoting education on CSR and environmental conservation The expression of CSR rests in the hands of each individual employee. This is why it is critical that all employees correctly understand the kind of CSR that the ITOCHU Group should engage in. In a bid to have a CSR mindset take root among all employees, ITOCHU conducts education on CSR and environmental conservation through a wide range of training and other programs, and all organizations conduct lively discussions about CSR action plans. 5 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation 5. Involving in and contributing to development of local and global communities ITOCHU is a member of the local communities where it has a business base. At the same time, it is a member of the global community. Accordingly, ITOCHU aims to actively participate in society as a member of the local community and the global community and contribute to development at both levels. ITOCHU aims to grasp the social issues local to the areas where we operate, and contribute to the mediumto long-term development of the region through its business as well as social contribution activities. CSR Promotion through CSR Action Plans ITOCHU Corporation conducts various businesses through six Division Companies. To reliably promote CSR in our businesses, each Division Company defines the CSR issues that are important in its business and formulates the “CSR action plans,” and execute them based on a PDCA cycle system. In actual practice, the responsible sales divisions draft and execute the CSR action plans under the lead of the general manager of the Planning and Coordination Department and the staff in charge of CSR promotion of each Division Company. CSR action plans are also formulated and exercised by each organization such as the Headquarters' administrative divisions, domestic branches and offices as well as overseas bases in line with the respective businesses and functions. A pillar of our CSR promotion is that every employee understands the plans and steadily executes them in his or her job. CSR Promotion System at ITOCHU Corporation At ITOCHU Corporation, with the aim of enhancing communication with stakeholders, the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department, the Corporate Communications Division, plans and proposes strategies for promoting corporate CSR, which are deliberated and discussed by the CSR Committee. ITOCHU also forms a CSR Taskforce, which is made up of members from each Division Company and administrative divisions. This taskforce discusses production of the report and CSR promotion measures. CSR promotion system CSR Material Issues By analyzing CSR Action Plans, ITOCHU identified four CSR material issues which are integral part of our sustainable business activities. We will strive to ensure that our business activities contribute to resolution of these issues, in accordance with the Basic Policies for CSR Promotion. 1. Climate change 2. Sustainable use of resources 3. Respect and consideration for human rights 4. Contribution to local communities 6 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation In accordance with our operating strategy and with international guidelines, such as the Global Reporting Initiative 4.0 and the IIRC Framework, we will continue working to verify and enhance our initiatives to resolve these important issues, and, from a long-term perspective, we will strive to advance CSR through our business activities. * For further information about specific initiatives, please see the Pre Organic Cotton Program (pages 15-16) and the Documentary Report Project on Supply Chain (pages 17-19). Social and Environmental Impact Evaluations in Business Investment and in the Supply Chain For new business investments and suppliers, we implement social and environmental impact evaluations. In making new business investments, we employ a “CSR and environmental checklist for investments” to conduct advance evaluations of the current situation and issues. This information is then used in making the investment decisions. We revised this checklist at the end of fiscal 2013 to reflect the seven core subjects of ISO 26000, and we began to utilize the new checklist in fiscal 2014. In accordance with ITOCHU Corporation’s CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains, we are also working to track the actual state of suppliers in regard to social and environmental issues. We are implementing surveys of about 400 suppliers each year, with a special focus on human rights and labor issues. Related Page: CSR in Our Supply Chain (pages 53-55) 7 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Stakeholder Relations Stakeholders of the ITOCHU Group Approaching CSR through dialogue with our stakeholders. In our diverse range of corporate activities conducted worldwide, we place strong emphasis on dialogue with the many stakeholders that surround ITOCHU. Through these efforts, we promote CSR activities to help solve social issues by comprehending the expectations and concerns that industry and regional society may have regarding ITOCHU and reflecting this understanding in our business activities. * Besides those noted above, the list of our major stakeholders includes many other parties, such as NGOs and NPOs, financial institutions, government ministries and agencies, mass media, and the coming generations. Third-party Evaluations ITOCHU's CSR promotion policies incorporate businesses that contribute to the resolution of social challenges. In August 2012, the Textile Company's Pre Organic Cotton Program was approved as an initiative of Business Call to Action (BCtA). BCtA is a global initiative hosted at the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), which promotes businesses aimed at achieving both commercial success and sustainable development. In addition, in the area of socially responsible investment (SRI), in July 2012 Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc. (Currently known as Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc.), selected ITOCHU as one of the corporations that excels in environmental, social, and governance (ESG). ITOCHU earned high marks for its initiatives in the advancement of the field of natural energy through its trading activities. Also, in February 2013 ITOCHU received the Key Firm of Integrity Award 2013 for Excellence from Integrex Inc., a company that provides survey and investment advisory services for SRI. ITOCHU was selected in recognition of its efforts to construct an environment in which each of its employees around the world can reassess the significance of his or her work in society and obtain a perspective on how they can contribute to solutions to the many social issues that exist using technologies and funds based on the Company's spirit of sampo yoshi. 8 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation The United Nations Global Compact ITOCHU's Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In April 2009, ITOCHU Corporation joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global initiative to achieve sustainable growth of the international Community. In the compliance of the Global Compact's ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption, ITOCHU is striving to fulfill its corporate mission of “Committed to the Global Good.” The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anticorruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Contribution to Activities of the Global Compact Japan Network ITOCHU Corporation actively engages in activities as a Board Member of the Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN), the local network of United Nations Global Compact in Japan. The GC-JN organizes the Working Groups by issues related CSR where member companies are able to learn from other companies' best practices and academic experts and to have discussions and exchange opinions regarding CSR initiatives. In FY2013, ITOCHU took part in 6 Working Groups related to Human Rights, ISO26000, BOP & Social Businesses, Environmental Management, Socially Responsible Investment, and Disaster Reconstruction Support. Especially, in the Human Rights Working Group, we play an active role as a Working Group Coordinator to facilitate learning and discussions among participating members in order to enhance the Japanese companies’ awareness towards human rights issues as business and human rights are brought to international attention. Furthermore, we participated as a panelist in a panel discussion of the GC-JN annual symposium entitled Sustainable development and human rights on December 4, 2012, taking part in discussions on CSR and human rights. 9 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation ISO 26000 Core Subjects and ITOCHU's Initiatives As a member of international society, ITOCHU aims to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by reflecting the expectations and concerns of society in its business activities and by developing businesses that help solve social issues. This report provides information about ITOCHU’s fundamental approach and implementation system, arranged by the seven core subjects of ISO 26000, the international standard for social responsibility, as well as major topics for fiscal 2013. Fundamental Approach Major Topics Organizational Governance • Revision of Basic Policies for CSR Promotion P5 In accordance with its corporate philosophy of “Committed to the Global • Identification of four material issues in accordance with CSR Good,” ITOCHU believes it is important to understand how its business Action Plans P6 activities influence society and the environment. We have established a • Revision of CSR and environmental checklist for investments P7 system that contributes to the realization of a sustainable society, in accordance with a PDCA cycle, through the identification of material CSR issues and the formulation of CSR Action Plans for each business field. Human Rights P11 • Implementation of CSR survey at 430 overseas suppliers P55 As a company that conducts business transactions around the world, • Implementation of human rights seminar at ITOCHU Malaysia ITOCHU believes that the relationship between business and human rights is Sdn. Bhd. P40 vitally important, and that belief is reflected in the supply chain and in busi• Participation of 401 people in in-house human rights training P11 nesses in which ITOCHU invests. We give serious consideration to human rights and •T  he initiative supporting Indian cotton farmers highly recognized individuality so that employees can make the most of their individual capabilities. by the international community P15 Labor Practices P56 • Appointment of first female executive officer among general ITOCHU is working to develop and strengthen human resources who can trading companies (April 2013) P61 play active roles in global business as true industry professionals. We are • Cross-Industrial Women’s Forum P61 also establishing a system that enables diverse human resources to make • Enhancement of childcare leave system so that first five days the most of their capabilities. In addition, we have built a system to support safe and are paid leave P63 healthy lifestyles for the employees who support our business activities around the • Extension of the available period of shorter working hours for world, as well as for their families. nursing care P63 The Environment P92 • Renewal of ISO 14001 certification P95 ITOCHU pays close attention to the influence of its business activities on the • Implementation of environmental fact-finding investigations at environment and takes both proactive initiatives (advancing environmentnine Group companies P97 conserving businesses) and precautionary initiatives (preventing problems • Participation in ITOCHU Group environment-related seminars associated with environmental risks). In particular, in proactive initiatives, we are develby 6,265 people P102 oping multifaceted business initiatives in line with such themes as the use of sustain• Third-party report on LiB supply chain P17 able resources, responding to climate change, and conservation of biodiversity. Fair Operating Practices P51 • On-site compliance training for Headquarters and Group In addition to ensuring that our business activities are in accordance with companies ­ P51 laws and international rules, we do not limit ourselves to simply following • Revision of regulations that specifically ban bribes and payoffs, industry practice, and accordingly we have also established and continually implementation of monitoring and review P51 improve our compliance system so that individual employees can sincerely conduct • Revision of Anti-monopoly Law Manual, implementation of their daily activities from a highly ethical viewpoint. monitoring and review P52 Consumer Issues • Periodic on-site audits of overseas food suppliers (175 audits at ITOCHU, which handles a wide variety of goods and services that support 115 companies) P34 people’s everyday lives, is implementing activities that contribute improve• Promotion of environmental conservation platform based on the ments in the quality of consumer lifestyles, such as working to ensure prodparticipation of consumers P21 uct safety and quality, developing products that contribute to environmental • Raising children’s awareness of environmental conservation conservation, and promoting awareness of sustainable consumption. through MOTTAINAI Campaign (approximately 30,000 people) P80 Community Involvement and Development  P71 • Formed Africa Food Development Association together with In the regions where ITOCHU conducts business, we consider ourselves to 14 food manufacturers P33 be members of local communities. Accordingly, we strive to participate in • Donated ¥500 million for construction fee of international local communities in ways that transcend the scope of our business activities ­medical exchange facility P77 and to contribute to the sustainable development of those communities through both • Development of children’s literature collections and promotion business activities and social contribution activities. of the use of e-books by the ITOCHU Foundation P80 • Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction support (cumulative total of 216 employee volunteers) P72 • Contribution to the local communities by overseas offices P39 10 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Respect for Human Rights Policy on Respect for Human Rights The ITOCHU Mission Committed to the Global Good stands at the heart of the ITOCHU Group's corporate philosophy. The “Global good” refers not only to improved living standards, but also a general sense of well-being. ITOCHU, as a company with diverse operations worldwide, respect human rights and individuality, and is committed to the global good of society and individuals alike. Accompanying this corporate philosophy, the ITOCHU Values consist of five values important for fulfilling the ITOCHU Mission “Committed to the Global Good.” One of those values is “Diversity,” under which the Group holds the human rights and individuality of every person as important. Based on this policy, ITOCHU supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights adopted by the United Nations in 1948 as a common standard of achievement for all people and all nations. Furthermore, ITOCHU participated in the United Nations Global Compact in 2009 which is derived from this Declaration and other international standards. Guided by this approach, we clearly prohibit the violation of human rights and sexual harassment in its employment regulations, and have outlined punitive measures to be taken against those who engage in such conduct. Excerpt from the ITOCHU Group Philosophy and Code of Conduct Booklet Respecting human rights and individuality We value the rights and individuality of each person. We show respect and are attentive to others regardless of gender, race, religion, or position. We don’t discuss matters that cause discomfort; we don’t discriminate or harass; we respect basic labor rights and eliminate forced labor and child labor. Excerpt from the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1:Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Raising Awareness Internally of Respect for Human Rights As a general trading company that operates around the world and plays an important role in supply chains, we are implementing educational activities about “business and human rights” in each region. The objective of these activities is to keep up with the latest developments relating to business and human rights, and to incorporate this knowledge into our business. ITOCHU Malaysia: Learning the Relevance of Human Rights in Today’s Business In January 2013, ITOCHU Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. invited experts on CSR and quality/environmental management from LNY Management, and held a human rights seminar with the participation of all employees in the office. The seminar included a quiz to increase understanding of human rights and the viewing of internet videos about the child labor situation. There was also a lecture on the true nature of human rights and discussions using case studies of human rights violations by companies. The seminar proved to be a valuable opportunity to learn about the relationship between human rights issues and business. Please refer to the page 40 for details. Raising awareness through internal training programs We work to extensively embed understanding of the relationship between business activities and human rights through in-house training programs. In the training program for new recruits, they are instructed to acquire the proper mindset for respecting human rights that they should have as members of the ITOCHU family. In in-house training for 11 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation organization heads, sexual harassment and power harassment issues are discussed, and a thorough understanding of human rights is fostered. Also, training conducted prior to overseas assignments includes the topic of consideration for human rights in the supply chain. In this way, we are working to raise awareness in each region. In fiscal 2013, 401 people participated in human rights training. Number of employees participated in human rights training programs Number of empolyees participated Training for New Recruits 124 people Training for newly-appointed managers 57 people Training prior to overseas assignments 220 people Establishment of a 24-Hour Employee Consultation Desk System Employee Consultation Desk and Hotline ITOCHU has set up an employee consultation desk to allow employees to discuss problems they may be individually confronting. A “HR Help Guide Book” has also been posted to the ITOCHU intranet, and efforts to broadly raise employee awareness of the consultation desk are made as part of a structure that allows employees to consult on issues of concern. An external Hotline System staffed by independent counselors has also been established. Career Counseling Center ITOCHU was one of the first Japanese companies to establish its own Career Counseling Center, where employees can consult regarding not only their individual careers, but on workplace culture, interaction with colleagues, The “HR Help Guide Book” posted on remuneration, harassment, and other issues. Consultations can take place via the intranet phone, fax, email, post, or other means, and are dealt with by expert office staff. Raising Awareness Through Various Publications In an effort to avoid violations of human rights in the workplace, ITOCHU strives to raise awareness of human rights through a variety of publications distributed to all employees. ITOCHU’s basic stance regarding respect for human rights is conveyed in a booklet explaining the ITOCHU Group’s corporate philosophy and code of conduct to all employees. The Compliance Handbook has pages on respect for human rights, as well as power and sexual harassment, giving concrete examples of such conduct in an effort to avoid any violations of human rights in the workplace. A pocket-sized card on proper workplace etiquette details rules on the strict prohibition of any forms of harassment. Fair and Honest Recruitment At ITOCHU, recruitment decisions are based solely on an individual’s abilities and merits, for fair and honest recruitment practices without regard for age, sex, or nationality. A watchdog system for ensuring fair and honest recruitment is also in place, and employees are selected and notified to serve as watchdogs and to promote awareness of human rights. Human Rights in the Supply Chain Consideration for human rights and labor in the supply chain is an important CSR issue for companies with transactions that take place on a global scale. At ITOCHU, each Division Company surveys the actual situation in this regard among its suppliers, checking to ensure that suppliers are not engaged in forced labor, child labor or any other immoral labor practices. Please refer to the page 55 for more about surveying actual labor practices in the supply chain. 12 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation Penetration of CSR at ITOCHU CSR Employee Questionnaire and Confirmation Test We conduct the on-line Employee Questionnaire Survey and confirmation test every year to deepen and assess CSR awareness among our employees. For the fiscal 2013, we included a special feature on CSR in our internal magazine, ITOCHU Monthly, and conducted the questionnaire on this article. Simultaneously, we have conducted a confirmation test on CSR knowledge such as ISO26000 and human rights, which were introduced in the CSR feature as the topics every employee must know. The questionnaire and test were targeted to the ITOCHU employees around the world, this year, 85.4% of the 6,818 employees answered to the survey and test, a total of 5,819 respondents. In the questionnaire, as a fixed–point observation, we ask a question of what CSR issues ITOCHU Corporation should address every year. The top response for three straight years has been promoting businesses that help solve social issues ; moreover, the percentage of respondents ranking this as the top issue has risen year after year, from 40.8% in FY2011 to 48.3% in FY2012 and 54.8% in the most recent survey. ITOCHU will continue to reflect the opinions of employees in CSR, while promoting CSR through its business activities. Replies to the CSR employee questionnaire and confirmation test 2013 Questionnaire for employees Questionnaire for employees Total of of ITOCHU Corporation overseas blocs Number of employees 4,875 1,943 6,818 Number of replies 4,526 1,293 5,819 Reply rate 92.8% 66.6% 85.4% <Questionnaire Results Excerpt> Top 3 CSR Issues ITOCHU Corporation should address over the past three years FY2013 FY2012 FY2011 1 Promotion of business 54.8% Promotion of business 48.3% Promotion of business 40.8% contributing to solving contributing to solving contributing to solving social issues social issues social issues 2 Employee relations 45.7% Transparent corporate 40.5% Transparent corporate 37.9% governance system governance system 3 Measures to prevent 40.2% Employee relations 36.4% Employee relations 37.1% the depletion of resources CSR Seminars We regularly organize internal CSR seminars to incorporate the views and opinions on various CSR issues from outside experts. 13 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation In-House CSR Seminar Held on Social Business with a Focus on the Front Lines On February 14, 2013, the eighth internal CSR seminar titled Social Business with a Focus on the Front Lines took place at the company’s head office in Tokyo with the participation of approximately 180 employees of ITOCHU Corporation and its Group companies. The seminar was in three parts. First, Professor Seiichiro Yonekura of Hitotsubashi University, well known as an advocate of social innovation, spoke on the global circumstances surrounding social businesses. In the second part, which looked at case studies, Mr. Ryoma Omuro, manager of the Textile Material Section in the Textile Company, acted as an internal presenter to explain the Pre-Organic Cotton Program in India. As an external presenter, Mr. Yozo Nakao, associate general manager of the CSR Department of Ajinomoto Co., Inc., gave a briefing on the Ghana Nutrition Improvement Project. The third part was for a panel discussion facilitated by Professor Yonekura and attended by people involved in the case study projects. The panel discussed a broad range of subjects, including the speed of business, ways to take risks and the balance between social and business aspects. One employee in the audience commented, “I realized that it is socially meaningful to pursue innovations that change the status quo, instead of just saying it is difficult.” Another said, “The case studies make me feel like getting involved.” In the future, ITOCHU will continue to seek new opportunities to raise awareness, so that its basic stance of contributing to society through business activities can take a more practical form. The keynote lecture by Professor A case study presentation by Mr. The panel discussion Seiichiro Yonekura of Hitotsubashi Yozo Nakao, associate general University manager of the CSR Department of Ajinomoto Co., Inc. Internal CSR Seminars in the past 1st seminar Human rights / labor issues 2nd seminar Global warming and the business of general trading companies 3rd seminar The social impacts and roles of information technology in Japanese society 4th seminar Loss and recycling in food distribution 5th seminar Biodiversity and corporate initiatives 6th seminar Procedures for assessing environmental and social risk in project finance 7th seminar Human Rights and Global Business for a General Trading Company 8th seminar Social Business with a Focus on the Front Lines 14 Highlight Resolving Social Issues through Business Striving to Resolve the Problems of Cotton Farmers in India through the Supply Chain Pre Organic Cotton Program Since the Green Revolution in the 1960s, genetically modified (GM) seeds and agrochemicals, such as pesticides, have been used in large quantities in India. As a result, the purchase and use of agrochemicals are imposing a heavy burden on the finances and health of cotton farmers, many of whom are impoverished. Aiming to improve this situation through business, in 2008 ITOCHU launched the Pre Organic Cotton Program. This section provides information about the amount of cotton handled through this program, which is growing each year, as well as the conditions of the farmers participating in the program. What is the Pre Organic Cotton Program? volume handled and about ¥5.0 billion in sales. Through continued growth in the volume of POC handled, the proThe Pre Organic Cotton (POC) Program, which has been jointly gram aims to enhance the living environment for more cotton operated by ITOCHU and KURKKU Co., Ltd., since 2008, farmers by increasing the number of farmers practicing orhelps cotton farmers in India to make the transition to organic ganic cultivation methods in India. cultivation methods. The program aims to stop the vicious cirVolume Handled and Sales of Related Products cle of environmental damage, health hazards, and economic 2012 1,000 tons ¥300 million 2015 5,000 tons ¥2.3 billion burdens on farmers caused by agrochemicals and chemical 2017 10,000 tons ¥5.0 billion fertilizers. To that end, the program includes giving guidance on organic farming methods and supporting the acquisition of organic farming certificates during a three-year transition period. Commitment to the Business Call to Action Expanding the Scale of POC Operations Because it contributes to the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)*, in 2012 the Since the program was launched in 2008, farmers from POC Program was approved as an initiative 2,346 households have participated, and 1,184 of those responding to the Business Call to Action households have acquired organic farming certificates. In ad(BCtA). BCtA, which is a global initiative hosted at the United dition, more than 40 companies, including apparel and natuNations Development Programme (UNDP), promotes busiral cosmetics companies, have introduced products using nesses aimed at achieving both commercial success and suscotton procured through the program, and in 2012 the protainable development. As a result of this approval, the POC gram handled 1,000 tons of POC. The initiatives of major Program has enjoyed increased international recognition. The customers are expected to drive further growth in sales of program is seen as an example of a successful inclusive busiPOC and in the scale of the market, and in 2013 the volume ness originating in Japan that fairly incorporates people in dehandled is expected to reach 1,500 tons. The program aims veloping countries into the supply chain. to expand to overseas markets, such as Europe and the * Millennium Development Goals (MDGs): Eight development goals, such as eradicatUnited States, with targets for 2017 of 10,000 tons in ing extreme poverty and hunger, that international society will strive to achieve by the target year of 2015. Comments from Companies Using POC Linking to Business that Contributes to the Environment and Society Awareness of environmental and social contribution is growing and in this setting I believe that in 2013 the market will be very receptive to cotton products that were spun using power generated by the wind. In April 2012, I visited India with the program manager from ITOCHU, and was able to confirm the conditions of the POC farmers and the wind power generation. We began Kozo Kitade General Manager, sales of women’s, men’s, and children’s apparel at the end of March 2013, Product Development and started sales of underwear in April. In 2013, we plan to sell one million Department, Apparel Division, units, and next year we plan to increase sales even further. Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 15 On-site, Third-party Report This is the report of an on-site investigation by Hidemi Yoshida, an Also, feedback from participants included comments that organic associate professor at the Graduate School of Social Governance, cultivation resulted in higher yields of all crops. There were hardly Hosei University. In December 2012, Ms. Yoshida investigated the any participants who mentioned any of the drawbacks that are comconditions of farmers participating in the POC Program in India. monly heard in regard to these types of programs, such as lower From the viewpoint of internacrop yields or an increase in work. (Probably, these responses were tional cooperation, the POC obtained because appropriate organic farming techniques were inProgram has been highly troduced into areas where there was insufficient knowledge and evaluated as an example of a techniques regarding traditional agricultural methods, and yields unique initiative targeting imwere low to begin with.) proved livelihoods and lifeThe effectiveness of the POC Program, as described above, will styles for farmers in India. A likely be highly evaluated as an example of changing the status quo general trading company has regarding the resolution of social problems in India. There is also the Hidemi Yoshida (third from left) a number of strengths in issue of suicide among cotton farmers who are struggling to repay Associate Professor, Graduate School of Social Governance, Hosei University terms of contributing to the their debts. This could be considered a symbol of India’s poverty Recent research theme: Reducing poverty support of farming villages in crisis. There are many cases where farmers have borrowed money through CSR activities and social business emerging countries. First, it is at high rates of interest to purchase GM seeds, fertilizer, and agronot restricted by a budget that is available only for a specific implechemicals, but with a poor harvest due to unseasonable weather or mentation period, such as with official development assistance other reasons, they become unable to repay their loans and end up (ODA) projects. Accordingly, to the extent that a project is successful committing suicide. In the POC Program, the seeds distributed free in terms of both business and development, there is a high probabiliof charge are native varieties, and seeds that are subsequently proty that the project activities will be continued. Second, a general duced by the farmer will germinate in the following year, so the farmtrading company can use its transactional relationships with large ers do not face the expenses of purchasing seeds or agrochemicals. customers to expand the scale of sales. Consequently, there is a The fertilizer used in the program, which uses cow manure and other strong potential that support can be provided to more farmers in the locally available materials, is less expensive than chemical fertilizer. future. On the other hand, what do the farmers think about this situThe POC Program is taking the opposite direction from the Green ation? In December 2012, I conducted an on-site investigation with Revolution, which involved the introduction of modern agricultural the cooperation of Indian researchers. techniques, but I would like to emphasize that the program is steadiIn Madhya Pradesh, which has been a site for program activities ly promoting stable livelihoods for the farmers. since they were first commenced, Raj Eco Farms, which promotes organic farming, is responsible for promoting the adoption of techReasons for Participating in POC Program: Top Five nology for the POC Program and for sales of cotton. The field staff (116 respondents selected the top 3 reasons from among possible answers.) visit villages and recruit participants. Native varieties of seeds are Number of Major reasons for participation % responses distributed at no cost, and guidance is given on techniques of makNo need to purchase agrochemicals / fertilizer 85 79.3% ing fertilizer and insecticide using cow manure and herbs. Moreover, Seeds distributed free of charge 57 49.1% support is provided for receiving organic farming certification from Training in organic cultivation 47 40.5% the certification organization. In my investigation, I collected data on Reduction in production costs 42 36.2% such factors as income / expenditures and lifestyle changes. This inIncreased yields for all crops 32 27.6% formation was collected from 120 households that were participating in the POC Program and 60 households that were not participating. Improvement of Health (Number of Respondents: 116) This made clear, on a quantitative basis, that (1) farmers participating Overall in the POC Program substantially reduced their expenditures for cotCondition Condition physical Cough Headache Dizziness of eyes of skin ton production goods (agrochemicals, fertilizers, seeds), (2) excess condition Improved 41 21 25 21 9 63 funds were allocated to improving housing, children’s education, and % 35.3% 18.1% 21.6% 18.1% 7.8% 54.3% paying back debt, and (3) more than half of the participants reported improvements in their health (especially pruritus, etc.). Comments from the POC Program Manager Connecting Farmers in India with Consumers Five years have passed since ITOCHU started the POC Program. The number of farmers participating in the POC Program has steadily increased, but still we have not yet been able to help many farming families escape from a debt spiral due to their poverty. The POC Program is an activity that connects farmers in India, who are the producers, with consumers. In major consumer markets, such as Japan, Europe, and North America, these products will lead to increased awareness of the Ryoma Omuro issue of poverty around the world and will promote change in society. We are advancing this proManager, gram because we believe it is part of our responsibility to society as a company with strengths in Textile Material Section, Apparel Department 3, the textile raw material trade, such as a long track record and key platforms. Apparel Division 2 16 Highlight Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains vol.5 Producing Lithium-Ion Batteries The Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains presents an overall view of supply chains for specific products. This year’s report, the fifth in the series, covers lithium-ion batteries (LiBs), which will play a major role in the realization of a clean, renewable energy society. ITOCHU has worked together with Group companies to concentrate marketing, technical development, raw material procurement, and logistics capabilities. In this way, ITOCHU and Group companies are cooperating to establish a supply chain that will increase the presence of LiBs. Front-Line Report: Hideaki Miyata President and Representative Director, Social System Design Co., Ltd. • Professor Emeritus, The University of Tokyo • The SB Research Group, Incorporated Association, Representative Director • Forum for East Japan Smart City Project, Representative Director From 2010 to 2012, demonstration tests were conducted for FamilyMart’s “Tsukuba Kenkyu Gakuen-ten.” These tests demonstrated the successful storing of energy from photovoltaic (PV) power generation and the rapid charging of electric vehicles (EVs). Small LiBs for electronic equipment, which were first commercialized in 1991 by Japanese manufacturers, have become commodities. Now, change on a larger scale is being driven by an unfolding paradigm shift—that electricity can be stored. Large LiBs for stationary or vehicular use are about to change business, and the world. I went to the front lines to investigate how the ITOCHU Group is tackling this challenge. The Production of LiBs for Stationary or Vehicular Use Lithium and Cathode Electrode Cell LiBs for stationary other materials materials (cathode) use or vehicular use Cathode Separator Assembled battery Anode Battery container Insulating layer Graphite and Anode Electrode other materials materials (anode) Akira Yoshino, the inventor of LiBs, said that maybe it would have been better not to use the name “batteries.” With LiBs, the mechanism for the storage of electricity is entirely different from conventional batteries. In LiBs, charging and discharging occur through the movement of lithium ions in the gaps between the cathode and the anode when voltage is applied, rather than through a chemical reaction as with conventional batteries. Raw Materials Lithium Resource Development expand facilities in comparison with the method used in Currently, three companies that produce lithium at brine South America, which requires solar evaporation. Accordlakes in South America have a combined share of about ingly, SIM’s method facilitates further gains in cost competi70% of the global lithium market. Simbol Materials (SIM), tiveness through increased production capacity. based in California, has independently developed innovative, ITOCHU, which invested in SIM in June 2010, is now breakthrough technology to recover and commercialize lithiworking to provide lithium compounds for various applicaum from spent geothermal brine used in geothermal power tions. These applications include cathode materials and the generation facilities. SIM’s exclusive production method, electrolytes in electrolytic solution, which are core compowhich is not influenced by the weather, makes it easy to nents of LiBs, as well as other commercial applications. Materials Cathode Material Production dissolution, reaction, drying, mixing, firing, and pulverizaLocation: Toda Kogyo Corp.* tion. Any contamination by foreign substances will have In addition to lithium, cathode materials also contain mana critical influence on the product’s lifespan and safety. ganese, cobalt, nickel, and other components. The perforConsequently, this contamination must be avoided. That is mance and lifespan of LiBs are determined by which of why production sites are kept as clean as food factories, these components are combined to make the cathode including high-precision checks that use electromagnets materials. Accordingly, the design and production of cathto prevent contamination by iron. ode materials plays a central role in the production of LiBs. In Japan, lithium and other raw materials for cathode The production processes for cathode materials are materials are almost all imported. Accordingly, ITOCHU’s 17 COLUMN: A Bright Future With Clean Energy To optimize the energy supply, a range of separate initiatives is necesinexpensive. U.S. startup companies and large corporations are comsary because the relevant factors vary, not only by application but also peting fiercely in the area of dramatic cost-cutting technologies. by region. These factors include the state of infrastructure, the geoThe ability of clean energy and electricity storage technologies to graphic area of a country, and access to sources of fossil fuels and clean withstand actual usage conditions have been demonstrated for 10 energy. For example, the United States covers a large geographic area years. Adoption has been delayed, but Pike Research forecasts that in and its infrastructure is aging, so frequency adjustment and other tech2018 the industry will have a scale of about ¥1 trillion. Over the next 10 niques will contribute to the optimization of supply. In Russia, which years, clean energy is expected to become the covers a large area and in which infrastructure has not caught up to primary source of energy and to make a contrieconomic growth, distributed sources of electrical power will make a bution to a sustainable world. contribution in the short term. Naoki Ota Moreover, to foster the use of clean energy it will be necessary to CTO of 24M Technologies, Inc. achieve cost competitiveness that is comparable to that of fossil fuels. (a venture company spun off from MIT) In the United States, electricity bills vary by state, but they are extremely Former CTO of Ener1/EnerDel, Inc. procurement supply chain, which Anode materials look like black carbon handles lithium from SIM, has powder, and the processes for anode proa key role to play in supporting duction—granulation, heat treatment, pulToda Kogyo’s world-class proverization, and firing—are completely Cluster structure duction technologies. automated. These processes incorporate * Capital / business partnership agreement KBMJ’s valuable know-how, and by designing and producing concluded in December 2012. Equity-method Raw materials are mixed and affiliate of ITOCHU. Toda Kogyo and ITOCHU placed in the container, which is a distinctive space known as the cluster structure, KBMJ is are operating a joint venture that is engaged in then transferred to the firing mathe manufacture and sale of cathode materials manufacturing products that meet the increasingly advanced chine, which functions like an oven. in North America and China. needs of LiBs. In the future, KBMJ will strive to use its abundant experience and technical capabilities to develop anode Anode Material Production materials made from coconut shells and other plant-derived Location: Kureha Battery Materials Japan Co., Ltd. (KBMJ)* materials. In this way, KBMJ plans to address growing deWhen voltage is applied to charge LiBs, lithium ions move mand and the need to reduce costs. from the cathode to the anode. Performance characteristics, * Established as a joint venture between ITOCHU and KUREHA Corporation in April such as the charge capacity, power, and durability of the bat2011. Equity-method affiliate of ITOCHU. In 2012, KURARAY Co., Ltd., and The Innovation Network Corporation of Japan became shareholders. In addition to the tery, depend on how the lithium ions are stored in the molecuproduction of anode materials, KBMJ also has one of the world’s top shares in the lar structure of their destination, the anode. production of the binder that is used in the production of electrodes. Products Electrode Production the unit is folded like an aluminum pouch. This completes Cathode parts are created by coating cathode materials, in the basic parts of the laminated LiB. a thickness of several tens of microns, onto thin aluminum With batteries for stationary or vehicular use, cells are plates that have been formed into a roll. In the same way, made by aligning several basic parts and putting them in an anode parts are created by coating anode materials on thin aluminum box or a similar container. One cell has a voltage copper plates. At this stage, the coating technology deof 4 volts. Cells are connected in series to provide the needpends on precision coating machinery. ed capacity and the assembled battery is finished. Computerized control is essential to ensure that charging and discharging are conducted in a safe and efficient manner. Anode parts (left), and coating equipment for LiB electrodes (right) made by HIRANO TECSEED Co., Ltd., in which ITOCHU has invested. ITOCHU Anode Cell sells coating equipment and all types of other LiBs production equipment Separator in Japan and overseas. Fabrication An insulator, called the separator, is sandwiched between the cathode and the anode, which have been cut to the Diagram of basic cell parts Cathode size of the product. The electrolyte solution is added, and Assembled battery 18 Applications Stationary LiBs proposing lifestyles that offer energy self-sufficiency, from Locations: ITOCHU Property Development, Ltd., and ITOCHU ENEX CO., LTD. energy generation to energy storage. Installations of these In recent years, a growing systems are beginning to increase. number of companies have These LiBs were procured by ITOCHU. decided to install LiBs as standard equipment in new LiBs for Vehicles residential buildings. For exJapan is a leader in the competition to develop EVs, but ample, ITOCHU Property the adoption of EVs is still in the early stage, and sales in Development’s CREVIA FutaJapan are about 20,000 vehicles a year. CREVIA Futakotamagawa kotamagawa condominium However, adoption could increase rapidly in the near fubuilding, which was completed in March 2011, incorporates ture in China and other countries, where the rapid progress of LiB technology. A PV power generation panel providing motorization has led to simultaneous worsening of air pollution about 10 kilowatts has been installed on the roof of this fiveand provided support for the adoption of EVs. Assuming that story building, which has 51 condominium units. On the side 10% of passenger cars produced worldwide are eco-friendly, of the ground-level parking lot, there is an energy managethe market for vehicular LiBs would be more than 10 times ment system that uses a 24-kilowatt LiB. This provides the larger than the established market for the small batteries used electricity for the common areas of the condominium buildin electronic devices. ing, and the excess portion of the electricity is sold. There is Since 2010, ITOCHU also a popular car sharing program using EVs. has been supplying LiBs In addition, an energy storage system from ITOCHU to demonstration projENEX has been installed at CREVIA Senkawa, which was ects involving the switch completed in January 2013. If there is a power failure, it can to EVs by public transbe used as an emergency power source to provide power portation institutions for lighting and outlets in the meeting room and to operate associated with the MinLiB-powered electric bus in operation in Akita a pump that supplies well water. istry of the Environment Prefecture and local municipalities. PV power generation panel From 2010 to 2012, with the cooperation of a convenience store in Tsukuba City, ITOCHU successfully conExcess portion is sold Emergency Storage conditions (Capacity: ducted a demonstration test of a charging station for EVs Normal conditions battery 12 kilowatts) using solar power generation as the source of electricity. Common areas other Well pump EV Common Meeting Meeting Well PV power generation panels (water charger area room room pump sprinkling) lighting outlets lighting Overview of CREVIA Senkawa energy storage system Storage battery Rapid charger ITOCHU ENEX’s energy storage system is for general household use. By combining LiBs with solar power EV generation systems and fuel cells Installation of energy (Ene-Farm), ITOCHU ENEX is storage system Test conducted at Tsukuba City convenience store Toward a Society Based on Local Consumption of Locally Generated Power The future of nuclear power generation is unclear, and as a result the During my research for this report, I was able to see outstanding introduction of renewable energy on a large scale will be indispensable technology and meet amazing researchers and engineers at every stage for the resolution of Japan’s energy and environmental problems. of the Japanese LiBs supply chain. In strategically nurturing this new Accordingly, I believe that the effective use of land and the introduction industry, an extremely important issue will be how to ensure competitiveof large-scale energy storage facilities are the most important issues. For ness throughout the long supply chain—which extends from the proexample, multiple public institutions in Tohoku have begun to introduce curement of raw materials for LiBs to the construction of energy PV power generation facilities and LiBs. Even in Japan, with its limited management systems. A general trading company has a significant role geographical area, there is about 400,000 square kilometers of fallow or to play in this regard, and moving forward I would like to see ITOCHU abandoned land. About 30% of energy demand could be met simply by tackle these issues on a companywide basis. installing PV power generation panels on this land. The power generated Website for Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains by solar cells fluctuates with the weather, and as a result it will gradually http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/supply_chain/reportage/ become necessary to install nearby energy storage facilities. 19 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Textile Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies Our scope of business covers the entire area of lifestyle categories, and, as a customer-oriented marketing company, we have developed businesses that cover the entire textile industries, from raw materials / fabrics to garment manufacturing, brands, and industrial materials. In Japan, with our expertise in developing brands, we are expanding further from fashion to the entire area of lifestyle categories. Furthermore, we are planning to strengthen life & healthcare businesses as well. We will continue to promote brand businesses overseas in North America, Europe, and China. In addition, we will also accelerate brand development in Hitoshi Okamoto emerging countries in the ASEAN region, the Middle East, and Latin America, President, Textile Company where consumer markets are expected to expand. Furthermore, in Asia we will enhance our production capabilities to meet our customers' needs. CSR at this Division Company A marketing company that adopts a social perspective In its CSR activities, ｔhe Textile Company places a top priority on further improving the safety of its products and services as well as customer satisfaction. It also strives to promote societyand environment-friendly businesses and expand its CSR activities into our group companies. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans We will continue conducting monitoring surveys of overseas manufacturing plants belonging to group companies, and will target further advancements in supply chain management through employee education. We will also continue to promote societyand environment-friendly businesses. 20 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Pre-Organic Cotton Program ITOCHU and KURKKU Co., Ltd. jointly plan and operate the Pre Organic Cotton Program, which helps farmers in India to transfer cotton farming to organic cotton cultivation. The program aims to stop the vicious circle of environmental damage, health hazards, and economic burdens on farmers caused by pesticides and chemical fertilizers. To that end, the program includes giving guidance on organic farming and supporting acquisition of organic farming certificates during a three-year transition. Since the program began in 2008, 2,346 farming households have taken part, and 1,184 of these have Cotton harvesting on one of our farms in India acquired organic farming certificates. In addition, with products from upward of 40 companies, including apparel and natural cosmetics manufacturers, having been introduced, in 2012 the volume of cotton handled reached 1,000 tons. In 2013 initiatives with major customers are expected to driver higher POC sales and an expansion of the POC market, and to generate volumes of 1,500 tons. In 2012, the project was approved as an initiative of the Business Call to Action (BCtA), which is a global initiative led by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) as a business achieving commercial activities and sustainable development. Moving forward, we will work to further expand the Pre Organic Cotton Program, supported by understanding and empathy among companies, organizations, and consumers. Please refer to the pages 15-16 for more about Pre Organic Cotton. A platform for environmental conservation activities in coordination with consumers Fashion Earth PROJECT Amid the advance of global warming, efforts aimed at environmental conservation have become a major challenge facing companies in the apparel industry. In response, in 2010 ITOCHU Corporation worked in conjunction with Hakuhodo DY Media Partners, Inc. to launch the Fashion Earth Project (FEP), an environmental conservation activity that spans the apparel industry. Using CO2 emission credits from a number of sources, including aｎ UN-certified wind power generation project in India, the project began selling hang tags incorporating CO2 emission rights (blue FEP hang tags) to apparel manufacturers. Additionally, in 2011, with the cooperation of more trees, a general incorporated association operating forest conversation activities (representative: Ryuichi Sakamoto), FEP began offering green FEP hang tags to contribute to domestic forest conservation efforts. Since FEP allows the development of environmental conservation activities in coordination with consumers through messages on hang tags, by January 2013 the tags had been adopted by 53 brands across 17 apparel manufacturers, leading to a reduction of 4,220 tons in CO2 emissions. 21 CSR and Our Business By deploying this knowledge in a variety of projects in the future, ITOCHU will further develop the platform for environmental conservation activities that bring together a diverse range of stakeholders including manufacturers, consumers and NPOs. Fashion Earth PROJECT CSR Initiatives by Major Group Companies Supporting the Biodiversity Conservation Activities of Hunting World Towards achieving the “coexistence with nature” advocated by its founder, Hunting World supports the biodiversity conservation activities being pursued by NPO Borneo Conservation Trust Japan in Borneo, situated in South East Asia. The Trust is engaged in a range of activities to ensure that a sustainable global environment in which people and nature coexist can be handed down to the next generation, and its efforts are particularly focused on the Green Corridor Plan, an initiative to restore migratory pathways that link sections of forest, allow wild animals to come and go and connect ecosystems, which have Borneo bag by Hunting World been fragmented by the rapid expansion of palm oil plantations in the area. To support these activities, Hunting World has designed charity goods and contributes 1% of their proceeds to the cause. Recently, progress has been made establishing a wild animal rescue center, a facility for the temporary protection, treatment and taming of Bornean elephants, and part of the support funds raised from the charity goods are being utilized for this purpose. Going forward, Hunting World will continue to promote initiatives for enabling our co-existence with nature. Panoramic view of the rescue center 22 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Machinery Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies We will continue to pursue IPP, water supply, environmental, and other social infrastructure businesses with consideration for environmental impact. We will also augment our earnings platform through the marine business, aircraft leasing, and retail finance of automobiles and construction machinery. At the same time, we will bolster and accelerate our operational initiatives in new growth business areas that will become primary sources of future earnings. We will strive to maximize our earnings from trade related / peripheral to acquired assets and investment. In healthcare, under the medical value chain concept we will further expand trade in domestic and overseas markets. Takao Shiomi President, Machinery Company CSR at this Division Company Assuming the role of providing prosperity to the next generation through environment-conserving businesses With the aim of handing down a better global environment to the next generation, we promote environmentconserving businesses and strive to contribute to the realization of a sustainable, healthy society that is in harmony with the environment. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans In FY2014, we will continue our commitment to implementing management considering environmental and CSR issues. We will also aggressively work on businesses related to renewable energies including wind power and geothermal, participating in Energy from Waste projects as well as water-related projects including desalination. Furthermore, we will supply local governments and related organizations in Japan with equipment to prevent epidemics and protect against disasters, conduct awareness-raising activities and endeavor to help maintain a sense of well-being in society. 23 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Participating in a Geothermal Power Generation Plant in Indonesia In April 2013, we concluded an energy sales contract with Indonesia’s state-owned electricity company for a 330MW geothermal IPP project in the Sarulla district of Northern Sumatra in Indonesia. Geothermal power generation is a technology for generating electricity using high-temperature and highpressure steam and hot water extracted from geothermal reservoirs deep underground. Geothermal power enables almost indefinite use by reinjecting ground water properly back into the reservoir, and is a renewable energy whose future utilization holds promise around the world. It has less impact on the environment since CO2 emissions during generation are very small, it is also capable of Scene of the signing ceremony stable supply throughout the year since it is not affected by weather, unlike other renewable energy resources. The Second Project of Energy-from-Waste in England In March 2013 ITOCHU participated in SITA Cornwall Holdings Limited, a waste management PFI partnership in Cornwall (located around 350 kilometers to the westsouthwest of London), England. Under the project, waste management services will be provided over the next 26 years. This marks ITOCHU’s second Energy-from-Waste PFI project after the South Tyne and Wear Waste Management Partnership it joined in April 2011. ITOCHU will utilize the experiences gained through these projects to help reduce its environmental impact through participation in Energy-from-Waste projects in the future. Cornwall Waste Incineration and Power Generating Plant 24 CSR and Our Business World's Largest Wind Farm Goes into Operation The Shepherds Flat Wind Project (845 megawatt) in the State of Oregon, the United States, has been in full operation since 2012. It is one of the world’s largest wind farms, able to supply electricity to more than 235,000 average U.S. homes, and helps to achieve a reduction of 1.48 million tons of carbon dioxide per year, equivalent to the annual amount of carbon dioxide from approximately 200,000 passenger vehicles. This project is the second project implemented under the memorandum on business collaboration concerning co-investment in renewable energy worldwide, concluded between ITOCHU and General Electric Company. Moving forward, the Machinery Company will continue to actively seek out investment opportunities for wind power generation projects through The Shepherds Flat Wind Project cooperation with various companies. Supporting disaster control by supplying medical equipment We supply equipment for disasters to local municipalities, Self-Defense Forces, police, and fire department, etc. Japan Medical Partners, for which ITOCHU is the leading member, is a non-profit organization consisting of private companies. It helps ensure the continued provision of medical services at times of disaster and supports local municipalities in educational activities and operations involving countermeasures against infectious diseases and disasters. We create “products and services,” “information,” and “operational knowhow” by combining and merging the functions of member companies of Japan Medical Partners. By providing them, we spread the correct A training session for healthcare workers on measures for knowledge about disasters daily, help take related preventing infections initiatives, and help ensure the continued provision of medical services in the event of disaster. 25 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Metals & Minerals Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies The Metals & Minerals Company is working to expand its equity interests in order to secure stable supplies of metals and mineral resources underpinning the industrial framework. In addition, we are working to build a value chain that starts from equity interests and to create added value in the trade business by leveraging the ITOCHU Group’s comprehensive strengths. Furthermore, we are working to secure non-ferrous metals, rare metals, rare earth metals, and other natural resources that have become increasingly difficult to procure in recent years. In response to growing international concern with environmental problems, we are also actively involved in such Ichiro Nakamura areas as solar power; biomass fuels-related business; and the trading of President, Metals & Minerals Company greenhouse gas emission credits. CSR at this Division Company Promoting CSR through the development and stable supply of mineral resources We promote CSR with the entire ITOCHU Group, while pursuing the following missions: 1) development and stable supply of mineral resources; and 2) initiatives for solarand recycling-related businesses that are ecological to the earth. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans As a global company, we will promote environmental management both domestically and at overseas Group companies. As well as promoting the consideration of safety and environmental factors with partner companies when we engage in the development and exploration of mineral resources, we will take on the challenge of businesses that are friendly to the global environment, such as solar businesses and other initiatives aimed at the sustainable utilization of resources. We will also continue to promote CSR education and training based on the social issues facing the industry. 26 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Integrated Recycling Business at Dalian Changxing Island, China In 2010, the Metals & Minerals Company, together with a major Japanese recycling company and Chinese partners, established an integrated recycling business primarily for steel scrap, Dalian New Green Recycle & Resources Corporation, at Dalian Changxing Island Harbor Industrial Zone, the gateway to the China’s Northeast. The business promotes the recycling of metal resources with cutting-edge technologies and is the first foreign company to have acquired certification as a Model Facility for a Scrap Steel Delivery Center by an industry group. It is the only recycling facility licensed by the Chinese Government at Dalian Changxing Island Harbor Industrial Zone, and as China’s first large-scale integrated cycling center, the aim is for the facility to serve as a model for future recycling centers in China. The state-of-the-art ultra-large shredder equipment is made in the United States and boasts 6,000 horsepower 27 CSR and Our Business Construction Started on One of Africa’s Largest Solar Power Plants in South Africa In the first and second bids for solar power generation projects conducted by South Africa’s Department of Energy, Norway-based solar power generation system integrator Scatec Solar, where ITOCHU Corporation owns a 37.5% stake, was selected for solar power generation projects with a combined output of 190 MW, and subsequently concluded an agreement with the South African stated-owned power utility Eskom to sell power for a period of 20 years. The South African government has established a target of increasing its total power generating capacity up to 85 GW by the year 2030 and The 75-MW solar power generating system selected in the plans for renewable energies to account for roughly first bid, currently under construction twenty percent of the increase. This project is being conducted as a part of this effort. A financing agreement has been established with a local bank, and construction is underway with the aim of starting operations in 2014. Under the project, a 265-hectare site will be carpeted with more than 750,000 solar panels, expected to generate over 370 GWh annually. As well as covering the energy consumption of the equivalent of 88,000 homes, this is expected to have an annual CO2 reduction effect of 315,000 tons. With this project, Scatec Solar has firmly established its position in Africa as a solar power generation system integrator involved in all facets of solar power plants from development to construction and ownership. 28 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Energy & Chemicals Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies Energy Area In development, we plan to expand existing projects and participate in promising new projects while minimizing risks, leveraging our expertise to expand our business in this area. With regard to trading, we will continue to expand the traditional flow of business—importing and wholesaling products from the Middle East to countries in Asia. Meanwhile, we will take advantage of the opportunity presented by growing unconventional crude oil and gas production in North America to encourage the new flow of trade from North Yuji Fukuda America to Asia. We will also work to expand our trading business by utilizing President, Energy & Chemicals Company our natural gas interests in North America. Chemicals Area Based on worldwide trading operations in the areas of organic chemicals, plastics, and fertilizer and other inorganic chemicals, the division will advance projects in upstream areas to secure competitive raw materials. In addition, in downstream areas the division will take steps to expand its business and bolster its supply chains, especially in the retail including pharmaceuticals, plastics processing, and electronic materials areas. CSR at this Division Company Promoting CSR through environmental preservation and the stable supply of high-quality products Affording maximum consideration to the environment, we ensure safe and secure high-quality products, as well as their stable supply and contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through the development of energy resources and infrastructure, the securing of upstream products and materials and the strengthening of downstream supply chains. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans Our group promotes businesses that are friendly to the global environment such as bioethanol, renewable natural energy, DME, and lithium battery-related projects as well as the stable securing and supply of energy resources through the development of conventional oil fields. We will also continue to provide education on related laws, regulations and safety tips to energy and chemical products. 29 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Initiatives in the Development of U.K. North Sea Oil Fields Aimed at Secure Stable Resources For new cluster of oil fields (Western Isles Development Project, “WIDP”) discovered at a block owned (23.08% ownership ratio) by CIECO Exploration and Production (UK) Limited (100% owned subsidiary of ITOCHU Corporation) in U.K. North Sea, ITOCHU Corporation decided to make a joint investment with block operator Dana Petroleum (E&P) Limited. Subsequently, the development plan was approved by the British government in December 2012. Since 1993, ITOCHU has engaged in oil development projects in the North Sea, including the additional acquisition of Alba Oilfield interests in 2005, and strived to secure a stable supply of resources. ITOCHU has taken part in the WIDP since exploratory drilling was carried out in 1996, and the project has now transitioned to the development phase. With production commencing in 2015, the volume from ITOCHU’s oil and gas interests is expected to increase to approximately 10,000 barrels / day (during peak production). Utilizing the technical and commercial expertise developed in the North Sea, ITOCHU aims to transition the WIDP into production and Diagram showing the WIDP Mining Block further expand its operations. Food Stability through Fertilizer Manufacturing and Sales Business ITOCHU has acquired shares in Agromate Holdings Sdn Bhd (“Agromate”), one of the largest fertilizer manufacturers and distributors in Malaysia. Maintaining seven distribution centers in Malaysia and two in Indonesia, and handling around 1.3 million tons of fertilizer annually, Agromate is one of the largest fertilizer distributors in Malaysia and Asia. The company also owns an NPK (nitrogen, phosphoric acid and potassium) fertilizer plant boasting a production capacity of 200,000 tons annually in Sabah, Malaysia. The demand for fertilizer in Asia is expected to expand in the future, particularly in countries like China and India, and from a global perspective, the demand for fertilizer Agromate products 30 CSR and Our Business resources will likely tighten in the medium-to-long term through the increased demand for food associated with population growth. By investing in new fields of fertilizer resources and building a robust Asia-centric sales structure on a joint basis with Agromate, ITOCHU is playing a part in ensuring the stable supply of food. Initiatives in Lithium-ion Battery-related Business The Chemicals Division is focusing on lithium-ion batteries, where demand is expected to grow for use in electric vehicles and hybrid vehicles, with business advances made to date in the area of component and materials production. Through Simbol Materials, a U.S. company in which ITOCHU invested in June 2010, ITOCHU participated in the production of high-purity lithium carbonate for lithium-ion batteries (LiB). Simbol is developing and promoting operations whereby lithium compounds are produced by extracting lithium from used geothermal brine at geothermal power plants. Simbol's manufacturing technology is being further developed and refined ahead of commercial production. Geothermal brine well in southern California High-purity lithium carbonate is used as a raw material for electrolyte salts (LiPF6) used in electrolyte solution, one of the main components for LiB. It is used in LiB for electric cars, for which a demand is expected to grow rapidly in the near future, as well as in stationary rechargeable batteries and in the clean energy field. Also, together with KUREHA Corporation and KURARAY Co., Ltd., we are involved in the joint development and commercialization of hard carbon for LiB anode material including “Biocarbotron”, a new hard carbon material derived from plants. Please refer to the pages 17-19 for a featured article, the Documentary Report Project on Supply Chains vol.5, Producing Lithium-Ion Batteries. 31 CSR and Our Business CSR at the Food Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies In the implementation of the Food Company's SIS strategy, we have further accelerated our initiatives, including capital / business alliances in the retail sector and integration of Group companies in the distribution and marketing area in Japan (Step 1). We have also broadened the foundations for our SIS strategy through its horizontal extension and development across the food value chain overseas. We have achieved this through joint initiatives with strategic partners in China and other Asian countries such as TING HSIN (CAYMAN ISLANDS) HOLDING because we recognize that although the Japanese market is shrinking due to a falling birthrate and an aging population, Yoshihisa Aoki demand in fast-growing emerging countries is rising (Step 2). The recent President, Food Company acquisition of the Dole businesses will enable the Food Company to organically combine its existing food value chain with Dole’s global brand and production and sales network. To accelerate the rollout of our global SIS strategy, we will expand sales of existing products and develop new products and businesses that leverage the Dole brand (Step 3). CSR at this Division Company Responding to the needs of consumers and society with environmental consideration We aim to conduct quality businesses that can contribute to society by ensuring a stable supply of safe products, checking multiple aspects of food safety, and paying attention to preserving the environment. In this manner, we strive to earn the trust of our customers and local communities. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans We will continue advancing initiatives that meet a variety of societal needs, such as ensuring the stable supply of food resources, protecting the environment, strengthening convenience store functions as social and lifestyle infrastructure, developing healthier foods and improving inspection systems to ensure food safety. 32 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Promotion of food resource procurement focused on stable supply and assured safety Populations and income levels are rising sharply around the world, including in Asian countries, and global demand for grains is expected to increase in the future. Meanwhile, consumers are increasingly aware of food safety, with rising demands for assuring safety and establishing traceability. The Food Company will pursue efforts to secure raw material centers on a global scale, including grains in North America, coffee in Central and South America and dairy products in the Oceania region, and continue to make significant contributions to the safe, secure and stable supply of food to customers in Asian markets including Japan and China. Even a grain export terminal on the United States west coast (pictured), which went into full-scale operation in February 2012, has managed to achieve stable operation primarily as a grain Grain elevator supply center for Asia in the midst of North America suffering from an historic drought. Supporting Agriculture in Africa (Initiatives for Africa Food Development Association) With the global population expanding, securing food resources is an increasingly important issue. In this setting, ITOCHU and 14 food manufacturers established the Africa Food Development Association in July, 2012. In conjunction with the Triangular Cooperation Programme for Agricultural Development of the African Tropical Savannah among Japan, Brazil and Mozambique (ProSAVANA-JBM)—an agricultural development project based on triangular cooperation that is being promoted by the Japanese Government—the association is working to promote the stable procurement of food resources. This project is focused on the Mozambique tropical savannah. The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is working in cooperation with a public agricultural institution in Brazil that is a leader in tropical agriculture. The project's aim is to contribute to the resolution of A soy field in Mozambique poverty issues in the host country and to the stable procurement of food resources for Japan and the rest of the world by developing a sub-Saharan savannah grasslands zone into competitive agricultural land. With ITOCHU taking the lead, the Association is supporting this project. A key focus will be soybeans and sesame, which have high nutritional value. Working together with food manufacturers that have world-class R&D technologies, the Association will select products for the Japanese market. These will include non-GM soybeans and sesame that meet the tastes of Japanese consumers. Moving forward, plans call for the selection of seeds that can be used in Mozambique in fall 2013 and for the development of new varieties. Approximately 80% of the population of Mozambique works in agriculture, and about 90% of those are small-scale farmers. Through the introduction of agricultural technologies and systems, this project is expected to contribute to improvement in the standard of living of farmers and to the establishment of a sustainable agricultural model. 33 CSR and Our Business Initiatives to develop foods for healthier lifestyles ITOCHU Corporation is committed to developing valueadded foods which satisfy consumers who are increasingly health-conscious. In October 2012, the Karada Smile Project, which was established in 2008, launched Nagomi no Ice, an ice cream themed after Japanese sweets which makes use of the flavors of the ingredients without using any milk or eggs. The product went on sale as part of a joint project being pursued by four companies, Uny, Circle K Sunkus, FamilyMart and ITOCHU Corporation, in cooperation with food retailers. On another front, in 2008 ITOCHU established a capital and business alliance with euglena Co., Ltd., a company involved with the mass cultivation of and research and development into Euglena (Japanese name: Midori Mushi), a type of algae that has been attracting attention “Midori Curry” dish containing Euglena as a rich source of nutrients. ITOCHU is considering business development from multiple perspectives. Supplements and hard biscuits which use the Euglena developed by the company have already been commercialized, and the development of further uses are being pursued. For instance, in August 2012 the ITOCHU employee cafeteria began serving a “Midori Curry” dish that uses Ishigaki-produced Euglena. Moving forward, ITOCHU even expects to develop new products that make use of the synergy between the Karada Smile Project and euglena, and will further promote the development of various products to achieve healthier lifestyles in Japan and overseas. Ensuring food safety through regular auditing of overseas suppliers Against a backdrop of increasingly diverse dietary lifestyles, the globalization of food distribution and increased awareness of health, consumers are taking an even greater interest in the safety and security of food. Meanwhile, incidents and problems have been occurring that threaten the safety and security of food, such as the BSE problem, violations of residue standards with pesticides and other substances, and the distribution of foods using additives untested for safety. In FY2002, ITOCHU Corporation set up the Food Safety and Compliance Management Office and has since taken broad measures to ensure safety in the trading of food. Since FY2011, as part of these measures, ITOCHU has been regularly visiting and auditing food processing plants A food audit underway of overseas suppliers for imported food. ITOCHU sets the suppliers to be audited and the frequency of the audits based on individual circumstances such as management systems in the other country, product characteristics and hygiene risks during processing. Employees or local staff then conduct audits by actually visiting the sites concerned. Audits confirm the management status based on 125 check items and suggest improvements as required. In FY2013, a total of 175 on-site audits of 115 suppliers were conducted. We regularly conduct trainings on audit methods for the whole ITOCHU Group to improve the quality of audit. 34 CSR and Our Business CSR at the ICT, General Products & Realty Company Mediumto Long-Term Growth Strategies As the ICT, General Products & Realty Company is involved in a broad range of areas, our basic approach is to add and expand the specialist strengths in each division and sector, while at the same time building a robust earnings platform spanning all organizations. For instance, in the paper and pulp category we have solidified our position as a leading pulp producer through investments in CENIBRA and METSA FIBRE. Next, to expand earnings we are adopting a holistically cooperative approach that transcends individual departments and sectors. Looking at construction, for example, we are now expanding transactions involving ICT, paper and Tomofumi Yoshida pulp, and logistics with an IT company that we dealt with initially in the area President,ICT, General Products & Realty Company of real estate transactions. These moves aim to create new value in the sense that they involve new transactions generated by pursuing additional and overlapping earnings. We are also taking on the challenge of creating true value, meaning the development of ongoing business that does not end with one-time non-recurring transactions. CSR at this Division Company Raising environmental awareness and contributing to the development of prosperous communities and societies Through the provision of environment-friendly products and services as well as products and solutions that help realize more prosperous societies by responding to regional and social needs, we will contribute to advancing the development of regional communities and the international society as a whole while also supporting safe and affluent lifestyles. CSR Action Plans Key points of our FY2014 action plans We will trade internationally certified forest products that will lead to the sustainable use of resources, develop environment-friendly condominiums and promote eco-friendly businesses such as energy management solution businesses that utilize IT. We will also contribute to the development of the international community and the realization of prosperous societies through the promotion of businesses with local partners in the areas of distribution network building, construction and finance in China and throughout Asia. Meanwhile, we will continue to undertake steady efforts to enhance our supply chain management and ensure compliance with related laws and regulations. 35 CSR and Our Business ※ :Achieved :Nearly achieved :Unachieved Major CSR Initiatives Sustainable forest management of CENIBRA in Brazil ITOCHU’s Group company CENIBRA in Brazil has consistently engaged in everything from forest management to pulp production. In 2005, CENIBRA obtained forest certification from the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) as well as CoC certification (certification for management of processing and distribution processes). Of the roughly 250,000 hectares of land the company owns (equivalent to the area of Kanagawa Prefecture), about 130,000 hectares are used to plant trees and produce pulp, while the other approximately 100,000 hectares are preserved as permanently protected forest or legally protected forest, maintaining the ecosystem. The company also addresses the restoration of natural forests. Each year it plants some 70,000 tree samplings of the four varieties that make up the native forests in an initiative that spans as much as 300 hectares each year. Protective breeding activities for endangered species of bird are also underway at Macedonia Farm in a protected zone of natural forest. Scarce wild birds such as the pheasant family bird, mutum are protected and bred at the farm and later released into the wild. 36 CSR and Our Business One of CENIBRA’s vast plantations The rare mutum at Macedonia Farm Active Development of Smart IT Infrastructure Business For the “Smart Streetlight Service,” a smart business with streetlights that use advanced technologies, ITOCHU won the Grand Prize for Energy Saving Service at the 9th Eco Products Awards in 2012. For this service, devices compatible with power line communications will be attached to each streetlight. These devices will enable remote control of each streetlight, including fine adjustment of the brightness level in accordance with the environment. We are currently conducting demonstration testing of this service in Tsukuba City in a project commissioned under a Ministry of the Environment program “For model businesses providing focused support for the development of low-carbon regions.” Moving forward, we will continue to strengthen our energy and smart IT infrastructure business and to promote energy management. In this way, we will strive to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. Conceptual diagram of Smart Streetlight Service CSR Initiatives by Major Group Companies Contributing to environmental conservation just by living Adoption of “Green Power” generated with natural energy ITOCHU Property Development, Ltd. Green Power is electric power generated using natural energy such as wind power, hydraulic power, and biomass (biological resources), which is available to companies, etc. for use as one of their voluntary environmental measures. Under the system of Green Power, the environmental added value of power generated using natural energy is traded in the form of the Certificate of Green Power, and companies and organizations that hold this certificate are recognized as having improved the environment based on the amount of power described on the certificate and thus as having contributed to the promotion of natural energy. Process of issuing Certificate of Green Power ITOCHU Property Development, Ltd. purchases 1,000,000 kWh/ year of Green Power (equivalent to reduction of CO2 by 370 tons per year *1 ) from Japan Natural Energy Co., 37 CSR and Our Business Ltd. The company allocates the purchased Green Power (amount for the first year) to power consumed in the communal areas of the condominiums it sells *2 . This means that residents of the condominiums can contribute to reducing CO2 emissions. *1 Calculated using Tokyo Electric Power Company's emissions factor after adjustment for fiscal 2010, which is of 0.000374tCO2/kWh. *2 In principle, the introduction of Green Energy to newly offered condominiums is undertaken only in projects operated solely by ITOCHU Property Development, Ltd., which is subject to change in future. 38 CSR and Our Business CSR at Overseas Offices ASEAN Southwest Asia Bloc: KIIC and Tenants Developing a Better Future with CSR Program Sonia Adriaty Karawang International Industry City (KIIC) Karawang International Industrial City (KIIC), an industrial estate in Karawang, West Java, Indonesia, and a joint venture between ITOCHU Corporation from Japan and Sinar Mas from Indonesia, has been engaging in several CSR activities in the surrounding villages. As part of KIIC’s CSR actions, we support the establishment of community baby health centers. On 28 February, additional two centers opened in the neighborhood. With these two Sonia Adriaty additions, KIIC has supported development of eight community baby health centers. This Karawang effort to help children also includes donating foods for malnourished babies. Since keeping International Industry good relationships with midwives is very important in running these centers, KIIC conducts City (KIIC) evaluation and coordination with midwives every year and provides them with baby health center equipment and uniforms. In addition, KIIC has been supporting CSR activities by its Tenant Association since 2000. The Tenant Association’s CSR activities include scholarship programs for senior and junior high schools, donations to orphans and baby food donations as well as helping elderly people to celebrate Islamic traditional festivals such as Idul Fitri and Idul Adha. In April, the association donated baby foods (milk and cereals) to 3,178 babies who lived in the neighboring areas. Further, KIIC together with 23 tenants conducted a joint CSR program called “Telaga Desa Agro Enviro Education Park.” Telaga Desa is a center of research, training/education, empowerment in agriculture, and environmental conservation. We believe the activities we conducted not only provided benefits in the form of charity but also will be recognized as the new practice of CSR efforts. Comment from Ms. Fatma, a midwife working at a baby health center We appreciated the cooperation of KIIC and thanked them for supporting healthy lives of malnourished children in the vicinity. ASEAN Southwest Asia Bloc: The 17th Annual JBAH Charity Bazaar was a Blossom Phan Pham Ngoc Son The Representative Office in Ho Chi Minh City February 24 was indeed a joyful and memorable day for ITOCHU Ho Chi Minh City (HCMC). We were honored to be this year’s host of the annual Japan Business Association of HCMC (JBAH) charity bazaar, which is carried out annually to raise funds for helping the disabled and impoverished hospital patients in Vietnam. 39 CSR and Our Business After weeks of preparation and excitement, we were ready to open shop in 800 square meters of the 3,000-capacity Nguyen Du stadium, and attend to customers who came to shop at the bazaar. The event went on without a hitch like the well-timed rhythms of a Japanese taiko drum; with lighten up faces of astonishing attendants and busy volunteers making great effort for their jobs. Yet, the event would not be blissfully complete without the unique dance performance by Vietnamese disabled students gave a unique dance performance in the afternoon. Phan Pham Ngoc Inarguably, the event ended with a toast. Thanks to all our great sponsors, volunteers and Son nearly 2,000 guests, a total of 1.2 billion Vietnamese dong (approx. 57,000 U.S. dollars) was The Representative raised from selling entrance tickets, clothes and consumer goods donated by members of Office in Ho Chi Minh JBAH, sponsoring organizations and other individuals. City The funds were honorably presented to the Sponsoring Association for Poor Patients during a solemn donation ceremony held at the HCMC Hall of the Vietnamese Fatherland Front on March 29. The funds were then donated to the Pediatric Hospital 2, the Odonto – Maxillo – Facial Hospital, and the Trauma and Orthopedic Hospital, expected to provide a considerable amount of assistance in providing many impoverished hospital patients in HCMC access to better and more technologically advanced treatment conditions. We succeeded! We created the perfect mixture of thoughtfulness and joy to the 17th annual JBAH charity bazaar. A very moving message from a young patient getting treated for her cleft clip and palate: “I felt so miserable and never dared to look at myself in the mirror. And since my family is too poor, I thought I had to live with this flaw for the rest of my life. Now, I can smile with the world and know that I am pretty. Thank you for loving and caring for me. You are my fairy god mothers and fathers.” ASEAN Southwest Asia Bloc: Exploring the Relevance of Human Rights in Today’s Business at ITOCHU Malaysia Lim Shenji ITOCHU Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. In conjunction with related CSR initiatives, ITOCHU Malaysia held a seminar on human rights on January 18th centered around an invitation to a veteran consultant and trainer, Mr. Kow Ko Leong from LNY Management, who specializes in Corporate Social Responsibility and Quality/Environmental Management. The participants, who were all employees of ITOCHU Malaysia, were initially skeptical about Lim Shenji the theme and had difficulties in relating human rights to today’s business world. The seminar ITOCHU Malaysia Sdn. began with a short quiz that tested the participants’ understanding and knowledge about Bhd. human rights. The speaker then invited the audience to define the term “human rights” in order to determine the level of knowledge his audience had about contemporary human rights. He kicked off his 40 CSR and Our Business lecture on the topic by explaining how human rights are conceived as universal and equally applicable to everyone, and how they also provoke a lot of skepticism and debate as regards their nature, content and justification. The seminar also incorporated some eye-opening Internet videos which furthered our understanding on the realities of human rights issues in today’s business world. Some videos described irresponsible companies that employ child labor and contract sweat shops in developing countries, and these presented the subject of human rights in a different manner that prompted our further interest and attention. It was at this point that the employees of ITOCHU Malaysia started to see how the issues of human rights are relevant in today’s business world. His dynamic presentation was not only limited to verbal lectures and Internet videos as he also intelligently included discussions of business case studies concerned with companies with irresponsible business practices that violate and abuse human rights. From the seminar, we brought home valuable lessons, having learnt that the preservation and respect of human rights are also the responsibility of businesses like ITOCHU, and that companies should be ready to pay a hefty price in reputation as well as money if they neglect or violate these universal and equally applicable human rights. CIS Bloc: CSR Activities Begin at the Kiev Representative Office Elena Stuzhenko ITOCHU Kiev Representative Office Being greatly inspired by the constant CSR initiatives of ITOCHU Group companies, which are true commitments to sustainable development and becoming responsible and caring citizens, the ITOCHU Kiev Representative Office has begun its own CSR efforts. We aim to contribute to the good practices of ITOCHU by taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and promoting greater environmental responsibility. In 2011, we joined Ukrainian A4 Club, a participant of the National Go Green Campaign initiated by the United Nations Office in Ukraine Elena Stuzhenko under the auspices of the Global Compact Network aimed at reinforcing the role of ITOCHU Kiev environmental protection. Since that time, besides the introduction and promotion of energy Representative Office and paper conservation measures within the office, we have actively participated in the implementation of the GreenOffice concept through waste paper collection for further recycling. We strongly believe that even such a smallscale activity helps to reduce our burden on the environment and to build an eco-friendly image of us as a business entity. We would like to share our favorite phrase: “It’s no longer a zero-sum game— things that are good for the nvironment are also good for business.” Jeffrey Immelt, Chair and CEO of GE (2005) Cardboard boxes made out of recycled paper A recycling box installed for the Recycling activities in an office collection of used papers 41 CSR and Our Business A4 Club Member Our activities are aimed at the practical realization of the Green-Office concept, namely popularization of recycling and consumption of recycled paper. And we are pleased to find more and more partners whose main objective is improving the ecoefficiency of their offices, which will result in the reduction of wasteful consumption. Middle East Bloc: Blood Donation in Al Khobar Ahmed Alghamdi Al Khobar Office The ITOCHU Al Khobar Office has started implementing a CSR program by engaging in the following three events: Donating blood, Gifts for sick children and Plants for the office building entrance. The idea was to create opportunities for employees to contribute towards the local Ahmed Alghamdi community as a part of our basic CSR policies. Al Khobar Office I would like to introduce the blood donation that Ahmed smiles while donating blood took place on September 17, 2012. On this occasion, six staff participated in the program at the King Fahd Medical Hospital; unfortunately, four were rejected due to health reasons. The medical staff at the hospital were deeply moved by our staff volunteering to give blood and offered their heartfelt thanks for such a noble gesture. East Asia Bloc: ITOCHU Korea Participate in Forest Clean Up on Mt. Gwanak Park Jin Seong ITOCHU Korea LTD. CSR volunteer activities are a regular occurrence at ITOCHU Korea. Our sixth round of volunteer activities was held on September 1, and saw 25 employees from ITOCHU Korea and operating companies take part in a Mt. Gwanak forest care volunteer activity. Mt. Gwanak is a famous mountain among those that encircle Seoul, and is home to many cultural resources, such as Wongaksa Temple, Yeonjuam Hermitage, Sammaksa Temple, and Gwaneumsa Temple. The mountain is a favorite destination for city dwellers looking for a short getaway, Park Jin Seong but is also highly prized from an ecological preservation standpoint. Waterways are extremely ITOCHU Korea LTD. important for mountains. Removing earth, sand and fallen leaves from them helps to prevent landslides triggered by rainfall, and also helps protect the surrounding ecosystem. In the Mt. Gwanak forest care activity, ITOCHU Korea was responsible for cleaning the local waterways. Our team was joined by seven volunteers from the main sponsor of the event. Men and women alike took shovels in hand and worked hard to clear clogged waterways of dirt and leaves. Part of our work included carting dirt and leaves away to a flat area to avoid having them clog up waterways again after the next rainfall. When the work was finished and we came down from the mountain, we looked like we had all been working in a coal mine, since our faces and bodies were darkened with a mixture of dirt and sweat. There were also a This year ITOCHU KOREA held its 6th lot of people who found that their arms and legs had been attacked by volunteer activity mosquitoes. It was harder than I thought to shovel the waterways clear as the sand and dirt was mixed in with tree roots and other material. But all of us who took part found ourselves smiling with satisfaction when we saw those clear waterways flowing. 42 CSR and Our Business Latin America bloc：ITOCHU Latin America, S.A. Participates in Reforestation Activity in Parque Nacional Camino de Cruces Lilly Garay ITOCHU Latin America, S.A. Based on the proposal of our colleague Arturo Sanchez, ITOCHU Latin America, S.A. (ILASA) decided to engage in CSR activities in October. After examining our options, we made contact with ANCON, which is a private non-profit organization founded in 1985 to conserve biodiversity and natural resources. ANCON has a program called “Reduce your carbon footprint with ANCON.” We chose to participate in a reforestation activity in Parque Nacional Camino de Cruces. We were assigned an area of 500 m2 to plant 300 trees. Lilly Garay ITOCHU Latin America, S.A. We arrived at the park very early, and were transported to the assigned area by pick-up truck. The adventure on the pick-up truck was exciting as the road was very rough. Many of us were screaming all the way. Our task was to plant the trees in holes (mahogany among others). I was taking pictures, so I was the cleanest at first, but I finished up just as muddy as all the others. Each of us planted about 5–20 trees. We were exhausted as the humidity was very high. However, the feeling of doing something good for the reforestation of our planet, even just planting a small tree, was priceless. 41 members of ILASA including families Message from ANCON We are pleased to provide our collaborators from ILASA with recreation space, environmental education and an opportunity to contribute to conservation efforts through a planned tour to the Camino de Cruces National Park, a protected area and buffer site of the Canal Watershed of Panama. We want our collaborators from ILASA to be aware of the importance of taking steps to mitigate polluting factors and prevent natural resource depletion. ASEAN & South West Asia Bloc： Shining Light ( Jyoti ) on Children with Disabilities by Donating to Their Care Home Harish Milwani ITOCHU India Pvt. Ltd. ITOCHU India Pvt. Ltd., (IIPL) India office has been contributing old cloths and food to a care home run by the Missionaries of Charity of Mother Teresa, known as Jeevan Jyoti Home. Jeevan Jyoti is a Hindi phrase, which has a very deep meaning! Jeevan means life and Jyoti means light. This home cares for 82 children with physical and mental disabilities. The children are cared for 24 hours a day by the Missionaries of Charity sisters who perform difficult tasks all day long to care for and nurture these kids. The work is constant and Writer, Harish Milwani In front of the intense, as cleaning, feeding and helping these orphans, all with significant Jeevan Jyoti Home handicaps, is extremely challenging. Everyone at IIPL was warmed and humbled by the terrific work being done at this home for the joy of the small children. The sisters of the Missionaries of Charity are doing unbelievable work. We at IIPL look forward to contributing something to such Missionaries, even though it might be a small step. 43 CSR and Our Business ITOCHU Singapore Activities With Under-privileged Children And the Elderly ITOCHU Singapore has organized a Social Committee that provides opportunities for employees to participate in volunteer activities from the perspective of contributing to the local community. Since the year 2010, ITOCHU Singapore had been arranging outings for underprivileged children and also for the elderly. In 2011, ITOCHU Singapore worked with the Asian Women's Welfare Association (AWWA) to arrange the outings with the under-privileged children and the elderly. Jacqueline Neo On December 16, 2011, about 10 volunteers from ITOCHU Singapore held a Children's Party ITOCHU Singapore at McDonalds for about 30 children. The party started with lunch that came with toys for the children. It was followed with games for the children and the volunteers joined in to encourage and support the children in the games. Balloon sculptures were also given to the children. At the end of the party, each of the children were presented with a goodies bag that consisted of a school bag and stationeries. You could see the expressions of delight and joy on the faces of the children. On January 13, 2012, an outing with about 40 elderly people was arranged with about 10 volunteers from ITOCHU Singapore. The event started with a sumptuous lunch at the Oasis Restaurant. Following which the participants were taken for a ride on the Singapore Flyer, the world's largest observation wheel. They had a breathtaking, panoramic view of the island which they have never seen before. At the end of the event, the participants were each given a $20 Ang Bao, 2 oranges ※ and a goodies bag that included toiletries and food. The volunteers could see the happiness and gratitude on the faces of the elderly participants. At the end of these two activities, the volunteers realized that there are unfortunate and deprived communities in Singapore. The CSR activities that we organize, though small in magnitude, can go a long way in helping these needy communities. ※ In Singapore, oranges are said to be a lucky fruit that brings good fortune, and there is a custom during Chinese New Year of giving an auspicious even-numbered number of oranges. Comment from Stakeholder Mohammad Fandi Adam Social Worker, Asian Women's Welfare Association (AWWA) I am taking this opportunity to thank the ITOCHU Singapore Team for organizing the wonderful MacDonald's Party! The children enjoyed the event and I hope your team did too. The children were also excited with the goodies bags, balloons and toys that they received. Last but not least, we look forward to working together with everyone again in the future. From the MacDonald's Party 44 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Corporate Governance and Internal Control ITOCHU Corporation operates its business to establish the long-term preservation and enhancement of its corporate value by building fair and positive relationships with its stakeholders in accordance with the ITOCHU Group Corporate Philosophy and Code of Conduct. To ensure its appropriate and efficient business operations, ITOCHU is increasing the transparency of its decision-making process and constructing a corporate governance system that incorporates proper monitoring and supervisory functions. Overview of the Corporate Governance System ITOCHU is a company with the Board of Directors and corthe CEO, the HMC discusses companywide management porate auditors (the Board of Corporate Auditors). policy and important issues. The various internal committees Comprising 14 directors (including 2 outside directors) as screen and discuss management issues in individual areas of July 1, 2013, the Board of Directors makes decisions on of responsibility. Moreover, ITOCHU is developing and important management matters and supervises each direc­implementing a system for incorporating third-party opintor’s business management. ions in some internal committees in which outside experts Since June 2011, ITOCHU has appointed two highly inbecome members. dependent outside directors. The outside directors contribIn addition, ITOCHU appoints four corporate auditors, inute to ensuring and increasing the effectiveness of the cluding two outside corporate auditors. Each auditor monisupervision of management by the Board of Directors, as tors and audits business management independently and well as the transparency of the Board of Directors’ decisionobjectively. Standing corporate auditors strengthen audit making, by way of appropriately providing their monitoring functions by regularly attending meetings of the Board of and supervising functions to the internal directors and manDirectors and other in-house meetings and by working in agement advice based on various perspectives from their ­cooperation with ITOCHU’s independent auditor and other neutral and objective position. audit bodies inside and outside ITOCHU. ITOCHU’s Internal ITOCHU has adopted an Executive Officer System to Audit Division is responsible for internal audits. Members of strengthen decision-making and supervisory functions of the this ­division discuss internal audit planning, exchange Board of Directors and to boost the efficiency of business ­information, and collaborate closely with corporate auditors execution. Also, ITOCHU has in place the Headquarters though regular meetings. In order to support corporate audiManagement Committee (HMC) and various internal committors’ activities and performance, the Corporate Auditors’ tees to support appropriate and flexible decision-making by Office, reporting directly to the Board of Corporate Auditors, the CEO and the Board of Directors. As a body to support has been established. Corporate Governance System Type of system Company with the Board of Directors and corporate auditors (the Board of Corporate Auditors) Number of directors 14 Of which, number of outside directors 2 Number of corporate auditors 4 Of which, number of outside corporate auditors 2 Term of office for directors 1 year (the same for outside directors) Employment of an Executive Officer System Yes Headquarters Management Committee (HMC) deliberates companywide management policy and Organization to support CEO decision-making important issues (1) Monthly compensation Monthly compensation determined by the contribution to ITOCHU of each director according to a base amount set by position Corporate Officer Compensation System (2) Performance-linked bonuses Total payment amount determined on the basis of consolidated net income attributable to ITOCHU Note: Outside directors paid monthly compensation only Independent external auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Steps Taken to Strengthen Corporate Governance 1997 Introduced the Division Company System To accelerate decision making / increase efficiency of business management 1999 Introduced the Executive Officer System To strengthen decision-making and supervisory functions of the Board of Directors Shortened the terms of office of directors and 2007 To clarify management responsibility during terms of office executive officers to one year 2011 Introduced an Outside Directors System To increase the effectiveness of the supervision of management and improve the transparency of decision making 45 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside by the domestic financial instrument exchanges. As of July Corporate Auditors 1, 2013, ITOCHU had two outside directors and two outside In the course of appointing outside directors and outside corporate auditors, all of whom satisfy the above-stated recorporate auditors, ITOCHU places a high value on ensuring quirements and therefore are registered as “Independent their independence by way of considering certain requireDirector(s) / Auditor(s)” in the domestic financial instrument ments for “Independent Director(s) / Auditor(s)” as prescribed exchanges on which ITOCHU is listed. Reason for Appointment as Outside Directors Name Reason for appointment Mr. Fujisaki is appointed as an outside director in the anticipation that he will use his high level of insight and knowledge on Ichiro Fujisaki the international situation, economy and cultures, and other matters, nurtured through his many years of experience as a appointed in June 2013 diplomat and also monitor and supervise the corporate management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. Mr. Fujisaki has no material interests in ITOCHU. Mr. Kawakita is appointed as an outside director in the anticipation that he will use his high level of insight and knowledge on Chikara Kawakita public finance, financial transaction and tax affairs, and other matters, nurtured through his many years of experience at the appointed in June 2013 Ministry of Finance and National Tax Agency and also monitor and supervise the corporate management of ITOCHU from an independent perspective. Mr. Kawakita has no material interests in ITOCHU. Reason for Appointment as Outside Corporate Auditors Name Reason for appointment Mr. Shimojo is appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide Masahiro Shimojo auditing from an independent perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise as a lawyer in the field of corpoappointed in June 2011 rate legal practice and international business law. Mr. Shimojo has no material interests in ITOCHU. Mr. Majima is appointed as an outside corporate auditor in the anticipation that he will monitor management and provide Shingo Majima auditing from an independent perspective by utilizing his wealth of experience and expertise on finance and accounting as a appointed in June 2013 certified public accountant and university professor. Mr. Majima has no material interests in ITOCHU. Overview of ITOCHU’s Corporate Governance and Internal Control System Election and Election and dismissal dismissal General Meeting of Shareholders Election and dismissal Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Monitoring and auditing Directors Corporate Auditors Outside Directors Monitoring and auditing Outside Corporate Auditors Appointment and supervision Corporate Auditors’ Office President and C.E.O. Independent Auditors HMC CSO Internal Control Committee CAO Disclosure Committee CFO ALM Committee Financial audit Internal Audit Division Compliance Committee CSR Committee Division Companies Investment Consultative Committee ICT, General Energy & Metals & Minerals Machinery Products & Realty Food Company Chemicals Textile Company Company Company Company Company *1 HMC: Headquarters Management Committee CSO: Chief Strategy Officer CAO: Chief Administrative Officer CFO: Chief Financial Officer ALM: Asset Liability Management *2 CAO is the chief officer for compliance. Also, each Division Company has a Division Company president. *3 Internal control systems and mechanisms have been implemented at every level of ITOCHU. Only the main internal control organization and committees are described herein. Further, the Internal Control Committee receives reports from internal departments related to internal control on the development and operation of respective internal ­controls for which they are responsible; evaluates the overall development and implementation status of internal control; and reports the results of evaluations as well as items for improvement to the HMC and Board of Directors. Principal Internal Committees Name Objectives Internal Control Committee • Deliberates on issues related to the development of internal control systems • Deliberates on issues related to business activity disclosure and on issues related to the development and operation of internal Disclosure Committee control systems in the area of financial reporting ALM Committee • Deliberates on issues related to risk management systems and balance sheet management Compliance Committee • Deliberates on issues related to compliance CSR Committee • Deliberates on issues related to corporate social responsibility, environmental problems, and social contribution initiatives Investment Consultative • Deliberates on issues related to investment and financing Committee Corporate Officer Compensation • Deliberates on issues related to the compensation of corporate officers, including their compensation after retirement Consultative Committee 46 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Messages from Newly Appointed Outside Directors I became an outside director for the first time, and I heard that ITOCHU appointed outside directors only two years ago. Whether companies or government agencies, organizations are groups of professionals. In particular, internal directors are pros among pros. Information is centralized in them and they have honed their instincts through long years of work. Those instincts are of paramount importance in deciding whether a company should move forward, stay in place, or pull back. Outside directors are different. We do not know as many details about a company’s businesses and organization as internal directors. However, we sometimes might start to lose track of our surroundings, if we get too far into things. This is what we call “The outIchiro Fujisaki sider sees most of the game” as the saying goes. Also, there might be issues which are Distinguished Professor, difficult for insiders to raise. The way I see it, this is the significance of outside directors. Chairman of International For the past 40 plus years, I have been involved in government. During this time, Strategies, Sophia University I have been in charge of a broad range of issues, from security affairs through economic negotiations to information analysis. I resolve to do my best to apply my experiences and fulfill my responsibilities. General trading companies hold the keys to the Japanese economy. If the Japanese economy is the human body, then trading companies act as its nervous system, ensuring that muscles operate as efficiently as possible, and their movements serve to stabilize and vitalize the economy. ITOCHU is one of the healthiest companies in its category. I also heard that ITOCHU has an open corporate culture. With the Japanese economy currently on the cusp of a leap forward, I consider it a blessing to be involved at the leading edge. I am looking forward to working together with the employees of ITOCHU. I was recently appointed as an outside director of ITOCHU. After working in government for many years, I am currently a university professor. I would like to contribute to ITOCHU’s growth by utilizing my knowledge, while maintaining a neutral perspective. The importance of corporate governance came home to me strongly during my recent employment at the National Tax Agency. First, I focused on the essential elements of corporate governance for maintaining compliance, including tax matters, and I asked corporate managers to establish corporate governance systems. Second, taxpayers and citizens are to a tax agency as shareholders and customers are to a company. A company wants to do good work in order to meet the expectations of its stakeholders; the same is the case for a government agency. “What sort of corpoChikara Kawakita Professor, Graduate School of Law, rate governance is necessary in order to do good work?” Techniques may differ between Hitotsubashi University the public and private sectors, but I have faced that same question with regard to an organization’s administrative operations. By applying these experiences, I intend to do my best to further enhance corporate governance at ITOCHU. The ITOCHU Group corporate philosophy is “Committed to the Global Good,” and I think this is a clear vision to share among a vibrant group of people. I will also work to be “Committed to the Global Good,” taking on the challenge of supporting ITOCHU’s efforts to maintain the trust and satisfy the expectations of its stakeholders from my own position. 47 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Internal Control System On April 19, 2006, ITOCHU’s Board of Directors established unit and designed to ensure continuous improvement through the Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System, which a plan–do–check–act (PDCA) cycle. Furthermore, following a was partially revised on May 8, 2013. ITOCHU intends to reMarch 2011 policy revision by the Financial Services Agency, vise and improve the internal control system tirelessly in orwe have continued to pursue effectiveness and efficiency and der to build a system that is even more appropriate and are working to reinforce our internal controls. efficient. The following highlights two noteworthy initiatives under this policy. Strengthening Risk Management (For ITOCHU’s Basic Policy regarding the Internal Control System, please see: ITOCHU has established internal committees and responsible http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/about/governance_compliance/control/policy/) departments in order to address the various risks associated with its business operations, such as market risk, credit risk, Initiatives to Further Enhance the Reliability of country risk, and investment risk. At the same time, ITOCHU Financial Reporting has developed the risk management systems and methods We have put in place a company structure designed to further to manage various risks individually and on a companywide enhance the reliability of our consolidated financial reporting. basis. Those include a range of management regulations, inFirst, for each organization we have appointed a Chief vestment criteria, risk exposure limits, and transaction limits, Operating Officer, etc., as Chief Responsible for Internal as well as reporting and monitoring systems. Moreover, Control to establish a Groupwide line of responsibility. In addiITOCHU regularly reviews the effectiveness of its risk managetion, the Disclosure Committee is designated as a steering ment systems. As part of such efforts, the ALM Committee committee to design the internal control system related to fiprotects the ITOCHU Group’s assets through deliberations nancial reporting, and to conduct testing and assessment of on balance sheet management as well as analysis and the system. Results of testing are fed back to each related management of risk. Examples of Risk Management Managing Investment Risk (Decision-Making Process for Investments) Executing New Investments Monitoring When making new investments, first the department making the To promote asset replacement and reduce the application gives due consideration to factors such as the purpose number of small-scale and loss-making Group of the investment, growth strategies, business plans, the appropricompanies, we implement annual reviews of all ateness of the acquisition price, the state of conformance with inGroup companies from both the qualitative vestment criteria, and the setting of exit conditions. Next, related (such as strategic significance) and quantitative administrative organizations implement risk analysis from various (such as scale of earnings and investment effispecialized perspectives and attach their screening results to the ciency) perspectives. This methodology enables application. After deliberation by the Division Company Management us to determine candidates to be exited from Committee (DMC), the application is submitted to the Division after confirming whether Group companies are Company President for a final decision. Projects that exceed the infringing on exit selection criteria as well as President’s authority must be approved by the HMC. If additional taking the future policies of all Group companies consideration and screening of an investment’s profitability and into consideration. strategy are needed prior to the HMC, the application is sent to the Investment Consultative Committee for deliberation. After discussing the application, this committee—whose members include the CSO, CFO, General Manager of the Global Risk Management Exiting Division, and corporate auditors—puts the matter before the HMC. The Global Risk Management Division monitors This approach devolves authority to the Division Companies and the progress of Group companies that have been speeds decision-making, while at the same time providing multiple slated for exits during the annual reviews, ensurscreening processes to control investment risk. ing that they are moving steadily toward an exit. Managing Concentrated Risks In addition to distributing internal covenants on management resources to each Division Company, ITOCHU defines asset limits in areas of trading where exposure is high, thereby managing the concentration of risk in specific segments and areas. We also manage overall country risk exposure to non-industrialized countries and manage individual country risk based on internal country rating standards. Limits on assets in specific areas and country limits are deliberated by the ALM Committee and approved by the HMC. 48 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Fiscal 2013 in Review Results in fiscal 2013 under the corporate governance system explained on the previous pages include the following. Number of Meetings Convened by Principal Management Bodies Board of Directors 18 Board of Corporate Auditors 15 Outside director attendance at Board of Directors’ meetings 97% Outside corporate auditor attendance at Board of Directors’ meetings 94% Outside corporate auditor attendance at Board of Corporate Auditors’ meetings 96% Key Decisions Made by the Board of Directors in Fiscal 2013 1) Acquisition of shares in Finland’s METSA FIBRE Oy, one of the world’s leading pulp producers 2) Acquisition of shares in Toyo Advanced Technologies Co., Ltd. (conversion to subsidiary) 3) Acquisition of the Asian fresh produce business and the worldwide packaged foods business of Dole Food Company, Inc., the world’s largest producer and marketer of fresh fruits and vegetables 4) “Brand-new Deal 2014,” the medium-term management plan for FY2014–15 5) Joint interest in the Sarulla Geothermal IPP Project in Indonesia with Kyushu Electric Power Company, Incorporated and other companies Details of Compensation Amount paid Type Number of people Details (Millions of Yen) 14 1,372 (1) Monthly compensation: ¥741 million Director (Outside directors) (2) Directors’ bonuses accrued and payable for the fiscal year (2) (23) ended March 31, 2013: ¥631 million Corporate auditor 6 119 Only monthly compensation (Outside corporate auditors) (3) (33) Total 20 1,491 (Outside directors and corporate auditors) (5) (56) *1 Maximum compensation paid to all directors: ¥1.2 billion per year as total monthly compensation (including ¥50 million per year as a portion to the outside directors) and ¥1.0 billion per year as total bonuses paid to all directors (excluding the outside directors) under a framework different from the preceding maximum compensation amount (both resolved at the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 24, 2011) *2 Maximum compensation paid to all corporate auditors: ¥13 million per month (resolved at the General Meeting of Shareholders on June 29, 2005) *3 The retirement benefits system for directors and corporate auditors was abolished on the date of the 81st Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 29, 2005, and it was resolved that directors and corporate auditors retaining their positions after the conclusion of the said General Meeting of Shareholders shall be presented with retirement benefits on the date of their retirement for the period up to the time the retirement benefits system was abolished. The compensation paid to all directors of ITOCHU (excluding outside directors) consists of monthly compensation and performance-linked bonuses. The monthly compensation is determined by the contribution to ITOCHU of each director based on the base amount set by its position, whereas the total amount of the performance-linked bonuses is determined based on consolidated net income attributable to ITOCHU. Only monthly compensation is paid to the outside directors and bonuses are not paid thereto. 49 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Breakdown of Remuneration for Auditing Details of Remuneration of the Independent Auditor and Other Firms Type Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Remuneration for Remuneration for non-audit Remuneration for Remuneration for non-audit audit certification certification services audit certification certification services (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of Yen) The Company 500 101 620 24 Its subsidiaries 762 80 679 75 Total 1,262 181 1,299 99 Other Significant Remuneration During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2013, the amount of remuneration paid by the Company and its subsidiaries to member firms of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited other than the Company’s independent auditor, Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC, was ¥1,229 million and ¥1,375 million, respectively. Non-Audit Certification Services Conducted by Independent Auditor and Other Firms During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2013, the Company paid remuneration to its independent auditor for nonaudit certification services, comprising the creation of comfort letters and the consultation and advices regarding International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Policy on Determining Remuneration for Auditing After the CFO determines the appropriateness of the audit plan, the number of audit days, and the content of audit certification presented by the independent auditor, the decision is made through agreement by the Board of Corporate Auditors. Accountability Viewing explanations of corporate and business management information to such stakeholders as shareholders and other ­investors as an important corporate governance task, we strive for timely and appropriate disclosure. Investor relations activities in fiscal 2013 include the following. Activity Times Content We hold meetings for analysts and institutional investors each fiscal quarter. Presentations for analysts and institutional The second-quarter and annual financial results are explained by the President 4 investors & CEO, whereas the firstand third-quarter financial results are explained via online conference by the CFO. We conduct tours so that analysts and institutional investors can visit Group Site tours for analysts and institutional investors 1 companies or project sites. Segment-specific briefings for analysts and We hold meetings for analysts and institutional investors to explain specific 1 institutional investors themes such as strategies of individual operating segments. Briefings on large-scale projects for analysts and We hold explanatory meetings when announcing large-scale projects of particu1 institutional investors lar interest to analysts and institutional investors. Presentations for overseas institutional investors 6 These meetings are concentrated on Europe, North America, and Asia. Several We hold meetings for individual investors at stock exchanges and branches of Presentations for individual investors times brokerage firms. Investor relations-related materials are made available on our website. Materials that can be downloaded include our financial statements, presentation materials Investor relations-related materials available on for investors’ meetings, materials used in segment-specific briefings, TSE — our website filings, annual securities reports (yuka shoken hokokusho), quarterly securities reports (shihanki hokokusho), Corporate Governance Report, and Notice of General Meeting of Shareholders. 50 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Compliance ITOCHU Group's Compliance System The ITOCHU Group has compliance officers in each Compliance System organization within Headquarters and at all major Group companies worldwide. With consideration for local laws, business characteristics, and operational formats, these compliance officers are creating systems for the promotion of compliance. In addition, we conduct simultaneous corporate-wide Monitor & Review surveys every year and compliance attitude surveys every two years. While checking the progress in implementing compliance measures at all ITOCHU Group companies through these surveys and other opportunities, the ITOCHU Group is making a concerted effort to find improvements that will enhance its well-developed systems for advancing compliance. We have also formulated regulations for hotlines. These regulations protect whistleblowers who provide internal information and provide a framework for the appropriate handling of that information. This initiative is reinforcing compliance management by supporting the prompt discovery and rectification of any incidents of corruption. Major Compliance Measures in Fiscal 2013 and Tasks for the Future In fiscal 2013, On-Site Compliance Training was held for all Headquarters employees and for employees of Group companies that requested training. This training, which was intended to raise compliance awareness and prevent the occurrence of any cases, used actual compliance cases as teaching materials. In addition, for key organizations, such as overseas offices and Group companies, we are implementing activities with a focus on system operation such as onsite guidance with the objective of ascertaining actual front-line compliance conditions and identifying risks. Based on trends in former incidences of compliance violations and the findings of the Monitor & Review surveys, we are formulating individual compliance reinforcement measures tailored to each Division Company, and these measures are steadily being implemented. Moreover, drawing on actual incidents, we implemented meticulous education and training programs geared to employees in different tiers. Moving forward, we will further advance these policies and measures, and continue to focus on compliance reinforcement with an emphasis on overseas offices and Group companies. Bolstering Measures to Fight Corruption Over the years, ITOCHU has sought to fight corruption by drafting regulations that specifically ban bribes and payoffs, along with related guidelines, with the aim of supporting the broad prohibition of payoffs to public officials and others in comparable positions worldwide. Anticipating more stringent regulations against bribery and corruption worldwide, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (U.S. FCPA) and the enforcement of the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, in June 2011 ITOCHU revised its own aforementioned regulations and guidelines as a measure to enhance its own responsiveness in this area. In fiscal 2013, through various training programs we worked to circulate information regarding the aforementioned revisions within ITOCHU and to overseas blocs. At the same time, through monitor and review initiatives, steps were taken to conduct risk assessment with respect to payoffs, bribery, and similar impropriety. 51 Corporate Governance and Internal Control/Compliance Measures to Fight Collusive Bidding and Cartels In recent years, there have been many reports of suspected cartel activities in markets around the world. Accordingly, in April 2010 ITOCHU revised its Anti-Monopoly Law Manual as a means of strengthening its response. To track the level of awareness of this manual and the status of the system for preventing cartel activities for the Group as a whole, in fiscal 2013 we implemented monitoring of Anti-Monopoly Law violation prevention. In consideration of the results of this initiative, we will work to raise understanding of collusive bidding and cartel activities throughout the entire Group. To that end, we will implement education and training and implement a system for ongoing risk assessment and monitoring. Measures for Intellectual Property To completely prevent infringements on intellectual property rights held by other parties in businesses related to such rights, as well as in the ordinary course of business, ITOCHU implements measures to call attention to the issue by holding seminars for employees and by establishing internal rules, regulations and manuals that conform to related laws and regulations. We also define and properly apply internal rules for employees’ inventions and work and rules for application, renewal, etc. of rights to properly manage and handle intellectual property rights that constitute property of the companies. Measures for Comprehensive Import and Export Control To prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons, Japan maintains strict tradesecurity under the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. To observe such laws and regulations, we have implemented our own internal trade-security control program. Further, to ensure that we do not take part in business transactions that threaten international peace and security, not only do we meticulously comply with existing government laws and regulations, but we are voluntarily taking extra measures to ensure that our stakeholders and corporate reputation are adequately safeguarded through our implementation of a comprehensive global security risk management program. The potential intersection of corporate operations with global terrorism or the development and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction can give rise to reputational and financial risks for ITOCHU and other companies with extensive international business operations. Accordingly ITOCHU recognizes that, as a responsible member of society and the global business community, we need to manage carefully the potential risks associated with business operations in certain locations. In response to the growing field of corporate governance termed global security risk, ITOCHU has developed and implemented corporate policies, procedures, and internal reporting structures to ensure that we perform rigorous, security-minded due diligence with respect to projects and transactions in which security issues are implicated. In addition, to properly conduct customs procedures for import and export, including import (payment of customs duty) declaration, we conduct internal customs examination (monitoring), provide training for clearing and customs valuation control, and take a host of other measures under the internal control/management provisions and regulations, thereby ensuring full compliance with customs procedures, etc. These measures have led to the directorgeneral of Yokohama Customs certifying ITOCHU as an Authorized Economic Operator (AEO) (both Authorized Exporter and Authorized Importer), a title given to operators with outstanding compliance systems and security control. Basic Policy and Efforts Against Antisocial Forces ITOCHU has set out basic policy to tackle antisocial forces and groups that threaten the order and safety of civic society, stipulating three basic principles plus one Don't fear, don't pay, don't use, and don't associate in its stance against antisocial forces and 10-point guideline as a manual to disseminate this information among all employees. We have also established a special department with overall responsibility for countermeasures in relation to antisocial forces within the Human Resources & General Affairs Division. 52 CSR in Our Supply Chain ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains Basic stance on supply chain management Developing business all over the world, ITOCHU Corporation has positioned supply chain management as an important issue to be addressed. Preventing human rights, labor and environmental problems, and working for improvement together with the supplier. We are striving to practice these actions steadily and incorporated them into our basic policies for CSR promotion as “3.Strengthening supply chain management (Respect for human rights and consideration for the environment).” As part of our efforts to promote supply chain management, we established action guidelines in April 2009 in order to have this philosophy penetrate the entire company and to clearly communicate ITOCHU's stance to suppliers. It is our intention to present these action guidelines to our suppliers, to deepen the dialogue on human rights, labor and environmental conservation, and to ask our suppliers to understand and practice ITOCHU's stance. ITOCHU Corporation's CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains To fulfill the ITOCHU Credo, “Committed to the global good,” ITOCHU promotes CSR through its business activities, with the aim of achieving a sustainable society. Due to the characteristics of its business activities, ITOCHU has to keep working to manage its supply chains, taking into consideration the social or environmental impact of a variety of products and services handled. ITOCHU has established the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to explain its position to suppliers, and expects and encourages their understanding and implementation of every item mentioned below. 1. Suppliers shall respect the human rights of its employees, and shall not treat employees in an inhumane manner. 2. Suppliers shall not engage in forced labor or child labor. 3. Suppliers shall not practice discrimination in hiring and employment. 4. Suppliers shall prevent unfair low-wage labor. 5. Suppliers shall respect the rights of employees to organize and bargain collectively to promote smooth negotiation between labor and management. 6. Suppliers shall ensure that employees' working hours, holidays, and use of leave of absence are properly managed so as to comply with statutory standards. 53 CSR in Our Supply Chain 7. Suppliers shall strive to provide employees with a safe and healthy work environment. 8. In the course of their business activities, suppliers shall duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. 9. Suppliers shall observe all related laws and international rules, and ensure fair transactions and prevent corruption. 10. Suppliers shall disclose information regarding the above items in a timely and appropriate manner. Raising Employees' Awareness of CSR Supply Chain Management To raise our employee's awareness and make our CSR supply chain management practical, we provide in-house trainings. In FY2013, we conducted the on-line confirmation test of “the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains” in three languages; Japanese, English and Chinese. The test was targeted to the ITOCHU employees around the world, and 5,819 employees, 85.4% of all 6,818 employees, completed the test this year. 54 CSR in Our Supply Chain CSR Survey of Supply Chains CSR Survey of Supply Chains ITOCHU develops various businesses around the world. In order to check the status of our various suppliers, we conduct survey with a method suited to the characteristics of the goods of each Division Company, along with mandatory questions on the ten items in our “CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains.” In addition to the ten items covering human rights, labor, and environmental issues, we added further items specific to each Division Company. For example, we added check items for forest conservation for the Forest Products & General Merchandise Division (lumber, pulp & paper); product safety items for the Food Company; and items on protection of intellectual property for our Textile Company. Each Division Company selects target suppliers and creates a survey plan based on such parameters as high-risk countries, products handled, and transaction amounts by referring to the criteria of the FTSE4Good Index. Sales representatives or locally assigned ITOCHU employees of each Division Company visit the suppliers, and survey them by means of interviews or questionnaires. In April 2009, ITOCHU established ITOCHU Corporation’s CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains to clearly communicate its stance to suppliers.(Revised November, 2011) ITOCHU is promoting dialogue on human rights, labor and environmental protection, as it seeks understanding and implementation of these action guidelines. Moving forward, in addition to conducting surveys of the actual situation and reviewing survey methods, ITOCHU plans to continue this initiative. CSR Surveys in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2013 In fiscal 2013, we surveyed 430 companies, including 32 suppliers of overseas offices and 17 suppliers of 193 Group companies. No serious problems requiring immediate response were found in the survey results. We confirm that appropriate measures are taken for communications between management and workers, even for suppliers in countries where the right to collective bargaining is not recognized. In regard to companies that are in the process of establishing environmental policies and systems, in the future we will closely observe the implementation of those policies and systems. Comments from local employees in charge of the surveys included, “Through these annual surveys, supply chain management is steadily advancing.” By continuing these surveys in the years ahead, we will work to raise employee awareness and enhance supplier understanding and implementation. CSR Survey: Survey results by organization (FY2013) FY2013 Textile Company 25 Machinery Company 16 Metals & Minerals Company 11 Energy & Chemicals Company 69 Food Company 146 ICT, General Products & Realty Company 163 Total ※ 430 * Includes 32 suppliers of overseas offices and 193 suppliers of 17 Group companies 55 Employee Relations As a general trading company that has a diverse range of businesses around the world, ITOCHU believes that its human resources are its greatest management asset. Accordingly, ITOCHU will proactively advance efforts to develop and strengthen human resources as the management foundation supporting the growth of its business activities. We will continue to pursue human resources initiatives, such as cultivating industry professionals and creating systems in which diverse human resources can flourish globally. Policies and Tasks for Fiscal 2014 For ITOCHU Corporation, human resources are its greatest management assets as a general trading company. “Brand-new Deal 2014,” our medium-term management plan launched from fiscal 2014, inherits the basic policies of the previous medium-term management plan and continues to outline a variety of initiatives pertaining to human resources, such as cultivating “industry professionals” and “strong human resources.” By executing the medium-term plan and these measures, we intend to further enhance the structure that will support utilization of our human resources, enabling diverse human resources to demonstrate their skills and abilities to the fullest. Fumihiko Kobayashi Managing Executive Officer, General Manager, Human Resources & General Affairs Division 56 Employee Relations Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” Human Resource Development Supporting the “Seeking of New Opportunities” Human resources are what support the stable, ongoing growth of ITOCHU Corporation. Our human resource development activities are available to employees throughout the Group, both domestically and in overseas blocs. Based on each employee’s work experience and abilities, we strive to help them develop into professionals who play an active role in their business field and to provide them with the skills necessary to manage business on a global level. Through individual evaluations and feedback, centered on valuable job experience via on-the-job training (OJT), we help to cultivate the motivation and willingness of employees to increase their career opportunities within the Group. To further support employees’ selfdevelopment, we not only provide skills and knowledge through training but also actively support career development. We will continue to invest substantially in our human resources, while at the same time promoting Basic Structure of Human Resource Development human resources development which is proactively led by the front-lines. Human Resources Development System ITOCHU conducts various trainings to employee in all levels in its organization. In addition, independent business and skills-based trainings are also conducted by each Division company and Administration Division to develop professionals who can manage business on a global level. GEP: Global Executive Program GNP: Global Network Program GLP: Global Leadership ProgramNS UTR: National Staff U-turn Rotation Training 57 Employee Relations A Variety of Training Schemes ITOCHU conducts a variety of training schemes that include essential training by position and job class, as well as select and elective training. We have a wide range of programs for the development of global management human resources, including global development programs and workshops for managers. In 1999, we instituted a system for sending new employees overseas as a means of fostering English proficiency and an international perspective in young employees. In 2010, we launched a new program designed to dispatch junior staff to China and other emerging markets for overseas Global development training in Chinese and other languages. Our plan is to develop candidates who will program become specialists in each target market in the future. We also offer a wide range of training for specific objectives, such as “Career vision support training” and distinctive training based on the human resource strategies of each Division Company and Headquarters’ administrative division, with the aim of developing industry professionals of each business field with diverse values. * Global Executive Program (GEP): This core part of the global talent development program provides training to cultivate global executives. * Global Leadership Program (GLP): The purpose of this training is to cultivate organization managers who can be active in global business. * Global Network Program (GNP): Through training held at Headquarters, this program enables locally-hired overseas staff to learn firsthand about the ITOCHU Group’s global operations and build up a network with other participants. Human resources development policy and training details (excerpt) Overview of human resources Training program name (excerpt) development system Development of global management Global development programs (GEP, GLP, GNP*), organization talent manager workshops, sending employees to short-term business school programs Business leader development Sending of new employees overseas, dispatch of junior staff overseas to learn Chinese and other languages Development of industry professionals Career vision support training, distinctive training for each Division and diverse human resources Company, Headquarters' administrative division Number of employees participated in major training programs Training program name FY2013 Results Global development program 88 Organization manager workshops 372 Sending of employees to short-term business school 43 programs overseas Junior staff overseas training for English and Junior staff 79 overseas training for multi-language Career vision support training 2,037 58 Employee Relations Comments by Training Participants Ayumi Ooi Junior staff overseas training for multiMedical Business Team language (Chinese) Organic Chemicals Department No. 1 From the end of February 2012 I had the opportunity to take part in Chinese language training in Dailian, Liaoning Province for half a year. I attended university classes in the mornings and took lessons at a language school in the afternoons. I would hear Chinese when traveling on a bus or in a taxi, and my daily life involved things like ordering food and chatting with friends entirely in Chinese, making it a really favorable environment for picking up a language. But what I gained went beyond language acquisition; it was a valuable opportunity to get to know a side of China that was different from what I’d seen on business trips and in the media. After returning to Japan, I’ve been making an effort to get involved with Chinese business projects and utilize my training as much as possible. Kazuchika Fukuda Junior staff overseas training for multiProject Development Section language (Spanish) Non-Ferrous & Metal Materials Department I spent about six months in Santiago, the capital of Chile, to learn Spanish. In addition to language acquisition, I learned about the local culture and customs from my homestay family, making it a training lifestyle that was highly concentrated with material. I was already responsible for work related to the South American region, but it was difficult to gain a deep understanding from desk-bound research and information alone. From the raw information I was able to gain by asking people actually living in Chile and the people working on the front lines, I was able to organize the disarray of knowledge and information that had been going around in my head, and this made it an exceptionally valuable experience. I hope to utilize the Spanish I learned and all these experiences in the resource business, as well to take on various challenges. I am grateful for such a valuable opportunity. Personnel Evaluation Systems Personnel evaluation systems are positioned as the foundation of a personnel system that helps employees realize their full potential with enthusiasm and drive. One of these systems is the management by objectives (MBO) scheme, which functions as the driver of management strategy by dividing objectives among individual employees based on the company-wide management plan and verifying their execution. We have also established a human resources assessment system that takes a comprehensive look at the skills, expertise, past careers, aspirations and suitability of individual employees and utilizes this information for placement and transfer plans. We regard fair and equitable evaluations by supervisors and feedback through interviews with subordinates as critically important to ensure proper functioning of these personnel evaluation systems. We make use of evaluator training and other activities to communicate the importance of encouraging employee growth and development to supervisors. 59 Employee Relations Ongoing Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy Ongoing Promotion of Global Human Resources Strategy Since fiscal 2008, ITOCHU has been promoting a global human resources strategy in order to maximize the value of human resources and optimize the talent development of the Group on a global basis. By fiscal 2011, we had taken steps to create a platform for promoting the development and utilization of human resources worldwide, including the development of a global human resources database and the establishment of leadership standards for managers. From fiscal 2012, we are strengthening our human resources strategy in core overseas markets such as China and Asia. In addition, cooperating with each Division Company, we are implementing a Talent Management Process by preparing individual development plans for talented personnel who will play key roles in the expansion of revenues and profits overseas. Through these initiatives, we are bolstering the recruitment, development, and utilization of personnel who will contribute to global business development. Talent Management Process Specific Initiatives 1. We are inviting employees from our overseas blocs worldwide to come to our headquarters for approximately two years as a form of HR development through actual operations. These employees are provided the opportunity to learn business operations, gain a firm understanding of our corporate philosophy and culture, and build interpersonal networks. At the same time, this initiative encourages our headquarters to become more global in its outlook. (From April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2013, a cumulative total of 66 employees have been dispatched.) 2. We are assigning, promoting, and developing human resources on a global basis regardless of nationality, by implementing the ITOCHU Global Classification (IGC) in 2009 as a common measure of job level / level of responsibility for all jobs and positions worldwide. 3. ITOCHU Mission and Values, which we have passed down since our founding more than 150 years ago, and the ITOCHU Values have been incorporated into the human-resource requirements for ITOCHU leaders. These requirements are reflected in our recruiting standards and our evaluation and human resources development programs and are passed on through in-house instructors. This enables us to hire and develop human resources around the world who are suited to ITOCHU’s values. Related Data: Number of overseas bloc employees by region (page 69) 60 Employee Relations Promoting Human Resources Diversification Policy on Promoting Human Resources Diversification in Japan Promoting efforts to embed and utilize through numerical expansion and systems enhancement Promotion Plan on Human Resources Diversification 2013 (Japan) Since December 2003, ITOCHU has promoted efforts to diversify its workforce in Japan. The motivation here is a recognized need to respond to changes in the external environment, such as intensifying competition spurred by economic globalization and the race to secure human resources due to Japan's declining birthrate and aging society. ITOCHU must also respond to the need to create new businesses, as well as address the disproportionate age makeup of its workforce. In fiscal 2010, ITOCHU launched “Promotion Plan on Human Resources Diversification 2013 (Japan),” a new roadmap aimed at enhancing individual and organizational abilities further by putting an environment in place that leverages and utilizes the characteristics of each employee without regard to gender, nationality or age. Under this new plan, we are working to create a more attractive company and corporate culture by supporting the push to secure, embed and utilize more diverse human resources. Supporting the career development of female employees To date, ITOCHU Corporation has actively promoted measures to support the career development of female employees to reflect the advancement of women in Japanese society, and established various schemes to this effect. Moving forward, we will push even harder to ensure the fair application of these schemes and strengthen support the career development of female employees who contribute to the corporate growth, through efforts including the promotion of individual support measures based on the life stages and careers of individual employees. Cross-industrial Women’s Forum by women in career-track positions held In February 2013, ITOCHU Corporation and Nomura Holdings, Inc. jointly held the Cross-industrial Women’s Forum, an event where female employees from five of Japanese leading global firms gathered to engage in inter-industry exchanges and learn from one another about their future careers (other participating companies were Shiseido Co., Ltd., All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.) Roughly 100 junior female employees from each company broadened their views through exchanges with other participants and stories of the personal experiences delivered by a diverse range of role models selected from each company, including female employees posted overseas (living along with their children) and those working in management positions. The event was a highly productive opportunity for female employees to find the motivation to open up their own careers and gain awareness. ITOCHU’s first female executive officer In April 2013, ITOCHU appointed its first female executive officer. As a leading company in the promotion of diversity, ITOCHU Corporation will continue to support the development and utilization of a diverse range of human resources, including female employees. 61 Employee Relations Comment by newly appointed female executive officer ITOCHU Corporation is “everywhere,” both in terms of its diverse industry and jurisdictional coverage. Our people are the back-bone of the company’s success. We believe that diversity is a matter of business strategy. With this in mind, we will continue our aggressive investment in diverse human capital. Mitsuru Claire Chino, Executive Officer General Manager, Legal Division Related Data: Numbers concerning employees (page 69) Proportion of female employees among all employees in career-track positions (page 69) Numbers of hire by gender (page 69) Supporting the Utilization of Senior Human Resources ITOCHU Corporation is supporting the employment of aged workers even more actively than before. In light of factors such as the declining Japanese birth rate and aging population and support for the utilization of diverse human resources, we have introduced an employment extension system as a new option in addition to mandatory retirement at the age of sixty. This provides an environment in which willing employees can continue to play an active role so that their wealth of knowledge and experience can be utilized. In the future, we will make further efforts to develop environments in which aged employees can continue to work with even greater drive and enthusiasm. Supporting the Participation in Society by People with Disability In 1987, ITOCHU Corporation established Itochu Uneedus Co., Ltd., as a special subsidiary based on the Disabled Persons Employment Promotion Act (Law for the Employment Promotion of the Disabled) in order to create work opportunities for those with disability. As of June 2013, the proportion of our workforce with disabilities is 2.02%, which exceeds the legally stipulated ratio of 2%. We will continue to actively support the participation in society by people with disabilities. Common menu of category from here. Related Data: Employment ratio of people with disabilities (page 70) 62 Employee Relations Creating Environments That Bring Out the Best in Employees Policy on Efforts to Create Environments that Bring Out the Best in Employees ITOCHU Corporation regards people as its greatest asset and considers the development of environments that allow employees to enjoy peace of mind and concentrate on their work with a sense of job satisfaction to be of crucial importance. To this end, ITOCHU has enhanced and expanded a number of systems, promoted greater understanding of systems in the field and among employees, and promoted the development of environments that bring out the best in employees. Providing Support for Work as well as Employees' Childcare and Nursing Care During the course of their working lives, employees inevitably pass through life stages that require them to render childcare and nursing care. To enable them to continue working with peace of mind and demonstrate their fullest potential, ITOCHU has expanded and upgraded systems to help that are far and above those required by law. These systems are available to both male and female employees, and provide support to them in their work as well as child and / or nursing care duties. In 2010, we opened I-Kids, a childcare center for our employees, at a location close to our Tokyo headquarters. This move was made in light of a widespread social issue where many children are currently waiting for entry to nurseries in the Tokyo metropolitan area, and female workers face difficulties in planning their return from childcare leave. Starting October 2012, we also made revisions to treat the five-day period following the start of childcare leave as paid leave instead of unpaid to encourage male employees to take part in childcare. In 2011, in cooperation with the SECOM Group, we launched the “Furusato Care Service” to help employees posted abroad care for their elderly relatives (all expenses are paid by the company). As ITOCHU aims to increase overseas revenues and profits, one of the key strategic approaches in its overseas policy is to increase the number of staff on overseas assignment. The service helps keep our employees working overseas updated on the lives and health of their elderly relatives living alone in Japan, helping our middle-aged employees to meet their work and nursing care responsibilities. Through this care service, we are working to establish an environment that enables employees to concentrate on their overseas assignments. In addition, since October 2012 we have been expanding and upgrading our nursing care systems in anticipation of the coming era of increased demand for nursing care. Changes included extending the available period of shorter working hours for nursing care (from three years to five years) and launching a web-based consultation service for nursing care matters. Related data: Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems (page 70) Comments from an I-Kids user Maya Hirano Temporarily transferred to Food Management Support Corporation Since I couldn’t get my child into the local daycare center, I’ve been using I-Kids since September 2012. Since there are only a few children there are not that many opportunities to make friends, but I am deeply grateful for the detailed attention given by the friendly teachers in a relaxing atmosphere. There are many events Stroll along avenue of nutritional education held such as Halloween, Christmas, birthday ginkgo trees parties and monthly nutritional education. I feel that my child is growing a lot each day through the various experiences at I-Kids. Since it’s close to work, I can get there right away if anything happens, providing me with an environment where I can work with peace of mind. Both parents and child are really grateful to be using this service. 63 Employee Relations Comments from a user of childcare leave After consulting with my wife and supervisor, I took childcare leave, as I had become interested in broadening my perspective by doing something I hadn't experienced before—raising a child. I am really thankful to the supervisor and coworkers for their substantial support of my leave. Working with my wife to raise our son has deepened our family ties. Another valuable asset is the knowledge I have gained about the potential of childcare products and business.Taking childcare leave should be a positive experience for male Yoshinori Kanayama employees, as it will enable us to gain new insight into our jobs. Human Resources & General Affairs Division Acquired “Kurumin” Mark Certification In 2011, ITOCHU Corporation received approval from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (the Tokyo Labour Bureau) to display the Next-Generation Certification Mark (affectionately known as Kurumin) after satisfying the criteria stipulated by the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children. (*) ITOCHU Corporation will continue its proactive efforts to develop an environment where employees can stay motivated and find rewarding work. * Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children The Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children calls on regional public-sector organizations to formulate and present local action plans to help reverse Japan's rapidly declining birthrate. Meanwhile companies, based on the number of employees employed, are mandated to formulate action plans of their own for supporting employees in balancing work and parental duties, and submit a detailed summary of these to prefectural labor bureaus. (Excerpt from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (Japanese only) Career Counseling The Career Counseling Center offers a wide range of counseling and support for diverse career stages, ranging from new recruits to organization managers. Staffed by several employees certified as career counselors, the department touches on an array of topics with its clients, including relationships with supervisors, junior staff and peers, approaches to work, and considerations about one's own future. A mechanism is in place in which all young employees go to career counseling at certain milestones after joining ITOCHU as part of their training. A system is in place for all young employees to receive career counseling when they reach certain milestones in their ITOCHU careers, as part of their training. Counseling is also available to mid-career employees as well as middle-aged employees looking to continue working. The Career Counseling Center aims to provide ITOCHU employees—and through them, their organizations— with the opportunity to develop their careers, as well as with a safety net. 64 Employee Relations Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety Policy on Occupational Health and Safety Initiatives For ITOCHU Corporation, employees are assets, and ensuring the health and safety of employee workplaces is one of the vital responsibilities a company must fulfill so that its employees can reach their full potential. To ensure that ITOCHU Corporation employees stationed around the world and their families can enjoy a meaningful assignment in safety and good health, we have built a full system not only for incidents, accidents, disasters and other emergencies, but also for health management. Overseas Security Management ITOCHU Corporation maintains global business operations with roughly 800 rotational staffs stationed overseas, and sends a total of ten thousand staffs on overseas business travel from Headquarters in Japan each year. In terms of overseas security management, based on the belief that a shared awareness between the overseas location and Japan is important, the Human Resources and General Affairs division have assigned security management to some staffs in each regional headquarters of nine blocs worldwide. Information concerning politics, economics, public safety and other factors is periodically collected and disseminated internally. We have also established a system to cover regions where information is more difficult to obtain through contracts with international security consultant firms. To prepare for emergencies such as diseases or injuries, including preventative measures for infectious diseases in the dispatched area, we collaborate with an international emergency medical service company and developed complete support systems for preventative and post-incident measures. Before being stationed overseas, rotational staffs are given extensive guidance to deal with matters such as local security, health care and different cultures. Awareness raising activities are conducted after arrival, such as security management seminars for rotational staffs as well as their families. Employee Health Management For ITOCHU Corporation, employees are assets, and thus the health management of every single employee is extremely important to ensure that a diversity of employees can freely exert their capabilities. We have developed an in-house system that allows employees to receive counseling on their health at any time. For example, the Health Administration Center at ITOCHU’s Tokyo Headquarters, which also serves as a clinic, has 20 specialist physicians on staff, as well as an X-ray technician and a pharmacist. These health maintenance professionals, who each act as a “health concierge,” care for every aspect of health for each employee, providing them with the support needed to manage their own health. In terms of specific services, in addition to general medicine (internal medicine, orthopedics, dental), medical checkups (regular medical checkups, half-day complete medical checkups, medical checkups for employees traveling overseas and those returning temporarily or permanently), various vaccinations, examinations (VDT examination, adult-onset disease examinations), we also offer medical counseling and provide information. Web services such as the Health Support System (HSS), which allows individuals to view their medical checkup history, are also available. As well as the operating four recreation facilities through our health insurance society, we run quit smoking and other health campaigns. Mental Health Where mental health is concerned, we have established a stress management room in-house, and offer counseling given by a clinical psychologist. Employees can also seek counseling from a company physician as well as see a psychiatrist in-house. Through our health insurance society, we have set up the “Health & Mind Online” health consultation website where employees can seek consultations over the web. 65 Employee Relations Working Hours Management With the aim of promoting lively and efficient ways to work that reflect the realities of each workplace, we pursue initiatives from the perspective of preventing long working hours, such as the establishment of days with early finishing times at each workplace. In terms of specific measures, we have enhanced systems that allow us to engage in fair time management as a company, such as utilizing an objective working hours management system based on building entrance and exit records. We believe that making all employees aware of fair time management and achieving healthy and lively ways to work will lead to fulfilling the ITOCHU Mission of “commitment to the global good.” 66 Employee Relations Communications with Employees Dialogue Meetings with the President ITOCHU Corporation is proactive about offering employees opportunities for two-way discussions with the president. In fiscal 2013, the president visited domestic branches, offices and operating companies, which usually have limited opportunities for dialogue with the president, and held seven dialogue meetings. In these discussions, the president shares directly with employees the company’s management policies and his passion for their realization, while employees in turn can express their opinions to the president and ask questions. The meetings therefore provide extremely valuable opportunities for two-way communication. Recent meetings were held in a very spirited atmosphere, and touched on everything from management policies to more personal topics. Along with these domestic meetings, the president also has dialogue meetings with our staff on overseas assignment, as well as overseas bloc employees when he visits one of our overseas bloc areas. In fiscal 2013, the president held 8 meetings at our business locations in the United States, Brazil, the United Kingdom, France, Intaly, China, and Philippines, directly exchanging opinions with staff on overseas assignment and overseas bloc employees about our management policies and other topics. These meetings provide beneficial opportunities for both the president and employees to deepen their communication. Dialogue with the Labor Union At ITOCHU Corporation, a wide range of issues is discussed with the labor union in order to realize our corporate mission, “Committed to the Global Good.” In fiscal 2013, we held five meetings, including management meetings with the President and similar meetings with Division Companies and the Administrative Headquarters. Labor and management enter repeated and active discussions to build up a healthy relationship that enables both sides to recognize and share challenges currently facing them and to study and implement improvement measures. Initiatives with the Labor Union in fiscal 2013 June 2012 Settlement of accountings meeting September 2012 Machinery Company management meeting November 2012 Energy & Chemicals Company management meeting March 2013 Management meeting with CFO March 2013 Management meeting with the President Ratio of labor union members as of April 1, 2013 67 Employee Relations Comments from the Labor Union President The ITOCHU Labor Union is involved in a host of measures designed to realize working environments that allow one of the Company’s key stakeholder groups, its employees, to be more enthusiastic and motivated, and bring their individual abilities to the fore. Based on input gathered from a wide array of frontline operations, we hope to encourage communication between the Company and employees through active dialogue with the Company at management meetings, and ultimately to contribute to CSR activities. Toshiaki Asano President, ITOCHU Labor Union Improving the Infrastructure for Employee Communication ITOCHU Corporation works to revitalize communication between employees and provide opportunities for exchange through a range of welfare facilities and schemes. Revitalized communication helps to foster a sense of belonging and motivation to work in individual employees and also helps to invigorate the organization as a whole. Dormitories for Single Employees More than 300 junior career-track employees spread across four buildings for males and two buildings for females make use of company dormitories. The dormitories allow employees to interact with junior and senior employees joined the company at different times or who belong to different departments, and also leads to more lively communication among fellow junior employees. Employee Cafeteria The employee cafeteria at the Tokyo Head Office underwent large-scale renovations in May 2013 and was transformed into a space that is brighter and a more comfortable meeting place than before. Each day around 1,500 employees make use of the employee cafeteria, which helps promote exchanges between fellow employees during meal times. “SOGO-KAI” Associations “SOGO-KAI” associations are organizations in which fellow employees assemble and enjoy the same sports or cultural activities. More than forty such associations are active within the company and boast more than 700 employee members. The associations are not limited to current employees of ITOCHU Corporation. Many former employees and Group company employees also take part. Through sports and cultural activities, these associations promote exchanges and communication across different generations and organizations. 68 Employee Relations Basic Data Numbers concerning employees (As of the end of March for each year) Numbers concerning employees Consolidated Total Male Female Average Average Average Number of age of number annual salary employees employees of years (JPY) of service 2011 4,301 3,201 1,100 41 15.8 12,542,124 62,635 2012 4,255 3,162 1,093 41 15.6 12,810,035 70,639 2013 4,219 3,162 1,057 41 15.8 13,893,019 77,513 Number of employees by orerating segments (As of the end of March 2013) (Unit: persons) Textile Machinery Metals & Energy & Food ICT, General Minerals Chemicals Products & Realty Non402 468 197 333 389 407 consolidated Consolidated 20,101 11,749 774 8,523 6,995 25,828 Number of overseas bloc employees by region (As of the end of March 2013) (Unit: persons) North Latin Europe Africa Middle Oceania East ASEAN & CIS Total America America East Asia South West Asia 149 161 208 37 157 31 744 606 85 2,178 Proportion of female employees among all Numbers of hire by gender employees in career-track positions (As of April 1 for each year) 69 Employee Relations Acquisition of leave according to child care or nursing care related systems (Unit: persons) FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 Child care Childcare Leave 49 61 43（0 male; 43 females） Leave to nurse sick 125 125 134（58 males; 76 females） children Shorter working hours for 50 57 64（0 male; 64 females） child care Special parental leave 13 8 35（6 males; 29 females） Nursing care Nursing care leave 0 1 1（1 female） Special nursing care leave 9 12 12（4 males; 8 females） Leave for nursing care 16 18 18（6 males; 12 females） Shorter working hours for 2 3 2（2 females） nursing care Family support leave 469 536 454（248 males; 206 females） Employment ratio of people with disabilities (As of June 1 for each year) Employment ratio Legally stipulated ratio of people with disabilities 2011 1.87% 1.80% 2012 1.87% 1.80% 2013 2.02% 2.00% 70 Social Contribution Viewing issues from a global perspective, we always remain aware of the role to play as a good corporate citizen, see that our activities are at harmony with both local communities and the international community, and contribute to the rise of societies offering a higher quality of life. Following our corporate mission “Committed to the global good,” we have identified five areas of focus in our basic activity guidelines. Basic Activity Guidelines on Social Contribution 1. Action on Global Humanitarian Issues As a globally active enterprise, ITOCHU Corporation shall take proactive approaches to humanitarian issues around the world and help to build a better, more humane world. 2. Environmental Conservation ITOCHU Corporation shall vigorously pursue activities of environmental conservation and contribute to sustainable social advancement. 3. Community Contribution As a good corporate citizen, ITOCHU Corporation shall construct favorable relationships, and harmonize its business, with local communities. 4. Growth of Future Generations ITOCHU Corporation shall conduct activities to support the sound development of youth as tomorrow's leaders and work for the emergence of fulfilling and vibrant communities. 5. Support for Volunteer Work by our Employees ITOCHU Corporation shall provide positive support for the activities of social contribution by each and every one of its employees. 71 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: The Great East Japan Earthquake Support Activities The Great East Japan Earthquake caused substantial damage throughout east Japan. Moving forward, ITOCHU will do its utmost to support reconstruction from a long-term perspective. Topics of Major Activities in FY 2013 The 100 Children's Books aid in June 2012 The 100 Children's Books aid that we conduct together with our shareholders has starting arriving at a volunteer organization in Tohoku. This activity transfers paper and postage costs saved from shareholders approving electronic registration of their information to the Itochu Foundation that runs novel book aid. With our company donating the same amount, we have delivered 15 sets (1 set = 100 books) of children's books in fiscal 2012 to an organization operating at areas suffering the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake to be used effectively for reading aloud to children. Fund-Raising Activities Started a Year and a Half after the Great East Japan Earthquake in September 2012 On September 11, ITOCHU Corporation started in-house fund-raising activities at its offices to provide support for areas devastated by the giant earthquake and tsunami. The campaign lasted until September 21, and money was donated by many people, including expatriate employees and ITOCHU Group employees, not to mention directors, executive officers, and employees of ITOCHU Corporation. ITOCHU added the same amount to the final campaign result and donated their sum, which was 607,230 yen, to the Nippon International Cooperation for Community Development (NICCO). NICCO will use the money to support children in the devastated area under the 'Supporting Children's Dreams'project in Tohoku. For details, visit: http://www.kyoto-nicco.org/project/support/presentation/itc-coope.html Exhibiting the Works of Takuya Gamo of Iwaki City in Fukushima Prefecture in March 2013 We organized the Art Exhibition PEACE ART for the Future (March 5 to 11) at ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE. The whole venue including the support message board was given over to the “Great Earthquake, Tsunami and Heart Memories Spoken by Children's Arts” organized by East Japan Support Crayon Net. The exhibition of works by Takuya Gamo, who has overcome a disability to play an active role as an artist in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture, was held at the same time. Fundraising Activities to Mark Two Years Since the Great East Japan Earthquake in March 2013 Marking two years since the Great East Japan earthquake on March 11, the fundraising activity at the ITOCHU Tokyo headquarters collected 546,890 yen during the lunch hour. We have also had warm reactions from our branches and overseas offices during the week and ITOCHU will match the donations with a sum equal to the total amount collected.Unchanged from the time immediately after the earthquake, the sense of “we will not forget” is put to use rebuilding schools and supporting young people in the areas affected by the disaster through the Nippon International Cooperation for Community Development (NICCO) and the ITOCHU Foundation. Tohoku Supporting Children's Dreams Project in March 2013 The Nippon International Cooperation for Community Development runs the Tohoku Supporting Children's Dreams Project. Sympathizing with the aim of the project, ITOCHU Corporation supports extracurricular activities and youth baseball teams of junior high schools in Rikuzentakata City, Iwate through ITOCHU Children's Dreams Fund, a fund that has recently been established. For details, visit: http://www.itochu.co.jp/en/csr/news/2013/130311.html Cooperating in Ishinomaki Line Mangattan Liner in March 2013 A departing ceremony for the Ishinomaki Line Mangattan Liner, a joint enterprise by Ishinomaki City and East Japan Railway Company, was held on March 23 when the Ishinomaki Mangattan Museum reopened. Many children and 72 Social Contribution families flocked to the station platform to see the train printed with Cyborg 009, Kamen Rider and other popular characters of cartoons created by the late Shotaro Ishinomori. Hoping that Mangattan Liner will attract tourists and help reconstruct affected areas, ITOCHU Corporation donates all expenses for the production of character stickers to Ishinomaki-shi. Support for Volunteer Activities by our Employees Beginning in May 2011, to make it easier for employees to participate in volunteer activities that support Great East Japan Earthquake reconstruction initiatives, we instituted a system under which the Company pays for travel, board, and other expenses. By the end of March 2013, a total of 216 people had used this system. Volunteer Activities Report 1 (participated in the 9th activities from August 9 to 12, 2012) Voice from a participated volunteer Seeing the Devastation and Meeting New Friends The disaster that devastated the Tohoku region was a truly shocking event. I had been wondering whether there was something I could do to help with recovery efforts. Seeing the devastation with my own eyes, I again felt the difficulty and intractable nature of the recovery. Our work involved clearing clogged rice paddy ditches, and over the course of two and a half days, we cleared dozens of meters of ditches. By having meals and clearing ditches with 13 people of different ages and departments who I had never come across before in the ITOCHU Group, I was delighted to discover there were many wonderful workmates in ITOCHU that I never knew. I recommend that many more people pitch in and enjoy lending a hand. Tetsuo Otani Logistics & Insurance Business Department Volunteer Activities Report 2 (participated in the 13th activities from December 13 to 16, 2012) Voice from a participated volunteer Continuing the Recovery to the Next Stage This was my third visit to Rikuzentakata. This time when we arrived, Minna no Ie (a community house for local residents) stood on the land we reclaimed in December 2011, and there was a new sports field next to an embankment we cleared debris from in June. What we can do to help each time is so limited that when the body is tired from volunteering, the mind can be tempted to doubt whether the work has any meaning. On this trip I was glad to see people gathering at Minna no Ie to seek warmth from the cold, and children playing catch in the field. It made me realize that our efforts had certainly helped local people to make progress. However, there is still a long way to go before a full recovery. This trip made us want to always remember Yumi Inoue the people in the disaster zone and continue volunteering. Non-Ferrous & Metal Materials Department Volunteer Activities Report 3 (participated in the 14th activities from February 14 to 17, 2013) Voice from a participated volunteer Thinking Again About the Tohoku Region Two years have now passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and I've been surprised by the sluggish rate of reconstruction and recovery. There are still many local people in the Tohoku region who have to live in temporary accommodation and are grappling with their daily lives as they steadfastly wait for more progress with the recovery. After the volunteer work, I was really moved when a person affected by the disaster said to me quietly, You've been a great help to us. I was also very struck by the various people I met and relationships I formed on this occasion. ITOCHU has provided us with the opportunity to converse a lot with disaster victims about their experiences. For these people, the memories of that time are still painfully vivid in Terumi Haruki their mind. Nevertheless, they have a strong need to talk about the earthquake and Affiliate Administration related things. This is because they want us all to never forget about the tragedy. Section, ICT, General This is perhaps also why when we were leaving the region on our bus they continued Products & Realty waving to us until they couldn't see the bus any more. I couldn't help but respond Company out loud with, I'll be back soon! 73 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Action on Global Humanitarian Issues Providing Aid to Areas Affected by Major Natural Disasters For humanitarian reasons, we donate money and provide supplies for emergency relief for those affected by natural disasters both in Japan and overseas. In FY2013, we collaborated with local branch offices and related organizations to provide the following aid. Recent examples Philippines: Typhoon in Mindanao ¥10,000,000 United States: Hurricane in the northeast (Through local subsidiary) US$50,000 China: earthquake in Szechuan (Through local subsidiary) RMB300,000 Support Activities for the World Food Programme (WFP) With the hope of alleviating hunger and poverty worldwide, we have been serving as a council member of the Japan Association for the WFP, a nonprofit organization that focuses on building support in Japan for the World Food Programme (WFP) and its hunger relief operations. On December 5 and 6, we solicited donations to the UN World Food Program (WFP) in the reception area on the 1st basement floor of the Tokyo Headquarters and collected a total of 365,261 yen. At the venue, panels showing WFP’s activities were displayed, and a limited number of special Santa Claus dolls were given to donators on a first-come and first-served basis. The Participated in End Hunger: Walk the World money donated by the large number of ITOCHU employees will be used by WFP for activities around the world for eradicating hunger. Moreover, in May 2013, 220 employees of ITOCHU Corporation and ITOCHU Group companies participated in End Hunger: Walk the World, held in Yokohama. This is an annual event to raise money and awareness for the WFP's efforts to fight child hunger and malnutrition. At its Tokyo Headquarters, ITOCHU regularly engages in activities such as fundraising and holding panel exhibitions for introducing the WFP's activities. TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) Fighting to Fix the Food Supply Imbalance between Developing and Developed Countries Our TABLE FOR TWO (TFT) is a social contribution program based on the concept of people in developed countries sharing a meal with those in developing nations beyond the restrictions of time and space so as to simultaneously work toward solving the problems of hunger faced by developing nations and obesity and lifestyle-related diseases faced by industrialized countries. TFT was established in Japan in October 2007, and in April 2008 in the corporate cafeterias in Tokyo, Osaka, and Nagoya ITOCHU introduced the TFT program at fullscale ahead of other companies. In FY2014, the TFT healthy Menu is being offered every 74 Social Contribution day at the Tokyo Headquarters’ corporate cafeteria. Those who order a meal from the menu can automatically donate 20 yen, which is included in the price. ITOCHU has introduced a matching gift program under which it donates an additional 20 yen per TFT meal purchased by its employees. This means that a total of 40 yen per meal is donated to the Japan Association for the World Food Programme and used to provide school lunches for children in developing nations. Guidelines for TABLE FOR TWO meal 1. Meal with calories of approximately 730kcal (between 680 to 800kcal) 2. Nutritionally well-balanced meal 3. Meal with a generous amount of vegetables Best 3 popular menus of TABLE FOR TWO at ITOCHU's Tokyo Headquarters No.1: Stir-fried pork and vegetables No.2: Bulgogi full of vegetables No.3: Non-fried white meat Mayo with oyster sauce 597kcal cutlet 496kcal 500kcal 75 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Environmental Conservation Activities to Restore the Tropical Rainforests and Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem In 2008 ITOCHU celebrated the 150th anniversary of the company's foundation. To commemorate the anniversary, the Company decided to implement a social contribution program. A questionnaire conducted to determine what type of program to conduct found forest conservation to be the theme employees desired most strongly. Since FY2010, under this program, ITOCHU has been engaged in activities to restore the tropical rainforests and conserve the ecosystem in Borneo by collaborating with the World Wide Fund (WWF) for Nature Japan. In northeast Borneo, at North Ulu Segama in the state of Sabah in Malaysia, where ITOCHU supports an area for rainforest regeneration, the international conservation Planting of tree saplings organization WWF is collaborating on reforestation with the Forestry Department of the State Government of Sabah. The ITOCHU Group is supporting the regeneration of 967 hectares in the area – one of the largest forest regeneration programs to be carried out by a private enterprise. Since the land is also a habitat for orangutans, an endangered species, ITOCHU has named the program ITOCHU Group Forest for Orangutans and has worked together with Group companies to promote it. We also organize a tour to the island every year comprised of volunteers from among ITOCHU Group employees. In these tours, the employees take part in reforestation efforts (including tree planting and cutting grass), observing wild animals, and other activities. Please refer to the page 84 for detail. Support for Manila Hemp Plantation Rehabilitation Project On the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the establishment of our Manila branch in 1912, in June we signed a project agreement with the Fiber Industry Development Authority of the Department of Agriculture and the St. Ann’s Family Service Cooperative, a local agricultural cooperative. The project has begun in August 2012, and ITOCHU will donate ¥2 million, the amount needed to plant and grow 90 hectares of Manila hemp (about 144,000 plants), which is scheduled to be completed by March 2014. In addition, the project is expected to absorb approximately 18 tons of CO2 a year. 76 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Community Contribution Establishment of ITOCHU Medical Plaza for Contributing to Development of Kobe Medical Industrial City To the Foundation for Kobe International Medical Alliance, we donated 500 million yen necessary for constructing the ITOCHU Medical Plaza, a facility aimed at conducting international medical exchange. The Plaza is planned to open in summer 2014 in the Kobe Medical Industrial City, one of the largest medical clusters in Japan. It is intended to be a center for human resource development, including education and technical training of overseas physicians and healthcare practitioners mainly from Southeast Asia, projects for accepting trainees from overseas, and a variety of research projects such as joint development of medical equipment with universities and other institutions. Image of completed ITOCHU Medical Plaza Opening of ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE In October 2012, we opened ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE in the CI Plaza next to ITOCHU’s Tokyo Headquarters. We established the facility as a base for our CSR activities aimed at contributing to the development of future generations, making local contributions through art, and contributing to art and cultural promotion, both in Japan and abroad. In Aoyama, an area that thrives with a variety of cultures, we will showcase artwork that reflects fresh perceptions and present exhibitions that serve as a bridge for international exchange. ITOCHU will continue to address a range of social issues through art and regularly present exhibitions to contribute to creation of the culture of life in local communities. ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE website http://www.itochu-artsquare.jp/en/ Nemunoki Children and Mariko Art Exhibition Starting on October 26, 2012, the first exhibition of ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE Nemunoki Children and Mariko Art Exhibition was open to the public. The opening ceremony was participated by Ms. Mariko Miyagi, the President of Nemunoki Gakuen and also the exhibition director, along with children of the school. The ceremony turned out to be a friendly and calm occasion under the clear sky. 77 Social Contribution Five Art University Interchange Exhibition From January 18 through February 23, 2013, ITOCHU exhibited at ITOCHU AOYAMA ART SQUARE paintings and other works created by 40 voluntary students studying at five famous art universities in the Kanto region, namely Joshibi University of Art and Design, Tama Art University, Tokyo Zokei University, Nihon University College of Art and Musashino Art University. The students infused feelings that are unique to students into original work. ITOCHU jointly organized this event with the aspiration that it would encourage the next-generation of students, who represent the future of art in Japan, to grow and pursue their dreams by providing them with challenging opportunities to present their work to society. (Each of these posters is an individual artwork: the students put in the extra work of making every one different) Exhibition of Edokiriko by 15 Young Artists From Saturday, March 16, 2013, ITOCHU Aoyama Art Square has been the venue of an exhibition of new works by 15 artists of traditional Edokiriko. Based in Koto-ku, Tokyo, these artists keep making attractive works combining traditions with innovations. It was a good opportunity to experience the art and beauty of the works of young craftsmen who inherit traditional craft filled with the wonder of the culture created and developed by Japanese. Support the House for Youth in Philippines of NGO Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi(KnK) In December 2009, ITOCHU provided support for renovation of the House for Youth, a home that helps young people become independent, located on the outskirts of Manila. Support was provided via Kokkyo naki Kodomotachi (KnK: meaning children without borders ), an authorized Japanese NPO that supports street children, children who are victims of major disasters, and other children in developing countries. House for Youth was again renovated in 2012 into a job training facility that helps children achieve independence. This time the underground floor and the roof of the house were renovated, enabling the facility to provide more job training courses, which allows more young people to acquire practical skills. The facility currently provides a wide range of support to approximately 1,000 young people every year. House for Youth Children from the House of Youth participating in the 100th anniversary celebration of ITOCHU Corporation's Manila branch 78 Social Contribution KnK Reports From the Philippines (an excerpt from KnK’s website) The KnK Philippines House for Youth, which was established in November 2001, was renovated in December 2009 with support from ITOCHU Corporation. Young children who were abandoned by their parents live together here under the family-like love of staff members and receive appropriate care. Some children who suffered from severe malnutrition before they came here are extremely small for their age. Yet their health conditions have now improved significantly because they receive a well-balanced diet and live a regular life. At the House for Youth, we help young people living in slums get jobs by Together with the staff members of KnK providing them with training courses in computer skills and sewing. We have also started activities for creating income in the slums mainly through handicrafts. Through this work, young people can, for instance, create and sell accessories to help them become financially independent. Lobby concert On July 23, 2012, we organized the 21st ITOCHU lobby concert at the Tokyo head office attended by more than 700 current employees, former employees and their families as well as people in the local community. As we do every year, we also invited everyone from the Agape Center and before the concert, we organized a social event with the presenter Keiko Takeshita and ITOCHU Chairman, Eizo Kobayashi. Everyone had been looking forward to the annual event and were very pleased to socialize and have photos take to commemorate the evening. The performance by the New York Symphonic Ensemble was also extremely well received. At a mini-talk with Keiko Takeshita and Chairman Kobayashi, the discussion ranged from the efforts of the people in the disaster-struck areas to the assistance of the picture book program run by the ITOCHU Foundation. In its 21st appearance in the lobby concert, the New York Symphonic Ensemble gave a wonderful performance and were called back for two encores. Once again, we were reminded that music is the shared language of all people and regions. Community Cleanup Activities on Aoyama-dori ITOCHU employees take part in community cleanup activities around our Tokyo Headquarters. As members of the local community, they clean up the street and distribute items for raising awareness by cooperating with the local residents' association and staff of other companies in the area. 79 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Growth of Future Generations ITOCHU Foundation ITOCHU has promoted social contribution activities aiming for the sound development of young people since setting up the ITOCHU Foundation in 1974. The foundation engages in activities for contributing to the healthy growth of children, such as two current major projects: subsidizing development of children's literature collections (including subsidies for library development at schools and supplementary schools for Japanese nationals overseas), and promoting development of an e-book library. Please refer to the page 69 for the 100 Children's Books aid that we conduct together with our shareholders. Students at a Japanese school in Guatemala Opening of Eco Shop Pavilion in KidZania Tokyo In April 2012, ITOCHU opened its Eco Shop environmental pavilion in KidZania Tokyo, a facility for children to experience diverse types of work. ITOCHU operates the Eco Shop by utilizing the expertise in environmental education it has developed through the MOTTAINAI Campaign, a global environmental effort in which ITOCHU participates. To allow children to experience environmental activities, the pavilion provides visitors with opportunities to create original products such as a My Furoshiki Wrapping Cloth, Eco-Bag for Shopping, and My Chopsticks to Carry Along, all using eco-friendly materials. We have also introduced a program in which, for each Ceremony for presenting tree saplings to Kenya child creating an original item at the Eco Shop, an amount equivalent to the cost of one tree sapling is donated to the Green Belt Movement, a tree-planting endeavor in Kenya. In FY2012, about 30,000 children participated in the activities, leading to donation of 30,000 saplings. At KidZania Tokyo, a popular venue for children, we will continue to provide them with opportunities to enjoy learning environmental preservation from a global perspective, helping to develop young people who will be leaders of sustainable society. Summer Holiday Class for Children On August 22, 2012, we held a Summer Holiday Class for Children on the 10th floor of the Tokyo head office. A total of 27 children, including students of Aoyama Elementary School, children from the local community, and employees' families, participated in the class. We started to hold this annual event in 1992 as the Summer Holiday Environmental Class. The class for this year, which was the twenty-first, was organized jointly with Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. with expanded content. In the first part of the class, children learned about money, enjoyed quizzes on money, practiced counting banknotes, and actually held up 100 million yen cash. In the second part, they were given explanations about the MOTTAINAI Campaign, enjoyed a picture-story show on Pre Organic Cotton, created eco bags, and finally, were given beetles as gifts. The two-hour class was thus rich in content. Above all, when real 100 million yen cash was shown to them immediately after a quiz question, “How heavy is 100 80 Social Contribution million yen?”, not only the children but also their parents and guardians let out a cheer. Each one of them actually held up the cash, taking photographs eagerly. In the second part of the class, the participants gave such comments as “I was happy I could express MOTTAINAI with my own hands”, “I enjoyed making the eco bag and now I want to do many more eco-friendly activities”, “I want to buy products using Pre Organic Cotton as much as possible because I know the hardship of producers.” It seems that the class was not only enjoyable for the children but also gave them a good opportunity to start thinking about environmental problems in their own ways and taking actions accordingly. When beetles were offered as gifts at the end of the class, the children looked at the 40 beetles with shining eyes. Thus, the class will be remembered by the children as one of good memories of summer holidays. * Pre Organic Cotton: Cotton produced by farmers during a period required for the certificate of completing transition to organic production [Reference]For details of the Pre Organic Cotton Program, visit: http://www.preorganic.com/about/ 81 Social Contribution Social Contribution Activities: Support for Volunteer Work by our Employees ITOCHU strives to heighten employees' awareness of volunteer activities. In one such effort we have introduced a system that lets employees take up to five days of annual volunteer leave and volunteer programs in which they can participate on holidays or during lunch breaks. We especially recommend that our employees participate in the following activities, for which we have launched our own support programs. Overseas: Volunteer tree-planting in Borneo Japan: Volunteering to provide support for recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake Activities to Restore the Tropical Rainforests and Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem Since 2009, ITOCHU has been engaged in activities to restore the tropical rainforests and conserve the ecosystem in Borneo by collaborating with the World Wide Fund for Nature Japan. We organize employee volunteer tours every year and visit Borneo regularly with employees working for ITOCHU Group companies, national staff working overseas, and others. Please see the pages 84 to 91 for details. Examples of Other Volunteer Programs in which Employees can Participate Support for Child Chemo House through installation of vending machines To support operation of the Child Chemo House, the Japan's first specialized childhood cancer treatment facility, we have installed beverage vending machines specially designed for Chemo House in our Headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka. We donate an amount equaling 6%-10% of sales from all beverage vending machines installed in the buildings to Child Chemo House. ITOCHU Baseball Class (Tokyo Headquarters) As part of nurturing young people, thinking that we want to give disabled children the opportunity to challenge themselves in a variety of activities, and that we would like to help create opportunities for them to explore their own potential, we have sponsored the classes since 2007. The instructor Kazuya Yano, former pitcher for the Yakult Swallows, covered a lot of ground, from sportsmanship, basic movements and other fundamentals that are difficult to master by practicing at home, to catching fly balls and practicing pitching. Expressing a common sentiment, one child who participated said, I am happy because it was the first opportunity for me to use some of this gear. From now on I want to practice more. The event is very popular with everyone including the children and their guardians, and the number of volunteers are increasing year by year. 82 Social Contribution Campaign to Deliver Picture Books (Headquarters in Tokyo and Osaka, Nagoya Branch, Kanazawa Branch) Participants in this campaign affix labels bearing text translated into local languages on corresponding pages of Japanese picture books and send the books to children in Southeast Asian countries as gifts. A room on the fifth floor of the Tokyo Headquarters is offered for these activities during lunchtime every Thursday. Selling Bread from the Swan Bakery The Swan Bakery was established by the Yamato Welfare Foundation with the aim of encouraging employment for people with disabilities at reasonable wages. Since May 2008, we sell bread from the Swan Bakery every Wednesday in the employee cafeteria at the Tokyo head office. Nature Observation Sessions organized by the Fureai Network Nature observation at Shinjuku Gyoen National Garden: Early April Cicada walk: Early August Nature observation tour in Yokosawairi: Early October Book reading by Fureai Network's Reading Aloud Group (held on second Saturday of each month) Current and retired employees of the ITOCHU Group visit elderly residents of a nursing home in Shibuya ward as volunteers and interact with them by reading books aloud, singing together, and engaging in other activities. 83 Social Contribution Social Contribution Programs to Commemorate the 150th Anniversary 1. Background A worldwide issue, the striking decline and deterioration of tropical rainforests and the accompanying collapse of ecosystems was pointed out at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development (UN Earth Summit) held in Brazil in 1992, but even today it has not stopped. In addition, it is also said that the destruction of forests is a source of the increase in CO₂ that is a cause of global warming. The island of Borneo (Kalimantan) is a tropical rainforest region extending across the three nations of Malaysia, Indonesia and Brunei. With a surface area that is approximately 1.9 times that of Japan, it is the third largest island in the world. Ranked with the Amazon, the island of Borneo is considered a treasure house of biodiversity, but recently development has made headway and some of the tropical rainforests have been damaged to the degree that it is not possible to preserve the ecosystem with natural regenerative power alone. This program is designed to assist with the regeneration of these damaged rainforests. In the northeast of Borneo, at North Ulu Segama in the state of Sabah in Malaysia, where ITOCHU supports an area for rainforest regeneration, WWF, an international conservation organization, is collaborating with the Sabah Forestry Department (SFD), to carry out reforestation of an area of approximately 2,400 hectares. Within the area, the ITOCHU Group is supporting the regeneration of 967 hectares. This is the largest area of responsibility for a restoration project undertaken by any private company. The land in question is also a habitat for orangutans, an endangered species. The reforestation not only protects the orangutans ; it is linked to the protection of many living creatures whose habitat is here. Planting of 690 hectares had been completed as of the end of November 2012, and reforestation of all the 967 hectares is scheduled to be completed by the end of FY2015. After that, on-site maintenance work will continue through FY2017. 84 Social Contribution It takes a long time to regenerate a tropical rainforest. Five years alone are not enough. However, taking this opportunity, both employees and Group companies are cooperating, aiming to regenerate a forest where the animals can live in peace. 2. Program Description Recipient WWF Japan Term From FY2010 to FY2014 (Originally scheduled for 5 years, but the on-site work will continue through FY 2017) Location Borneo (North Ulu Segama, Sabah, Malaysia) Area 967 hectares (slightly larger than a 3 km x 3 km square area) Contribution A total of 250 million yen (including donations from Group companies) Tree-planting We will plant species of trees that are appropriate to local conditions with the focus on the local Dipterocarpaceae species. We will plant trees and undertake maintenance for a period of five years. Employee We are involved in local reforestation activities (tree-planting, cutting undergrowth), volunteering wildlife observation, and other activities by employee volunteers, including those from Group companies. 85 Social Contribution News from Borneo: Vol. 4 A total of eighteen employees of ITOCHU and Group companies from Tokyo, Sendai and Taiwan came together for the 4th Borneo tree-planting tour at the ITOCHU Group Forest for Orangutans in Sabah State on the island of Borneo in Malaysia. At the site, the participants worked up a sweat, planting 10 to 27 saplings per person in the tough environment as the scorching heat of the sun beat down on them. Here, we introduce the abundant attractions of the local natural environment and a summary of the tour. Tree-Planting Tour Itinerary Day 1 11/22 Narita (overnight flight) – Kuala Lumpur Day 2 11/23 Kuala Lumpur – via Kota Kinabalu to Lahad Datu. WWF seminar after arrival at the hotel Day 3 11/24 Lahad Datu to North Ulu Segama for tree-planting, and Sukau (evening cruise & night cruise) Day 4 11/25 Sukau (morning cruise) to Sandakan (walk) to Sepilok Day 5 11/26 Sepilok (visit the Orangutan Rehabilitation Center) • A walk in Forestry Department forest facility to Sandakan to Kuala Lumpur (overnight flight) to Narita Day 6 11/27 Arrival at Narita Airport 86 Social Contribution Reforestation Status as of November 2012 As of November 2012, approximately 690 hectares, or 70%, of the total 967 hectares had been planted with trees. Long spells of rain, droughts and other bad weather have made it difficult for the tree planters to work efficiently. As of now, the tree planting will continue until fiscal 2014 with maintenance work continuing until fiscal 2016. From then on, the site will be left to grow naturally. A sapling planted in 2010… … had grown to about 2 meters By 2012, it had by 2011. grown to 4 meters. Tree-planting Report Day 2 (November 23) Arriving at the hotel after a long flight and transfer, the participants immediately headed for the conference room where they listened to a lecture by WWF Malaysia staff about the current situation in the disappearing forests on Borneo. Participants are listening earnestly to a lecture Mr. Taniyama, a former by WWF Malaysia staff ITOCHU employee, speaking with plain enthusiasm about the historical context. After the ITOCHU activities, Mr. Taniyama, a former managing director of ITOCHU who now lives in Kota Kinabalu, came with his wife to talk about local afforestation and culture. The participants were able to get a full understanding of the current situation. 87 Social Contribution Day 3 (November 24) The temperature was about 35 degrees. Under the scorching hot rays of the sun, 19 people split into six groups and planted 10 to 27 saplings each. Sweating hard as they planted the trees, everyone worked until they were worn out. I was moved by participants who, finding traces of orangutan nests at the afforestation site, worked while praying that the trees they were planting would grow to provide homes for the orangutans in ten years’ time. Leaving the hotel by private bus in the morning. Transferring to 4WD jeeps to travel to the treeplanting site Explanations at the tree-planting site At last, the tree-planting starts Commemorative photo in front of the signboard Pouring with sweat and venturing into deep country while keeping to the tree-planting line After finishing the tree-planting, we went by bus back to the hotel. The people participating in the evening cruise from the hotel in Sukau encountered proboscis monkeys, orangutans, lizards, kingfishers and other wild animals. After the evening meal, there was also a night cruise. The species of animals you can observe changes between dusk and nighttime. We traveled downstream at night through a magical landscape that took our breath away as we enjoyed the scenery under a starry sky. 88 Social Contribution In the afternoon, we transferred back to the hotel in Finally we came across a wild orangutan!! Sukau where the evening cruise started. After a short while we encountered 2 more wild Looking up from the boat orangutans!! They were only 50-60 meters away from the boat. Day 4 (November 25) With the excitement of the previous day still lingering, we set off on the morning cruise. We also encountered wild animals on the 2.5 hour boat trip and the participants were astonished beyond their expectations. Early morning departure Captivating colors of the kingfisher 89 Social Contribution A monitor lizard clinging to a tree (about 1 m long) To Sandakan in a speed boat. The strong wind hitting the body feels pleasant in the temperatures directly below the equator Day 5 (November 26) It had been raining heavily since the previous night, so in the morning we paid a visit in the rain to the Sepilok Orangutan Rehabilitation Center. The center shelters orphaned orangutans who have lost their mothers to poachers and, with a little help from human beings, they learn the necessary skills for surviving on their own before they are returned to the wild. It was a valuable few hours with each participant thinking deeply about the connections between forest regeneration and ecosystem protection, and their importance. An orangutan sitting on the Participants looking at the information board fence along the path (close at the resource center enough to touch) 90 Social Contribution In the afternoon, we visited the Rainforest Discovery The protected area retains the look of virgin rain Centre in a protected forest managed by the forest with many species of trees growing close Forestry Department. together in a rich ecosystem. The Centre, which grows tropical plants and birds, On the way to the airport, we stopped off at the can be visited on foot. Sandakan cemetery. In a small corner, down a narrow path at the rear, there is a famous Japanese cemetery. (The photo shows the Chinese cemetery.) The rain is holding off?! The power of people who bring out the sun! The volunteer tree-planting tour has come to an end without any difficulties thanks to the participants. Once again, I would like to thank you for your support. At the lecture immediately after arrival, nobody looked tired, rather everyone was excited to participate in the activities. After the presentation, there were a lot of questions and the high level of interest in this project was tangible. Locally, this is the rainy season, but the men and women from the ITOCHU Group seemed to bring the sun with them. Just like last year, the sky was blue during the Megumi Kosaka time spent at the project site. The temperature rose above 35ºC under the blazing Corporates & Partners, sun, but everyone was smiling and working earnestly without stopping. The people I Fundraising & Marketing remember best are the ones who talked to the saplings while gently planting them in Division, WWF Japan the ground. Seeing the look of satisfaction on their faces after the tree-planting was finished, the staff gradually relaxed and had an enjoyable time taking photographs and talking with everyone. I believe that everyone who participated in this tour came to understand the range of issues around the need for the forest reforestation project, its content and initiatives, as well as the day-to-day activities of the staff. Please do talk to your colleagues, family members and friends about this experience. I expect that your stories will be instrumental in getting people to think about protecting the global environment. 91 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Activities Policies ITOCHU Corporation positions global warming and other environmental problems as one of the top priority issues in its management policy. In addition, to fulfill our corporate philosophy “Committed to the Global Good,” we have established the ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy. Now, we advance our corporate management and activities on a global scale under this policy, not only to contribute to the prosperity of the present generation, but also from the view point of what we can create to pass on to the next generation, while keeping a strong awareness of global environmental problems. The ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy I . Basic Philosophy Global warming and other environmental issues are affecting the future of mankind. As a global enterprise, ITOCHU Group is positioning these issues as one of the most important management policies. ITOCHU Group contributes to the realization of a sustainable society by promoting “Actively addressing the better global environment” based on The ITOCHU Group Corporate Code of Conduct, in order to achieve the goals of The ITOCHU Group Corporate Philosophy, “Committed to the Global Good”. II . Activity Guidelines In keeping with the basic philosophy presented above, ITOCHU Group pursues a continual improvement of its environmental management system and defines the following guidelines concerning activities of environmental conservation. (1) Prevention of In all business activities, duly consider the need to conserve ecosystems environmental pollution and biodiversity, as well as local and global environments, and strive to prevent the occurrence of any environmental pollution. (2) Observance of laws and Observe all domestic and foreign laws and regulations related to regulations environmental conservation, along with other requirements to which we have subscribed. (3) Promotion of Besides promoting activities for conservation of energy and resources as environmental conservation well as reduction and recycling of waste as needed to establish the activities recycling-oriented society, endeavor to develop and supply products and services that help to conserve the environment. 92 Our Initiatives for the Environment (4) Harmonious coexistence As a good corporate citizen, aspiring for the prosperity of succeeding with society generations and positive contribution to society in general, support local communities for environmental education and assist in basic research pertaining to conservation of the global environment. (5) Promotion of educational Educate both our own employees and those of Group companies in order activities to raise their awareness of environmental conservation and improve the quality and effectiveness of associated activities. May 2010 Masahiro Okafuji President & Chief Executive Officer ITOCHU Corporation's Stance on the Environment ITOCHU Corporation is active in Japan and internationally, offering a wide range of products and services, developing resources, and investing in businesses. Our activities are closely related to global environment problems. We believe that a company cannot grow sustainably without awareness of these problems. In 1990, we created a Global Environment Department, and in April 1993, we documented our environmental activity guidelines in the ITOCHU's Activity Guidelines on the Environment (the predecessor of our Environmental Policy). In 1997, these guidelines were revised to the “ITOCHU Corporation Environmental Policy” and we have subsequently revised this policy several times, in order to keep up with changing demands over time and reflect them in the Policy's expression. We also made the following two revisions in May 2010. 1. We changed the name from the “ITOCHU Corporation's Environmental Policy” to “The ITOCHU Group Environmental Policy,” in order to express clearly that our commitment to environmental issues is shared throughout the ITOCHU Group, rather than just by ITOCHU Corporation. 2. We revised the Activity Guidelines in our current Environmental Policy, in order to make it clear that our commitment goes a step beyond conserving ecosystems, to conserving biodiversity as well. The expression was thus changed from “conserve ecosystems” to “conserve ecosystems and biodiversity.” 93 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Management ITOCHU Corporation has formulated an Environmental Policy covering the entire ITOCHU Group. ITOCHU is aware of the impact that its business activities may have on the global environment. We have thus built a framework for assessing the impact of the products we handle, and in particular before making new investment, in order to prevent environmental risk. We believe it is important to contribute to sustainable development as a corporation by implementing both the offense of promoting environment conserving businesses and the defense of taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. Environmental Management System In 1997, ITOCHU Corporation became the first trading company to establish an environmental management system (EMS) based on ISO 14001, and we continue to work to improve our EMS. The system's aim is to comply with environmental laws and regulations, take precautionary approaches to environmental risks and promote environment conserving businesses. Specifically, the system controls and manages targets through a yearly PDCA (plan-do-checkact) cycle of setting targets for preventing environmental risk and promoting environment conserving businesses; evaluating and analyzing progress; and acting to achieve our targets. 94 Our Initiatives for the Environment ITOCHU Corporation’s Environmental Management Organization Our president has the ultimate responsibility for ITOCHU Corporation’s environmental management organization. The president appoints a CAO who has complete authority for the environmental management system. Concrete management work is carried out by the CSR Committee, established to review environmental policies and perform annual reviews of corporate-wide activities. The CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department of the Corporate Communications Division serves as the CSR Committee's secretariat. Environmental managers, assigned to each division that is subject to environmental audits (61 total in fiscal 2014), and assisted by eco-leaders (266 total as of May 31, 2013), are responsible for promoting environmental conservation in their respective divisions. Internal Environmental Audits In fiscal 2013, In-house environmental audits based on ISO 14001 were carried out in 59departments. Findings from the audits, conducted over roughly six months, are instrumental in taking precautionary approach on the environmental risks. Audit teams are comprised of members of the CSR Promotion & Global Environment Department and employees qualified to serve as In-house environmental auditors (399 registered individuals), and carried out their work with an emphasis on auditing legal compliance. We have applied a new auditing approach – a combined format in which two or three departments were audited at once. This approach not only boosted audit efficiency but heightened audit effectiveness by encouraging mutual understanding of other departments. Results of External Inspections Each year, ITOCHU is inspected by the Japan Audit and Certification Organization for Environment and Quality (JACO) in connection to ISO 14001 certification. The fiscal 2013 inspection was to renew certification, and is performed in the first and second years of certification. Inspections in the third year are to renew certification, after which the cycle repeats itself each year. The outcome of the inspection was an overall “improvement” grade and renewed certification, based on an acknowledgement of ongoing system improvement efforts by ITOCHU. 95 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Management Results and Targets With respect to environmental management, ITOCHU establishes environmental objectives to be tackled in the medium-term, and then sets specific targets and conducts performance reviews based on those targets each fiscal year. Item Fiscal 2013 Environmental Targets Review Fiscal 2014 Environmental Targets Prevention of When investing, perform ○ When investing, perform Environmental environmental risk assessments in environmental risk assessments in Pollution/ advance and ensure thorough advance and ensure thorough Observance of Laws corporate wide utilization of the CSR corporate wide utilization of the CSR and Regulations and Environmental Checklist for and Environmental Checklist for Investments. Investments. Strengthen the awareness of risk Strengthen the awareness of risk management through the entire management through the entire supply chain through Environmental supply chain through Environmental Risk Assessments by Product and Risk Assessments by Product and ensure thorough corporate-wide ensure thorough corporate-wide utilization. utilization. Audit the state of compliance with ○ Promote initiatives to improve the Waste Management and Public management levels by confirming Cleansing Law and Soil environmental management Contamination Countermeasures Act systems, legal compliance and the on a priority basis through internal state of environmental performance environmental auditing. through internal auditing. Select Group companies and conduct ○ Select Group companies and on-site surveys of their conduct onsite surveys of their environmental management status. environmental management status. Promotion of Introduce energy-saving electronic ○ Expand the scope of monitoring to Environmental devices. information such as the energy Conservation emissions of major domestic Activities subsidiaries. Set and review targets based on the ○ Set and review targets based on the CSR Action Plan. CSR Action Plan. (Promote at least one target at each (Promote at least one target at each company and branch) company and branch) Harmonious Conduct environmental education for ○ Conduct environmental education Coexistence with elementary and junior high school for elementary and junior high Society students. school students. Enhance and promote coordination ○ Coordinate with regional companies with branches on environmental and local governments on conservation activities. environmental conservation activities (Promote at least once such initiative at each branch) Promotion of Conduct and promote learning ○ Conduct and promote learning Educational through seminars, tours, basic through seminars, tours, basic Activities environmental education and environmental education and education for personnel with specific education for personnel with specific duties for employees of ITOCHU duties for employees of ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. Corporation and Group companies. Conduct training sessions and ○ Conduct training sessions and promote learning regarding Waste promote learning regarding Waste Management and Public Cleansing Management and Public Cleansing Law and Soil Contamination Law and Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act for employees Countermeasures Act for employees of ITOCHU Corporation and Group of ITOCHU Corporation and Group companies. companies. * ○: Implemented △: Partially ×: Not yet implemented 96 Our Initiatives for the Environment Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks In addition to evaluating environmental risks of the products we handle, we are committed to taking a precautionary approach to environmental risks. This commitment also extends to ITOCHU Group companies, reflecting the need to identify the impact on the global environment of the business activities of the Group as a whole. Evaluating Environmental Risks Posed by Products Handled We handle a wide and diverse range of products on a global scale. We thus carry out our own original environmental impact evaluations based on our belief that it is vital to evaluate the impact of these products to the global environment, the state of our compliance with environmental laws and regulations, and their relationship with stakeholders. We use a so-called LCA (*) -based analysis method at all stage of product life cycle from procurement of raw materials, production, and use, through disposal of products. If the evaluation shows that the impact on the global environment by particular products exceeds predetermined benchmarks, then we create manuals and the concrete procedures to manage transactions of these product. * LCA (life-cycle assessment) is a method that evaluates the environmental impact of products at all stages of their life cycle, from manufacturing, transport and use through to disposal and recycling or reuse. Fact-finding Investigations of Group Companies We began fact-finding investigations of our Group companies after several of them received complaints about environmental pollution from their surrounding neighborhoods in 2001. We analyze about 200 of our 393 Group companies (as of March 31, 2013) with relatively higher levels of impact on the global environment, and conduct investigations of about 10 of them per year. Over the 12 years to the end of March 2013, we did on-site investigation at 173 companies (239 worksites). The evaluation is made using Q&As between auditors and management, inspections of plants, warehouses, and other facilities, surveys of wastewater released into rivers, and Inspecting the management of parts assessments of compliance with environmental laws and regulations. containing regulated substances, at our Auto Parts Distribution Center in the United States Evaluating the Environmental Risks of New Investment Projects ITOCHU Corporation and its subsidiaries in Japan employ a CSR and environmental checklist for investments to evaluate in advance the market, social and environmental impact of business investment projects entered via M&A in Japan and overseas. We revised this checklist at the end of fiscal 2013 to reflect the seven core subjects (Organizational Governance, Human Rights, Labor Practices, The Environment, Fair Operating Practices, Consumer Issues, Community Involvement and Development) of ISO 26000, and we began to utilize the new checklist in fiscal 2014. When specialist insight is needed, ITOCHU calls on specialized external bodies to render an advance inspection of the project. Action on the project then moves forward once inspection results and the presence of no major problems are confirmed. 97 Our Initiatives for the Environment Internal and External Inquiries and Our Response (Year Ended March 31, 2013) In the year ended March 31, 2013, we received a total of 20-inquiries from outside the Company, which were broken down as follows: environmental groups (1), industry (4), government and industry groups (6), and media and research firms 9). The inquiries are mainly about the Company’s measures to address environmental problems. There were no environment-related incidents, problems, lawsuits or complaints against the Company. Meanwhile, the number of consultations from within the Company and ITOCHU Group companies has increased. Various environmental education programs have led to greater environmental awareness among employees. We fielded 97 inquiries regarding Japan’s Waste Management and Public Cleaning Law, and 6 inquiries regarding business investments. 98 Our Initiatives for the Environment Promotion of Environment Conserving Businesses ITOCHU Corporation is committed to solving environmental issues through its businesses. As a framework for promoting these businesses, each division formulates a CSR Action Plan and promotes initiatives according to the PDCA cycle. ITOCHU also recognizes climate change and sustainable resource utilization as material issues and focuses on finding solutions to these challenges. Renewable Energy Details of Name of Business Country Generating Capacity / Size Greenhouse Initiative Operator/Investment Gas Reduction Project Figures Wind Power CPV Keenan II Wind USA 152MW Approx. Generation Power Generation 410,000 tons / Business Project year Shepherds Flat Wind USA 845MW Approx. Power Generation 1,500,000tons / Business year Horonobe Wind Power Japan 21MW Approx. 25,000 Generation Co., Ltd. tons / year Bioethanol Agroindustrial Santa Brazil Ethanol from sugarcane has a 60% CO2 reduction effect Manufacturing Juliana S.A. compared with gasoline. Business PEDRO AFONSO AÇÚCAR Brazil & BIOENERGIA S.A. Biodiesel Biodiesel manufacturing USA About 50 million gallon/year Approx. Manufacturing project in Nebraska, USA 500,000～ Business run by Flint Hills 570,000 Resources, Benefuel and ton/year others Energy-fromST&W Waste England Incineration treatment of 260,000 Estimated Waste Incineration and Power tons / year of general waste Scale of 62,000 tons / Business Generation Project / power generation: Equivalent power year SITA South Tyne & Wear consumption of 31,000 homes Holdings Limited Cornwall Waste England Incineration treatment of 240,000 Estimated Incineration and Power tons / year of general waste Scale of 60,000 tons / Generating Business / power generation: Equivalent power year SITA Cornwall Holdings consumption of 21,000 homes Limited Merseyside Waste England Incineration treatment of 460,000 Estimated Incineration and Power tons / year of general waste Scale of 130,000 tons / Generating Business / power generation: Equivalent power year SITA Merseyside consumption of 63,000 homes Holdings Limited West London Waste England Incineration treatment of 350,000 Estimated Incineration and Power tons / year of general waste Scale of 83,000 tons / Generating Business / power generation: Equivalent power year SITA West London consumption of 50,000 homes Holdings Limited Geothermal Sarulla Operations Ltd Indonesia 330MW About Power 1,000,000 Generation ton/year 99 Our Initiatives for the Environment ITOCHU is advancing a variety of renewable energy, such as wind power, photovoltaic power, and geothermal power. The Shepherds Flat Wind Project, in the U.S. state of Oregon, went into full-scale operation in 2012. In the future, this project is expected to contribute to reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 1.48 million tons a year. In April 2013, we concluded Energy Sales Contract of a 330MW geothermal power generation independent power producer (IPP) in Indonesia’s Sarulla region in North Sumatra. In recent years, Energy-from-Waste projects have received growing attention as a means of clean power generation that substantially reduces the amount of waste sent to landfill Shepherds Flat Wind Project and does not use fossil fuels. With our investment in SITA Cornwall Holdings Limited in March 2013, we now have four Energy-from-Waste projects in the U.K., including projects for which we have been selected as preferred bidder. We will handle about 20% of the annual waste incineration volume in the U.K. Water-Related Businesses Country Details of Initiative Saudi Arabia ITOCHU began delivering large numbers of seawater desalination plants from the 1970s. In the 2000s, ITOCHU and Sasakura established the joint venture company ACWA Power Sasakura with local capital in the country and took part in a power generation and water desalination business. In addition, against a backdrop of population growth and industrialization, ITOCHU also expanded into rehabilitation projects for seawater desalination plants. In May 2012, the joint venture company Arabian Japanese Membrane Company, LLC, which manufactures reverse osmosis membrane elements for seawater desalination, was established with Saudi Arabian firm ACWA Holding and Toyobo. Australia In 2009, ITOCHU invested and participated in a seawater desalination project (daily capacity of 440,000 tons) in Victoria, Australia. Facility construction was completed in 2012 and will commence operation from 2013. England In 2012, ITOCHU invested in the UK-based Bristol Water Group. This marked the first foray by a Japanese company into the UK water supply business. ITOCHU takes part in a comprehensive water supply business that covers everything from water resource management to water purification, water supply and distribution, levying of rates and customer service. China ITOCHU was consigned to perform maintenance and operational services for the North-South Sewage Treatment Facility at the Changxing Island Harbor Industrial Zone in Dalian City, Liaoning Province, China. The facility boasts a processing capacity of 40,000 tons per day. ITOCHU established a joint venture company with Suez affiliate Sino French Water Development Co. Ltd., and is currently implementing the project. 100 Our Initiatives for the Environment Tree Plantation Name of Business Operator/Tree Plantation Country Project Size CENIBRA (Celulose Nipo-Brasileira S.A.) Brazil 132,000ha ANCHILE Chile 27,000ha Southland Plantation Forest Co. New Zealand 10,000ha South East Fibre Exports Australia 5,000ha Acacia Afforestation Asia Vietnam 2,000ha South Wood Export Ltd. New Zealand 1,000ha Other Environmental Businesses Project Name Details of Initiative Lithium-ion Batteries ITOCHU has invested and participated in a lithium compound manufacturing business, cathode material business and anode material business. ITOCHU has build a value chain in the lithium-ion battery field based on investment projects with the likes of US-based SIMBOL MATERIALS as well as Toda Kogyo Corp. and Kureha Battery Materials Japan Co., Ltd., and will promote the stable production and supply of related materials and components. Energy Management Since 2009 ITOCHU has deployed the eco FORTE IT-based energy management Systems/ system, achieving the visualization and automated operating control of the Energy-Saving Solutions power for air conditioning, lighting quipment and other facilities, and helping customers conserve electricity. In 2013, ITOCHU took a stake in Kankyo Keiei Senryaku Soken, and is providing solutions to its customers and other businesses to help reduce energy consumption and conserve electricity. ITOCHU has developed the Smart Street Lighting Service, a smart street lighting business utilizing cutting-edge technologies. ITOCHU is currently conducting a demonstration in Tsukuba City as a project commissioned under the Low Carbon Regional Development Intensive Support Program sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment. In 2012, the service won the Grand Prize for Energy Saving Service in the EcoServices category of the 9th Eco-Products Awards. For the “Smart Streetlight Service,” a smart business with streetlights that use advanced technologies, ITOCHU won the Grand Prize for Energy Saving Service at the 9th Eco Products Awards in 2012. For this service, devices compatible with power line communications will be attached to each streetlight. These devices will enable remote control of each streetlight, including fine adjustment of the brightness level in accordance with the environment. We are currently conducting demonstration testing of this service in Tsukuba City in a project commissioned under a Ministry of the Environment program “For model businesses providing focused support for the development of low-carbon regions.” Moving forward, we will continue to strengthen our energy and smart IT infrastructure business and to promote energy management. In this way, we will strive to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. 101 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Education and Awareness We are committed to improving the environmental awareness of the entire ITOCHU Group. To encourage environmental conservation efforts among our employees we offer a wide range of education programs, as well as seminars on environmental law, and seminars to raise awareness of global environmental issues, which also target Group employees. Seminars We actively hold seminars in order to ensure that all employees of the ITOCHU Group are aware of and comply with the requirements of environmental laws and regulations, and in order to raise environmental awareness. Internal Seminars and Training Sessions (fiscal 2013 results) Content Timing Target Participant Environmental Managers 23th April 2012 (Tokyo) Employees and 91 Conference 25th April 2012 (Osaka) Group Company Employees General Education From May to July 2012 Employees and 4351 57 times in total Group Company Employees Education of staff in specific From May to July 2012 Employees and 479 operations 38 times in total Group Company Employees Seminar on Soil 17th July 2012 (Tokyo) Employees and 274 Contamination 18th July 2012 (Osaka) Group Company Countermeasures Law Employees Seminar on Waste 23th October 2012 (Tokyo) Employees and 829 Management and Public 25th October 2012 (Osaka) Group Company Cleasing Law ※Other 10 times Employees Seminar on Environmental 25th January 2012 (Tokyo) Employees and 182 Management Group Company Employees ITOCHU Symposium 15th March 2013 (Osaka) Employees and 59 Group Company Employees Internal seminars (fiscal 2013 results) (Number of people) Legal seminars Times held Total participants Seminars on Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law 12 829 Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act 2 274 102 Our Initiatives for the Environment Global Environmental Management Seminar In January 2013, ITOCHU sponsored the Seminar on Global Environment-Oriented Business Management at the Tokyo Head Office. The seminar was attended by around 180 employees of ITOCHU Corporation and its affiliates, and led by invited speaker Seita Emori of the Climate Risk Assessment Section of the National Institute for Environmental Studies. Mr. Emori gave a talk titled “How ‘afraid’ should we be of global warming? A big picture look at the risks of global warming.” Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, public interest in nuclear energy has been high. However, global warming is almost certainly advancing, and countermeasures will be needed in the future. In his talk, Mr. Emori explained the current situation and predictions in respect of global warming in plain language using animated simulation. Many of his remarks left a strong impression on the audience, including examples of the very important implications once global warming advances beyond a critical point, the fact that unless CO2 emissions are reduced to zero in the future we will not be able to stop the advance of global warming, and the need for major value judgments in the Mr.Seita Emori, Climate future. Many participants said that the talk had provided them with hints that they could Risk Assessment Section of the National Institute for put to use in the course of their work. Environmental Studies 103 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Performance Data ITOCHU Corporation strives to achieve environmental conservation not only through business activities, but also through office activities, such as cutting back electricity consumption and the promotion of the recycling of waste, in which all its employees can easily participate. In addition, in fiscal 2012and fiscal 2013, it has gradually expanded the scope of the collection of environmental performance data on Group companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries to understand the actual environmental situation and improve its environmental conservation activities in the future. Environmental Performance Scope of the Data ○:in scope of aggregation Electricity CO2 CO2 Total Paper Water consumption emissions emissions waste consumption consumption from from volume business distribution facilities Tokyo ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ ○ headquarters Osaka ○ ○ ○ headquarters Branches in ○ ○ ○ Japan *1 Other ○ ○ ○ branches *2 and business facilities in Japan *3 Group ○ ○ ○ ○ companies in Japan *4 Overseas ○ ○ subsidiaries *5 *1 Branches in Japan: Chubu, Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku, Hokkaido, Tohoku *2 Other branches: Hokuriku, Toyama *3 Aggregation since FY2010 (FY2010: 18 offices; FY2011: 16 offices; FY2012: 14 offices,FY2013:13 offices) *4 Aggregation since FY2010 (FY2010: 49 companies, FY2011: 55 companies, FY2012: 60 companies, FY2013: 64 companies) *5 Aggregation since FY2010 (FY2010: 5 offices, FY2011: 5 offices, FY2012: 10 offices, FY2013: 10 offices) Third Party Audit Report: For the Tokyo headquarters, the Osaka headquarters and branches in Japan, electricity data and CO2 emissions data have been audited by the Japan Management Association. 104 Our Initiatives for the Environment Electricity Consumption The table below shows electricity consumption and CO2 emissions from business facilities from FY 2010 and FY2013. ITOCHU has announced a goal of reducing specific energy consumption at ITOCHU Corporation itself and its domestic subsidiaries by an average of at least one percent per year and is striving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. ITOCHU installed inverters for the ventilation systems and LED desk stands, and introduced other energy-saving facilities, while all employees took the initiative of turning off lights and office equipment when not in use. Unit:Thousand kWh FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Tokyo headquarters 13,489 13,006 10,418 9,914 Osaka headquarters 1,858 1,750 1,119 505 Branches in Japan 513 512 472 446 Other branches and business 3,762 3,971 3,404 3,237 facilities in Japan Group companies in Japan 1,793,242 1,871,100 1,871,178 1,968,436 Overseas subsidiaries 643 651 987 983 ・ For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been collated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, domestic branches and offices and other business facilities, data has been collated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (it covers business facilities ITOCHU Corporation owns or rents, excluding the facilities for dwellings). ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2010: 49 companies, FY2011: 55 companies, FY2012: 60 companies, FY2013: 64 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the offices of overseas subsidiaries that obtained ISO14001 certification was combined (FY2010: 5 offices, FY2011: 5 offices, FY2012: 10 offices, FY2013: 10 offices). CO2 Emissions from Business Facilities Unit:t-CO2 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Tokyo headquarters 6,964 7,032 5,778 5,492 Osaka headquarters 783 647 413 227 Branches in Japan 281 273 255 270 Other branches and business 1,511 1,372 1,160 1,494 facilities in Japan Group companies in Japan 1,045,460 1,084,648 1,068,416 1,119,263 Overseas subsidiaries 454 443 704 701 ・ For the Tokyo headquarters, data has been calculated in accordance with the Tokyo Metropolitan Ordinance on Environmental Preservation. For the Osaka headquarters, domestic branches and offices, other business facilities and Group companies in Japan, data has been calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy and the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ・ For overseas subsidiaries, the figures are the total based on the CO2 conversion factor of the International Energy Agency (IEA). 105 Our Initiatives for the Environment Total Waste Volume The table below shows the total waste volume generated in Tokyo headquarters building, group companies in Japan and overseas subsidiaries from FY2010 to FY2013. We have been promoting waste segregation. FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Tokyo headquarters building Total waste volume 1,074 1,049 706 759 (Unit: t) Recycling rate (%) 90 89 89 88 (Unit: %) Group companies in Japan* Total waste volume 168,552 183,019 201,723 205,997 (Unit: t) Overseas subsidiaries Total waste volume 5 5 5 5 (Unit: t) ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2010: 46 companies, FY2011: 48 companies, FY2012: 49 companies, FY2013: 53 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the offices of overseas subsidiaries that obtained ISO14001 certification was combined (FY2010: 1 office, FY2011: 1 office, FY2012: 1 office, FY2013: 1 office). Paper Consumption The table below shows the paper consumption in Tokyo headquarters building from FY2010 to FY2013. We have been promoting the reduction of paper consumption by means such as encouraging paperless activities and stopping the unnecessary use of paper. Unit: Thousand sheets (A4 equivalent) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 Copy paper consumption 38,175 36,558 37,479 36,883 Water Consumption The table below shows the water consumption in Tokyo headquarters, group companies and overseas subsidiaries from FY2010 to FY2013. Unit:m3 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 City water usage by the Tokyo 59,564 54,226 44,590 43,068 headquarters Gray water production by the 33,553 31,577 37,222 37,212 Tokyo headquarters Total emissions by the Tokyo 56,877 31,577 37,222 37,212 Headquarters Total emissions by group 5,141,423 5,385,968 5,553,779 5,813,921 companies in Japan * Total emissions by overseas 5,897 3,482 4,583 10,980 subsidiaries * * Calculation assumes the same volume as water supply use when total drainage volume has not been ascertained. ・ Group companies in Japan: Data on the Group companies that responded was combined (FY2010: 30 companies, FY2011: 32 companies, FY2012: 33 companies, FY2013: 35 companies). ・ Overseas subsidiaries: Data on the offices of overseas subsidiaries that obtained ISO14001 certification was combined (FY2010: 1 office, FY2011: 1 office, FY2012: 1 office, FY2013: 3 offices). 106 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental conservation at the Tokyo Headquarters Building Solar power generation We installed solar panels on the roofs of our TOKYO headquarters and the adjacent CI Plaza. It has started to generate electricity since March 2010. The capacity of generation for solar panels is total 100kw which is equivalent to prevailing 30 detached houses (approximately 3.0kw per detached house). We make use of all clean energy generated solar power in our TOKYO headquarters and it regards as electric energy (Maximum power generation at moment) covered 3.5 floors lighting. Effective Use of Water Resources Since the treatment facilities for recovered water (gray water, rainwater and spring water) were installed when the Tokyo Headquarters was built in 1980, recovered water have been effectively utilized to flush the toilets. The change on amount of securing gray water may be caused by the rainfall every year so that city water usage tends to increase when the rainfall is a little. Therefore, we take care of saving water to install the devise for economize hand washing water and flushing in toilets. Tokyo Metropolitan Government Program to prevent Global Warming ITOCHU Corporation submitted the Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2006 to 2010 to the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, in accordance with their Ordinance on Environmental conservation. In the plan, we committed to reduce CO2 emissions in the Tokyo Headquarters by 4.1%, compared to the benchmark (the average of annual CO2 emissions from FY2003 to 2005), during the period between FY2006 and FY2010 ITOCHU emitted 7,549 tons of CO2 in FY2010 with the reduction rate 18%, compared to the amount of the benchmark. (Data for FY2011 will be reported to Tokyo Metropolitan Government in November 2012 after they are complied.) Those below submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government are available in Japanese. Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2011) (Japanese Only) Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Plan for FY2011 to 2015 (Submitted in November 2012) (Japanese Only) * The plan submitted to Tokyo Metropolitan Government for greenhouse gas emission reduction includes not only the Tokyo Headquarters, but also the adjacent commercial facility, “CI PLAZA”. 107 Our Initiatives for the Environment Participation in “Challenge 25 Campaign” ITOCHU Corporation is a participant in the national “Challenge 25 Campaign (*) ” to mitigate global warming. This campaign includes such initiatives as adjusting the air conditioning temperatures during the summer and winter, turning off lights when they are not needed, and setting computers to a hibernation mode when away from the desk for extended periods. It also encourages the separation of trash inside the office and promotes recycling. As a result, all employees act to protect the environment starting with the little things around them every day. * The name was changed in January 2010 from “Team Minus 6%” to “Challenge 25 Campaign” 108 Our Initiatives for the Environment Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Costs The environmental conservation costs for all of ITOCHU Corporation’s domestic branches in fiscal 2012 are as follows. (Unit: 1,000 yen) Classification Investment Amount Cost Costs inside business areas 118,120 1,239,820 Up/downstream costs 0 42,642 Management activity costs 0 131,703 Research and development costs 0 500 Social activity costs 0 38,016 Costs to address environmental 0 11,455 damage Total 118,120 1,464,136 Summarized based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines – 2005 Edition from the Ministry of the Environment. Scope of Calculation: All domestic branches Target period: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 Environmental Conservation / Economic Effects The environmental conservation effects and economic effects of ITOCHU Corporation’s paper and electricity usage and waste emissions for fiscal 2012 are as follows. Environmental Conservation Economic Effects Effects (Unit:1,000JPY) Paper Usage 595,000sheets 786 Electricity Usage 1,144,000kWh 18,996 Waste Emissions 804t 42,794 Water Usage 1,024m2 1,073 Environmental conservation and economic effects are calculated by subtracting actual values for the current fiscal year from those for the previous fiscal year. Scope of Calculation: Paper, Waste, Water – Tokyo Headquarters building, Electricity Usage Tokyo Headquarters building, Osaka Headquarters and five branches Monitoring the State of Environmental Liabilities With respect to environmental risks, particularly asbestos, PCB and soil contamination, associated with tangible fixed assets of ITOCHU Corporation itself and its Group companies including land and buildings, ITOCHU not only complies with legal requirements but also conducts monitoring on a voluntary basis and seeks to respond in a way that is conducive to the switch determination and judgment of management policies. In fiscal 2013, ITOCHU will continue to promote the sharing of related information through various training (page 102) such as training sessions on the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act. 109 Our Initiatives for the Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Distribution ITOCHU Corporation is working on green distribution that will reduce the burden on the environment in order to comply with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Monitoring Carbon Dioxide Emissions Associated with Distribution as an Indicator of Environmental Burden The following graph shows the carbon dioxide emissions generated in connection to energy usage through transportation carried out by ITOCHU Corporation. * From Act on the Rational Use of Energy and FY2012 Regular Report (submitted in June 2013) Change in CO2 Emissions Attributed to Distribution Environmental Energy-Saving Measures Environmental Energy-saving measures are set forth in the following measures and policies in effect across the company. In addition to these, each division company formulates specific measures. Selection of Modes of Promotion of modal shift (utilization of rail and sea transportation) Transportation Actions to Improve Use of partial and consolidated cargo services Transportation Efficiency Selection of appropriate vehicle models and larger vehicles Transportation route ingenuity Improved loading ratios Coordination between Review of transportation plans, frequency, etc. freight carriers and recipients 110 Our Initiatives for the Environment Specific Measures (1) Selection of Modes of Transportation ・ Examine and analyze the circumstances of long-haul truck-based transportation and consider changing modes of transportation, starting with businesses able to transition to rail and domestic vessel-based transportation, which place a comparatively lighter burden on the environment. (2) Actions to Improve Transportation Efficiency ・ Examine the circumstances of transportation and consider actions such as appropriate vehicle model and transportation route selection. Further, try to improve loading efficiency and reduce specific energy consumption. (3) Coordination between Freight Carriers and Recipients ・ ITOCHU’s internal judgment criteria on the use of distribution companies requires it to check the status of a company’s environmental distribution initiatives and recommends the usage of accredited companies. ・ To achieve measures (1) and (2) above, ITOCHU will endeavor to build cooperative frameworks with distribution companies as well as partner suppliers and other parties. 111 Third-Party Opinion Trading is the Way to Buddha – This phrase in the President's Commitment was the first to surprise me when I picked up this report. A cutthroat general trading company thinking about the Way of the Buddha. For a moment, I thought it surprising, but I realized that this philosophy, which addresses other dimensions than earning money, is the backbone that has made it possible for the company to survive and grow for more than 150 years from the end of the Edo period. I had learned about ITOCHU's CSR activities by participating in the stakeholder dialogues on these activities at ITOCHU from 2007 to 2010, but when I looked at this report, I felt that this backbone has now gradually come to the surface. Ms. Mariko People often say that CSR means to contribute to society through the core business. Kawaguchi, However, it is important to contribute by meeting the needs of other stakeholders, and not Senior Researcher, Research Department, only the needs of customers, while minimizing any secondary negative impacts. Looking at Daiwa Institute of the results of employee questionnaire regarding CSR, promotion of business contributing to Research solving social issues has passed the 50% mark, increasing from 40.8% in 2010 to 54.8% in 2012 which was a positive surprise to me. Observing ITOCHU's CSR activities, it seems that businesses incorporating stakeholders' needs to solve social challenges are increasing, which is encouraging. Some of these examples includes the Pre-Organic Cotton (POC) Program, which has built a supply chain that extends from training farmers in growing organic cotton to supplying the final product, along with the renewable energy businesses (mega-solar systems, geothermal energy, wind power, storage batteries), the resource recycling businesses, the desalination plants, the trade in certified timber, the sales of eco-friendly condominium lots, the development of supplements and foods that use the highly nutritious midori mushi (Euglena), and the activities of the Africa Food Development Association, which aims to strengthen the competitiveness of farming in Africa through the cultivation of sesame and soy beans, and to ensure stable supplies to Japan. Among these business models I especially like POC Program. Recently, young consumers have become increasingly interested in organic, fair trade and other ethical products. However, the reality is that there are still extremely few ethical products. Even if a producer is interested, there is neither the knowhow of developing attractive products nor the sales channels. Meanwhile, sellers wanting to carry these products find that the quantity and quality of raw materials are insufficient. Being involved in the whole supply chain from the very upstream raw materials production to the downstream end-consumer market, the role of the trading company is an extremely important one. In terms of POC transaction volumes, the aim is to increase the volume from 1,000 tons in 2012 to 10,000 tons by 2017 (total trading transactions for related products worth 5 billion yen) with expectations for rapid expansion in the future. This means that there is a growing need for supply chains of ethical products that contribute to alleviating poverty in developing countries through organic production. For the supply chain of the 20th century, Businesses are expected to deliver quickly products of uniform quality at the reasonable price with enough volume to meet the consumer needs, regardless of the impact on the environment was great on their supply chain, and without anyone ever imaging the face of the producer. On the contrary, POC is a forerunner of the 21st century supply chain, which contributes to solutions to any issues related to poverty of producers or environmental issues. I would like to see ITOCHU building many of such supply chains and make them broad in the future. I would also like to see further disclosures about the initiatives for the CSR Action Guidelines for Supply Chains. Speaking of the topmost reaches of the supply chain, the report describes the EHS guidelines for the mining business and oil field development in the North Sea off Britain, but businesses developing mines and oil fields have a great impact on both environmental and human rights aspects. Since interest in society is high, I would expect further disclosures of specific considerations.in these areas. Concerning the issue of stable procurement of foods, the report describes continued stable supply in 2012 despite the drought in North America. The drought reoccurs once every few years so I suppose the risk has already been factored in, but with frequent occurrences of extremely abnormal weather patterns worldwide, there is a risk of a sudden drop in food supplies on the macro level in the future. In the long term, demand will increase due to the growing world population, but, on the other hand, the assumption is that supplies will decrease as farmland in the grain-producing regions shrinks when groundwater dries up and topsoil is eroded. Strategy for procuring long-term, stable and continuous food supply is an area where expectations of general trading companies are high. As for the fishing industry resources so appreciated in Japan, the depletion of eel and bluefin tuna has become a matter of social concern, but in terms of managing fishing industry resources, Japan is lagging behind the rest of the world both in social awareness and corporate initiatives. This is an issue that I would like to see on the agenda of the Food Company. 112 Third-Party Opinion Being in nonmanufacturing industry, ITOCHU discloses broad range of ESG data, but as far as the participation of women workforce and women's empowerment is concerned, I would like to see more disclosure about the proportion of women in management positions, and the number of foreign managers and executives, in addition to the current disclosure about the proportion of women in career-track positions, and the introduction of a female executive officer. In terms of the figures for male and female employment, I would like to see some additional information about the reasons for the decrease in the number of women in the past two years. In terms of the environment, I understand that ITOCHU makes proper use of EMS with environmental accounting to tally the figures for CO2 emissions that are attributed to distribution. Since it seems that CO2 emissions, waste, and water usage at the business companies are increasing, I would like to see further descriptions of the reasons. Adding figures to the descriptions of the environmental and social businesses, which are cited as an example, would facilitate concrete understanding. Finally, a word about the corporate culture. In the stakeholder dialogues that I mentioned above, it was very impressive to see that the dialogue between the President or top executives and the external experts was open to all company employees. Such discussions of other companies are usually held in a closed manner, so it made a deep impression on me. The report carries a lot of information about the continuous dialogue between the management ranks and employees, as well as the opinions and faces of company employees participating in CSR activities, so I believe ITOCHU has very open culture with active internal communication. Free and broad-minded communication is indispensable for promoting businesses that contribute to resolving various and new social issues. Cultivating a good corporate culture broadens the business activities that help solve social issues, creating a virtuous cycle that contributes to both profitability and society. Brief CV of Ms. Mariko Kawaguchi Completed a Master's degree (environmental economics) at Hitotsubashi University in 1986, and joined Daiwa Securities in the same year. Transferred to Daiwa Institute of Research in 1994 and engaged in enterprise survey, but rejoined Daiwa Securities Group as head of CSR group in 2010-2011. Returned to her post at Daiwa Institute of Research from July 2011, and has served as Senior Researcher in the Research Department since April 2012. In charge of environmental economics, CSR, and socially responsible investment. Response to Third Party Opinion In recent years, corporations have been required to deliver continuous growth and to contribute to a more affluent society through sound corporate activities. In light of this, the basic approach to CSR at our company is the recognition that we contribute to building a sustainable society through our core businesses based on the corporate philosophy of being Committed to the Global Good. Employee attitudes to CSR are evolving from year to year. The CSR employee questionnaire found that more than half of employees recognize promotion of business contributing to solving social issues as the most important CSR issue for ITOCHU. The highly acclaimed Pre-Organic Cotton Program at the Textile Company is the outcome of this kind of environment. In order to discover and realize similar businesses in the future, we believe it will be even more important Toru Matsushima for each employee to embrace the ideal that we are the ones to solve the social Representative Director issues and to work hard. Managing Executive Officer As a general trading company, we are developing a wide range of products and CAO services, with recognition of the important issues in each area of the business, and promoting CSR at each front-lines. As pointed out, in the future, we would like to have a broader awareness of various issues of high concern in society, and to leverage that awareness for CSR activities and to disclose information in a way that is more open. As part of this, we have established a CSR Advisory Board as of this fiscal year to take on board the opinions of our CSR activities seen through the eyes of external experts. Setting up these opportunities to receive external opinions will lead to practical activities. ITOCHU has been able to develop over a period of more than 150 years because we have inherited the spirit of our founder Chubei Itoh, who advocated social contribution through trading and regarded trading as the way to Buddha, and the spirit of sampo yoshi (Good for the seller, Good for the buyer, and Good for society) from the Omi merchants including Chubei. Even in the era of rapid change, we will not waver, but make sure our employees around the world are aware of this spirit, sharing the values that develop in line with social perspectives to build a better society. 113 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles GC Item Indicator Full WEB Principles Report 1 Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of 2-3 President's Commitment the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2-3 President's Commitment 20-44 CSR and Our Business 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 122 Corporate Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 20-44 CSR and Our Business 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including 20-44 CSR and Our Business main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 122 Corporate Profile 2.5 Number of countries where the organization 122 Corporate Profile operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 122 Corporate Profile 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, 20-44 CSR and Our Business sectors served, and types of 122 Corporate Profile customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: 20-44 CSR and Our Business Number of employees; 122 Corporate Profile Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net Financial Statements revenues (for public sector organizations); Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and Quantity of products or services provided. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period N/A regarding size, structure, or ownership including: The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for 0private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 8 Stakeholder Relations 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 1 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or 1 its contents. Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: 1 Basic Policy on CSR and Determining materiality; 5-7 Promotion System Prioritizing topics within the report; and 114 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, 1 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or 1 boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, N/A leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of 104-108 Environmental calculations, including assumptions and techniques Performance Data underlying estimations applied to the compilation of 109 Environmental Accounting the Indicators and other information in the report. 122 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods N/A in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard 114 GRI Comparative Table Disclosures in the report. Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking 104-108 Environmental external assurance for the report. If not included in Performance Data the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including 45-52 Corporate Governance committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 45-52 Corporate Governance governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board 45-52 Corporate Governance structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to 45-52 Corporate Governance provide recommendations or direction to the highest 67-68 Communications with governance body. Employees 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Corporate Governance highest governance body, senior managers, and Report (238KB) executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body 45-52 Corporate Governance to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 115 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and 45-52 Corporate Governance expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or 4 ITOCHU Mission values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for 2-3 President's Commitment overseeing the organization's identification and 9 The United Nations Global management of economic, environmental, and Compact social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary 5-7 Basic Policy on CSR and approach or principle is addressed by the Promotion System organization. 97-98 Precautionary Approach to Environmental Risks 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and 9 The United Nations Global social charters, principles, or other initiatives to Compact which the organization subscribes or endorses. 11-12 Respect for Human Rights 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry 9 The United Nations Global associations) and/or national/international advocacy Compact organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Views membership as strategic. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 8 Stakeholder Relations organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 8 Stakeholder Relations with whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain frequency of engagement by type and by 20-44 CSR and Our Business stakeholder group. 56-70 Employee Relations 71-91 Social Contribution Investor Relations 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain through stakeholder engagement, and how the 20-44 CSR and Our Business organization has responded to those key topics and 56-70 Employee Relations concerns, including through its reporting. 71-91 Social Contribution Investor Relations 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Disclosure on Management Approach 122 Annual Report (331KB) Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, 69-70 Employee Relations(Basic including revenues, operating costs, employee Data) compensation, donations and other community 74-75 Social Contribution(Action investments, retained earnings, and payments to on Global Humanitarian capital providers and governments. Issues) Financial Report P2, 14, 116 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles 40, 43(Japanese only) (1,489KB) Principle 7 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 99-101 Promotion of Environment opportunities for the organization's activities due to Conserving Businesses climate change. Annual Report Financial Section (P24) (3,231KB) EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan Financial Report P100obligations. 102(Japanese only) (1,489KB) EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence Principle 1 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Principle 6 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 56-70 Employee Relations management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure 20-44 CSR and Our Business investments and services provided primarily for 71-91 Social Contribution public benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach 92-111 Our Initiatives for the Environment Materials Principle 8 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8, 9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Energy Principle 8 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy 104-108 Environmental source. Performance Data Principle 8, 9 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 104-108 Environmental improvements. Performance Data Principle 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable 99-101 Promotion of Environment energy based products and services, and reductions Conserving Businesses in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Principle 8, 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 99-101 Promotion of Environment and reductions achieved. Conserving Businesses Water Principle 8 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 104-108 Environmental Performance Data Principle 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8, 9 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 104-108 Environmental reused. Performance Data 117 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Biodiversity Principle 8 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed 84-85 Activities to Restore the in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Tropical Rainforests and biodiversity value outside protected areas. Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem Principle 8 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, 84-85 Activities to Restore the products, and services on biodiversity in protected Tropical Rainforests and areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Conserve Borneo's protected areas. Ecosystem Principle 8 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 84-85 Activities to Restore the Tropical Rainforests and Conserve Borneo's Ecosystem Principle 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for 92-93 Environmental Activities managing impacts on biodiversity. Policies Principle 8 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emisions, Effluents, and Waste Principle 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 104-108 Environmental by weight. Performance Data Principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 7, EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 104-108 Environmental 8, 9 reductions achieved. Performance Data Principle 8 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 104-108 Environmental Performance Data Principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 104-108 Environmental Performance Data Principle 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Principle 8 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organizationÅfs discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services Principle 7, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of 20-38 CSR and Our Business 8, 9 products and services, and extent of impact 99-101 Promotion of Environment mitigation. Conserving Businessess Principle 8, 9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance Principle 8 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport Principle 8 EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting 110-111 Initiatives toward products and other goods and materials used for the Environmental organization's operations, and transporting Distribution members of the workforce. 118 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Overall Principle 7, EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and 109 Environmental Accounting 8, 9 investments by type. Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach 56-70 Employee Relations Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment 69-70 Employee Relations(Basic contract, and region. Data) Principle 6 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 63-64 Creating Environments not provided to temporary or part-time employees, That Bring Out the Best in by major operations. Employees Labor/Management Relations Principle 1, 3 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 67 Communications with bargaining agreements. Employees Principle 3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Principle 1 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management_worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Principle 1 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated fatalities by region. Principle 1 LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and 63-66 Creating Environments risk-control programs in place to assist workforce That Bring Out the Best in members, their families, or community members Employees regarding serious diseases. Initiatives Aimed at Occupational Health and Safety Principle 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong 57-59 Human Resource learning that support the continued employability of Development Supporting employees and assist them in managing career the Seeking of New endings. Opportunities 61-62 Promoting Human Resources Diversification LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Principle 1, 6 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 61-62 Promoting Human of employees per category according to gender, age Resources Diversification group, minority group membership, and other 69-70 Basic Data indicators of diversity. Principle 1, 6 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach 11-12 Respect for Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practice 119 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Principle 1, HR1 Percentage and total number of significant 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. Principle 1, HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Principle 1, HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and 11-12 Respect for Human Rights 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-Discrimination Principle 1, HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 2, 6 actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Principle 1, HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise 2, 3 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Principle 1, HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain 2, 5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Principle 1, HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for 53-55 CSR in Our Supply Chain 2, 4 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Principle 1, 2 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the 11-12 Respect for Human Rights organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights Principle 1, 2 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Society Disclosure on Management Approach 4-14 CSR for ITOCHU Corporation 51-52 Compliance 71-91 Social Contribution Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Corruption Principle 10 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Principle 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's 51-52 Compliance anti-corruption policies and procedures. Principle 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Public Policy Principle 1, SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, policy development and lobbying. 7, 8, 9, 10 120 The Comparative Table with GRI Guidelines and UN Global Compact Principles Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Customer Health and Safety Principle 1 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Principle 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Principle 8 PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Principle 8 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customar Privacy Principle 1 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 121 Corporate Proﬁle Company name ITOCHU Corporation Founded 1858 Incorporated December 1, 1949 Headquarters Tokyo: 5-1, Kita-Aoyama 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8077, Japan Osaka: 1-3, Umeda 3-chome, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8448, Japan President & CEO Masahiro Okafuji Common Stock ¥202,241 million Number of ofﬁces Domestic offices 9 Overseas offices 115 North America 9 Latin America 10 Europe 16 Africa 5 Middle East 17 Oceania 4 ASEAN, Southwest Asia 23 East Asia 23 CIS 8 Number of employees* Consolidated 77,513 Non-consolidated 4,219 (As of March 31, 2013) * The number of consolidated employees is based on actual working employees excluding Tokyo Headquarters Osaka Headquarters temporary staff. (North Gate Building) Financial Overview Total Trading Transactions Net Income (Billions of Yen) Consolidated Non-consolidated (Billions of Yen) Consolidated Non-consolidated 15,000 350 300.5 12,551.6 300 12,065.1 11,904.7 280.3 12,000 11,323.8 10,308.6 250 9,000 200 165.4 161.1 153.3 150 131.0 6,000 128.9 5,027.0 4,885.0 4,310.4 4,503.3 3,842.7 100 74.2 3,000 64.4 63.5 50 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Years ended March 31) (Years ended March 31) Total Trading Transactions by Division Company (Consolidated) Revenue by Region (Consolidated) Textile Company 4.9% ICT, General Products & Realty Machinery Company Other 13.0% Company 8.6% 12.1% Metals & Minerals Australia Company 4.1% 4.8% Total Total Food Company 26.7% 12,551.6 4,579.8 Japan 68.3% Billions of Yen Billions of Yen United States Energy & Chemicals 14.6% Company 42.9% (Year ended March 31, 2013) (Year ended March 31, 2013) Notes: • The financial data of ITOCHU Corporation are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. • Total trading transactions is presented in accordance with Japanese accounting practice, and consists of sales with respect to transactions in which the companies act as principal and the total amount of transactions in which the companies act as an agent. • Certain subsidiaries changed their fiscal periods in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The effect of these changes has been reflected in the figures of certain items for the years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010. • “Revenue” is attributed to countries based on the locations of the assets. • As a result of the ITOCHU Group’s integration of the food distribution and marketing business, the items in which distribution cost related to these operations has been included were changed from the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. The relevant amounts in the same period of the previous fiscal years ended March 31, 2011 and 2010 have been reclassified based on this new classification. • With respect to distribution cost related to the ITOCHU’s Group’s food distribution and marketing business, ITOCHU has made a change in presentation in the financial statements related to ITOCHU’s Group’s portion of operational cost arising at the distribution centers of the ITOCHU Group’s customers, such as mass merchandisers, and delivery costs from the distribution centers to the customers’ stores since the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013. The aforementioned distribution cost for the same period of the previous fiscal years ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 have been reclassified in the same manner. 122 5-1, Kita-Aoyama 2-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8077, Japan Tel: +81-3-3497-4069 Fax: +81-3-5474-7296 E-mail: csr@itochu.co.jp http://www.itochu.co.jp
