2013 communication on progress This publication is printed on FSC™ certified paper with soy ink. 2 2013 communication on progress 3 introduction Who We Are and What We Do In Noble Group’s newsletter, Noble World, the UN Global Compact’s principles and Millennium Development Goals were recently featured Noble Group manages a global supply chain of agricultural, energy, metals as part of the business strategy and culture. The publication is available and mineral resources. We operate from over 140 locations, employing more in English, Spanish, Portuguese and Chinese and circulated among than 80 nationalities. Noble manages a diversified portfolio of essential all Noble’s employees. Communicating our progress internally and raw materials, integrating the sourcing, marketing, processing, financing externally forms one of our steps to build trust and credibility in our and transportation of these products. The Group also owns and manages sustainability performance. a number of strategic assets which assist in sourcing resources from low cost producers, such as South America, Australia and Indonesia. These are As one of the key initiatives to identify the sustainability risks areas, supplied to high demand and growth markets, particularly in Asia and the Noble has launched a comprehensive supply chain mapping assessment. Middle East. Today, Noble has interests in grain crushing facilities, coal The goal is to study the impact of environmental and other sustainability and iron ore mines, fuel terminals and storage facilities, sugar and ethanol risk categories, such as water use, labour conditions and food safety in ceo’s Dear Stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm Noble’s continued support of the UN Global Compact understand and mitigate our social and environmental footprint and maintain sustainable supply chains. Many of the industries we are involved in require plants, ports, vessels and other strategic assets, which form an integral part of facilitating Noble’s trade flow. the product supply chains. message and work towards its 10 principles in human rights, labour practices, environmental protection and anti-corruption. At Noble, we continue to care and attention to ensure they will be productive for Noble, our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate in. Implementation of the 10 Principles into Company Life Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles assists us in bringing focus to crucial CSR standards and provides a guideline for their integration into Noble’s business operations. As we regularly develop and implement responsible and sustainable management across our At a time of mounting social and economic instability, environmental This Communication on Progress (COP) report marks the third year of Noble review our performance of the business, we work closely with our key global supply chains and strive to align our entrepreneurial culture with the challenges and climate change, all companies must endeavour to do their best Group’s commitment to the UN Global Compact. Over the past 12 months, stakeholders to manage sustainability risks. Enquiries from our investors highest standards of integrity. to try and create a business environment that is sustainable to all stakeholders. we have continued to implement the 10 universal principles of the UN Global and suppliers, feedback from our employees and customers, changes in Since joining the UN Global Compact in 2010, these 10 principles have This is in many respects what we believe the UN Global Compact aims to Compact into our commodity supply chain business. We have invested and regulatory requirements, media coverage and status reports published increasingly become part of Noble’s way of conducting business. As examples encourage and at Noble we are fully committed to this goal. are engaged in various community projects and initiatives to foster our by non-government organisations collectively determine the material of this commitment, a growing number of our value chains have revised relationship in the locations from which we operate and provide value to all sustainability challenges that Noble faces. policies to engage suppliers on sustainable practices and our businesses make stakeholders. We aligned the principles on eligibility criteria for our Charity This Communication on Progress provides an overview of our active contributions to support local communities in a range of ways, with Foundation at the Group level and our local operations continue to establish commitment to the UN Global Compact and describes the progress special emphasis to facilitate access to quality education and healthcare. These initiatives to serve and benefit the communities. we have made implementing its 10 principles around human rights, actions demonstrate that the principles that form the basis of the UN Global Noble advocates policies and actions to advance broader UN goals through labour, the environment and anti-corruption into our business Compact are not simply mission statements but are put into practice by Noble. good corporate governance established at the board level. We have seen operations. This is accompanied by a brief description of our policies Yusuf Alireza I feel it is important to stress that as a public company and a supply chain an increasing number of products with formalised supply chain policies to and management systems, as well as our activities and their impact manager for numerous natural resources, we are conscious of the need to Chief Executive Officer better products’ traceability and integrity. on our day-to-day business. 4 2013 communication on progress 5 Human rights are high on our agenda; we strive to go beyond legislative requirements. We invest in real action to address these issues. > principle 1 > principle 2 Our Commitment Supporting Human Rights in Noble’s Policies and Actions human rights Noble is committed to the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every new employee in Noble attends an induction workshop to learn about our company culture, rules and regulations, as well as our company principles. Businesses should make sure that they are Our Code of Conduct – and other Group policies demand that all All employees are informed about their rights as reflected under existing support and respect not complicit in human policies, which are updated on a regular basis. In our offices, education on Noble employees comply with the law in every jurisdiction in which the protection of rights abuses. we operate. This applies to all directors, officers and employees of the business ethics and conduct is regularly held in order to affirm the procedures for reporting any such violations in the workplace. internationally proclaimed Group and each of its subsidiaries. The Code and other policies set out principles of integrity to guide employees in carrying out their duties and human rights; and At the Group level, we have a dedicated internal audit team conducting responsibilities. These principles require the highest standards of personal systematic audits across all Noble’s operations. The review and audit of and corporate integrity when dealing on behalf of the Group with its Noble’s operations is ongoing. The team engages in continuous discussion customers, suppliers, competitors and the community. and consultation with various operations to ensure compliance with Human rights are high on our agenda; we strive to go beyond legislative national requirements and also makes certain that all locations are requirements. We invest in real action to address issues such as education, adhering to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Any risks health and safety, water and sanitation in communities in need. We do not identified are included in a review report and presented to the Operations tolerate human rights abuses within the scope of our business operations. Head for further action. 6 2013 communication on progress 7 “Building on the results of Noble’s group-wide Sailors’ Society – in Aid of Merchant Mariners health and safety assessment, we maintain Worldwide our ongoing commitment to control risks and This international non-profit organisation provides all-round wellbeing improve safety performance in all of our assets services to merchant mariners across the world. Reaching over 370,000 seafarers, the organisation works through a network of shipping ports and operations.” to provide financial grants and hospital visits for mariners when disaster or personal tragedy occurs. Mariners are often away from their families for almost one year. The Society helps seafarers maintain frequent communication with their families. Noble‘s staff participate in multiple fund raising events with the Society and donate funds to support mariners in need. Workplace Safety at Noble’s Brazilian Sugar Mills When we acquire a new asset, any past, current or potential future liabilities strategy. We address basic needs such as education, health and wellbeing, Safety is a top priority. Noble Group focuses on creating a work and breaches of human rights are investigated as part of the legal due while always encouraging our local employees to contribute new ideas and environment with zero accidents. A combination of constant training diligence we conduct. Across all locations Noble remunerates employees initiatives. Through our partnerships on the ground, we leverage local and operational adjustment, Noble has transformed the view of at least at the level of the minimum wage. efforts and use their expertise and networks to deliver the needed services. workplace safety from being simply a compliance issue to being an Being a supply chain manager, logistics and shipping services represent integral part of the company culture. Following an award received for When we expand our supply chains into new territories, valuable investments a key role in our entire trade flow. An example of our contribution to our commitment to upholding labour conditions, Noble’s operation in are made in infrastructure improvements which help to nurture vibrant merchant seafarers is illustrated on the next page. Brazil was elected the best in class for operational health and safety in and stable communities. These developments have taken place in Argentina, the 2012 Vision Award for Agribusiness. Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Cote d’Ivoire and South Africa amongst Building on the results of Noble’s group-wide health and safety assessment, others. Public amenities, hospitals and schools are built and improved to we maintain our ongoing commitment to control risks and improve safety Our sugar mill in Sebastianópolis, Brazil was just recognized for serve our employees and community members. performance in all of our assets and operations. Across all our operations being accident free for a whole year. Our “Rules of Safety, Health and in Argentina, Uruguay and Paraguay, annual health check and vaccination Environment” was our latest awareness initiative striving for the best We are fully aware that we operate in some regions that have a history of difficult programme are offered to assist early diagnosis of health risks and support practices. Investing in safety trainings for employees and contractors, relations between resource extraction, farming industries and indigenous a healthy work environment. Globally, we have a good safety record and and monitoring the use of safety equipment within the industrial units peoples. We endeavour to build relationships with local communities by in most locations we have had no reported injuries or workplace illnesses, underpinned the success in achieving this goal. addressing their needs and concerns. which indicate our management systems and policies are effective and are Furthermore, many of our community investment projects, which are maintained to high standards. An example of our safety achievements at often initiated by our local operations, are aligned with Noble’s business our Brazilian Sugar Mills is illustrated on the next page. 8 2013 communication on progress 9 We value diversity at every level of our organisation and respect the rights of our 15,000 employees of more than 80 nationalities in almost 40 countries around the world. > principle 3 > principle 4 > principle 5 > principle 6 Our Commitment Implementation of Labour Standards in Noble’s Policies and Actions labour Noble’s Code of Conduct sets forth requirements for compliance as well as guidelines on key labour issues, which are an integral part of the principles Noble’s people work across multiple functions, locations and languages. A culture of diversity and equal opportunities forms one of our greatest Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms the effective abolition the elimination of advocated in the UN Global Compact. strengths enabling us to operate cohesively across borders and businesses. the freedom of association of forced and compulsory of child labour; and discrimination in We support freedom of association and collective bargaining for our We have clear policies and training practices to combat discrimination. In and the effective labour; respect of employment employees in the countries in which we operate and diligently comply with our offices, education on business ethics and conduct is undertaken. Our employees receive mandatory training on workplace conduct on a regular recognition of the right to and occupation. local labour laws and regulations. basis. No forms of discrimination are tolerated and we encourage and promote collective bargaining; At Noble, any kind of forced or compulsory labour is not tolerated and we do procedures for reporting any unwelcome attitudes in the workplace. Moreover, not exploit child labour in any of our global operations. Noble takes any alleged breach of discrimination incidences seriously. We value diversity at every level of our organisation and respect the rights of The Group is committed to a high standard of ethical conduct and our our 15,000 employees of more than 80 nationalities in almost 40 countries managers are responsible for ensuring that the Equal Opportunities Policy around the world. Our Equal Opportunities Policy applies to every employee and other labour principles are adhered to in their departments. Noble has in the Group and commits Noble to eliminating discrimination, harassment adopted and implemented a whistle-blowing policy where employees may, and victimisation in the workplace. in confidence, raise concerns on possible corporate improprieties in matters 10 2013 communication on progress 11 Active Lifestyle in Noble “When we undertake investments in new assets, labour-related risks and compliance with local Noble promotes a healthy lifestyle in our worldwide offices through various sporting activities and volunteering. Basketball, football and labour laws and regulations form part of our other sports activities are organised at many of our locations. The Noble’s Cricket Sixes celebrated its 11th anniversary in 2012, 12 teams due diligence and risk analysis.” battled for the championship over a two day cricket tournament. From cycling to running, Noble’s team features regular participants in charitable sporting events and supports our objectives to raise funds and awareness for educational or other relevant causes. In our London office, a team of Noble runners participated for the second time in the London Royal Parks Half Marathon. The run raised money for UNICEF – helping to provide humanitarian services and secure basic rights for Capacity Building in Indonesia children. London colleagues have recently teamed up again on a 55 of unlawful activity, policy or practices, suspected fraud, corruption, At Noble, we recognise the strong correlation between poverty and child miles bike ride to raise fund for the British Heart Foundation, a nondishonest practices or other similar matters. There are also arrangements labour. Limited access to appropriate education for minors jeopardises their In Kalimantan, Indonesia where Noble operates coal mining services, government organisation that funds medical research and education in place for an independent investigation of such issues and for appropriate future and as a result, we invest and support initiatives in regions at risk. we facilitate in the overall development of the region through education on heart diseases. follow up action where necessary. Moreover, appraisal procedures are in place In addition, we are working with smallholder farmers to provide short-term and capacity building in human capital. Through our partnership with that focus on employee development and succession planning and ensure financing for crop purchases as well as longer-term financing for investments the provincial community learning centre, Noble supports access to management engagement. in farming inputs to improve quality and productivity. Providing access to education for rural workers. Our programme offers literacy classes finance helps to advance rural development and overcomes a major challenge to the equivalent of a high school education standard, and helps Many Noble employees, especially in countries such as Brazil, Argentina and for smallholder farmers. individuals secure better living conditions with improved life skills and China where key installations are located, are represented by trade unions. knowledge. In addition, being a board member of Indonesia Business Our employees are represented by a number of different trade unions or In line with our business growth, we have continued to expand our trainee Links, Noble has a leadership role in collaborating with other multisimilar bodies, and we respect and cooperate with these bodies. programmes. Building on the structured apprenticeship approach, almost national enterprises on business ethics training and works to improve 100 trainees were hired as corporate and industrial trainees in 2012/2013. In some countries in which we operate, we are under collective agreements the state of governance in Indonesia. Through last year’s office-wide initiative, working with managers to with unions, which stipulate labour conditions and eliminate any kind of identify high potential individuals in their teams, more than 218 employees forced or compulsory labour. 63% of our employees are covered by such worldwide were identified as having high potential, leading to focus training collective bargaining agreements. and development opportunities. Across our global operations, we offer When we undertake investments in new assets, labour-related risks and extensive training for our employees and contractors. For our asset based compliance with local labour laws and regulations form part of our due employees, more than 240,000 hours of technical, health and safety, diligence and risk analysis. and leadership training were provided in 2012/2013. 13 “Noble believes that integrating sustainability into business practices is essential to secure long term supply and to maintain a profitable business.” Increasing the Income of Cocoa and Coffee Producers Noble believes that integrating sustainability into business practices is Columbia and Vietnam are benefitting from a transfer of agricultural and essential to secure long term supply and to maintain a profitable business. business skills to raise their incomes and protect biodiversity in the richly We look for ways to ensure our products are grown in a responsible way. diverse natural habitats where our coffee is produced. On top of improving all aspects of production, we help famers to earn a Underpinning our commitment to responsible production is our sustainable income. Through education and training on best practices and collaboration with major certification organisations: Rainforest diversification, Noble is providing practical solutions to today’s pressing Alliance, Fair Trade and UTZ Certified. In 2012/2013, Noble’s issues around climate change, food security and water constraints as well certified suppliers in West Africa produced almost 20,000 tonnes of as helping to improve the labour standards of local communities. independently certified and traceable cocoa. Compliance with these We began training cocoa farmers in Cote d’Ivoire in 2010 and have since scaled standards translates into practical and concrete life improvements up to work with over 13 farmer groups in West Africa representing over for our suppliers and ensures the highest level of supply chain 12,000 individual smallholder farmers. Elsewhere, coffee farmers in Brazil, management from farm to factory for our business. 14 2013 communication on progress 15 As a company that relies on natural resources, Noble understands the fundamental importance of promoting environmental responsibility. > principle 7 > principle 8 > principle 9 Our Commitment At the asset level, environmental impact assessments are conducted environment As a company that relies on natural resources, Noble understands the fundamental importance of promoting environmental responsibility. according to legal regulations and principles before we purchase new installations. Various environmental policies exist onsite at our assets. Businesses should undertake initiatives encourage the We are committed to protecting sensitive and important areas of the Environmental management systems such as ISO 14001 are certified in support a precautionary most of Noble’s assets, for example the dry bulk export terminal in Brazil, to promote greater development and diffusion world’s ecosystems, despite our business being confronted by an array of Chinese crushing mills and port terminal in Mexico. Technical staff, quality approach to environmental environmental of environmentally environmental challenges, including water and air pollution, biodiversity managers and other dedicated staff are present in all key locations. Other and resource depletion amongst others. In particular, the company supports challenges; responsibility; and friendly technologies. assets are currently evaluating the needs for certification and additional a precautionary approach to the environmental challenge posed by climate verification audits have been scheduled in 2013. change. Furthermore, Noble Group supports the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies in various areas of its business. An energy audit pilot programme was launched with the goal of increasing energy efficiency in Noble’s asset operations. In 2012, one of the oilseed Implementing Measures to Protect the Environment processing facilities in China completed this audit successfully. Potential measures have been identified on energy savings and reduction of All Noble employees are encouraged to reduce their environmental greenhouse gas emissions. The results will stimulate the implementation of footprint and that of the company by controlling their resource usage, these measures across all plants in China. including energy, water and paper. In addition, environmental performance data with regards to CO2 emissions in our offices and ships are collected At various assets, Noble has invested in renewable energy technology. A recent and assessed for our group-wide Carbon Neutral Project. investment in a bio-diesel plant Noble procured for one of its crushing plants in 16 2013 communication on progress 17 “Noble Group’s Clean Fuels Division is dedicated to providing solutions to alternative fuel sources while reducing environmental impacts.” Brazil will soon start operating. Similar to the bio-diesel plant in Argentina, that are more energy efficient. A recently added monitoring parameter: Since 2007 Noble Group has supported the efforts of the World Wildlife to 2,112,869 metric tonnes CO2e, while the GHG inventory is verified soybean oil produced onsite provides the energy feedstock for the plant. Energy Efficiency Operational Indicator (EEOI) improves transparency Fund (WWF). WWF Hong Kong engages in the preservation of nature under the ISO 14064 standard to confirm that monitoring is accurate and Several other investments have started operations, for example, biomass-fired on CO2 emissions per tonne transported. Noble operates a Vessel/Barge reserves in Hong Kong and the Pearl River Delta regions. We have also ensure that results are credible. This is the first time in which the emissions cogeneration units which are used in facilities in Argentina, Brazil and the Ukraine Chartering and Vetting Policy, the purpose of which is to ensure that all expanded our activities in the area of climate change mitigation. Noble’s have decreased while growth in revenue has continued. for energy generation. These investments aim to ensure a sustainable solution to vessels chartered for the transportation of petroleum, petroleum products, Carbon Neutral Project was initiated in 2007 with the aim of driving Noble’s signing and participation in the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) heat and power consumption for the company, and position Noble as a significant chemicals and LPG meet certain specified criteria and undergo screening the company step-by-step towards carbon neutrality. In 2012, Noble’s has brought a fresh focus to managing the risks and opportunities presented producer of ethanol and biomass power, supplying the grid with electricity. by external vetting experts. An Emergency Oil Spill Response Plan has beneficiary ships, all Noble offices worldwide, Noble’s publications and top by climate change to our operations. Having reached our previous targets on been implemented to ensure that, in the event of an oil spill involving one of management events again achieved carbon neutrality. Since the inception Our modern cotton warehouses in Tennessee in the United States have greenhouse gas emissions reduction, Noble is incorporating new targets into our vessels or terminals; we are able to respond in an immediate, effective of Noble Group’s Carbon Neutral Project, more than 1,014,000 tonnes of recently replaced the lighting covering five hectares of the facility. These its overall business strategy and objectives this year. and responsible manner. CO2 have been offset with carbon credits generated from renewable energy improvements have seen reductions in power costs by 25% through a shift and energy efficiency projects in India, China and USA. to energy efficient lighting with motions sensors. As a greener fuel pioneer In addition, Noble Group’s Clean Fuels Division is dedicated to providing in the cotton warehousing industry, our facility in Memphis, Tennessee has solutions to alternative fuel sources while reducing environmental Furthermore, Noble has been awarded the Carbon Disclosure Leader implemented an electrically powered forklift fleet which avoids the emissions impacts. Noble is active in distributing bio-fuels and diversifying our (Asia ex-Japan) for two consecutive years, and is also the highest scoring of hazardous fumes. energy assets in the clean fuels sector. Noble’s integrated supply chain company listed in Singapore. In our submission, we reported on the strategy capitalises on rising regional demand and shifts in consumption Group’s greenhouse gas emissions and all risks and opportunities related In expanding its owned fleet of ships to meet the growing demands of its patterns to clean fuels. to climate change. The total Scope 1 and 2 emissions combined amounted integrated supply chain strategy, Noble is acquiring and building ships 19 “We are aware that land use and deforestation are key sustainability challenges in soybean production. Responsible practices and environmentally sound management are essential.” Responsible Soybean Sourcing Soybeans are one of the most versatile oilseeds largely cultivated in Latin ensure greater transparency and integrity. Our state of the art facilities America. Noble operates along the value chain in supplying soybean meal, in Argentina are certified with ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and GMP+B2 vegetable oil and biodiesel to global consumers. We have put in place a to achieve the highest standard of operational health and safety and set of stringent procedures in soybean origination to promote best land product safety, as well as emphasising our overall environmental management practices and to ensure fair working conditions for producers. responsibility. We are aware that land use and deforestation are key sustainability As a member of the Round Table on Responsible Soy Association challenges in soybean production. Responsible practices and (RTRS), Noble Argentina supports initiatives to address the social environmentally sound management are essential. As a result, Noble and environmental impacts of soy production. In partnership with Argentina integrates certification schemes into its supply chain such ProYungas Foundation, a local NGO dedicated to subtropical forest and as the International Sustainability & Carbon Certificate (ISCC), and the wetland conversation, Noble is developing a pilot supplier database in Biomass Biofuels and Sustainability Voluntary Scheme (2BSvs) to help northern Argentina to improve the traceability of its soybean supply. 20 2013 communication on progress 21 Our core values of being accountable and responsible extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and corruption. > principle 10 Our Commitment All Noble employees worldwide are given explicit guidance on ethical anti-corruption Noble is against any form of corruption. It is our policy not to engage in any form of corruption, bribery or anti-trust behaviour, nor to violate fair business practices, such as Conflicts of Interest and Entertainment and Gifts. Their acknowledgment is part of the induction process and is Global Training on Ethical Behaviour Businesses should work competition. We are a publicly listed company and acknowledge our actions mandatory for every new employee joining the company. In Noble, education and trainings on compliance, anti-bribery and against corruption in all its are constantly under scrutiny. Our core values of being accountable and Noble’s Code of Conduct contains a procedure for the good faith reporting money laundering are tailored to meet the specific needs of different forms, including extortion responsible extend to our shared commitment to prevent fraud and corruption. of any violation of the Code or other Noble policies. functions. For example, members of front office and risk team are trained on the topic of market abuse and manipulation of indices. and bribery. Additionally, Noble has appropriate systems and controls in place, such as Precautionary Measures to Prevent Corruption Refresher training on the topics of anti-bribery and economic regular audit procedures conducted by our internal audit team. The team Noble has an experienced Compliance Team which is dedicated to ensuring sanctions is conducted at global offices and employees are provided engages in continuous discussion and consultation with various operations that Noble’s business is undertaken in conformity with applicable laws and with constant updates on rules and regulations relevant to their in the Group to ensure compliance with respect to anti-bribery and antiregulations. Compliance Team personnel are based in our largest trading offices. particular markets and jurisdictions. corruption measures. Our group-wide policies with respect to anti-corruption, anti-trust, antiOver the past 12 months more than 1,200 employees have attended Noble’s policies are regularly updated to comply with laws and regulations money laundering, combating financial crime, terrorist financing, sanctions such courses globally. Our online classroom is offered for some which are progressively tightened, particularly in dealing with new customers/ and fraud are outlined in detail in Noble’s Code of Conduct. Specific rules on programmes in order to allow for flexibility and employees can counterparties. The Group’s anti-money laundering policy has been revised to securities trading when in possession of internal, confidential information are complete training at their own pace. include detailed criteria on counterparty due diligence procedures. circulated among our employees regularly and set out in a separate policy. 22 23 “Noble intends to build further capacity in managing the sustainability performance of its supply chains.” the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact Noble has made solid progress in streamlining management policies and Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Page 4 outlook introducing new procedures in product origination. We have scaled up many of our local investments to create economic and social value, and continue Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. to ensure our initiatives are driven with regard to local needs. Through monitoring and managing our environmental impact, we have achieved our Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Page 8 environmental targets on carbon emissions. collective bargaining. Noble intends to build further capacity in managing the sustainability Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. performance of its supply chains. Starting from our own operations, we Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour. increasingly focus on addressing the impact of our business partners within our supply chains. Maintaining close contact with wider society and engaging Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. our employees in responsible business will continue to be Noble’s strategy in fulfilling our commitment to the UN Global Compact principles. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Page 14 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Anti-corruption Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Page 15 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery.
