COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT www.zed.com.tr 2012 PERIOD 1 EVENT MANAGEMENT & CONSULTANCY SERVICES COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD CONTENTS • General Information • Company Profile • ZED Activities (2010 …) • General Director’s Message 2 3 • ZED Corporate Social Responsibility • ZED CSR Activities • Global Compact National Network – Turkey • Human Rights • Partnership with NGO’s • Support to Students • Lectures • Environment Sensitive Organizations • UN Global Compact Principles COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD Company Profile Since 1992, ZED (www.zed.com.tr) has been operating in the congress tourism sector in the fields of conference, congress, seminar, symposium, special events, launching, awareness campaign, workshop, exhibition, fair and study tour organizations. ZED is the member of leading international institutions of the travel agencies, professional congress organizations, meetings sector, associations including; General Information UN Global Compact* Professional Congress Company Name ZED Event Management & Consultancy Type of Activity • TÜRSAB (Association of Turkish Travel Agencies) • DPID (Direct Marketing Association of Turkey) Organizer • IAPCO (International Association of Professional • EFAPCO(European Federation Of Associations Of Mustafa Kemal Mah. 2132. Sk. No:2 Organizers) PCO) Address Website www.zed.com.tr • CSR Turkey (Corporate Social Responsibility • MPI (Meeting Professional International) 06520 Çankaya/Ankara/TURKEY Association Turkey) • HCEA (The Healthcare and Medical Convention & Number of • UFTAA (Universal Federation of Travel Agents Exhibitors Association) 4 Telephone +90 312 2195700 55 5 Employees Association) • SMID (Social Media Communicators Association) • ICVB (Istanbul Convention & Visitors Bureau) • ISO 9001 Quality Management System Certificate Fax +90 312 2195701 • ICCA (International Congress & Convention • European Sponsorhip Association (ESA) Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL Mr. Barış KAHRIMAN Association) Name of the Name of the Highest Executive General Director / Managing Partner Contact Person baris@zed.com.tr * First signature in Congress Tourism Sector in Turkey and member of Executive Board of UNGC Local Network since 2009. ZED fulfils its operations through Istanbul and Ankara Offices, which spreads out on totally 4033 square meters. All of the offices are fully furnished and equipped with the latest technology. ZED employs 55 permanent staff and employs 50 to 2000 short-term support staff depending on the scale of the organization. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD servıces references 2020 •• 1st International Conference on Carbon Management and Event Projects Designing and Consultancy •• 34th International Geographical Congress, Istanbul, 3.500 Carbon Trade, Istanbul, 750 pax (expected) Project Logistics Solutions pax (expected) 2013 2018 •• 32nd Congress of the International Union of Leather Exhibition and Fair Corporate Communication •• 24th Congress of the International Association of Disability Technologists and Chemists Societies, Istanbul, 1.000 pax and Oral Health, Istanbul, 1000 pax (expected) (expected) •• 36th Congress of the International Board on Books for •• 19th International Symposium of Adapted Physical Activity Operational Planning and Application Young People, Istanbul (ISAPA 2013), Istanbul, 850 pax (expected) Protocol Planning and Applications 2017 •• 1st International Uroanatomy Congress Izmir, 500 pax Communication Consultancy •• 21th World Congress of Aesthetic Medicine, Istanbul, 2.000 (expected) Public Relations pax (expected) •• 3rd ENSACT Biennial Joint European Conference, Istanbul, 1.000 pax 2016 6 •• 5th EUROSOIL Congress Istanbul, 2.000 pax (expected) 2012 7 Cost and Finance Analysis Social Responsibility Consultancy •• 7th European Down Syndrome Conference, Istanbul, 750 •• 23rd International FoodMicro Congress, Istanbul, 900 pax pax (expected) •• 23rd European Corrosion Congress, Istanbul, 850 pax 2015 •• 15th European Congress on Biotechnology, Istanbul, 850 Media Planning Technology and Training Consultancy •• 32nd World Veterinary Congress, Istanbul, 5.000 pax pax (expected) 2011 Brand Consultancy •• 17th World Congress of the World Federation of the Deaf, •• 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Istanbul, 5.000 pax (expected) Countries, 15.000 pax •• 12th European Federation of Audiolgy Societies Congress, •• 22nd World Mining Congress and Expo, Istanbul, 1.500 pax Creative Planning Istanbul, 1.000 pax (expected) •• 8th European Clay Congress, Antalya, 800 pax Promotion and Awareness •• 20 Soroptimist International Convention, Istanbul, 2.000 th •• Turkish Air Force 100th Year Activities, İzmir pax (expected) •• 33rd International NO-DIG World Congress and Exhibition, 2010 Istanbul, 2.000 pax (expected) •• Expo 2010 Shangai, Consultancy Services for Planning, Date of Establishment: 1992 Avarage Financial Turnover: 16.640.569 € (2009-2011) Management and Public Relations of Pavilion of Turkish 2014 Republic, Shangai, 15.000 pax Employee: 55 Membership: 13 •• 2nd European Conference of the Earthquake Engineering •• Southeast European Countries Istanbul Summits, 550 pax and Seismology, Istanbul, 2.000 pax (expected) •• 18th IFOAM World Organic Congress, Istanbul, 2.000 pax •• Conference on Interaction and Confidence Building (expected) Measures in Asia, Istanbul, 445 pax COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD General Director’s Message responsibility as a part of our corporate culture. network internationally and to strengthen the We are committed and act appropriate to the ten Local Network across Turkey, with improved principles of Global Compact on human rights, effectiveness of its signatories. labor, environment and anticorruption and we continuously inform, educate and encourage Besides strictly following the Global Compact all our stakeholders in the implementation of 10 principles, we are happy to declare our principles. commitment to advance the implementation of Global Compact Principles as taking active role ZED proved its commitment to the Global in the Steering Committee of Global Compact Compact as being one of the 7 representatives 8 National Network in Turkey. We express our 9 company of the Global Compact Turkey Local continuous support to promote and improve the Network Steering Committee, which is formed by the representatives of the institutions (Aksa implementation of Global Compact 10 principles Acrylic, ARGE Consulting, Koç Holding, Sabancı and share our knowledge and experiences with Holding, TİSK, TÜSİAD, ZED Tanıtım) that have our stakeholders. We are glad to be sharing our carried out effective work and paid close attention Communication Progress Report regarding our Since 1992, ZED has been operating in ZED, who works in national and international to Global Compact since 2005, The Steering corporate social responsibility activities for the the congress tourism sector in the fields of arena with success in view of consciousness Committee held first meeting on March 4, 2009. year of 2011. conference, congress, seminar, symposium, of the source of the ongoing success, is the all The Steering Committee aims to represent the including; event management and consultancy, exhibition inclusive and sustainable world economic growth, and fairs, promotion and public relations. ZED, signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May as a “Professional Congress Organizer”, creates 2006 to give support and promote “ten universally interaction platforms that enable knowledge accepted principles” for a better world for all. and experience sharing in different areas As acting through the requirements of Global during each successfully organized national or Compact Principles, we reflect our corporate Cengiz YAZANEL international conferences and summits and in this responsibilities in our business strategies and General Director /Managing Partner way it contributes to global dynamics. operations and we see the corporate social ZED Event Management & Consultancy COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD ZED Corporate Social Responsibility ZED CSR Activities ZED has been operating for 20 years in the field of organizations, it supports many NGOs’ in their activities. Global Compact National Network Turkey (2010 ) Congress Tourism and has found a place as the leader In this regard, ZED is the main supporter of “Corporate Global Compact Local Network Steering Committee the occasion of the 60th Anniversary of the Universal in the sector with its professional services, values, ethics Social Responsibility Association of Turkey”. Besides, in Turkey is formed by the representatives of the Declaration of the Human Rights at November 2008. principles and socially responsible activities. As being ZED continues to give support and to 50 different institutions that have carried out effective work and ZED expressed its commitment and respect and titled “Professional Congress Organizer”, ZED has the NGOs who represent different sectors in Turkey. paid close attention to Global Compact since 2005 and support Human Rights. honor of reaching a high point in the sector by bearing ZED Event Management & Consultancy has taken in mind the responsibilities that this title brings along. Therefore, ZED priorities relating to socially responsible active role in the Steering Committee since 2006. As a ZED was gave special importance to Human Rights and ZED accepts corporate social responsibility as a part of business practices are: its corporate culture since its inception and it reflects part of the Steering Committee ZED, aims to support all the events that was done after 2008 were directly its corporate responsibilities in all business strategies to representation of the network internationally gave support for this purpose. All new events will be • Organizing learning and experience sharing events 10 and operations. and to strengthen the Local Network across Turkey, done under the respect of this issue. 11 • Mobilizing collective action with NGOs on different with improved effectiveness of its signatories. The priority issues ZED signed in Global Compact Agreement in 31 May 2006 Steering Committee comes together few times a year Partnership with NGO’s • Motivating participating companies and NGOs to to give support and promote “ten universally accepted and work on the planning future activities for the • ZED gave financial support to Down Turkey develop partnership projects to contribute to the principles” and is committed to the ten principles of establishment of facilities and mechanisms to support Association of Turkey for taking “7th European Down UN and Millennium Development Goals Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment the implementation of the Global Compact principles. Syndrome Conference “ to İstanbul. • Contributing to the sustainable development and anti-corruption. UN Global Compact Principles • ZED gave financial support to Deaf Federation of • Improving the “Green Meetings” conditions for all are accepted as a minimum standard in all operations As a member of Steering Committee in Turkey, ZED Turkey for organizing “17th World Congress of the at ZED and it acts in accordance with these principles organizations trying to reach more sector and companies in the UN World Federation of the Deaf” in İstanbul in 2015. while trying to improve the implementation of them Global Compact Networking system in Turkey after the • ZED will organize “EUROSOIL” meeting in İstanbul day by day. ZED is also committed to disseminate ZED expressed its gravity and commitment to corporate Steering Committee Meeting that held on 21st March with Turkish Soil Science Association in 2016. information and create awareness about the corporate social responsibility and Global Compact Principles as 2011. • ZED has partnership agreements with nearly ten social responsibility within its stakeholders specially taking active role in the Steering Committee of Global associations and foundations to bring international and in the Turkish society in general. Compact National Network in Turkey. ZED continues to Human Rights and/or European Congresses to Turkey. The few support to promote and improve the implementation Since ZED General Director, Mr. Cengiz YAZANEL examples of the successful results of the ZED and civil Since ZED believes that corporate social responsibility of “ten principles of Global Compact” and share its knowledge and experiences with its stakeholders added his name to the CEO Statement declared on society organizations cooperation are as follows: implementations could be improved through the solidarity and cooperation with civil society and the Turkish society. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD Supports to Students • ZED regularly accepts students from TOBB University to complete their internships. The 3 students worked in ZED and completed their internship period successfully. • ZED gives scholarships to the students registered to the “Rain-drop Solidarity Association”. The 8 students were supported financially and completed their education in the year 2012. • ZED as a company tradition founds scholarships to 25 secondary school and university students each year. Lectures Cooperation with Turkish Soil Science Cooperation with Deaf Federation of Turkey • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, April 2012, “The Practices on Entrepreneurship & Leadership”, TOBB University Association brought the “Eurosoil 2016” to brought the “17th World Congress of the İstanbul. World Federation of the Deaf” to İstanbul. • Mr. Cengiz Yazanel, July 2012, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, Başkent Universit 12 13 • Mr. Safa UNAL, May 2012, “Making Business in Congress Tourism”, in TOBB University Environment Sensitive Organizations ZED concerns its environment and follows recent developments especially in the sector in which it operates. ZED has accelerated its research and development studies to conduct “Green Meetings” concept in the forthcoming organizations. The goal of organizing “green meetings” is to develop and implement green standards that will improve the environmental performance of meetings on a global basis and events and to create a better more sustainable world. ZED will encourage sub contractors using green tools in their works. Recycled equipments become very important Cooperation with Turkish Geographical Cooperation with Down Turkey Association in ZED events. Society brought the “34th International brought the “7th European Down Syndrome ZED will give more importance to carbon food print of the attendees. Geographical Congress” to İstanbul. Conference” to İstanbul. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD HUMAN RIGHTS • ZED maintains a policy of strong c o m m i t m e n t o n health and safety issues and provides healthy Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. working conditions and health insurance policy for all Principle 2 Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. employees. ZED Policy • ZED ensures non-discrimination in its business practices. ZED Event Management and Consultancy endorses the UN Universal Declaration on Human Rights and regards • ZED provides highest standards in physical working the declaration as one of the core values and as an essential part of the ethical foundation of the company. ZED environment conditions such as lighting, heating, accepts and ensures that every individual has the right to work, right to choose his/ her job, right to work on equal ventilation and air-conditioning and in safest work conditions, right to freedom of expression, right to liberty and security, right to health care and right to equality. practices. ZED maintains that all stakeholders also support the human rights principles. • ZED ensures that every individual has the right of education. The employees are encouraged to 14 develop themselves and the way of business through 15 1) Corporate Commitments, policies and procedures to deal with all aspects of human rights various trainings. After our 9 employee in 2012, relevant to operations, including monitoring mechanism and results 2 employees acquired the International Project Indicators ZED Approach & Practices & 2013 targets Management Certificate after a long training period given by IPMA Türkiye. Indicator 1: • ZED has a human rights policy to endorse the UN • Fulfillment of Human Rights Policies Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ZED • Organizational structure where the human ensures that every individual has the right to work, Indicator 2: • ZED as a growing company makes investments in right policy is implemented and risk right to choose his/her job, right to work on equal Company takes into consideration the human its sector and different fields. ZED always takes into management map to evaluate the company conditions, right to freedom of expression, right to rights impacts as part of investment procedures. consideration t h e human rights while realizing new human rights impacts liberty and security, right to health care and right to investments. equality. ZED maintains that all its stakeholders also • ZED doesn’t prefer t o e s t a b l i s h p a r t n e r s h i p s support the human rights principles. and work with the companies or institutions which are • Human Resources Department developed a risk complicit in human rights abuses. ZED especially takes management map and auditing standards to evaluate into consideration the supporters of Global Compact. the company human rights impacts for the year 2013. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD 4) Company involvement in promoting human rights in the local community 2) Company communication to the employees its ethical values and principles Indicator 1: • The philanthropy is one of the core values of the The monetary value of the company’s philanthropic ZED corporate culture from inception. ZED’s total • ZED has a standard orientation program implemented contributions / voluntary social investments (cash philanthropy b u d g e t devoted and realized for the to all new recruited personnel. It consists of general contributions and/or in-kind giving) year 2012 was 38.500 Euro. ZED plans to increase company information, corporate culture, ethical values, this contribution as 10% in the year 2013. organizational structure, employee rights, working environment a n d opportunities provided equally to • ZED gives support and provides scholarships to 25 all employees. students (secondary schools and universities) each year. Indicator 1: • First information about ethical values of the company The number of communications sent by is provided during orientation process. Besides, all Indicator 2: • ZED as a sensitive company which observes and knows company to the employees on corporate ethical employees are reminded of the basic ethical principles The company analysis the local needs before very well the needs of the community in which it 16 values and principles and informed about new accepted developments at designing its projects for the community and it operates and it regularly (twice a year) comes together 17 regular meeting held in once a year. carries out educational and/or other campaigns of with the opinion leaders (school directors, mukhtar, public interest in the community together with local religious man, representative of associations etc.) In the organizations. region to analyze the real needs of the community. Indicator 2: • ZED conducts annual questioner to hear, evaluate and Company’s formal mechanisms to hear, evaluate, to take suggestions and criticisms of employees. There and follow up positions, concerns, suggestions and is an open-door policy in ZED and managing partners criticisms of employees on human rights to improve encourage employees to express their views on human the internal process rights directly to themselves. 3) Company policy to evaluate and address human rights performance within the supply chain and contractors Indicator 1: • ZED concerns the standards and international The number of suppliers that are in accordance certificates of its subcontractors. 14 of the total suppliers with international standards of total suppliers have international standards and certificates. ZED aims to increase this number as 16 in the year 2013. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD LABOUR 6) Company’s specific policy against forced labour Principle 3 – Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to Indicator 1: • ZED is strictly against forced labour considered collective bargaining; Forced labour is considered as a potential risk in the as a potential risk also in service sector including Principle 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; sector. the event management and organization. ZED Principle 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; also informs its stakeholders and will continue to create awareness for being against forced labour Principle 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. during 2013. ZED Policy Indicator 2: • ZED has a net and standard guidelines followed Company has clear guidelines regarding the forced and audited by Human Resources’ Department. labour. ZED ensures and acts according to the article numbered 23 of Universal Declaration of Human Rights expresses that every individual has the rights to establish trade union to protect his/her interests and the right to participate Indicator 3: • ZED has a standard guideline regarding the to the unions. Every employee has the right to make collective bargaining. ZED supports and ensures the freedom Company has clear guidelines on working hours, health working hours, health and safety issues at work of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ZED acts in accordance with ILO and safety at work and wages. and at wages. 18 19 articles and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment is 15. ZED is against forced labour and child • During the orientation process conducted prior labour and never works or makes partnership agreements with the companies or institutions which do not obey to recruitment, ZED clearly identifies its policy and these rules. ZED labour policy guarantees that all employees are able to enjoy a work environment free from informs the employee about the working terms harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, and conditions. ZED’s employee policies are marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of employees is unacceptable and will not be specified within employment contracts. These tolerated. ZED expects its stakeholders and clients to support these guidelines. contracts clearly state the actual working conditions, health and safety issues and their rights. So, all employees are aware of them and 5) Company has a freedom of association policy and the effective recognition of collective agree upon it before signing. bargaining. 7) Company has specific policies against forced labour within its supply chain. Indicator: 1 • ZED supports and ensures the freedom of Indicator 1: • ZED concerns and checks the acts of the Company has policy and procedures involving association and the effective recognition of Company verifies that its supplier’s workforce fulfill companies within its supply chain to understand information, consultation and negotiation the right to collective bargaining. The Human with a reasonable amount of working hours. its policies regarding the labour. Almost all of the with employees over changes in the reporting Resources department has procedures to follow up companies in supply chain of ZED have reasonable organization’s operations the new information and deals with the negotiation working conditions, such as working hours. process. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD Indicator 2: • ZED has not yet a formal mechanism to transfer its • The standard dismissal procedure is also implemented to each employee during the dismissal process. Company has formal mechanisms to enable transfer values and principles to the supply chain. However, ZED transfers its values and principles to the • In 2010, total 6 employees acquired the International Project Management Certificate after a long training its values and principles to the supply chain such companies in supply chain informally through p eriod given by IPMA Türk iye. as good working conditions, lack of child and slave labour, etc. the meetings, company newsletter and web site • The employees who would get the training program were decided according to their needs and job stressing that it acts strictly in compliance with specification requirements. the Global Compacts Principles. ZED will continue to work on setting a formal mechanism during 2012. 10) Company has procedures in place to respond accusations of workplace harassment or 8) Company has a policy prohibiting child labour is defined by the ILO Convention 138. bullying. Indicator 1: Company has clear guidelines as to child • ZED has a clear guidelines and acts in accordance labour prohibition. with ILO Convention 138 and Turkish law, which states the legal age of employment, is 15. ZED is ZED seeks to eliminate workplace violence and harassment. ZED ensures that all employees are able to 20 against juvenile employment and never works enjoy a work environment t h a t is free from harassment and free from discrimination including that of race, 21 or makes partnership agreements with the colour, national origin, ancestry, religion, marital status, age or gender. Any harassment or discrimination of companies or institutions which do not obey employees or others at ZED is unacceptable and will not be tolerated. ZED expects also from its stakeholders these rules. and clients to support these guidelines. ZED will continue to disseminate information to its stakeholders on workplace violence and harassment during 2013. 9) Company states its equal opportunity policies or programmes as well as monitoring systems to ensure compliance and results of monitoring during its recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. All ZED employees are accorded equal opportunities during the recruiting, promotion, training and dismissal procedures. Each employee has equal opportunities to develop the knowledge, skills and competence that are relevant to their job. ZED conducts training needs analysis each year regularly to analyze the needs for specific roles within the organization. For instance; • Human resources department conducts an orientation programme for each new recruited employee in their first day in the company and they are informed about the rules, organizational structure, promotion and career system and procedures that provide equal opportunities for each employee. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD ENVIRONMENT Indicator 3: • ZED organizes training and awareness Company conducts training programmes to programmes (once a year) for its staff in order Principle 7 – Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; increase awareness and responsibility level and to achieve continual progress in environmental Principle 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and to give information on environmental threats to its protection performance. Principle 9 – encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. employees. • ZED regularly gives update information and ZED Policy reminds the responsibilities to reduce impact on environment through the memos and newsletters distributed in house. ZED is an environmentally-conscious company and has a strong sense of responsibility for the environment. ZED is committed to the environment principles declared in the Global Compact Principles and it supports The Indicator 4: • ZED takes precautionary measures to minimize the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and Agenda 21. ZED continues its efforts to handle the key Company has policies and initiatives aimed to reduce environmental impact of its activities. Social and greenhouse gas emissions, solid wastes, emissions environmental impact assessments and reviews environmental challenges; in particular, tries to develop its activities in the areas such as research, co-operation, and discharges, energy consume, water or increase are performed regularly throughout project cycles training, and self-regulation that can positively affect the significant environmental degradation and damage water reuse or aimed to improve biodiversity. in accordance with international standards and 22 to the planet’s life support systems, brought by human activity. ZED applies the precautionary principles and 23 requirements. seeks to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. Social and environmental impact assessments and reviews are performed regularly throughout the project cycles in accordance with the international standards • ZED uses environmental friendly clean and requirements. ZED will promote environmental responsibility continuously in every platform in which they technologies, and tries to develop voluntary operate. environmental management systems and environmental standards and to collaborate and 11) Company has a corporate environmental policy & has a precautionary environmental approach exchange information with local, national and or principle. international organizations to that end. Indicator 1: • ZED has two staff responsible for corporate social • ZED started to implement “Green Meetings” Company has a department/person responsible responsibility issues auditing the implementation of approach in the organizations. The aim of greener for environmental issues environmental principles and defining new strategies meetings is to reduce the paper, electricity to minimize the environmental impact of ZED. consumption etc. and to hold meetings that don’t cost the earth. Indicator 2: • ZED’s responsible staffdefinesandsetsthe environmental • ZED collects the used paper in special containers targets in January of each new year. owned by the Municipality. ZED collected and Company has quantified environmental targets sent 2.250 kg used paper for recycling in 2012. that have been defined for the whole company. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD • ZED also encourages employees to reduce 13) Company has criteria for the selection of suppliers that includes environmental policies or paper consumption and to correspond and management systems. communicate through the electronic system. Indicator 1: • 9 of ZED suppliers have environmental policies Number of suppliers with environmental policies or and they use environment friendly technologies. • ZED continuously reminds its staff to reduce water management systems. ZED always tries to create awareness on consumption through in house memos. environmental issues and implementation of • The oil consumption of the company vehicles environment friendly principles between its are regularly checked by the internal audit system. suppliers. ZED has a standard system which sets all necessary Indicator 2: • The goods and the services of the suppliers precautions to reduce the petrol consumption of The effect of the environment policies of suppliers on who concerns environment and act through, the vehicles. ZED used more economic in fuel the cost of the goods and services are always costs more. For instance; the cost of and carbon less cars in 2012. a brochure which is printed on a recycled paper with biological ink is two-three times expensive 24 than a brochure printed on normal paper with 25 chemical ink. Indicator 5: • ZED has never received any penalty associated Incidents of and fines for non-compliance with all with environmental issues. applicable international declarations/conventions/ treaties and national, sub-national, regional and local regulations associated with environmental issues. 12) Company has initiatives to use renewable energy sources and to increase energy efficiency. ZED has an electricity compensation system which collects and turns the waste energy into the reusable energy. The 20% of total electricity consumption of ZED is the recycled electricity provided by the electric compensation system. ZED also has a latest technology, smart air conditioning system which regulates the energy consumption according to the air temperature outside. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 2012 PERIOD ANTICORRUPTION 15) Are all political contributions transparent and made in accordance with applicable laws? Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Yes, ZED ensures that the all political contributions provided are transparent and they are always in accordance ZED Policy with applicable Turkish laws. ZED Event Management and Consultancy is against any kind of corruption in all its forms, including extortion 16) Are all charitable contributions and sponsorships transparent and made in accordance with and bribery. ZED has its own informally declared code of conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED applicable laws? works on developing a formal mechanism for increased transparency in its operations. ZED takes consider into its Yes, ZED is a social responsible company and provides charitable contributions and scholarships each year. All of suppliers and all stakeholders approach in anti-corruption. them are registered and in accordance with applicable Turkish laws. 14) Company has a policy, procedures/management systems, and compliance mechanisms fo r organizations a n d employees addressing bribery and corruption. 26 Indicator 1: • ZED is against any kind of corruption in all 27 Company has a policy, procuders /management systems its forms, including extortion and bribery. controls bribery and corruption acts and disseminate ZED has its own informally declared code of information on anti-corruption. conduct as a core value of its corporate culture. ZED regularly disseminates information and promotes employee awareness of and compliance with company policy against bribery and corruption. Indicator 2: • ZED’s Financial and Administrative Affairs Company has a department / staff responsible for Department has an auditing system which controlling bribery and corruption actions. controls the bribery and corruption related acts. The department implements disciplinary procedures defined by informal code of conduct. ZED has prepared a draft formal code of conduct and will continue to work on it in the year 2013. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD WE BELIEVE IN NETWORKING Performance Indicator Analysis 2012 2013(targets)-decrease% Direct Energy Use Total electricity KWh 65.027,5 3% 1.182,3 (per person) diesel oil(L) 15.508,75 3% 327 (per person) gas (m³) 15.510 3% 282 (per person) 28 water use (m³) 473.85 29 3% www.zed.com.tr 8.6 (per person) other material use (paper-pack / kg) 1 pack= 261 pack/ 1 ~ ton 3% 4~ kg paper Indirect Energy Use indirect energy use (such as organizational 805 flights travel) number of flights of the ZED staff 696 domestic flights 20% 109 international flights Recycling recycling and reuse of energy -KWh 16.756 2% increase facebook.com/ZedEvents twitter.com/ZedEvents (25% of total consumption) recycling and reuse of paper kg 1.785 2% increase COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2012 PERIOD 30
