SXNXRA w s'ffi:i WE SUPPORT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR TH E YEAR: 20L2 GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 Contents THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT IN THE REPUBL|C OF CROAT|A............... ...............3 ABour GENERA ,Nc ' .......................4 STATEMENT OF CONTTNUED SUPPORT. .....................5 LABOUR STANDARDS................ .................7 ANTI-G.RRUPTI.N ................. 14 GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 The IMPLEMENTATTON OF pRtNCtpLES of the United Nations Global Compact in.the Ripublic of Croatia The Global Compact Communication on progress The Global Compact asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the United Nations. lt has grown to become a critical platform for the UN to engage effectively with enlightened global business.,, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon Genera Inc' is a signatory to the United Nations Global compact. The UN Global compact,s principles are derived from: { The Universat Declaration of Human Rights '/ The International Labour organization's Declaration on Fundamental principles and Rights ,/ The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development ,/ The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to: '/ lmplement the ten principles in their business activities and make them an integral part of their culture and business practices '/ Advocate the Global compact and its ten principles in public '/ Report in their business reports on the manner in which the company supports the Global compact and the progress achieved in the implementation of the principles, using a policy known as the Communication on progress ,/ Promote transparency and progress The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values defined in the ten principles divided in four key areas. GENERA d,d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 ABOUT GENERA Inc. Genera is the only Croatian manufacturing company comprising different types of business animals and the environment' operations all of which are aimed at protecting human health, pharmaceuticals, animal health products' A wide portfolio of Genera Group includes human well as plant protection feed additives, disinfectants for human and veterinary usage' as products. Having hundred years of history and tradition, Genera Inc' is the leading neighbouring countries. Genera's manufacturer of animal health products in Croatia and its Bacteriological lnstitute was history dates back to Lg01 when the Royal croatian-slavonian production plants, development and founded. Genera's seat is in Kalinovica where all of its premises are located covering a analytic laboratories as well as storage and administrative surface of 250,000 m2. rn 200g the company was listed on the first quotation of the Zagreb name Genera Inc' Genera stock Exchange, and since then it has operated under its current Practice) that confirm the holds two GMp certificates (certificate of Good Manufacturing with the highest requirements compliance of all production processes and quality standards on the health of people, of EU regulations. As all Genera's business activities are focused animals and the environment, the company promotes the One Health concept' The One Health concept is defined as the multidisciplinary collaboration on a local' national and The One global level to attain optimal health of people, animals and the environment ' as the world Health Health concept is supported by international organizations such (olE) and the Food and organization (wHo), the world organization for Animal Health interdependence of humans Agriculture organization (FAO), since the social and ecological and animals has been long recognized' ln all of its business activities Genera strives to implement the best European corporate practicesandtopromotecorporateandsociaIresponsibiIity. Basic info Company: Genera Inc. Country: Croatia Sector: pharmaceutical industrY Membership date: 22 SePtember 2011 DateofsubmissionofCOPfor2O1-2 25September2013 GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT In 2011 Genera lnc. has joined the UN Global Compact firmly believing that joining this respectable initiative will enable Genera to be a part of a growing business network of socially responsible companies in Croatia. Therefore, in 2OI2 Genera continued to adhere to the principles and to implement them on a daily basis in all business activities. Despite the fact that the year 2012 was an extremely challenging year, total consolidated revenues of the Genera Group increased by 7% in comparison to the same period the year before. Furthermore, during 2Ot2 the Genera Group increased its export by 3t.t% in comparison to the same period the year before, while the export share in the total revenues of Genera was 51..4%. Since one of the main goals in the following years is to increase the share in total revenues by increasing sales revenues in export markets, Genera plans to enhance all business activities that contribute to the increase of export. Regardless of the aforementioned facts, the realised results in 2OL2 were affected by adverse economic circumstances in Croatia, especially by a decrease in livestock and general insolvency, and consequently, by a difficult collection of receivables and a decreased demand for Genera's products on the domestic market. In spite of unfavourable economic circumstances in the preceding period, the Genera Group has continued to invest significant financial resources in technical modernisation of production processes and in the improvement of the Group's product portfolio with the aim of increasing competition on more demanding domestic and foreign markets. The key investments in the preceding year were investments in laboratories, portfolio expansion and the increase of production capacities. The principles of the United Nations Global Compact have been implemented, in accordance with our possibilities, in allthe activities undertaken in 2012. We have joined this initiative because sustainability culture should be developed both locally and globally. We are trying to integrate the international Global Compact principles into our own corporate tradition. We are proud of our results, but we are aware that there is still room for improvement. We have a clear vision of the future of our company, and a continuous employment of L0 principles of Global Compact is a part of our long-term plan. Marko SmetiSko Pr qstd ent of the Man ent Board and CEO \, GENERA d d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 HUMAN RIGHTS t. PRINCIPLE Companies should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their field of their influence 2. PRINCIPLE Companies should make sure they are not complicit in human right abuse Description of practical actions in the year 2OL2t In the Republic of Croatia human rights are protected by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by international treaties to which Croatia is a signatory and by the Law. In Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia respect for human rights is outlined as being of the highest value in the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Chapter lll of the Constitution guarantees all basic human rights and freedoms in addition to a large number of individual rights. Croatia has ratified the main international instruments in the field of human rights, including the six main UN conventions and their pertaining protocols obligating reporting, and advocates consistent co-operation with the UN contracting bodies founded in accordance with these conventions. Croatia actively contributes to their activities by means of its expert at the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). ln addition to the full compliance with Croatian legalisation, and consequently the aforementioned international treaties and conventions, Genera has adopted its own bylaws stipulating the protection of human rights in the field of labour. lts general bylaw covering this field is named the Code of Business Conduct, while some other bylaws detail the procedures for employee protection, especially non-discrimination procedures. Genera has established its own Rules of Procedure which include the procedures of employee protection, such as salaries, other benefits of employee bonuses related to the job requirements and substantial rights of employees regarding financial aid. In addition, Genera has designated a person in charge of employee dignity protection to whom employees can complain if they experience any form of discrimination or harassment. Until now, there have been no complaints of any kind. Genera actively supports the employment of disabled persons and devotes a considerable amount of attention to employees with health problems. Disabled employees have been given the possibility to work in such workplaces which cannot endanger their health in any way. Also, they are entitled to financial aid and additional vacation days. At the moment, 5.5% of Genera's employees are people with disabilities. The employees who are on a sick leave for a longer period of time receive financial allowances which are higher than the ones prescribed by the law. In case the sick leave period is longer than 90 days, a single financial GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 aid is paid off. Genera provides financial help to employees who have children with severe medical problems and they are also entitled to have additional vacation days. Genera has set up a suggestion box where employees can drop anonymous questions, complaints and suggestions which are then read by the management who have taken adequate measures in solving the problems or improving business activities. Planned activities for the year 2013: Planned activities include individual interviews which each employee will have with the direct supervisor. The interview will give the employee the opportunity to express his/her desires and plans or to give a review of his/her previous work results. we are planning to organize a series of workshops for managers the purpose of which is to train managers on how to have constructive communication with employees, on how to give feedback, and on general improvement of their leadership skills. Furthermore, we are planning an employee gathering in the form of a works[op where the Management Board will address the employees and present them the information on the current business activities. We have created a structured plan of introducing all newly-employed people into the business. LABOUR STANDARDS 3' PRINcIPLE Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. PRINCIPLE The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. PRINCIPLE The effective abolition of child labour 6. PRINCIPLE The elimination of discrimination in respect of emptoyment and occupation Description of practical actions in the year 2OL2: The Republic of Croatia has adopted the provisions on the prohibition of forced and child labour and has accordingly ratified lLo conventions 29 and 182. The croatian Labour Act also prohibits the employment of persons below the age of L6 or L8 if they are regular pupils or students. Genera's Bylaw on Rules and Procedures stipulates that the company cannot employ persons below the age of L8, which is the legat age in Croatia. All Human Resources policies and procedures are available to all emptoyees. Genera employs almost an equal number of women and men, supporting the principle of gender equality. GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 Chart L: Number of male and femate employees in Genera 1 r male s female Women and men are equally represented in the management sector. There is no age discrimination. 25 males and 23 females in the Genera Group work in top-level management while 9 males and lL females work in lower-level management. Chart 2: Employees by age2 r less than 30 r 31-45 x 46-60 ., 60+ Although the majority of employees are aged between 46 and 60, the average age of Genera's employees is 44. 126 employees (45, 65%) hold higher education degrees. 1 ' Status on September 15 ' Status on September 15 GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 Chart 3: Employee quatifications3 r higher education s lower education Additionally, there are three trade unions active in Genera. Their representatives have an important role in decision-making, such as work regulation, vacations planning, business reorganization, etc. Genera is committed to granting each employee the opportunity to gain the knowledge required for his/her work position. Genera Academy is the company's internal educational channel. lt is a project that allows us to transfer the knowledge and the best practices from the best employees who are experts in their field of work. The basic aim is to improve the level of the existing knowledge and understanding of business processes of all Genera,s employees, and to positively influence the organizational climate and employee satisfaction. we would like to emphasize the fact that Genera fully complies with the principles of equality of salaries for men and women, provided that they occupy identical positions as categorized by relevant bylaws. This categorization is non-discriminating because it takes into account the nature and characteristics of particular job positions, while it disregards sex, age or any other characteristic of employees occupying such positions. Genera is committed to safety at work. lt is reflected in the appointment of occupational safety and health compliance officers, constant improvements of safety at work through safe working conditions, reduction of occupational injuries, and the creation of pleasant and satisfying working environ ment. lnstead of conducting surveys about employee satisfaction, this year we. have carried out the evaluation of working competencies and organized interviews with all employees. Status on September L5 GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 supervisors, previously educated by the HR department, conducted the interviews which were the opportunity for the employees to comment on their own performance and to give suggestions on how to improve and facilitate their own development. Genera has arranged a protection system at work, which is based on the fulfilment of all legal requirements regarding health and safety of employees and the continuous improvement of working conditions. company regulations on occupational health & safety ensure the employees implementation of all elements regarding safety at work. The representatives of employees, an occupational physician and company's occupational health & safety experts are actively involved in the occupational safety committee. The committee provides an objective approach and compliance with alt safety measures. Also, Genera,s employees working in special working conditions have regular medical examinations in order to maintain their physical and mental health. The examination of the conditions of the working environment and tools creates safe working conditions. Regular safety assessments decrease the risk from injuries to the lowest possible level. Regular training of all employees, including evacuation and rescue drills, raise awareness of the importance of safety at work. Different activities and organized sport events aim to create pleasant a working environment and a sense of security and beronging to the company community. Planned activities for the year 2013: During the year 2013 we plan to review the health status of each employee and in a series of meetings with the health and safety service we will try to present each employee with the working place which can not endanger his/her health in any way. During the winter period all employees who work in unfavourable temperature conditions are enabled to have hot beverages (2 dl of tea twice a day). All employees who work more than 4 hours a day at the computer are entitled to have an eye examination. Genera Inc. is planning to improve the working conditions by presenting a better employee organization in the production sector, by investing in production facilities and in production equipment, and by continuous education of employees on the safety matters. 10 GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 ENVIRONMENT 7. PRINCIPLE Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. PRINCIPLE Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. PRINCIPLE Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Description of practical actions in the year 2OL2z Genera Inc. has established an environmental management system based on the principles of sustainable development and is continuously working on improving the system. Although the company has set high standards in environmental protection in all of its business processes, Genera Inc. has always been striving to increase these standards in order to achieve absolute environmental reliability. Environmental reliability is achieved by meeting all legal conditions and the basic principles of environmental protection which form the framework for a successful and ecologically sustainable business. Genera Inc. strictly abides by all legal provisions and continuously invests in the quality of work and organization with a clear plan for business operations development according to basic principles of environmental protection. Genera identified, categorized and assessed all environmental aspects of its business operations. These aspects are industrial waste production, air and water emissions, storage, use and transport of hazardous materials and products, water and energy consumption. All of these aspects are regularly monitored and evaluated in order to prevent any adverse impact on the environment. Water, air and waste analyses are regularly made by certified laboratories. Environmental reports and analyses are being submitted to regulatory authorities. Annual environmental objectives are pre-planned and their implementation is monitored. All objectives are focused towards the increase of environmental awareness, promotion of environmentally sustainable business and cleaner industrial production, not hazardous for the environment. Waste management is always a challenge in terms of trying to affect a variety of activities to reduce the total amount of produced waste and increase the proportion of reusable types of waste by sorting and recycling. In 2012 the total amount of the produced hazardous industrial waste was reduced by 50% compared to the previous year. The total produced quantity of non-hazardous industrial waste increased by 13%, which is explained bythe fact that the undertaken activities resulted in the desired reduction of hazardous waste and the increase of the share of non-hazardous waste, which can be substantially recovered and recycled rather than incinerated. 11 GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 Chart 4: Waste by characteristics ZOLZ4 r hazardous waste ln 2012,50 % of total amount of the produced non-hazardous industrial waste was selected and designated for recycling. Major on-going activities carried out in order to reduce industrial waste are education of emptoyees, on-site supervision and, primarily, waste selection' Genera continued to implement the activities on managing waste from the enduser of its products, throughout an organized disposal system for contaminated packaging of the products. Chart 5: Industrial waste in 2Ot2s I usable industrial waste x other industrial waste Effective measures (such as control and measurement devices) which control the consumption of water and energy have been introduced allowing the reduction of resources o Status on September 15 Status on September L5 12 GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 consumption and the increase of energy efficiency. Continued use of gas as energy production fuel has resulted in cost savings and the reduction of emissions carbon dioxide emission levels. Substantial savings were achieved by replacing the cooling system based on ammonia with the air-cooled system which consumes less power. The new cooling system is environmentally friendly because ammonia is eliminated from the process. Storage, use and transportation of hazardous substances and products are established in the system in such a way as to avoid the possible adverse impact on the environment. The company also continuously works on the introduction of less hazardous materials in production to protect its safety and customers' safety, in a way that used raw materials meet safety and other standards and their potentially harmful effect on the environment is reduced to minimum. Genera continuously informs its customers about the life cycle of products in order to raise environmental awareness and proper treatment of the waste that remains after the use of a product. Conservation of natural resources is implemented on multiple levels by optimizing water and energy consumption in the production technology (loss of water and energy in distribution) according to the principles of sustainable development and energy efficiency. The company aims to increase environmental awareness of its employees with a variety of activities and educational courses applicable in everyday life. Genera Inc. is aware of the importance of biodiversity and tries as much as possible to preserve the beauty and biodiversity of its green spaces. Certain protected species periodically appear at the edges of the production site, such as mute swan, ducks, various species of birds, bats, moles, hedgehogs, shrews, wild rabbits, minks. These animals are not disturbed and are thus protected to some extent in accordance with the requirements of business processes. Planned activities for the year 2013: In order to optimize the quality of wastewater, Genera has begun investing in Wastewater Treatment Plant according to wastewater permit. The investment project is in the project documentation preparation phase and the implementation of the entire project is due during the second half of next year. 13 GENERA d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 ANTI.CORRUPTION 10. PRINCIPLE Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Description of practical actions in the year 2OL2z As of 2009 when Genera was listed on the Zagreb Stock Exchange we have been obliged to publicly announce our financial results, business processes and business agreements. In that way our business operations are completely transparent and diminished of any ability of fraud and corruption. Genera Inc. strictly adheres to the Laws on the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, the acts of competition rules, the criminal laws and all other relevant positive Croatian regulations which regulate the operating of companies. Also, we have introduced anti-corruption policies within our internal Corporate Code as well as regulations in which we strictly forbid bribery, demand data protection procedures and information security maintenance. By joining the European Union, Croatian institutions have become obliged to exercise strict control and are continuously supervised by higher European institutions. Furthermore, a trend of delisting from the Zagreb Stock Exchange has developed in Croatia recently, which enables companies to submit less business reports which in turn decreases their business transparency. Nevertheless, Genera intends to remain listed on the Stock Exchange and punctually inform the public about its business activities. Planned activities for the year 2013: Genera Inc. is aware that there is always a room for improvement. We are determined and committed to our goals, which are raising awareness of our employees through workshops, dissemination of posters and other materials, continuous training and education. Our main goal remains the same, and that is a zero-tolerance approach to corruption combined with the strengthening of all forms of corruption prevention. 14 GENEM d.d. GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT 2012 CONTACT INFO Genera lnc. Address: Svetonedeljska 2, Kalinovica, 10436 Rakov Potok, Croatia Phone: +385 1 33 88 888 Fax: +385 1 33 88 704 E-mail: info@genera.hr Web: www.genera.hr Ana Bagari6 Executive Director of Corporate Functions Phone: +385 1 33 88 603 E-mail : ana':bagaric@genera.hr Ana Prelog Head of Corporate Communications Phone: +385 L 3388726 E-mail : ana.prelog(ogenera.hr 15
