Sustainability Report 2012 Vision Inspiring people Passionate about new ideas Growing with customers Values Act responsibly Create value Learn and renew Core purpose Ahlstrom is a high performance fiber-based materials company, partnering with leading businesses around the world to help them stay ahead. Brand promise Performance Improvement Certainty Simplicity Stay ahead Implementing a Ahlstrom and Products with high performance Managing our Contents sustainability purpose culture supply chain 2 About this report 18 Growing through differentiation 28 Our human resources processes supporting 40 Managing our supply chain our values and high performance culture 3 We offer products with purpose 19 Improving our products’ environmental 41 Fiber and water performance 30 Health and safety 4 Business areas 44 Energy and emissions 20 Protecting people 32 Developing our people 5 Key figures and targets 48 Managing our risks 22 Purifying air and liquids 33 Recruitment, diversity, and dialogue with employees 6 Message from our CEO 50 Certification status 24 Providing surface and structure 34 Touching people’s lives 7 2012 highlights and areas for improvement 51 Independent assurance report 36 Supporting human rights 8 The global megatrends that drive our growth 52 GRI table 10 Our strategic basis for sustainability 10 Our sustainability framework 12 Where do we operate in the world? 13 Using the planet’s resources wisely 14 Stakeholder interaction 15 Our commitments to external initiatives Name of the organization Ahlstrom Corporation President and CEO Jan Lång Company facts Headquarters Helsinki, Finland Business Ahlstrom is a high performance fiber-based materials company partnering with leading businesses around the world to help them stay ahead. Manufacturing plants 34 plants in 14 countries (as of 31.12.2012), includes Label and Processing plants Sales offices 31 in 26 countries Employees 5,112 in 28 countries on six continents (including Label and Processing) 3,829 as of 31.12.2012 in 28 countries on six continents for continuing operations Net sales EUR 1.60 billion (EUR 1.01 billion in 2012 for continuing operations excluding Label and Processing business) Listed On the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki since 2006 Founded In 1851 More information www.ahlstrom.com 1 About this Sustainability reporting is a way to measure and disclose an report organization’s way of working and performance in relation to sustainable development. It’s a way for businesses to be accountable to their stakeholders, both inside and outside the company. We aim to be forward-looking in our reporting, but at the same time we are proud to tell stories about our 2012 accomplishments in this area. Report parameters Coopers Oy. They have also checked data. In the financial data, they are In terms of materiality, our products contiThis is the third stand-alone Sustainability that our reporting complies with the B+ separated and reported as ‘discontinuing nue to be at the core of our sustainability Report Ahlstrom has published and it covers application level of GRI. operations’ according to IFRS 5. agenda. The revised Ahlstrom strategy the calendar year 2012. The 2011 report commits us to a sustainable approach in was published in March 2012. We are In the midst of all changes taking place In 2012 Ahlstrom acquired a Swedish addressing the megatrends affecting the continuously learning from the stakeholder in Ahlstrom, the parameters of the report company, Munktell Filter AB, to strengthen world. The success of our products makes feedback we’ve received from our need to be explained. If not stated its advanced filtration business, particularly us a sustainable company economically, previous reports, and responding by telling otherwise, this report covers all functions in life science and laboratory applications. while supporting sustainable development more about our products and our people. under Ahlstrom’s control, including all As of November 1st, the plants in Grycksbo by protecting people, purifying air and These are key elements of our sustainability subsidiaries. Joint ventures are accounted and Falun in Sweden, and Bärenstein in liquids, and providing surface and structure program. To ensure a balanced view, we to the level that corresponds with our Germany, are part of Ahlstrom’s net sales, to a range of our customers’ products. This are reporting not only the highlights of ownership. Possible deviations are reported and their employees are factored in to is the way we can really make a difference; our performance, but the areas where in conjunction with the GRI indicators. Ahlstrom’s headcount as of the end of for example in 2005, 14% of the world’s we need to improve. In this report we Also, the bases of calculations including 2012. Also their environmental and safety greenhouse gases came from transporare also giving a fuller account of our risk assumptions are reported in conjunction data is part of the Group averages as of tation, and 25% from electricity and heat management process, which is important with the indicators. November 1st 2012. Their raw material mostly in residential and commercial to our investors. data, however, is not integrated in the buildings. Our filtration products can help According to its stated strategy, Ahlstrom Ahlstrom totals at the year end. reduce this. Our products are developed We have also included further information is demerging its Label and Processing with the help of EcoDesign, and are produon our management approach, and how business area to form a major specialty Our only joint venture is in Longkou, China. ced in a way that minimizes the emissions we put our sustainability framework into paper producer in the world, Munksjö Oyj. Ahlstrom owns 60% of it and it is included from the manufacturing processes. We talk practice. Based on our own assessment, our Altogether six plants – Stenay, Rottersac, in the financial and headcount figures for more about how we do this in this report. reporting complies with the B+ application La Gère, part of Turin, Osnabrück, and all of 2012, on the basis detailed above. level of the Global Reporting Initiative G3 Jacarei – form part of the demerged Group safety data includes Longkou as Yours sincerely, guidelines (version 3.0). The quantitative operations. These plants are included for of October 2011, while the environmental information on economic, social and the purposes of our headcount figures for data is incorporated as of November 1st environmental responsibility has been 2012 as well as in the annual safety and 2012, both at 100%. Anna Maija Wessman assured by a third party, Pricewaterhouse environmental statistics, and raw material Vice President, Sustainability For questions and more information about this report contact sustainability@ahlstrom.com 2 We offer products Provide surface & structure with purpose Ahlstrom produces high performance fiberbased materials that enable the required functionality and sustainability of our customers’ products. The essence of our strategy is that our Protect products protect people, purify air and Purify liquids, and provide surface and structure to our customers’ products. Sustainability is at the heart of our operations. Medical drapes and gowns Oil and fuel filtration Wallcoverings Our products are mainly used by the Sterilization wraps and pouches Air and water filtration Floorings transportation, construction, food and Face masks Gas turbine filtration Building panels beverage, medical, energy, water, and life science industries. Food and beverages packaging Life science filtration Wind turbine blades Substrates for masking tape Boat hulls Creating value Consumers and Primary production Raw material supplier Converter Marketer / seller industrial customers >> Natural fibers: wood, >> Pulp producers >> Healthcare and consumer goods >> World class consumer acaba and other annual >> Synthetic fiber producers suppliers or industrial brands fibers (PET, PP, glass etc.) >> Transportation industry suppliers >> Oil and petrochemicals >> Chemical suppliers >> Air and liquid filter manufacturers >> Pigments >> Wallcover manufacturers etc. 3 Business areas 37% 38% 26% 22% 37% 37% 37% 38% of Group of Group of Group of Group of Group of Group of Group of Group net sales net assets net sales net assets net assets net assets net sales net assets Advanced Filtration* Building and Energy Food and Medical Transportation Filtration* is a global supplier of air and is one of the leading players is one of the leading players is the global leader in liquid filtration materials, with globally for materials used in globally for materials used in transportation filtration a leading market position in wallcoverings, floorings and tea bags, food packaging, materials. Life Science and Gas Turbine windmill blades. masking tape and medical filtration. gowns and drapes. Customer industries Customer industries Customer industries Customer industries Water Building and construction Food processing and Automotive Energy Energy packaging Healthcare Fabric care Medical and healthcare Food and Beverage Marine Building Environmental Control Transportation Manufacturing platform Manufacturing platform Manufacturing platform Manufacturing platform Finland Belgium China Brazil Germany China Finland China Italy Finland France Italy South Korea France India South Korea Sweden Russia UK USA USA Sweden USA *Reported figure for the former Filtration business area. On January 1, 2013, the former Filtration business area was divided into Advanced Filtration and Transportation Filtration business areas. 4 Key figures and targets LONG TERM ECONOMIC TARGETS Our long term profitability target is to have at least Our solidity target is to maintain our gearing 13% Return on Capital Employed within 50–80%. >> In 2012 it was 1.6% for continuing operations. >> In 2012 it was 55.8%. Our growth target is at least 5% based on annual net sales We aim to achieve 15% of net sales from new (at constant currency rates, including acquisitions) products every year. >> In 2012 we had a negative growth of -1.5%. >> In 2012 we achieved 12%. Our main social targets HUMAN POTENTIAL INDEX other performance Our safety goal is to have no ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE measurements % Lost Time Accidents. Our strategic goal is to 64 100 3,0 build a high performance We aim to achieve a “World 2,5 80 culture and reach a Human 63 Class” Accident Frequency 2,0 Potential Index of 64. 60 Rate <1.0 by 2020 62 1,5 40 1,0 61 20 0,5 60 0 0,0 12 Goal 12 Goal 12 20 Goal Goal and development discussion Code of conduct e-learning Compliance training for targeted employees Our main environmental target is Our environmental 2012 Actual to eliminate waste-to-landfill by 2015. Key Performance Indicators 3 Water Intake, m /T 42.6 Electricity, MWh/T 1.036 Fuel Energy, GJ/T 12,83 Waste to landfill, kg/T 8.0 CO2 emissions, kg/T 586 ISO 14001 certification 99% 5 Message from our CEO During the last three years, Ahlstrom has focused on executing a clear strategy. Our ambition is to become the world’s leading high performance fiber-based materials company, and the way we will do this is captured in our vision: inspiring people, being passionate about new ideas, and growing with our customers. In August 2012, we announced one of the most significant developments in the last 25 years of Ahlstrom’s history. By demerging our Label and Processing business we will create a new global leader in specialty papers, Munksjö Oyj. This transaction will allow us to concentrate our resources on the areas where we see the most attractive opportunities to grow our business. Sustainability will continue to be the key driver for all our operations, from product development through to supply chain, including sourcing and manufacturing. Some targets are more challenging – especially in relation to our energy consumption – but we are determined to both monitor and improve our performance. Our products have a key role to play in helping the world adapt to the challenges of climate change, resource scarcity, and urbanization. All our products have real purpose they are high performance materials that help our customers’ products function to the highest specification while reducing their environmental impacts. There is much more about this in this Sustainability Report, which has been prepared according to GRI framework, and the quantitative information on economic, social and environmental responsibility has been independently assured. Following the demerger of the Label and Processing business, Ahlstrom will be a more focused, agile and ambitious company, focused on exploiting the key industry trends in our priority sectors, including construction, automotive, healthcare, food and beverages, energy, and water. We have five high priority programs which underpin everything we do: delivering Our products have a key role to play in outstanding customer value, growing through differentiation, implementing a high performance helping the world adapt to the challenges culture, driving a world-class supply chain, and winning in Asia. of climate change, resource scarcity, But our success will also depend on our stakeholders, both inside and outside the company: and urbanization. not only committed and competent personnel, but also supportive customers, suppliers, and shareholders. Ahlstrom’s history can be summed up by the word ‘resilience’; I am confident that the same quality will characterize our future. Yours truly, Jan Lång President & CEO 6 Employee survey results improved in all areas. 2012 Highlights Very good response rate at 83.4% Zero Lost Time Accidents (LTAs) in 20 plants. Accident frequency rate reduced by 46% from previous year Behavior-based safety program rolled out 91% 91% of the fibers used from renewable sources of the fibers used were 81% of wood pulp purchased from certified or controlled sources from renewable sources Ahlstrom Supplier Code of Conduct implemented with our main raw materials suppliers Zero waste-to-landfill in 11 plants. Great improvement in overall group-wide wasteto-landfill with a reduction of 45% Number of patents filed increased Human rights policy established Support for human rights in India with the UNICEF project through Eva Ahlström Foundation Areas for improvement 81% Accident rate not reducing as fast as of the woodpulp purchased we would like was from responsible sources Financial performance not meeting targets – certified or controlled wood Energy efficiency and emission targets missed due to disruptions in production caused by shortfall in volumes Lower than targeted participation in Code of Conduct e-learning Ahlstrom’s image as an employer still below the desired level 7 7 billion people live on this planet, but it can only support about 4 billion living and consuming in the way we do. And yet the world’s population is expected to peak at 10 billion people in the 2050s. Making this equation add up is the world’s biggest sustainability challenge, and it is at the heart of some of the most significant megatrends companies like Ahlstrom are facing. 8 The global megatrends that drive our growth billion 10 Environmental awareness Citizens around the world are increasingly concerned about the deterioration of the environment, including the pollution of the air, water and soil, deforestation, and the loss of biodiversity. As a result they are more willing to reuse, recycle, and sort their waste, and reduce their environmental footprint. Resource scarcity The demand for food, energy and natural resources like water will continue to rise as the world’s population increases. There will be a greater burden on arable land, and a greater need for fresh 8 water, which makes up only 0.007% of the earth’s water supply. Climate change will also affect water supplies in unpredictable ways, as extreme weather patterns cause floods in some places and drought in others. Oil, gas and minerals are essential to a modern economy, and yet we are rapidly depleting those non-renewable resources. We have to find ways to do more with less. 6 Demographics Most of the increase in the world’s population is taking place in developing countries. As economies and urbanization like China and India become wealthier, their citizens demand higher standards of living, and often begin to adopt Western diets heavier in protein. Life-expectancies increase, and people move from rural areas to the cities. All of these trends place ever greater pressures on limited resources. 4 >> Everyone has a role to play in creating a more sustainable future, but business is best placed to create practical solutions. With unique expertise 3 in fibers, chemistry and materials technology, we can help both our customers and wider society make progress towards a more sustainable future. 2 Developing countries 1 World population Industrialized countries development 0 year 1800 1850 1900 1950 2000 Source: http://www.grida.no/graphicslib/detail/world-population-development_29db 9 Our strategic Our sustainability framework basis for sustainability Our sustainability promise is to systems, and facemasks which protect XAIR helps to reduce fuel consumption We want Ahlstrom to be a successful and respond to these megatrends by against viruses, bacteria, particulates in vehicles and leads to lower CO2 sustainable business, not just economically, but developing high performance fiberand fluids. They significantly reduce emissions. socially and environmentally. Everything we do based products and materials that the risk of hospital-acquired infections, is underpinned by this belief, from the way we help save resources and reduce the making life safer for clinicians and The Ahlstrom products that provide interact with our supply chain, to the way we impact of human activity on the patients. surface and structure include manage our workplaces. environment. At the same time we aim wallcoverings, floorings, building panels to minimize the environmental impacts We help reduce food waste by and wind turbine blades. Our specialty We put this into practice by organizing our we create during manufacturing. providing effective food packaging glassfiber reinforcements help to sustainability efforts in the same way as we With sustainability in mind, we make made from 100% renewable resources. generate renewable wind energy as an organize our business. In the next table we products that protect people, purify air essential component of turbine blades. clarify our management approach in product and liquids, and provide surface and Our filtration products that purify air and They also help to lower CO2 emissions development, sourcing, manufacturing, and structure to our customers’ products. liquids help to reduce environmental by providing a lighter weight solution for product management. On page 29 we show pollution and cut energy consumption. many forms of transport. our approach to social issues. We help support the health and wellFor example as water is getting scarcer, being of a rising and ageing population our Ahlstrom Disruptor® water filtration Our target is to grow our business in all by making products that protect media can operate in regions where three of these fields aiming for global people, including medical fabrics, there is no energy supply and without leadership. drapes and gowns, sterile barrier the need for chemicals. The Ahlstrom High priority programs 1 2 3 4 5 We’re putting our strategy into Delivering outstanding Growing through Implementing a high Driving a world-class Winning in Asia. We talk about practice through five high priority customer value. differentiation. performance culture. supply chain. We will significantly our goals and programs. We see these as priorities We will enhance We will drive growth We will continue to We will continuously increase our business achievements in that are crucial to our success. customer loyalty through unique products develop a culture reduce our cost base in Asia in terms of both all of these areas They are through understanding and advanced and way of working while providing products sales and people. in this report. and meeting customer technology. We will where people take and services that meet needs and offering understand new and responsibility, live up to or exceed customer world-class service emerging trends and Ahlstrom’s values, expectations. to our customers. develop visionary learn new things, and products to meet new reach their targets. needs. 10 Our management approach to product development, supply chain and product management LONG-TERM STRATEGY KEY TARGETS KEY SUCCESSES RISKS VISION AND POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE AND SHORTCOMINGS AND OPPORTUNITIES TRAINING Turning our unique know-how and Growing through differentiation Sales from new products: Functioning processes now Risks: new ideas into innovative high and ensuring EcoDesign in target 15%, 2012 12% in place include: Progress not fast Product development performance fiber-based materials all new products Unique patents filed: + Project management tool enough Intellectual property policy target 10 product families, 2012: 9 + Outcome Driven Innovation® Opportunities: and guidelines Ready to fully exploit + IDEA generation the opportunities given GROUP + Intellectual Property by new systems in place + Open innovation New technology expertise + Synergy Customer Ideation Center + Expert networks + EcoDesign Sourcing policy Cost reductions Successes: Risks: Supplier Code of Conduct Working capital improvements + Number of suppliers reduced by over Supply shortages 20% since 2 years ago Opportunities: Purchase pulp only from Risk mitigation (identification of Sourcing responsible sources back up suppliers) + Supplier Code of Conduct Simplify supplier GROUP implementation exceeding targets portfolio Rationalization of supplier base Shortcomings: Innovation in Ahlstrom Academy – see page 32 Implementation of Supplier Evaluation Cost reductions plateaued partnership with chosen key suppliers Driving Increase usage of renewable fibers Optimization of logistics a world-class SUPPLY CHAIN supply chain Operational efficiency supported by: Reduce energy consumption Successes: Risks: Aggressive targets set through 2020 (electricity and steam) +New saturator in Turin (see page 45) Operations in China; for Key environmental and safety Reduce CO2 emissions +Energy assessment in Osnabrück water scarcity, safety manufacturing Business Area Performance Indicators (KPIs) Reduce water consumption +99% of production ISO 14001 certified culture Targeted investments Minimize emissions to the air, water Shortcomings: Opportunities: Lean manufacturing initiative and soil -Internal waste levels still too high Lean manufacturing (see page 40) Reach zero waste-to-landfill -Room to improve on logistics Global extension of best practices OTAPIF measure (= On Time As through the supply chain network Promised In Full); for delivery quality, Anticipatory regulatory posture is continuously improving Growing with customers Assuring that the products are safe OTAPIF measure for delivery quality Successes: Risks: Anticipating customers’ challenges for people and the environment is continuously improving + Initial success in bringing more Consumer behavior Product management to make their products better Sales Contract Policy Customer satisfaction – now sustainable products to market (e.g. does not demand measured annually and systematically Ahlstrom Disruptor®, Ahlstrom XAIR) sustainable products Being the first choice for our Business Area business partners for the entire organization, slight + Better awareness of Life Cycle thinking Opportunities: improvement over previous year. + Better understanding of value chain Know-how for Earning our partners’ loyalty and Measured with ‘Net Promoter Index’ creating products helping them stay ahead demands for sustainability tool from renewable raw Shortcomings: materials Customer relationships not always sufficiently extensive for joint early development of more sustainable products 11 Where do we Our worldwide presence as at the end of 2012 operate Manufacturing plants EUROPE in the world? Manufacturing plants Employees 22 3,249 Number of sales offices 11 Sales in EURO 861,806 Tons of production 636,490 CO2 emissions 634,697 AMERICAS Manufacturing plants 8 Employees 1,291 Number of sales offices 5 Sales in EURO 512,019 Tons of production 191,049 CO2 emissions 139,925 The countries where we have our biggest operations and footprints ASIA PACIFIC Manufacturing plants 4 are France, Germany, Italy Employees 576 15 and United States. Number of sales offices Sales in EURO 224,813 Tons of production 31,047 CO2 emissions 36,757 Biodiversity hotspot Areas (as defined by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development tool for assessing water scarcity) Including AFRICA AND MIDDLE-EAST are shown in the map as grey color. Five Ahlstrom plants are located in Biodiversity hotspots >> Jacarei and Louveira, Atlantic Forest >> Brignoud, Sassoferrato and Turin, Mediterranean Basin 12 The purpose of defining the Planetary Boundaries is to provide an operational framework for our quest to global sustainability. Tipping over the boundaries can have catastrophic consequences in the long run. The Human Quest J. Rockström, M. Klum, 2012 Using the The human race relies on the earth’s Nine planetary boundaries have been What is Ahlstrom doing? planet’s natural resources, and we need to find a identified. The ‘big three’ boundaries relate Our approach to sustainability is based on way to live within the planet’s means. We to areas where there is already large-scale thinking that we minimize the environmantal must ensure our cities and social structures evidence of global change. They are impacts from our operations. We use the resources are able to cope with challenges like climate change, ozone depletion, and principles of ‘green chemistry’, EcoDesign, climate change, and that natural habitats ocean acidification. The next four are those and life cycle assessments in our product like wetlands and rainforests are protected. that affect the earth’s underlying resilience, development, so we can determine the wisely The key word here is ‘resilience’, and it’s a mainly at local-to-regional level. These impacts our products and processes new way to look at sustainability. are changes in land use, freshwater use, have on the environment and reduce the rate of biodiversity loss, and human them. We’re sourcing our wood fiber from The scientists in the Stockholm Resilience interference with the natural nitrogen and sustainably-managed forests, which means Center (www.stockholmresilience.org) phosphorus cycles. that their biological diversity is maintained. have recently come up with their own Our Lean manufacturing initiative means recommendations for a safe level of usage The last two boundaries relate to issues that we will be minimizing our use of of the earth’s resources. They call this the where the long-term impacts are not yet resources and our generation of waste. And Planetary Boundaries. If we stay within these clear. They are air pollution by aerosols we’re continuously aiming at reducing all scientifically-defined limits, we will have the such as soot, sulfur, nitrates, and other our emissions – to air, water and soil. But we best chance of ensuring long-term growth particles, and the pollution of the biosphere make the biggest difference through our and sustainable prosperity. with chemicals from heavy metals to products, which make a real and lasting radioactive materials and persistent contribution towards a more sustainable organic pollutants. future. 13 Open Innovation University of Turin Italy – External technology partners Stakeholder interaction Chemistry University of Wyoming Water Synthetic Nonwoven Research USA Filtration Fibers Institute USA A stakeholder is anyone who is interested in what the company is doing. We want Active Collaborato build productive relationships with our main stakeholder groups, both inside tions VTT & Aalto University Nano­ and outside Ahlstrom. We want to understand their expectations, engage in an Finland cellulose & Nano­ CTP & Pagora France open and constructive dialogue, and develop our activities and management Advanced cellulose Printing according to what we hear. The table below sets out our most important stakeholders, and how we have engaged with them: Nano & Nanofibers Private companies USA CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS SHAREHOLDERS ACADEMIA SOCIETY INDUSTRY PEERS Face-to-face meetings and Daily contacts Face-to-face meetings and Annual General Practical training and Local level cooperation Participation in trade other contacts via the sales Performance management other contacts via the Global Meeting degree theses with the authorities associations force process Sourcing organization Capital Markets Day Research and Open house events Lobbying and joint Examples of dialogue www.ahlstrom.com Ahlstrom Academy training Joint seminars (e.g. on www.ahlstrom.com development projects at production sites projects in Joint product development program sustainability) Recruitment fairs Public hearings environmental matters Quarterly conference calls projects Insite intranet Joint product development and webcasts Student visits Sustainability report projects Inside Ahlstrom magazine Annual and Sustainability Joint cost reduction projects Reports Ahlstrom’s European Dialogue (AED) Interim reports Internal information meetings Stock exchange and press Local cooperation with unions releases and employee representatives Road shows Face-to-face meetings Customer satisfaction surveys Employee surveys Supplier Performance Media monitoring Preferred employer AssessEvaluations (the Vendor surveys Feedback Bi-annual media visibility ments Evaluation Tool) report Slight improvement in annual Clearly improved results from Dialogue with suppliers based Strategic transformation See chart above Key issues raised customer satisfaction survey last year’s survey. on their performance rating process noted on open innovation results over 2011. Positives were Ahlstrom strengths were (categories from A to D). Concern about falling research partners excellent customer service -strong commitment short of financial targets Improved employer and high quality of products. -values and objectives image in Finland Customers took up price levels worth aiming at. and policies. Things to improve are to strengthen our company image and ways of recognition. Sales force training Teams are studying the results Highest risk and lowest scoring One-to-one meetings School visits; Our Product management and coming up with action (D) suppliers are eliminated and seminars addressing open houses and marketing plans. unless improvement shown. actions we are taking responses to improve our financial Key account management performance. 14 Our commitments to external initiatives Global compact Principles PAGE We are committed to promoting sustainable HUMAN RIGHTS 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 36–37, 41 development in all our business activities and operations. We demonstrated this 2 Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 36–37, 41 commitment by signing the United Nations LABOR RIGHTS 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right 36 Global Compact initiative in 2009. to collective bargaining; 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 36 The UN Global Compact is a set of 10 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and 36 principles in the area of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36 The principles and our adherence to them ENVIRONMENT 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 13, 40–47 are as follows: 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; 18–25, 40–47 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 18–25, 45 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 36 The Forest Solutions members have Memberships of associations promoting paper as a sustainable choice. adopted a set of principles and We take an interest in the development Ahlstrom had a Board position and chaired responsibilities as a condition of of all regulatory frameworks that affect the Public Affairs and Legislation working membership, reaffirming their shared our operations and markets. We influence group in 2012. commitment to sustainable development these developments through industry which balances economic growth, and trade associations at the national, Ahlstrom also has representatives on World Business Council environmental stability, and social progress. European, and international level. We national industry federations such as for Sustainable Development As a member, Ahlstrom is committed to: do not give financial or in-kind political the Confederation of Finnish Industries, The WBCSD is a CEO-led coalition of • Efficient and innovative use of fiber, contributions. Copacel in France (the Confederation forward-thinking companies with a energy, and new technologies Francaise de l’Industrie des Papiers), common belief that business can find • Promoting the recyclability, recovery, Trade Associations Assocarta in Italy, and the German Pulp solutions for a more sustainable world. and appropriate use of fiber Ahlstrom is an active member of the and Paper Association. In addition, Ahlstrom has been a member of the • Improving energy efficiency and European Disposable and Nonwovens Ahlstrom is a member of a number WBCSD and its Forest Solutions Working the use of renewable energy Association, EDANA, based in Brussels, of sector-specific associations, both Group since 2011. • Tracking, managing and reporting participating in various business internationally and in local markets where on carbon dioxide emissions environmental committees as well as the it operates, such as the American Filtration • Promoting sustainable forest Board Working Group for Sustainability. Society, FINAT (the world-wide association management, and the use of forest for manufacturers of self-adhesive labels products as important climate PaperImpact is the European Speciality and related products and services), the mitigation and adaptation strategies. Paper Manufacturers’ Association, Sterile Barrier Association and many others. 15 16 purpose Products with “To me, sustainable development means providing products that meet the constantly evolving needs of our customers, while remaining sensitive to the needs of the environment, our employees, and the future of our world.” Mary Bilodeau HR Manager, Windsor Locks, USA 17 Growing through differentiation ”Greener products through EcoDesign” Paul Stenson Executive Vice President, Group Product & Technology Development Dr Paul Stenson joined Ahlstrom in the technology development, and this will rise promising new product developments summer of 2011 to lead our global product with the demerger of Ahlstrom’s Label and through partnerships with external & technology development organization. Processing business. EcoDesign is now an technology partners and academia as We have ambitious targets in this area, integral part of all our new product design. well as the successful internal launch of our aiming to file ten new patents annually, internal IDEA collaboration tool, with four and achieve 15% of our sales from new Paul Stenson believes that the vital first step IDEA campaigns completed in 2012. products developed within the last three for any successful product development years. We nearly achieved these targets in program is world-class processes. With this We have also invested in the training and 2012 with 12% of sales from new products in mind, we introduced a new approach to development of our people, for example but exceeded our target for intellectual support product development by starting all our scientists at our Group Product & property with nine patents and three Outcome Driven Innovation® programs Technology Development Center are trade secrets filed in 2012. Three of our four in all business areas to better understand now trained in eDEA which is an efficient business areas achieved the 15% target for customer and market needs. We’ve also and fast software tool to complete a new products. set up three new expert networks for more basic Life Cycle Assessment of new effective knowledge sharing. These internal products under development. We also 25% of our new product development is processes are complemented by our new increased the capital invested in new carried out at Group level with the rest Synergy customer idea creation center in laboratory capabilities and state-of-the-art taking place within our business areas at Pont-Evêque, which opened in September equipment. 16 different locations globally. We spend 2012. Our approaches to Open Innovation around 1.3% of net sales on product and continued to bring good results with several Ahlstrom product development processes Synergy Customer Choose the Idea Managing Ideation Center Right Target Generation Chosen Projects Outcome-Driven Innovation® (ODI) New Ideas Project & Portfolio Management Our process with Product Family Strategies New web-based tool to capture ideas, Stage Gate Project & Portfolio to identify market opportunities and build on them and move the best into Management unmet customer needs projects 18 Improving our products’ EcoDesign environmental performance EcoDesign is designed to Use of low-impact materials: minimize the environmental We can design in lower environmental impact by using bio-based materials, recycled impacts of a product over its or recyclable materials, biodegradable materials, or those which require less energy to whole life cycle, and up to 80% produce. Every product has an impact on the of these impacts are determined environment. To minimize ours, we use a during the design phase. Removal of hazardous chemicals: combination of EcoDesign and Life Cycle We now work according to the principles of ‘green chemistry’, which means reducing or Assessment. LCA methodology helps us EcoDesign covers all the usual eliminating hazardous chemicals from our products, in particular formaldehyde and C8 assess a product’s environmental impacts factors such as technical fluorochemicals (PFOA = Perfluoro-octanoic acid). In 2012 we launched a new PFOA-free over the full product life cycle, from raw performance and cost, but it flexible packaging paper for food products. It’s a challenging task to eliminate all these material extraction and manufacturing, also includes environmental chemicals because formaldehyde, in particular, has played an important role in the past in our own manufacturing, conversion considerations. EcoDesign has adding strength to our nonwoven and glassfiber products. It’s a challenge we are taking on, and packaging, product use, to end-ofhelped us to identify new business and none of our new products will contain these chemicals. life disposal. We’ve been using LCA to opportunities, and stimulate assess the environmental performance innovation and creativity. Energy efficiency: of our products since 2011. Several LCA We’re working to cut the energy used in making our products, and the energy our customers studies covering all business areas were We’ve identified three areas need to use them. For example, our fast-curing filtration materials minimize the energy conducted in 2012, and all were done to where EcoDesign can help required in the drying phase. ISO14040 and ISO14044 standards. As a us make our products more result we concluded that raw materials sustainable. Our EcoDesign targets for 2013 are to continue to eliminate formaldehyde and C8 (PFOA) and energy are the main contributors to fluorochemicals and other hazardous chemicals from our product ranges; to train more of our products’ environmental impacts, both our product development engineers in Life Cycle Assessment; and to incorporate EcoDesign in terms of the sourcing to manufacturing criteria into our product development processes. phase, and if you include end-use and disposal. For our filtering media designed for energy using products, the usage phase appeared to contribute most Design EcoDesign to the environmental impacts, which highlights the importance to optimize the technical properties of these products so that they require less energy when they Technical Technical are used. We were also able to assess performance Cost Cost performance which raw materials are most efficient and environmentally-friendly across a wide range of products. We will continue to apply LCA even more widely in 2013. Environment 19 Protecting people Food Food is an area where consumers want both products and packaging to be more “Passionate about new ideas” environmentally-sensitive, but they don’t Omar Hoek Vice President, Marketing, Food and Medical expect to have to change the way they shop or cook to achieve that. They expect companies like Ahlstrom to come up with new alternatives. And that’s exactly what we’re doing. For the beverage industry we’re developing more products using PLA or polylactic-acid, an advanced renewable and biodegradable polymer that we’re already using in tea bags, and we’re now expanding for coffee capsules for espresso machines. Omar Hoek is responsible for marketing in our Food and Medical business area, and is based in Pont-Evêque, We are constantly France. Omar wants looking at greener sustainable products to be alternatives for our at the heart of his business. products, e.g. masking tapes. 20 Genuine Vegetable Parchment is a unique and totally natural paper made from 100% pure cellulose which is ideal for cooking, baking, wrapping and molds. It’s compostable and biodegradable, and is available as certified originating from responsibly managed forests. It also has a significantly lower carbon footprint than alternative such as plastic or aluminum. We now offer this parchment in a form that allows our customers to customize it with their own logos or patterns, without needing to use ink. This makes it safe for direct food contact. We’re using the same technology to create 100% renewable composites for molds for products like pizza, quiche, and pies. Paper-based One product in this range has vegetable food packaging: parchment on the inside facing the food for >> is made from grease resistance, cardboard in the middle renewable resources for stiffness, and PLA in the outer layer >> is made from fiber for heat-seal ability. It’s biodegradable, from responsible compostable, and unlike aluminum molds it sources and can be can be microwaved and withstands regular third-party certified Medical We’re constantly looking at ways to oven temperatures. The molds can also be with FSC™ or PEFC™ Our medical business makes the make these products more efficiently, used multiple times. >> stores carbon medical fabrics used in drapes, gowns, by reducing waste, saving energy, and facemasks, protective apparel, and minimizing their environmental impacts. For >> is biodegradable sterile barrier systems for medical example, the medical fabrics produced >> appeals to consumers. devices and surgical instruments. Our at our Mundra facility in India will eliminate disposable fabrics and products are the use of harmful perfluoro-octanoic designed to protect patients and acids (PFOA). We’re also looking at ways surgical staff, offering a clinically superior to achieve the same level of performance alternative against hospital-acquired with lighter materials. When compared infections compared to reusable textiles, to reusable textiles, single-use substrates which require sterilization before every are the clinically superior alternative. Our use. All our medical fabrics can be LCA data shows that there are also real safely incinerated and taken to energyenvironmental benefits here, especially in from-waste facilities. emerging markets. 21 Purifying air and liquids “In Filtration, we’re responding to all the global megatrends” Willy Davis Bordignon Vice President, Product Development, Filtration Willy believes that sustainability in the have to withstand difficult conditions and We also look at how we can build Filtration business starts with understanding high temperatures, and our materials sustainability into the product design and the trends that are affecting the industries need to be both tough and resilient. In manufacture process, and how we can and customers it serves. This might range many cases that means treating them with support our customers to improve their own from consumer pressure, to regulatory chemicals, and making that process more environmental performance by saving change. The automotive industry, for sustainable is a true challenge. There’s still them energy and reducing waste. For example, is under continuing pressure work to be done on this but we’re pleased example, our fast curing engine filter media to improve the energy efficiency and with some of our recent successes like as well as the new high performance fuel environmental performance of vehicles our new bromide-free flame-retardant filters help automotive customers to save and lower CO2 emissions, and our high media that is also water-resistant. This is energy, and there are similar examples in performance transportation filter media a real breakthrough in cellulose-based Advanced Filtration. can help do that. Components in engines technology. Willy Davis Bordignon is responsible for product development in both Advanced and Transportation Filtration businesses. He lives “Becoming a solutions provider” and works in Louveira, Brazil. LAIA GUARRO Vice President, Marketing, Advanced Filtration Laia Guarro is responsible for marketing for the new Advanced Filtration business, and is based in Barcelona, Spain. She sees her area of Ahlstrom becoming a provider of solutions for customers, not just a maker of filter media. These customers come from the water, energy, healthcare, food and beverage and environmental control industries, and in many cases what they’re looking for from us is directly related to the global megatrends of environmental awareness, resource scarcity, changing demographics and urbanization. For example, our air filters help customers improve air quality and reduce energy consumption. 22 High performance liquid filtration media Our breakthrough new platform of high efficiency filtration media is Case in the process of being introduced to the market in spring 2013. This new product platform has been developed to address a particular need for our Transportation customers who were concerned that high pressure in fuel systems which utilize traditional micro-glass based filtration media would cause the micro-glass fibers to leach out of these conventional filters and cause damage in the engine. We decided to explore whether it was possible to develop a new glassfree alternative that was still as efficient as the conventional product while also improving the performance of this high efficiency liquid filtration media. Using a unique, patent-pending design, we’ve been able to achieve an efficiency level of 99.9% with a filter that is thinner than traditional products and requires 30% less space. Given that space and weight are often restricted in engines, this is a significant advantage, and means we can offer a high performance filter of a significantly Our new Ahlstrom XAIR filters are designed consumption of a HVAC ventilation blower reduced size that actively contributes both to fuel economy and for gas turbines, and are better at filtering with the new filter media is half that of one sustainability. We’ve developed the specification for the filter so that out the small particles which have been using conventional alternatives, saving the energy required to manufacture it is lower than for traditional particularly difficult to eliminate in the both money and carbon. products. past. The filters are made in an innovative way, which doesn’t just create a unique In many cases our Filtration business has barrier to protect the turbines against achieved real market differentiation and every kind of air pollution, but results in competitive advantage by being able to lower gas consumption and lower CO2 offer greener alternatives that are still highly emissions. The same XAIR product offers efficient and cost-effective. Our customers real benefits to the HVAC (heat, ventilation now associate the Ahlstrom brand with this and air-conditioning) sector. The energy sort of forward thinking. 23 Providing surface and structure “Making intelligent, functional materials that have a purpose” Laura Raitio Executive Vice President, Building and Energy Laura Raitio runs the Building and Energy For example, we’ve launched new where we can make a real contribution business, and is based in Helsinki, Finland. embossable wallcovers that avoid the to sustainability. If certain structural This area of our business makes functional need for an extra layer of chemical components of vehicles or vessels could materials that meet a particular need coating. We’ve also worked in partnership be replaced with a lighter material, for for our customers’ products or processes. with the Centre Technique du Papier in example, this would reduce both fuel This can include waste reduction, savings France to develop a world-class shielding consumption and CO2 emissions. Likewise in energy and raw materials, and the product, which can be applied to interior the passenger capacity of a ship could be reduction of chemicals. walls to block specific radio frequencies increased if the overall structure was lighter. (e.g. Wi-Fi or GSM). The product is however Laura is committed to developing not commercial yet. In addition, it’s important to us that we use more sustainable products, and the sustainably sourced raw materials in all our product development portfolio includes We see also opportunities in ‘lighter products. projects that aim to increase the usage structures’. Given that reducing weight is of natural or recycled fibers, and apply a big issue for many of our customers, this ‘green chemistry’ in the design phase. is a significant prospect for us, and one 24 Reducing weight, reducing impacts Case Many industries are looking at ways to reduce weight to save money and resources, whether in aircraft components, shipbuilding, building construction, or domestic white goods. But saving weight is difficult in sectors which need to meet stringent environmental regulations. The automotive industry is a good example. Our objective, therefore, has been to use our long experience and expertise in natural fibers to develop reinforcement materials that will match our customers’ requirements, in terms of both weight saving and recyclability. With our unique and patented technology we have shown that reinforcements made from natural fiber can bring significant benefits to a wide range of industries. The new generation materials we’re developing are not only lighter but have lower environmental impacts and better recyclability, because they use natural fibers, or polymers derived from renewable resources. They can also be delivered with various layers and finishes depending on the customer’s precise needs. 25 26 Implementing a With a high performance culture we mean high performance that we will create a culture and way of working where people take responsibility, learn, live up to our values and reach their targets. culture 27 Our human resources processes supporting our values and high performance culture HR processes cover the entire life cycle of an employment Employer branding We have global human resources and communication EXIT INTERVIEW processes that cover the entire life cycle of an employment. Recruitment process A positive employer image is key to attract talented people. Strategic In order to retain the talents, well workforce Values and planning functioning processes are critical High Performance Induction to ensure both the employee’s Culture engagement and the company’s success. Learning and development Compensation The HR processes start from the and benefits recruitment and induction. Compensation and benefits are Performance management an element for a company to compete for skilled employees. We aim to reward our employees fairly and always for good performance. Setting clear targets and measuring our performance against them is key for our success, this we do through our performance management process. According to our values, we want to learn and renew. Learning and development is everybody’s responsibility. Strategic workforce planning is essential for a company to sustain. 28 OUR Management approach to health and safety, human rights, and leadership and management practices STRATEGY AND KEY TARGETS KEY SUCCESSES RISKS LONG TERM VISION POLICIES AND PERFORMANCE AND SHORTCOMINGS AND OPPORTUNITIES TRAINING HEALTH AND SAFETY Accident free work 24 company standards 2012 TARGETS: Successes: Risks: Safety training places 4 guidance notes Fewer than 17 Lost Time Accidents, + Fewer accidents, 20 plants without Inherent safety risks in our programs at plant level Employee well-being 6 best practices Accident Frequency Rate 1.98 LTAs in 2012 manufacturing processes Leadership training + Behavior-based safety program based on our values 2012 PERFORMANCE: started Opportunities: 24 Lost Time Accidents, Accident + Safety awards given to Taylorville, Value-based leadership will Frequency Rate 2.76 Louveira and Bousbecque plants ultimately lead to accident Decreasing trend for Total prevention Recordable Incidents Shortcomings: Accidents still happen HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights are Human rights policy 2012 TARGETS: Successes: Risks: Code of Conduct respected in the Ahlstrom Code of Code of Conduct e-learning + Implementation of Human Rights Value chain risks in global e-learning, whole value chain. Conduct completed by all white-collar Policy, Code of Conduct, Supplier operating environment Compliance training; Ahlstrom Supplier Code employees Code of Conduct, Ahlstrom Values anti-corruption training of Conduct Implement the Supplier Code of + Positive trend in valuing diversity Opportunities: Compliance policies Conduct among main raw material at Ahlstrom Strengthening value-based suppliers behaviors Donation policy Shortcomings: 2012 PERFORMANCE: Code of Conduct e-learning Group 49% completion rate of Code launched only to white-collar of Conduct e-learning achieved employees Successful implementation of Supplier Code covering 70% of the raw materials LEADERSHIP AND Ahlstrom is a great and Strategic competencies 2012 TARGETS: Successes: Risks: The Way Forward MANAGEMENT inspiring place to work. are identified; training is Achieve a HPI of 62 + Employee survey results clearly Failure in creating a high program for senior PRACTICES Leaders enable developed to close the improved. High commitment shown. performance culture. managers gaps. Goal and development discussion Ahlstrom vision and live for all employees + Training provided matching Ahlstrom Academy, up to Ahlstrom values. A high performance competency gaps Opportunities: includes an Ahlstrom One Ahlstrom way culture is one of the Leader program high priority programs 2012 PERFORMANCE: + Competence level raised Creating a strong of working. corporate culture JUMP – Junior manager Clear improvement in all areas, + Progress in performance training program Efficient Performance HPI 61.2 management process, 71% Management process completion in 2012 to enable strategy Performance reviews held with execution. 71% of employees. Good progress in timely completion. Shortcomings: A Lean global organization leading a narrow successor pool Challenging to attract skilled managers to some plants in remote places 29 Health and safety Everything we do, we want to do safely. We want our workplaces to be completely free of accidents, and we’ve made significant efforts in the last few years on identifying hazards, and taking measures to reduce the risk of workplace accidents. But this is not enough. We now need to focus on changing our behavior. Five of our plants already have behavior-based safety programs in place: Louveira and Jacarei in Brazil, Chirnside and Radcliffe in the UK, and La Gère in France. Another program was implemented at our plant in Rottersac in France in 2012, and more are planned for 2013. Our Lost Time Accident rate continues to decrease, and 20 of our 35 plants had lost time accidents, LTAs accident frequency rate, AFR accident severity rate, ASR a zero LTA rate in 2012. Having made so much progress, we started to track Total 100 10 0.25 Recordable Injury Rate in 2012 as well. This 80 8 0.20 is a tougher measure which includes not just Lost Time Accidents but employees who 60 6 0.15 are only able to do light duties as a result 40 4 0.10 of an incident and those requiring medical 20 2 0.05 treatment which didn’t lead to lost days at work. We are also paying more attention to 0 0 0.00 near-misses, as a way of tracking potential 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 20 Goal 08 09 10 11 12 issues, and we’ve increased the number of safety inspections performed at our plants. Any absence of one or more days The accident frequency rate is calculaThe accident severity rate is calculated ted by dividing the number of accidents by dividing the number of days absence, that result in absence, by the man hours by the man hours worked, and by multiplying worked, and by multiplying by 1,000,000. by 1,000. 30 Taylorville, USA: A model to follow The last time our Taylorville plant in the USA had a Lost Time Accident was eight years ago, in February 2005, making it a model for all the other sites in the Group. While management has the primary responsibility for safety at Taylorville, every employee takes this as their personal responsibility and plays an active role in accident prevention and elimination. Every employee at the plant does at least one safety inspection per month, and they have all completed the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) 40-hour expert training course. The plant also introduced ‘Positive Safety Observation’ forms in 2010, ensuring that employees take time to identify and report back on good practice and useful new ideas. There is a proactive focus on tracking leading indicators such as near-misses. Our safety targets for 2012 were very All safety inspection reports are reviewed in the daily management meeting. ambitious: We aimed for less than 17 LTAs in total, which equates to an Accident Lastly, the entire plant makes a point of celebrating success when safety milestones Frequency Rate of below 1.98, and an and targets are met being united in its determination to continue and extend its Accident Severity Rate of 0.11. We had an record of safety achievement. Accident Frequency Rate of 2.76 in 2012, a reduction of 46% compared with 2011 (when it was 5.11). The Accident Severity Rate was 0.14. Behavior-based safety at Chirnside, UK We also continued to implement OHSAS The Chirnside plant has a reasonably good health and safety record, Cases 18001 across our plants, and 17 are now but it has only been able to achieve a zero Lost Time Accident accredited. The newest sites certified were performance for more than a couple of years at a time. When the Sassoferrato, Italy, and Tampere, Finland. plant investigated the causes of workplace accidents it found that there was almost always a behavioral issue – in other words that the Our sites are audited by an external body, accident happened as a result of the action someone took (or failed SGS. They are also subject to internal to take) rather than a piece of unsafe equipment or other physical Health, Safety, and Environment audits cause. This led the plant to look at implementing a behavior-based performed by our own highly-experienced approach to safety, and having explored various options they chose internal HSE Assessment team. During 2012, the DuPont Safety Training Observation Program, or STOP. we set up an HSE network in Europe. This meets regularly to share best practice, The way this system works is to engage with all employees at all levels, to create a strong safety culture in which ‘safety and support the implementation of HSE is everyone’s responsibility’. By the end of 2011 all the Chirnside employees had been through the full training and programs. We have focused in particular process, and there were clear signs of improvement. on plants with a poorer track record on safety performance, to help them to get Probably the most powerful aspect of the STOP training has been the fact that the employees themselves take on the right track to improve. responsibility for delivering it. The process brings together groups of employees from across the whole plant, and as a result people now feel more empowered to speak out about possible safety issues. This is the core aspect of the cultural change needed in order to improve behavioral safety. But the STOP meetings at Chirnside have been frank and open, and some good points have been raised that have allowed the plant to make progress. STOP audits don’t just help with identifying problems, they also recognize when safety is going well, so that good performance can be the springboard for future improvement, and pre-emptive action can be taken to prevent future issues. 31 Developing “No-one is as good as all of us” our people Tarja Takko Vice President, Management Development Tarja Takko is responsible for management is backed up by a number of leadership for manufacturing plants. Both HPI and development based in our Group Human programs. The Way Forward is our practical LTA results are included in the Executive Resources department in Helsinki, Finland. leadership development program for senior Management Team’s bonus criteria. She is passionate about development, business leaders. Two groups graduated positive change, and seeking opportunities last year. We also have a new Ahlstrom A high performance culture relies on clarity for innovation. Ahlstrom has always seen Leader program that provides learning of direction and feedback, and a good its people as a source of energy and opportunities and experiences to help performance management process helps new ideas, and we want to create a our managers develop their people and employees understand how their own role working environment in which people are business, deliver extraordinary results, and contributes to the Group’s overall goals. assessment designed to identify the motivated, collaborative, live up to our utilize diverse thinking and approaches. In 2012, 71% of our employees had a strengths and development areas for values, achieve their targets, and can It’s been run so far in the USA, Europe and performance review with their manager: each employee. Development plans are reach their full potential. This is what a China. The last and oldest one is the junior 89% of white-collar and 59% of blue-collar then developed using this assessment. Our high performance culture means. Clarity managers’ program, JUMP. Thirteen people employees. The figures are based on internal Ahlstrom Academy offers various of communications, trust, and continuous went through this program in 2012. the employee survey which was sent to development programs, from webinars to learning all have their part to play. 4964 employees with a response rate of one-year training programs, which aim to Cultural change does not happen 83.4% meaning that not all employees help individuals develop the competencies Inspiring leadership is another vital factor – overnight, but we’re confident we’re are included. It inquired about discussions they need to succeed, and which we need without it, none of this will happen. We’ve on the right track. Our key KPI in this held within the last 12 months. The target to achieve our strategy. developed a profile of the type of leader area – the Human Potential Index is for 2013 is to hold goal and development we need, to ensure there is consistency showing a positive trend. Management discussions with over 90% of employees. We also need to ensure we have the right throughout the Group, and that we compensation is linked to performance in people, in the right place, at the right develop the competencies and skills we HPI for all management teams and also to As part of our performance management time. We do succession planning which is need to drive growth for the future. This Lost Time Accidents for those responsible process we have a competence important for the future of the company. Headcount by educational level Headcount by country Headcount by age 4% 11% 11% 13% 2012 18% 2012 2012 9% 3% 13% 9% 10% 25% 12% 2011 20% 2011 2011 8% 24% 13% 3% 7% 2010 11% 2010 13% 2010 13% 7% 23% 23% 7% 7% 45% 42% 40% 7% 27% 27% 26% 8% USA 9% 22% 35% 10% 24% France 12% 34% 25% Italy 11% 11% Finland < 30 36% 33% Basic 11% Asia < 40 Professional Brazil < 50 37% 8% 32% B.Sc. Germany < 60 11% M.Sc. or Ph.D. Others ≥ 60 32 Recruitment, diversity, and dialogue with employees One of the three elements of our company 125 positions internally, and got 130 vision is ‘inspiring people’. This ambition applications. 45% of the positions filled extends from our own employees to our were taken by internal candidates and the customers and business partners, and all remaining 55% by people from outside. Dialogue with employees our other stakeholders. We particularly want to inspire our own people empower them Diversity The most recent employee survey was conducted in October 2012 with a very to succeed and encourage them to fulfill We have always believed that a more good response rate of 83.4% (80.5% in 2011). The purpose of these surveys is to their potential. We want to be an employer diverse business is a more creative business. assess the level of engagement and motivation across the whole Ahlstrom Group of choice and an organization that never We have employees in 28 countries, with and to give employees an opportunity to express their views and ideas. stops learning. 64% in Europe, 25% in the Americas, and 11% in Asia. The overall results for 2012 were a clear improvement from the previous survey. There were 5,112 people working at Employees’ perceptions are more positive, especially concerning Ahlstrom as Ahlstrom at the end of 2012, compared In 2012, our Board had one female director an employer, communications, recognition and reward, and the acceptance of to 5,185 at the end of 2011. The biggest out of a total of six, and two members change. The Human Potential Index was 61.2 (compared to 59.0 in 2011). The HPI is increases were in China, after we started were younger than 50 years old. Two of part of the bonus criteria for the EMT and management teams. new operations in Longkou and Binzhou, the eleven members of the Executive and in Sweden and Germany due to the Management Team were female, and six Employees at Ahlstrom Group are clearly willing to go the extra mile to help acquisition of the Munktell Filter AB sites executives were younger than 50 years. achieve our goals. They also feel the values and objectives of Ahlstrom are worth there. The biggest decrease was in Finland, aiming for. These are good indications of positive employee engagement and after the down-sizing of the Karhula site. The Of the total workforce, 21% were women, acceptance of change. voluntary employee turnover rate was 5.0%. compared to 23% in 2011. There is a balance of ages across the whole group. There were no negative changes in the survey results at Ahlstrom Group level. When filling open positions, we always The answers to all of the questions either improved or remained at the level of seek to offer the opportunity to our the previous survey. Questions relating to job motivation showed the lowest own employees first. In 2012, we posted positive change. Some people think the team spirit could be improved and more feedback given by managers. More significantly, our image as an employer is below the global benchmark level. Teams across the Group are now studying the results of the survey and coming up with action plans to address the issues raised. Key Human Resources Figures Ahlstrom European Dialogue is a way for employee representatives from each 2012 2011 2010 European country to give feedback to Group management about topics of Number of employees at year end 5,112 5,185 5,639 current interest, and hear about developments within the company. Last year’s Employee turnover rate 5.00% 4.20% 4.00% Dialogue was held on May 9th 2012 in Vantaa, Finland, with 16 employee Share of women among all employees 21% 23% 19% representatives from eight European countries. The main issues raised by the employees concerned the company’s growth in China versus Europe, strategic Women in Executive Management Team 2 out of 11 2 out of 10 2 out of 10 plans, energy prices, and safety metrics. People welcomed the fact that Ahlstrom Women in Board of Directors 1 out of 6 1 out of 7 1 out of 6 conducts employee surveys. 33 Touching “We are supporting our community by allowing students to carry out their training period at our plant.” people’s lives Janne Auvinen Maintenance Manager, Karhula, Finland Working with our communities We want to be good citizens in all We have many great examples our communities. of the community support Ahlstrom plants are often located In Chirnside, Scotland students visit the in remote rural areas, where we are plant to understand how the production major employers and tax payers. Our process and business works. The partnership Economic impacts operations thus play a major role in their between the Berwickshire High School and Ahlstrom’s management practices related to finance are governed by our local communities. From the beginning the Ahlstrom plant is part of the Scottish Compliance program, which includes our Code of Conduct, Credit Policy, of our history, Ahlstrom has always Governments’s education department Group Treasury Policy, Tax guidelines, Risk Management Policy, Purchase sought to be a good citizen. Today, ‘Curriculum for Excellence’. invoice approval process, Guideline for foreign exchange risk management, every plant is encouraged to invest in Investment manual, Supplier Code of Conduct, Sourcing policy, and Purchase their communities and support local In the United States, we supported a great Payment Term Policy. causes. variety of causes: children’s activities, senior citizens’ organizations, emergency The economic support received from governments was EUR 3.9 million in 2012. We have a policy that enables each agencies, medical facilities, specific medical facility to invest a sum equal to EUR 15 conditions, environmental protection, team per employee to support causes of their sports and so on. choice, with a particular emphasis on Economic value generated and distributed (EC1) by Ahlstrom in 2012 healthcare, clean water, education or In Osnabrück, Germany, a paper machine environmental causes. Some plants are No. 6 employee John McGurk is organizing 1000 EURO 2012 2011 2010 very active in this area, others less so. benefit runs for children (www.s4acw.de) DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED* Our overall community spending was since 24 years. The plant is contributing with a a) Revenues 1,598,640 1,852,582 1,894,156 over EUR 76,000 in 2012, with most of the donation every year. At the end of 2012 John ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED* money spent in the USA. We often invite got the honorary citizenship of Osnabrück. local schools to visit our plants to learn b) Operating costs 1,166,254 1,371,696 1,385,459 about our industry and our sector. Some c) Employee wages and benefits 309,027 353,806 349,970 plants support students with internships. d) Payments to providers of capital 20,077 22,914 28,514 e) Payments to government** 20,233 5,210 7,643 f) Community investments 164 449 326 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 82,885 98,507 122,245 (Calculated as Economic value generated less Economic value distributed) * with divested operations ** including deferred taxes 34 Following the Ahlstrom Code of Conduct we care for our community, and act as responsible neighbors. We respect the cultures, customs and values of local people and societies, wherever we are in the world. We make a positive contribution to social and economic development in our local communities, and minimize any negative impacts from our operations. We listen to local people, and take their views into account, and encourage our own employees to play an active role in their own neighborhoods. 35 Supporting Human Rights Our frameworks for ethics A separate Ahlstrom Human Rights Policy gifts, expenses and donations. We have counterparties for anti-bribery purposes. Ahlstrom is committed to conduct all of its was approved in the beginning of 2012. It is conducted training on this in Europe and We evaluate the risks first by country using business in an honest and ethical manner. aligned with the principles of the ISO 26000 the USA, and in China, with targeted facethe Transparency International Corruption To achieve this, we have established a social responsibility standard, which derives to-face trainings. Perception Index, and then on a business comprehensive Compliance program from the Universal Declaration of Human by business basis. A company-wide antiwhich is continually updated. Rights. Our policy commits us to support Monitoring bribery risk assessment was done in 2012, human rights in our whole value chain, not We have a channel that employees and and approved by the Board together with The Ahlstrom Code of Conduct was only in our own operations and our supply other stakeholders can use to report any the new Anti-Bribery Policy. updated in 2011 and we launched an chain but with our customers. We do not suspected misconduct and compliance e-learning program for all white-collar make or sell our products that could be violations to our Compliance officer. The In 2012, our Executive Management Team employees in 2012. Almost one thousand used for human rights abuses. All the above number of grievances reported this way in made a decision not to sell products to Iran employees completed this in 2012 a total policies can be seen on our internet pages 2012 was three, and all those cases were unless such a sale is separately approved of nearly 500 hours of training. The Ahlstrom at www.ahlstrom.com. duly investigated. There were no incidents by the Executive Management Team after Supplier Code of Conduct is aligned with for human rights violations in 2012. appropriate due diligence. This followed the Code, and was launched in 2012. It In late 2012, we launched a new Antithe sanctions the EU, USA and several other was very successfully implemented with our Bribery Policy to further clarify the rules We also subscribed to the Thomson countries have imposed against Iran. main raw material suppliers. Both the main we follow in relation to bribery and other Reuters Accelus World-Check compliance code and the supplier code cover human corrupt practices such as facilitation risk screening service in 2012. This rights issues. payments, “kickbacks” and secret rebates, checks potential business partners and 36 Supporting children’s rights in India Case The Eva Ahlström Foundation was set up in memory of the wife of our founder, in recognition of her own commitment to charitable causes. Since 2011 the Foundation has supported a UNICEF project in Madhya Pradesh. This is one of the poorest states in India, where diarrhea and respiratory infections are the number one cause for child deaths, and poor or non-existent sanitation for millions of people. The UNICEF project is providing adequate, well-maintained water supply and sanitation facilities in schools to improve children’s health, and encourage them to come to “If I would have to describe my experience school. There is a particular emphasis on supporting girls to stay from the trip to India with only one word, in school, and helping national and state governments in India it would be HOPE.” to use this project as a model for other initiatives elsewhere. Alongside the provision of water supplies, the project runs MARIA BONDESTAM Vice Chairman of the Board, Donations the Eva Ahlström Foundation educational programs on the importance of good hygiene, where children play a key role in spreading the message among EUR their families and friends. 400,000 Four board members of the Eva Ahlström Foundation visited 300,000 Madhya Pradesh in November 2012, to see the results of the project. It’s estimated that the work supported by the Foundation 200,000 has benefited around 10 million school children in 25,000 schools, 100,000 and helped access government funds of $40 million. It has also Ahlstrom has donated altogether increased access to water for approximately 70,000 tribal school 0 EUR 200,000 to Eva Ahlström Foundation. children. 10 11 12 37 38 Managing our supply chain “Each employee would best advance sustainability by working and living in a balanced way and always take long term development into consideration and do things well in one go, efficiently.” Eric Liang Sales Director, Taiwan 39 Managing our supply chain Green and Lean Luc Rousselet is responsible for our Supply The second priority for Luc is energy. Chain on Group level. He joined Ahlstrom A long-term action plan is being developed to reduce consumption and use renewable On the road to zero in 2011 and is based in Pont-Evêque, energy, though we still have a long way to waste-to-landfill Case France. Luc is passionate about the The best approach to waste is to make benefits of taking a Lean approach to go. Energy consumption is directly related less of it in the first place. Recycling is manufacturing. to CO2 emissions and the carbon footprint the next best answer, followed by using of our products, and we aim to achieve the waste to generate energy. Landfill is The fundamental objective of Lean thinking 10% reduction in energy use per ton by the worst option, as materials can take is to reduce waste – the idea is to eliminate 2020, based on our 2011 consumption. decades to break down, and there anything that consumes resources but does We’ve started energy assessments at our can be long-term contamination to the not increase the value of the product. This plants, beginning at Osnabrück. Another land. We aim to achieve zero waste-tocovers everything from over-production to way to reduce energy use is by working landfill by 2015, and made good progress poor inventory management, and even with other companies and buying our gas towards this goal in 2012. extends to wasting human resources by as a consortium as we do in France. It may not using the full skills and potential of the be possible to do this in other countries as In Tampere, Finland, landfill waste was workforce. well. Likewise, whenever we invest in a new reduced by 72% versus 2011 levels. Teams plant, we’ll be looking at using state-of“Making a success of Lean Luc is starting a Lean program at Ahlstrom, the-art energy technology for energy. The at the site learned from successes at a similar facility in Brignoud, France, by is one of the key drivers with four pilot projects beginning in 2013. new filtration media saturator in Turin is a implementing better waste sorting and good example. We’re also looking at the to reach a world class The three main principles are to focus on improved training on recycling. A new customer, eliminate waste, and engage our possibilities of biomass energy. supply chain” people, since that’s the only way to make energy recovery partner has also been identified. LUC ROUSSELET waste reduction an integral part of the way Water is an increasingly scarce resource Executive Vice President, Supply Chain we work. that needs careful management. This In Pont Audemer, France, landfill waste needs to be done at a local level, as local was reduced by 41% in 2012, primarily Making a success of Lean is how one of conditions vary widely around the world, through better use of fibers, improved the key drivers to reach drive a world-class but we’re aware that there are particular sorting, and better recycling. LANDFILLED SOLID WASTE supply chain, and it is also a key element of challenges in, for example, our expanding a high performance culture. We’ve made site in Binzhou, China. tons/ kg/ton In Karhula, Finland, waste-to-landfill was a commitment to work towards zero wasteyear of product reduced by 83% due to the closure of the to-landfill by 2015, and some good progress We also aim to have 100% of our 25,000 25 glass furnaces. was made again this year (there’s more on production facilities covered by an 20,000 20 this in the case study). To eliminate waste environmental management system and Taken as a whole, all the efforts we are from the end of the value chain will take certified to ISO 14001. 15,000 15 making worldwide have reduced wastemore time as the change has to start from 10,000 10 to-landfill per ton by 45% compared with the product design phase. This is an area 2011 levels. This is tremendous progress. 5,000 5 where we need to improve, but the vision Indeed, in the last 10 years, waste-tois to be much more efficient in dealing with 0 0 landfill per ton of product has been 08 09 10 11 12 end-of-life waste too. reduced by 85%. Our goal now is to tons/year eliminate waste to landfill completely. kg/ton of product 40 Fiber and water By far the most important raw material for Our Supplier Code of Conduct us is fiber. In 2012, 91% of our fibers came We need to know where our raw materials from renewable sources, compared with come from, and that they are sourced 87% in 2011. The vast majority of this is responsibly. In 2012 we implemented a wood pulp from forests, but we also use Supplier Code of Conduct which is aligned viscose made from forest fiber, and other with our Code of Conduct. Both are natural fibers such as abaca, flax, sisal, and available on our website www.ahlstrom. jute. Bio-polymers are an area of intensive com. By the end of 2012 all our main raw research for us, and the most important of material suppliers had signed the Supplier these is fiber made from PLA or Poly-Lactic Code. We had aimed to cover 48 suppliers, Acid. We’re finding more and more uses but over 70 were signed up at the end of for this material, and our ongoing research the year, covering 70% of the raw materials means that it is becoming usable in more we purchased in 2012. We will continue products. Forest-based nano-cellulose is implementing the code in 2013 targeting another highly-promising raw material, 80% of the raw materials in all categories. because it is both very light and very strong. Recycled materials such as rPET made up 20% of our total polyester fiber purchases. Recycled paper was used in three plants, Osnabrück, Rottersac and Windsor Locks, and comprised about one percent of our total wood pulp purchases. We try to use as much recycled fiber as possible, but very RAW MATERIALS IN 2012. TOTAL 1,158,330 TONS few Ahlstrom products can be adapted to use it. Annual Fibers 1% Recycled Packaging 2% Paper 1% Synthetic Fibers 7% Woodpulp 62% Chemicals 27% 41 Fiber from responsible sources We purchase our fibers from responsible suppliers in 2012 were certified according of certified products grew in 2012 by 23% sources and have an extensive company to FSC™ or PEFC™, or both. 81% of the pulp compared to 2011. There is more detail on verification program for it. was from certified or controlled sources. certified plants in the table on page 50. We look for sources from sustainably Chain of Custody certification is a way of We comply with EU Timber Regulation managed forests, which conserve this tracking wood-based raw materials from which prohibits placing illegally Changes in manufacturing vital resource for future generations, while the forest to the consumer, at each change harvested timber and timber products operations protecting biodiversity and conserving in ownership. We use SGS (Sociéte Général in the European market. We have a Due In 2012, Ahlstrom continued to streamline habitats and wildlife. de Surveillance SA) to audit this process for Diligence System in place for the pulp its operations. These changes have us. All our major plants using wood fiber are we buy from outside the EU. Ahlstrom affected, in a significant way, Ahlstrom’s Forestry certification is a mechanism using Chain-of-Custody certified allowing them only purchases pulp from suppliers which environmental profile and footprint. independent third-party assurance that the to sell FSC™ and PEFC™-certified products. monitor their supply contracts rigorously, The Filtration business area closed an forest in question is managed according The fiber in all these products is from and have a system to verify that these operating plant in Barcelona, Spain, to internationally-recognized sustainability acceptable sources. In 2012 we expanded contract conditions are fulfilled. acquired plants in Falun/Grycksbo, criteria. There are two major international our Chain-of-Custody certification program Sweden and Bärenstein, Germany, and systems for forest certification: the Forest to include our plant in Chirnside, UK. This significantly expanded the filtration Stewardship Council (FSC™) and the means we can now supply customers facility in Turin, Italy. The Building and Program for the Endorsement of Forest who want certified materials in products Energy business area closed its plant in Certification (PEFC™). All of Ahlstrom’s pulp such as tea bag paper. Overall, our sales Bishopville, USA and closed the glass furnaces in Karhula, Finland. The Food and Medical business area shut down parchmentizing operations in West Carrollton, USA and started up a new Carbon facts and trends joint venture facility in Longkou, China. 2012 also marks the first full year of environmental impacts related to the divestiture of the Home and Personal business area (six operating plants) to Suominen Corporation in November 2011. All of these changes have served to >> Forests and forest products store carbon. recast Ahlstrom’s environmental profile >> Wood is a naturally low-carbon material. and are apparent in the accompanying graphs. With the recent announcement >> Thanks to reduced rates of deforestation and forest growth, PEFC/02-31-180 to demerge the Label and Processing the world’s forests are storing an extra gigaton of carbon every year. business area to Munksjö in 2013, the >> This growth is enough to offset at least half of the emissions environmental impacts will continue to from the forest products value chain. evolve. * Facts&Trends: Forests, Forest Products, Carbon and Energy, WBCSD Forest Solutions Group report, 2012. 42 Water is getting scarcer Stripping out all these factors, water use per ton of paper dropped by 2% compared to 2011 and beat the year’s target by 4%. Recycling water in South Korea The paper-making process uses large volumes Key improvements were achieved within Case The Hyun Poong filter paper plant of water, making the availability, re-use and the Food and Medical and Label and in South Korea is located in an area water treatment a high priority for us, both Processing business areas. An adjustment where water can be scarce, and economically and environmentally. Roughly was made to historical water usage to the plant works hard to use this vital 91% or 37.3 million cubic meters of our water include the water fraction contained in the resource efficiently. is drawn from surface water sources such slush pulp delivered to the Jacarei facility. as rivers and lakes. The remaining 9% or 3.5 Water from the surrounding million cubic meters comes from wells and Wastewater discharge mountains coming down to the municipal water supplies. We are using the Total wastewater discharge in 2012 nearby river serves our plant WBCSD Global Water Tool to assess the water dropped by 5.4 million cubic meters, a 12% and three neighboring industrial scarcity at our operating sites. reduction versus 2011. As with water intake, operations. The fresh water intake for lower production levels and acquisitions/ our plant is around 2 200 m3 per day, In 2012, Ahlstrom’s overall water intake divestitures drove the reduction. These and 94% of the waste water is now dropped by 15.5%. There were a number lower discharge levels had the effect being recycled. This is mainly down of reasons for this trend. Overall production of reducing the total kilograms of every to improvements in the production was off by 13.6% versus 2011, but on the other wastewater constituent – COD, BOD, TSS, process, where water recycling has hand we also closed two low water-usage Total N, Total P and AOX. The overall result been aggressively targeted for the plants in Barcelona, Spain, and Bishopville, is that 275 fewer tons of all these pollutants last four years. 2 000 m3 of waste USA. We acquired two other plants that use were discharged compared to 2011. water is being treated every day, higher volumes of water, Falun/Grycksbo, Normalized loadings (i.e. kg/ton of product and the effluent is cleaner than the Sweden, and Bärenstein, Germany. The new produced) were largely unchanged from incoming fresh water. joint venture plant in Longkou, China began 2011. Roughly, 5% of Ahlstrom’s wastewater operations at the end of the year. 2012 was is treated at municipal plants. All discharge also the first full year of operation without the figures relate to the 95% of wastewater six Home and Personal plants which were sold treated at Ahlstrom owned and operated to Suominen Corporation at the end of 2011. wastewater treatment facilities. TOTAL WATER INTAKE AND DISCHARGE NITROGEN AND PHOSPORUS IN THE EFFLUENTS TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS IN THE EFFLUENTS COD AND BOD IN THE EFFLUENTS Million kg/ton kg TSS/ kg TSS/ kg COD/ kg BOD/ m3/year of product year ton of product ton of product ton of product 60 0.10 450 0.45 2,5 0.6 0.40 50 400 2,0 0.5 0.08 0.35 40 0.30 0.4 0.06 350 1,5 0.25 30 0.3 0.20 0.04 300 1,0 20 0.15 0.2 0.02 250 0.10 0,5 10 0.1 0.05 0 0.00 200 0.00 0,0 0.0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Total water intake m3/year Total Nitrogen TSS kg/year COD kg/ton Cooling water m3/year Total Phosphorus TSS kg/ton BOD kg/ton Total water discharge m3/year 43 Energy and emissions Our manufacturing processes use large amounts of energy, especially in drying, though this varies according to the nature and complexity of the process. Ahlstrom’s overall energy use in in 2012 was 3,890 GWh (4,350 GWh in 2011). If we can save energy, we will also cut our costs and CO2 emissions significantly. In 2013, we will cut our energy use by half, due to the demerger of the Label and Processing business. 44 Energy-saving initiatives We concentrate our energy-saving Saving energy in Turin NEW SATURATOR LINE in turin saves 70% Case initiatives on high-consumption sites. The energy compared to the old process cost of energy varies from country to Drying is one of the most energy-intensive country, as do the relative levels of CO2 elements of the process to manufacture paper Methanol evaporation emitted by each form of energy. We set for transportation filter media. The filter media up an energy excellence network in 2012 is impregnated with solvent based liquid to map our energy use and share best resin, which has to be evaporated and cured CHIMNEY practice in this area. using a high temperature. The equipment to treat the fumes from the process is called We are now using state-of-the-art energy a Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer (RTO). This RTO Exchanger SATURATOR technology for the production of filtration ensures that emissions to the atmosphere LINE media in Turin, Italy (there’s more on this in comply with the appropriate environmental the case study). In Taylorville, USA a similar regulations. investment was started. Ahlstrom Turin now uses a new type of highBOILER At Binzhou, China, we’ve invested in efficiency thermal oxidizer, which uses the a hood for the paper machine, which energy generated by burning the solvent in the is delivering a 25% reduction in steam, fume treatment, in order to recover the heat in Thermal oil circulation and a 15% increase in speed. This helps the drying process. It’s so efficient, in fact, that reduce energy use, save CO2 and improve the process is effectively ‘self-sufficient’, with productivity. no new heating required once the process has been initiated. The energy saving in the form of heat requirement compared with the old ENERGY USAGE IN 2012 The nonwoven plants at Malmedy, Belgium, and Brignoud, France, are equipment is over 70%. 2012 now using higher efficiency motors and Fuels electrical equipment. It may be possible to Coal TJ 1,323 14% implement similar improvements elsewhere Oil TJ 67 1% in the Group. We’ve also improved the Gas TJ 7,161 73% efficiency of our lighting at Madisonville, Energy efficiency Solid Waste TJ 899 9% Windsor Locks and Taylorville, USA and Other TJ 341 3% Hyun Poong in South Korea, saving MWh/ton GJ/ton 9,791 electricity as well as money. 1,10 Electricity 1,05 10,6 Purchased MWh 800,538 79,9% In 2013 we plan to continue with the 1,00 Own production MWh 200,116 19,9% 10,2 energy efficiency surveys and evaluate Other MWh 1,109 0.1% 0,95 our Energy Management System initiatives. 9,8 1,001,763 0,90 Taking a Lean approach will help us ensure Process heat 0,85 9,4 we waste as little energy as possible. Steam TJ 8,062 77.2% Overall investments in energy saving 0,80 9,0 Gas (IR) TJ 2,362 22.6% 08 09 10 11 12 projects in 2012 were EUR 1,2 million. ElectrIc energy (IR) TJ 24 0.2% Electrical efficiency MWh/ton of product Altogether we used 460 GWh less energy in Process heat efficiency GJ/ton of product 10,448 2012 than in 2011. 45 Emissions to the air The principal source of our air emissions plants, coupled with the closure of the glass is the burning of fossil fuels (natural gas, furnaces in Karhula, Finland played a key oil and coal) to generate process steam role in this. In 2012, direct CO2 emissions and to dry our products. Accordingly, the dropped by 53,212 tons or -8.6% versus 2011. strategy for emissions reductions focuses NOx and SO2 dropped by 237,531 tons or on energy efficiency, including investments -30.1% and 86,622 tons or -20.9% respectively. and process modifications, and cleaner burning fuels. Natural gas is the preferred Carbon Disclosure Project and dominant source of fuel accounting The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an for 73% of the total. The anticipated independent not-for-profit organization demerger of the Label and Processing working to reduce the greenhouse gases business in 2013 will significantly reduce emitted by organizations across the world, Ahlstrom’s CO2 footprint, since these plants and promote sustainable water use. Ahlstrom have historically accounted for 60% of participated for the fifth time in the CDP in Ahlstrom’s global CO2 emissions. 2012, and for the first time in the Supply Chain CDP. This was at the suggestion of one of our In 2012, our overall emissions of CO2, NOx, major customers. The results are available at SO2 and particles dropped compared to www.cdproject.net. 2011. The sale of the Home and Personal CO2 emissions Emissions into the air ton CO2/ kg CO2/ton year of product mg/MJ mg/m3 700,000 700 100 30 600,000 650 25 80 500,000 600 20 60 400,000 550 15 300,000 500 40 10 200,000 450 20 5 100,000 400 0 350 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 ton CO2/year mg NOX/MJ fuel input kg CO2/ton of a product mg SO2/MJ fuel input Particles mg/m3 46 Energy efficiency in Belgium Release liner recycling Cases For years, Ahlstrom’s facility in Malmedy An important product area for us is glassine release generated steam using fuel oil, because the liners the silicone-coated backing sheets that carry natural gas line did not extend to the facility. adhesive labels. We now have a program to collect That changed in 2009, and Malmedy applied the glassine papers after they’ve been used by to the Ahlstrom Energy Investment Fund for the customers, who are typically brand owners or retailers. investment needed to replace the old oil-fired We employ logistics firms to collect these materials boilers with a more efficient natural gas-burning throughout Germany, Belgium, Luxemburg and the unit. This went on line in January 2010. Since then, Netherlands, and recycle them for use at our specialty boiler efficiency has improved by 7%, and the paper production at Osnabrück plant in Germany. CO2 emissions per ton of product have been Avery Dennison Label and Packaging Materials Division cut by over 30%, and the product’s carbon is supporting this initiative and utilizing its contacts footprint by around 15%. The old fuel tanks have across the value chain in order to make label printers also been removed and the site cleaned. This is and brand owners aware of this new opportunity. important, as they were located alongside a river, and could have posed an environmental risk. Osnabrück has the capacity to recycle a significant The project cost EUR 650,000, and paid for itself in quantity of these papers, which will help divert waste just over a year. The Ahlstrom Energy Investment from landfill or incineration. It will also enhance our Fund invests around EUR 2 million every year in specialty papers’ environmental credentials, and projects like this. help our customers improve their own sustainability performance. Greener transport for Stenay, France Following the savings in CO2 emissions, fuel, and money achieved by our French plants at La Gère and Pont-Audemer, the plant at Stenay started a similar project to move more pulp by water rather than by truck. The Stenay plant is located in the North-East of France, and makes specialty papers. In 2011 it used 50,000 tons of pulp, which was delivered by truck from the Dutch harbor of Vlissingen. Thanks to a great partnership between our Sourcing team and Stenay, the plant is now moving its fiber 340 km by canal to Givet harbor, where the bales are taken the short remaining distance to Stenay by road. This new arrangement is saving the equivalent of over 700,000 kg of CO2 emissions every year, and is also saving money, thanks to lower fuel consumption. The focus now moves to Bousbecque in the North of France, where another similar project is being planned. 47 Managing our risks In Ahlstrom, we define risk as anything that could affect the sustainable and ethical achievement of our strategic and operational goals. Risks can be unexpected sudden events, threats, uncertainties, or lost opportunities, whether related to present or future operations. The objective of our approach to risk management is to ensure a consistent consideration of risk and to protect the company from its consequences. Our approach The Audit Committee of the Ahlstrom Responsibility Our most important assets are our people, Board approves the Risk Management In Ahlstrom, the main principle is to manage risks at their source. property, assets, earning capacity, Policy. The management of each customer relations, and reputation. Their business area, functional group and site is Strategic risk: preservation and security are essential responsible for implementing the policy, Ahlstrom’s Board of Directors has the ultimate responsibility for our risk management. for the continued growth and long-term and is accountable for managing the The Board reviews the key risks that have been identified, and is responsible for how success of Ahlstrom, and we work hard to risks to which their part of the company is they are managed. The Audit Committee approves the Corporate Risk Management identify and minimize our risks in the interest exposed. The group HSEA function provides Policy and oversees the efficiency of the company’s risk management systems, of employees, customers, shareholders, and standards and guidelines on how each assesses the information provided regarding significant risks and exposures, and the communities in which we operate. We part of the organization should control its reviews the plans developed to minimize such risks. The CEO, Executive Management also have a responsibility to minimize risks risks. The framework for these standards Team, and other managers are responsible for implementing risk management to the environment. We see risk monitoring and guidelines is compatible with the procedures in their areas of responsibility. Risk management activities are reviewed and mitigation as a task that every International Standards Organization (ISO) and followed up as part of the Business Planning and Annual Planning processes. employee at Ahlstrom should share. standard 14001 and the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series Operating HSEA risk: (OHSAS) 18001. The Executive Vice President of HR & Sustainability has the principal responsibility for Ahlstrom’s Health & Safety performance. As a member of the Executive Management Team, this position reports directly to the President and CEO on all health, safety and environmental issues. The Vice President of Health, Safety, Environment and The risk management process is used to: Assets (HSEA) reports directly to the EVP of HR & Sustainability, and directs a regional 1. Identify and assess the risks, to which Ahlstrom is exposed, organization focused on the Americas, Europe and Asia. Policies and standards are communicated through networks within each region to the operating plants. 2. Implement the most appropriate measures to avoid, reduce and control those risks, Each plant has a nominated responsible person for health and safety. In addition, a designated HSEA professional liaises directly with each separate business area. 3. Provide systems, resources and support that will offset the effects of any losses that A Group assessment team conducts plant inspections, targeting each operating may occur, so that the risk will be managed in the most appropriate way. plant on a three-year cycle, to monitor compliance with Ahlstrom’s HSEA standards. Recommendations are developed in conjunction with specific actions and schedules, which are tracked via a web-based tracking system. 48 Ahlstrom risks, their description and mitigation actions. Legal and regulatory Environmental impacts risks an impact of and climate change Risks at plants, property loss Employee health and safety Workforce-related risks Risks in supply chain political decisions Ahlstrom’s operations have an Hazards like fires, floods and There are inherent safety risks in Ahlstrom must have access to Suppliers could cause problems Political decisions and impact on air, water and land. other types of harmful incidents our manufacturing environment. skilled and motivated employees for Ahlstrom through nonnew legislation including The economic and physical could damage our plants and and ensure the availability of compliance with applicable environmental legislation could impacts of climate change are also cause delivery problems. competent managers to legislation and regulations, or by negatively impact Ahlstrom if not growing. achieve established strategic otherwise acting in an unethical monitored regularly. If legislation and operational objectives. manner. The market price of the is not complied with, any legal raw materials and energy used process could be prolonged and Description in the manufacture of Ahlstrom’s costly. products fluctuates over time and this could influence Ahlstrom’s earnings. Energy Investment Fund Contingency/recovery plans Group safety standards and Ensure that strategic workforce Alternative suppliers and Development of environmental ISO 14001 are in place and Group safety guidelines have been planning is conducted alternative/substitutive raw regulation is routinely monitored standards and guidelines have implemented in each plant throughout the Group materials are being identified in the Group’s operative Internal HSE assessment program been implemented in each plant with help of Sourcing countries Bonus tied to achievement Ensure that well-functioning Formal HSE Due Diligence Highly Protected Risk (HPR) of safety targets succession plans promoting organization Legal risks are mainly mitigated protocol program with insurance partner, delegation and subordinate Ahlstrom Supplier Code of through continuous training, OHSAS 18001 Target Driven Performance FM Global: 75% HPR achieved. growth are developed to cover Conduct was implemented in using standardized contract Internal HSE assessment program the key personnel 2012 templates and implementing Life Cycle Assessments and Internal HSE Assessment Program Target Driven Performance Knowledge building and training Forest certifications. Wood pulp Group-wide policies and EcoDesign guidelines Behavior Based Safety (BBS) have been increased with the is purchased only from certified Using wood fiber from Policy / Action Initiatives roll-out of Integrated Business suppliers Regulatory risks are managed sustainably managed forests Planning process with the use of joint ventures, phasing of investments and selection of countries Trend Trend Trend Trend Trend Trend 49 Certification status PLANT COUNTRY FSC PEFC QUALITY ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH&SAFETY OTHERS Ahlstrom Group FINLAND X X N/A N/A N/A Barcelona SPAIN ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 IPPC Bärenstein GERMANY ISO9001 ISO14001 Binzhou CHINA in 2013 Bishopville USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Bousbecque FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Brignoud FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 IPPC Chirnside UK X X ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Grycksbo&Falun SWEDEN ISO9001 ISO14001 Hyun Poong KOREA ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Jacarei BRAZIL X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Karhula FINLAND N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Kauttua PM4 FINLAND ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 La Gère FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Longkou CHINA in 2014 Louveira BRAZIL ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Madisonville USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Malmédy BELGIUM X X ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Mikkeli FINLAND N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Mount Holly Springs USA ISO9001 ISO14001 Mundra INDIA N/A N/A in 2013 Osnabrück GERMANY X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EEG Pont Audemer FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Radcliffe UK ISO9001 ISO14001 IPPC Rottersac FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Saint Séverin FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Sassoferato ITALY N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 Ställdalen SWEDEN X X ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EN16001 Stenay FRANCE X X ISO9001 ISO14001 EEG = Erneuerbare-Energien-Gesetz Tampere FINLAND ISO9001 ISO14001 OHSAS 18001 EN = Energy Management System Taylorville USA ISO9001 ISO14001 EMAS = Eco-Management and Audit Scheme IPPC = International Plant Protection Convention Turin ITALY X X ISO9001, TS16949 ISO14001 OHSAS18001 EMAS ISO = International Standardization Organization Tver RUSSIA N/A N/A ISO9001 ISO14001 ISO/TS = ISO Technical Specification (for automotive quality systems) West Carrollton USA X X OHSAS = Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services Windsor Locks USA X X ISO9001 ISO14001 VPP = Voluntary Protection Program 50 Independent Assurance Report To the Management of Ahlstrom Corporation We have been engaged by the engagement. We do not accept, or engagement. An assurance engagement Conclusion Management of Ahlstrom Corporation assume responsibility to anyone else, involves performing procedures to obtain Based on our limited assurance to perform a limited assurance except to Ahlstrom Corporation for our evidence about the amounts and other engagement, nothing has come to our engagement on the quantitative work, for this report, or for the conclusions disclosures in the Sustainability Reporting. attention that causes us to believe that information on economic, social and that we have reached. The procedures selected depend on the Sustainability Reporting has not been environmental responsibility for the the practitioner’s judgement, including prepared, in all material respects, in reporting period of January 1, 2012 to We have not been engaged to provide an assessment of the risks of material accordance with the Reporting criteria. December 31, 2012, disclosed in the assurance on amounts or other disclosures misstatement of the Sustainability Reporting. Our assurance report should be read in Sustainability Report 2012 of Ahlstrom relating to the prior reporting periods Our work consisted of, amongst others, the conjunction with the inherent limitations of Corporation (hereinafter “Sustainability presented in the Sustainability Reporting. following procedures: accuracy and completeness for corporate Reporting”). responsibility information. This independent We conducted our work in accordance • Interviewing senior management of assurance report should not be used The scope of the Sustainability Reporting with the International Standard on Ahlstrom Corporation on its own as a basis for interpreting the covers the Ahlstrom Group. Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 • Visiting two Ahlstrom Corporation sites performance of Ahlstrom Corporation in “Assurance Engagements Other than in the United States and the United relation to its principles of sustainability. Management’s Responsibility Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Kingdom The Management of Ahlstrom Information”. This Standard requires that we • Interviewing employees responsible Helsinki, 21 February 2013 Corporation is responsible for preparing comply with ethical requirements and plan for collection and reporting of the the Sustainability Reporting in and perform the assurance engagement information presented in the Sustainability PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy accordance with the Reporting criteria to obtain limited assurance whether Reporting at the Ahlstrom Group level as set out in the reporting instructions any matters come to our attention that and at the different sites where our visits of Ahlstrom Corporation and the cause us to believe that the Sustainability took place Sirpa Juutinen Maj-Lis Steiner Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Reporting has not been prepared, in all • Assessing how Ahlstrom Group employees Partner Director, Authorised Global Reporting Initiative (version 3.0). material respects, in accordance with the apply the Ahlstrom Corporation reporting Sustainability & Public Accountant Reporting criteria. instructions and procedures Climate Change Sustainability & Practitioner’s Responsibility • Testing the accuracy and completeness Climate Change Our responsibility is to express a In a limited assurance engagement the of the information from original conclusion on the Sustainability evidence-gathering procedures are more documents and systems on a sample Reporting based on our work performed. limited than for a reasonable assurance basis Our assurance report has been made engagement, and therefore less assurance • Testing the consolidation of information in accordance with the terms of our is obtained than in a reasonable assurance and performing recalculations on a sample basis. 51 GRI table WHERE COMMENTS 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 CEO's statement 6 5, 11–12, 29, 1.2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 48-49 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 1 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. 3-4 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 4 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 1 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 2.5 1, 12 covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 1, AR 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, types of customers/beneficiaries). 4, 12 Scale of the reporting organization, including number of employees, net sales, total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity, quantity of products/ 2.8 1, 12 services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership including the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, 2.9 2, 6, 42 closings, and expansions; and changes in the share capital structure). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 46 3. Report Parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2 3.3 Reporting cycle 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. 2 Report scope and boundary Process for defining report content including determining materiality, prioritizing topics within the report and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use 3.5 2 the report. 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2 3.7 Limitations on the report's scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8 Basis for reporting subsidiaries, joint ventures, leased facilities, outsourced operations and other entities affecting comparability. 2 3.9 Data measurement techniques and bases of calculations 2 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re–statements of information provided in earlier reports. 2 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 2 GRI content index 3.12 GRI content index 52–55 Assurance 3.13 Assurance policy and practice 2, 51 52 WHERE COMMENTS 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks such as setting strategy or AR, CG Statement – Structure of the 4.1 organizational oversight. Governance 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board. AR, CG Statement Board 4.3 Independence of the Board members. AR, CG Statement Board 4.4 Mechanism for shareholder and employee consultation. AR, CG Statement – General Meeting 4.5 Impact of organization's performance on executive compensation (including social and environmental performance). 32, AR GC Statement – Remuneration of the Board and Executives Ahlstrom complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest. Ahlstrom complies with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the highest governance body. AR, CG Statement Board 4.8 Implementation of mission and values statements, code of conduct and other principles. 0, www, 36 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing management of sustainability performance, including risk management. 48 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board's performance with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. AR, CG Statement Board Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Addressing precautionary approach. 13 4.12 Voluntary charters and other initiatives. 15 4.13 Memberships in associations. 15 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups. 14 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders. 14 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 14 4.17 Key topics raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded, including through its reporting. 14 5. Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators 11, 34, AR AR financial targets, Management approach to economic responsibility high priority programs Economic Performance EC1* Direct economic value generated and distributed. 34 EC2* Financial implications, risks and opportunities due to climate change 49 partly EC4* Significant financial assistance received from government. 34 Environmental Performance Indicators Management approach to environmental responsibility 11, 40, 44–47 Materials EN1* Materials used by weight or volume. 41 EN2* Percentage of materials that are recycled input materials. 41 53 WHERE COMMENTS Energy EN3* Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 45 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 45 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy–efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 22–23, 25 partly EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 19 partly Water EN8* Total water withdrawal by source. 43 Biodiversity EN11* Location and size of land holdings in areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 12 partly Emissions, Effluents and Waste EN16* Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 46 partly EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 45 partly EN20* NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 46 EN21* Total water discharge by quality and destination 43 EN22* Total amount of waste by type and disposal method 40 partly EN23* Total number and volume of significant spills One spill in Osnabrück, 300 l of chalk slurry Products and Services 10, 18–19, EN26* Mitigating environmental impacts of products and services 20–25 partly Compliance EN28* Significant fines and sanctions for non–compliance with environmental regulations none EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments EUR 9.4 million partly Social Performance Indicators Management approach to social responsibility 29, 30–34 Labor Practices and Decent Work Management approach to labor practices and decent work 29 Employment LA1* Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 12, 32 partly LA2* Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 32–33 partly Occupational Health and Safety LA7* Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism and total number of work–related fatalities by region. 5, 29–30 zero fatalities 54 WHERE COMMENTS Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 29, 32 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 32 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators LA13* 33 of diversity. Management approach to human rights 29, 36 Investment and procurement practices HR2* Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors that have undergone human rights screening and actions taken 36, 41 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 493 hours, 49% of HR3* 36 employees trained. employees Non–discrimination HR4* Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. zero Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5* Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights. Zero Child labor HR6* Operations identified as having significant risk for child labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. Zero Forced and compulsory labor HR7* Operations identified as having significant risk for forced or compulsory labor and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Zero Indigenous rights HR9 Number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Zero Management approach to society 36 Corruption SO2* Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 36 100% SO3* Percentage of employees trained in anti–corruption policies and procedures. 36 partly Public Policy SO5* Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 15 SO6 Total value of financial and in–kind contributions to political parties, politicians and related institutions. 15 Management approach to product responsibility 11, 18–25 Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services PR1* 18–19 partly categories subject to such procedures. Product and Service Labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction and results of customer satisfaction surveys 11, 14 55 Photograph Lasse Arvidson Janne Auvinen Sergio Carhalvo Laia Guarro Tuomas Harjumaaskola Janne Lehtinen Mika-Pekka Markkanen UNICEF Anna Maija Wessman Alistair Wilson ©www.bruno-gouhoury.com Printer Libris Oy Paper Galerie art matt 300 g/m2 PEFC sertifioitu paperi Galerie art matt 130 g/m2 PEFC sertifioitu paperi Ahlstrom Group P.O. Box 329, FI-00101 Helsinki Alvar Aallon katu 3 C, FI-00100 Helsinki Finland Tel. +358 (0) 10 888 0 Fax. +358 (0) 10 888 4709 firstname.lastname@ahlstrom.com www.ahlstrom.com
