To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Beirholms Væverier A/S reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Beirholms Væverier has since the very beginning, based its business strategy on sustainability. The company’s product development and sales promotion have progressed from the leasing concept, started in the 1960’s, and have maintained focus on the operating economy of commercial laundries. We have achieved product longevity combined with optimal wash operating costs where water, soap, chemical and energy use, as well as, man hours, have been reduced to a minimum. This has ensued in a healthy operating economy which is vital for commercial laundries’ competitive advantage. Also, environmentally laundries have been propelled forward due to the significantly lower resource consumption attributed to the high product quality, which ensures more economical wash and ironing processes. During the first years of 2000, we have furthermore, focused on making our products under ethical, work and environmentally responsible conditions. This is based on our CSR strategy and our Code of Conduct, which our suppliers commit to follow. Our Code of Conduct is based on the internationally renowned conventions, i.e. UN Global Compact, UN Children’s Convention, Human Rights and ILO. Our main focus has been to ensure that our products are not manufactured with the involvement of child labor, slavery, etc. as well as, making sure that workers do not risk life, limbs or health by going to work. Our newest initiative under sustainability is cooperating with our manufacturer’s subcontractors. The main focus has been the production of cotton, since cotton is the world’s most contaminant crop. The growing of cotton has had catastrophic effects for the environment and the existence base for populations in the production areas. To contribute to a sustainable cultivation of cotton, we have chosen to join the work of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI). The purpose of BCI is to ensure the minimization of use of pesticides and water, as well as, to increase farmer yield, whereby increasing the standard of living of the farmer. Our newest collection of bed linens is based primarily on BCI cotton. Sincerely yours, Peter Beirholm Chief Executive Officer Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals At Beirholms Væverier A/S we adhere to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Moreover, we have established some core values that underline the company's devotion to the Human Rights principles. Implementation At Beirholms Væverier A/S we have formalized our CSR strategy and we have since 2002 worked according to our Code of Conduct, which is based on internationally renowned conventions. Measurement of outcomes The Beirholm Code of Conduct is implemented with our key manufacturers. These are regularly audited by external auditors from international certification bureaus according to a fixed auditing sequence. A continuous dialogue regarding improvements, documented after each audit, is to ensure that the manufacturer and Beirholm are aware of how far along the manufacturer is in the process. Labour Assessment, policy and goals It is important to Beirholms Væverier A/S that our products are produced ethically, work and environmentally, under safe conditions. We base our work on our CSR strategy as well as on our Code of Conduct, which our manufacturers commit to work according to. Our initial main focus has been to ensure that our products are not manufactured using child labor, slavery or similar involvement, as well as, that workers do not risk life, limbs or health by going to work. At the same time, we make sure to also follow the other points in our Code of Conduct, which is based on internationally acknowledged conventions. Implementation Beirholms Væverier A/S has in corporation with Danida and PWC developed an implementation plan for the Code of Conduct at our strategic suppliers. This includes a audit plan, follow-up visits along with guidance on how to improve work related areas. It has been important that the implementation of the Code of Conduct has been done in close corporation with the strategic suppliers so full management support has been dedicated. Measurement of outcomes Beirholms Væverier A/S has implemented a Risk Assessment and Identification Database to track all audit report and ensure progress. The progress is being monitored through Corrective Action Plans. This gives us a clear overview of the challenges in our suppliers work environment as well as establishes any cultures or business specific challenges. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Beirholms Væverier A/S is focused on bettering the environment in and around its company as well as in the supply chain. We have taken into consideration both the product’s total environmental impact during its life cycle and at the same time focused on the elimination of harmful substances from our products to the end users and our customers. Furthermore, it has been important to secure the best possible environmental conditions at the factories. Implementation 95 % of all Beirholm’s textiles are currently labeled with Oekotex 100, a health care label which predominantly ensures the end-user against toxic fumes. We have also chosen to produce as many of our products as possible, under the EU Ecolabel criteria. The EU Ecolabel ensures that only the most eco-friendly fibers may be used. There are strict restrictions to the full range of chemicals used in the manufacturing process. There are restrictions on discharge from, among others, dye works, as well as, restrictions on the quality of the finished product. Beirholm has chosen to join BCI (Better Cotton Initiative), whose purpose is to make global cotton production better for the people who produce it, better for the environment it grows in and better for the sector’s future. Their main goal is to minimize the use of water, pesticides and fertilizers. Measurement of outcomes At present, we have obtained the EU Ecolabel certification on a range of our most important products and continue to work with the objective that the majority of our products, over time, will live up to these conditions. We expect that be continuously promoting sustainable solutions by focusing on the entire supply chain from cotton field to laundry to end-user, we can minimize our environmental impact Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Beirholms Væverier has laid down some priorities with regard to the dynamics that matter to us as people and thus govern our business approach – inside the company and externally. We call these priorities “values”. These values are: openness, dialogue, commitment, honesty, and being proactive. Our values are the guiding elements intended to regulate our conduct at all times. Implementation It is clearly stated in the Beirholm Code of Conduct that all employees or producers will not make use of corruption or bribery, whether direct or indirect. Measurement of outcomes The values incorporated in Beirholm’s business approach mean that we have not experienced any cases of corruption within the last years. To ensure that no corruption should take place anyway, the company has ensured a steadfast zero-tolerance policy on bribe.
