United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 1 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals: 1. The Human Resources Policies & Procedures Manual (HRPPM) has a separate section on grievance escalation and handling procedures. Policies related to employee rights and welfare are in accordance with the UAE Ministry of Labour and international standards. 2. CBD’s SA8000 Manual addresses the Bank’s adherence to international norms on human rights. 3. In 2013-2014, the Bank will continue to transparently express its policies and procedures governing human rights to all employees. Implementation: 1. The HRPPM is displayed on the Bank’s intranet so that all the employees are aware of their rights as well as the related HR policies. 2. The Bank continues to adhere to the principles of SA8000 in applicable areas. CBD’s SA8000 Manual is accessible by all employees through intranet. Specific sections of the manual are communicated and displayed in various locations at the Bank’s premises. Measurement of outcomes: 1. The HRPPM is reviewed periodically by the HR Department and the latest version is communicated and made available on the intranet. All policies governing Human Rights are reviewed regularly by the HR Committee. ‘CSR’ and ‘Compliance’ form an integral part of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card which is reviewed quarterly by the senior management. 2. For 2013 (as in previous years), employee grievances related to Performance Management System ratings were handled through this policy/procedure and all issues amicably settled. 3. CBD does not have unresolved non-conformities related to SA8000 in the area of Human Rights. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 2 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals: 1. The HRPPM has specific sections on Recruitment Policy, adherence to regulations laid down by the local Ministry of Labour, Disciplinary Actions, Remuneration, Benefits/Allowances etc. 2. Documented policies and procedures covering fire and safety, and evacuation procedures are in place. 3. CBD’s SA8000 Manual, published on the intranet, has exclusive sections on its adherence to international norms on Child Labour, Forced Labour, Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining, and Discrimination. 4. The Bank’s supplier selection procedure has separate sections to review the suppliers’ conformity with international norms on labour. Implementation: 1. The HRPPM is displayed on the Bank’s intranet so that all the employees are aware of their rights in the area of labour. 2. Policies governing fire safety and related evacuation procedures in the event of emergency are accessible from the home page of the intranet as well as displayed in prominent areas on the premises. 3. The Bank’s supplier selection procedure with norms regarding labour has been implemented from 2008. 4. Various forums viz. Employee Engagement Survey (EES), Internal Customer Satisfaction Survey (ICS), Biz Coffee (a monthly forum where employees across all grades and levels have a chance to directly interact with the CEO), ‘We Care’ staff suggestion scheme etc. are in place for employees to have a direct dialogue with the management. Measurement of outcomes: 1. Results and outcomes of all forms of engagement listed above are communicated to all employees. 2. The Bank’s Internal Audit department audits the implementation of the procurement policy in a strict manner. The Bank subjects itself to Central Bank and external audits and resolves nonconformities, if any, on a high priority basis. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 3 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 3. CBD has partnered with an internationally certified body to conduct ‘First Aid’ & ‘Fire Marshal’ courses for CBD employees. Representatives from every department and branch are trained as Fire Marshals and First Aid Specialists. Periodically, fire evacuation drills are conducted. 4. In order to promote/develop a healthy workplace, all CBD premises have been declared as no smoking areas for staff and customers, and all computer monitors have anti-glare screens. 5. CBD has insurance cover for its customers on loans taken by them. This insurance covers death and disability. Staff members and their dependants are also well covered for their medical expenses and treatment. 6. The HRPPM is reviewed periodically by the HR Department and the latest version is communicated and made available on the intranet. All policies governing Labour are reviewed fortnightly by the HR Committee. Employee welfare and compliance are integral components of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card and reviewed periodically by the senior management. 7. As a consequence to the adoption of the SA8000 principles, changes were made to the HRPPM, especially in case of discrimination from 2008. Now, all employees (male and female, irrespective of nationality) are eligible to avail all benefits (esp. allowances). The only exception practiced is a positive one, i.e. preference to UAE nationals in recruitment, training and career development as per the labour laws of UAE, and permitted by SA8000. 8. Due to stringent monitoring of suppliers’ conformity with international labour norms, we have been able to influence some suppliers (service providers) to adhere to improved working hours and conditions for their employees. We propose to continue monitoring suppliers and enforce more adherence to UNGC and SA8000 principles. NOTE:  In the last two years, the Bank incurred considerable financial loss caused by a few expatriate employees who fled the country following direct involvement in instances of misappropriation. CBD now holds in custody, passports of only some expatriates who are employed in sensitive areas of the Bank viz. cash handling and remittances.  We do believe that despite CBD keeping custody of some passports, there is no impediment to freedom of movement. As stated to the SA8000 auditors, we are in the process of putting in robust controls after which all passports will be released. Out of the passports we had in custody, we have released 25 passports after a review of our processes.  Due to this reason, the certification to SA8000 is under suspension pending review of our appeal. However, the Bank continues to adhere to the requirements of SA8000 in all other areas. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 4 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals: 1. An integral part of CBD’s strategic CSR objectives include creating awareness about the preservation of the environment. Through the CSR initiatives, the Bank intends to give back to the society and community. CBD's CSR policy, which has its roots in its Vision and Mission statements, focuses equally on supporting the causes of the environment, society and the culture. 2. Policies governing the maintenance of the Bank’s premises promote protection of the environment and conservation of energy. Implementation: 1. To the extent possible, the Bank levies the minimum floor rate on credit lines advanced to green projects, or those using environmentally friendly technologies. 2. Through the Bank’s internal credit guidelines, relationship managers are encouraged to seek credit proposals from commercial entities that use environmentally friendly technologies in their manufacturing processes. 3. CSR initiatives promoting awareness of environmental protection are budgeted and implemented every year. Measurement of outcomes: 1. CBD’s CSR initiatives, including those related to environmental causes, form an integral part of the Bank’s Balanced Score Card and is reviewed quarterly by the senior management. 2. CBD has extended funded and non-funded credit facilities to commercial establishments whose core business and manufacturing processes involve recycling of waste, plastic etc. and landscaping. 3. Effective June 2010, CBD is a corporate member of the Emirates Environment Group. This group is dedicated to protect the local environment of the UAE. CBD encourages the re-use and recycling. As part of its efforts towards reducing environmental degradation from the disposal of used materials, it has taken the following measures: a. CBD was a main sponsor of the ‘Clean Up UAE’ campaign organised by the Emirates Environmental Group in December 2012. b. In 2011, the Bank introduced ‘grey water technology’ to recycle waste water in its premises at the Sharjah Branch. c. As part of its efforts towards reducing environmental waste, CBD has signed an agreement with an external recycling agency for recycling of paper in the Bank. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 5 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 d. There is a recycling cage for waste management at all branches and the head office. e. Internal correspondence and all management information are, largely, on the electronic mail. f. CBD installed an advanced and sophisticated system enabling the Bank to automatically scan all cheques related to the customers’ accounts. The installation of this system has equipped CBD to shift from a paper-based environment to an image-based environment incorporating the electronic clearing system as suggested by the Central Bank of the UAE. g. CBD ATMs do not automatically print paper receipts. The user is given an option to choose the printed receipt if required. h. CBD introduced the ‘Green Tray’ concept in order to reduce printed paper (printing both sides), as well use black and white cartridges, as much as possible. i. All the water taps in the HO building & Branches have automatic censors, thereby helping in rationalising water usage. j. All offices and restrooms have electric lights equipped with automatic light censors, which work only if occupied, thereby eliminating electricity wastage. k. All the computer monitors in the Bank are flat screen with anti-glare and low radiation. l. Plants and greenery are generously placed in all offices so that a soothing and healthy work atmosphere is created. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 6 of 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress JUL12 – SEP13 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals: 1. CBD’s Anti Money Laundering (AML) policy is published on the Bank’s website and intranet. 2. Policies enforcing strict action against all forms of unethical behaviour and actions, including those related to IT and internet usage, are in place. 3. The Bank exercises zero tolerance in handling cases related to corruption and any form of unethical behaviour or transactions. Implementation: 1. An exclusive department ‘AML & Compliance’ oversees and manages all aspects of AML and regulatory compliance in the Bank. The Department monitors all transactions and activities of the Bank performed by both customers and staff on a daily basis. The Department closely works with the Central Bank of the UAE and other regulatory authorities in disclosing suspicious activities, and taking appropriate actions as applicable. 2. AML policy is documented and published through the intranet. AML training courses are available online for all employees. The training is mandatory for all employees. 3. The HRPPM (with separate sections on Professional Ethics/ Code of Conduct, Disciplinary actions, Whistle Blowing etc.) is accessible by all employees through intranet. Measurement of outcomes: 1. Compliance and anti-corruption are regular items on the HR Committee’s agenda that meets every fortnight. As stated earlier, the Bank’s Balanced Scorecard that is reviewed periodically includes a chapter on ‘Compliance and Society’. 2. During 2012-2013, the Bank conducted an extensive internal campaign among its employees, to create awareness about fraud prevention and encouraged the proactive use of the ‘whistleblowing’ policy whenever required. Commercial Bank of Dubai, 17SEP13 Page 7 of 7
