2012 CSR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS KOMPAN.COM ABOUT KOMPAN GROUP KOMPAN is the world’s No. 1 playground supplier. We develop, produce and market an extensive range of playground equipment that covers all age groups. All our playgrounds are designed from the ground up to improve childhood health and learning. And all our products offer compelling design, high play value, uncompromising safety, unique innovation and long-lasting quality. For more than 40 years our goal has been to share our knowledge for the benefit of children and young people as well as the adults who work in this field – and it still is. Our unique knowledge centre the KOMPAN Play Institute is a valuable repository of insight into children’s play, health and learning e.g. through research. It’s the perfect complement to our decades of hands-on experience making playgrounds that promote child development. We use this valuable knowledge in our product design to ensure they address key areas of child development great playgrounds are built on knowledge. We aim to operate in a way that not only respects, but also contributes to positive development for people, planet and profit. Content KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2012 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT.....................................................................3 HUMAN RIGHTS............................................................................................................4 LABOUR STANDARDS ...................................................................................................6 ENVIRONMENT..............................................................................................................8 ANTI-CORRUPTION.......................................................................................................9 FOCUSED EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS ..............................................................................9 2 KOMPAN COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR 2012 TO UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: The main focus in 2012 has been the strengthening of our environmental profile even more by focusing on I am pleased to confirm that KOMPAN reaffirms its supenergy and waste. We have moved further parts of the port of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global manufacturing to our ISO 14001 certified manufacturCompact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environing facility in Brno, Czech Republic. A comprehensive ment and Anti-Corruption. program has been carried out strengthening the use of recycled materials and certified wood for our product In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe lines. our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business In 2013, KOMPAN will in particular seek to further strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit strengthen its anti-corruption and anti-bribery profile. to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Connie Astrup-Larsen Chief Executive Officer www.KOMPAN.com 3 HUMAN RIGHTS At KOMPAN we are committed to support and respect intheir development in terms of motor coordination, internationally declared human rights, and not be complicit tellect, and social skills. Our playgrounds also play an in any human rights abuses. Our largest challenges and important role in the efforts against physical inactivity, risks in terms of human rights are found in our global overweight and obesity among children and teenagers. value chain. We have suppliers located in Asia, which KOMPAN wishes to develop playgrounds which will help usually implies higher risks of human rights violations improve the physique of the children in a safe and fun occurring e.g. in terms of working hours or labour rights. surrounding. In order to manage these risks KOMPAN has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, which all suppliers have to KOMPAN continuously develops and advances our concommit to and sign. Our work with the code of conduct cepts and products. We do this based on the knowledge and suppliers are elaborated further below. we gather in KOMPAN Play Institute where we among other things do studies on children’s play. Article 31 (Leisure, play and culture): Children have the right to relax and play, and to join in a wide range of In 2012 we introduced a new concept ‘The Learning Playcultural, artistic and other recreational activities. (UN ground’ on selected markets. This concept creates a link Convention on the Rights of the Child) between playing and learning, which will have multiple positive effects on children in all ages. In 2013 we hope to Through our business activity KOMPAN is supporting the expand the concept to all of KOMPAN’s markets. UN’s Convention on the Rights of the Child. On a daily basis our products encourage and enable children to play and be active, and this has beneficial impact on LE Playgrounds boost Playground activity AR health in a fun way helps children NI LTH concentrate better NG HEA Playground activity g rou nd Playground activity combats weight ay improves children’s q u e Pl So lu tio problems and academic skills obesity ni U ns Playgrounds help Playgrounds help combat vandalism bridge generation and crime and culture gaps Playgrounds include all abilities and ages SO CIA N L I N C LU S I O 4 UNITED BY PLAY www.KOMPAN.com 5 LABOUR STANDARDS As with human rights, KOMPAN’s primary risks regarding employees in the matter. As an important step in this the fundamental labour standards are at our suppliers. direction our factory in Czech Republic has, in 2012, been We strive to make sure that none of our cooperating certified according to OHSAS 18001 an occupational parties are complicit in using e.g. child labour, forced health and safety management system. This implies that labour or prohibiting the right to association and colthe operating practices are up to date and in compliance lective bargaining. You can read more about our work with health and safety requirements. It further enables with ensuring our suppliers comply with our guidelines our organization to control and gain knowledge of all further below. relevant risks and hazards, and consequently improve our performance. For KOMPAN’s own activities we aim to make sure that we provide our employees with a safe working environThe efforts taken in connection to the certification in 2012 ment, be that in our headquarter in Odense, Denmark, have significantly improved our LTA (Lost Time Accident). or in our factories in Sweden, or Czech Republic. OcThe amount of lost hours related to accidents has been cupational health and safety is an equivalent and inalmost halved since 2011, where 636 working hours were tegral part of all activities of KOMPAN and one of our lost due to accidents compared to 328 in 2012. We will permanent top priorities. Our Occupational Health and continue a structured and managed approach to work Safety policy focuses on preventing injuries and illness, actively for a safe and healthy working environment for ensuring that we are in compliance with all legal reguour employees in the coming year. lations and that we efficiently and actively involve our 6 GALAXY www.KOMPAN.com 7 ENVIRONMENT As a manufacturer of outdoor playground equipment, issues. The plants in Czech Republic and Germany have KOMPAN has an integrated approach to environmental furthermore implemented control systems that work for considerations. KOMPAN aims to produce sustainable compliance with requirements on active substances in products with a long lifespan, which requires a low level accessible components, and independent third party of maintenance. We aim to use materials and technolotests are run. gies, which have minimal impact on the environment, and whenever possible we aim to use FSC-certified In 2012 a big part of our manufacturing was moved sources. Our primary focus areas in 2012 in terms of the from non-ISO certified production facilities to the plant environment were on recycled compounds and enviin Czech Republic. This shift naturally led to a reduction ronmentally certified wood. All materials used by the in total energy consumption and waste for the year. The company are evaluated on the basis of its impact on the headquarter was moved to a new location in Odense, environment before deemed acceptable for use. Our Demark, which also contributed to the overall improveinitiatives work to ensure that when products are to be ment of energy consumption. disposed all the materials can be reused. In the years to come KOMPAN will focus even more on KOMPAN’s production plants in Czech Republic and how we can minimize the waste of resources and reduce Sweden are ISO 14001 certified, which implies a specific environmental hazards. and structured management approach to environmental 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are recognized as barriers to Anti-corruption is still a relatively new area for KOMPAN sustainable development and free trade. At KOMPAN in terms of working actively with the issue in our own we do not accept these practices and therefore do not activities. In 2013 we will increase our focus on the issue accept any kind of undue payment in any of our busiand we aim to develop and implement an anti-corrupness transactions. It is our policy that all elements of our tion program in KOMPAN. supply chain and sale must be completely transparent to everyone interested in knowing more. Principles to work against anti-corruption are integrated in the supplier code of conduct (read more below). FOCUSED EFFORTS FOR SUPPLIERS As a global manufacturer of outdoor playground equipKOMPAN takes a risk based approach to our suppliers. ment KOMPAN has to comply with a number of standThis means that our suppliers are grouped according ards in terms of product safety and environment, it is to the risks associated with the characteristics of their therefore central to us that our suppliers adhere to the geographical location. We have some suppliers from same standards as we do. Our supplier code of conAsia, which we associate with higher risks than e.g. duct describes the requirements KOMPAN expects all suppliers located in Europe. To manage this, we work to our suppliers to adhere to and comply with. The code audit the high risk suppliers at least once a year. At the of conduct is based on the principles of the UN Global supplier audits, which are carried out by either KOMPAN Compact, and covers the following areas: employees or by third party auditors, a standardised questionnaire is developed, which supports the auditor Child labour, discrimination, forced labour, working enviin including all aspects of our code of conduct are disronment, working hours and salary, the right to organize cussed during the visit. and collective bargaining, right to privacy, environment (pollution prevention and resource reduction, chemicals In 2012 more than 99% of our suppliers of raw materials and hazardous materials, air emissions, waste water or components had signed the code of conduct. and solid waste, recycling and reuse of materials and products), and corruption. When making new contract the supplier has to confirm and commit to complying with the code of conduct. If the supplier cannot or will not sign the code of conduct, the engagement will not be made, or the existing agreement will be terminated. www.KOMPAN.com 9 Visit KOMPAN’s website for more financial information Use your QR scanner or download a free application to your mobile: http://reader.kaywa.com www.KOMPAN.com KOMPAN A/S C. F. Tietgens Boulevard 32C DK-5220 Odense SØ Denmark Tel.: +45 63 62 12 50 E-mail: info@KOMPAN.com CVR. nr. 28 31 28 81
