2012 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT Challenges Solutions Our Sustainability Story Engineering Change Fluor activates the potential of people and material resources while minimizing their impact on communities and the environment. We believe that through sustainable business practices we can overcome challenges and create solutions that improve lives and grow enduring prosperity. By opening our minds and empowering others, we work together in a common cause — creating a world that works today and tomorrow. Cover photos: (upper right) Children play at Progress Pre-School in Secunda, South Africa. The school provides food and education for impoverished children, and is supported by Fluor both financially and through employee volunteer efforts. (lower left) The American Bridge / Fluor Joint Venture (ABFJV) constructs the east span of the San Francisco Oakland Bay Bridge, the largest public infrastructure project in California's history. The project will be completed in 2013. Photograph © Joseph A. Blum. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 1 Contents Overview A Message from the Chairman & CEO 3 About the Company 5 About the Report 9 2012 Progress Report 11 Ethics & Compliance 12 Governance 16 Employees & Workplace 17 Health, Safety & Environment 22 Community & Social Service 29 GRI CONTENT Index 32 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2 A Message from the Chairman & CEO About the Company About the Report 2012 progress report Ethics & Compliance Governance A Message from the Chairman & CEO Employees & Workplace Health, Safety Dear Valued Stakeholders, & Environment I am pleased to present to you the Fluor Corporation 2012 Sustainability Report, Community & Social Challenges/Solutions: Our Sustainability Story. Service Last year marked the end of our first century of service, and the beginning of a new century in which we will continue creating sustainable engineering and construction solutions for our clients. We are proud of our mission to be a solutions provider for the “everyday” challenges people face as well as the “extraordinary” gri CONTENT index challenges faced by our ever-growing world. Throughout our history we have taken pride in building structures and facilities that withstand the most serious of those challenges. We believe that through our work, the people of Fluor are able to improve lives, create jobs and initiate growth that can sustain itself long after we complete a project. That belief applies to every project we undertake across the globe. Every step of the way, we work closely with our clients, communities, supply chain, governments and partners to employ state-of-the-art design and construction techniques aimed at reducing waste and minimizing environmental impact while delivering cost and schedule certainty to our projects. What we create is real, positive and productive — something that was not there before, but was designed and constructed to stand the test of time — that’s sustainability. Fluor is committed to the principles that underpin sustainable business practices. We believe our business model positively impacts the lives of people, communities and nations. This is enterprise value on a global scale. Fluor takes on tough and difficult challenges. In fact, we excel at it. But that’s not enough. To design and construct complex structures and facilities in very difficult places around the world, year after year, we have to execute the “whole” of sustainability for our clients and communities. In doing this, we earn the privilege to serve again. Often times, doing is learning. Over the years, we have continued to update and improve the Fluor Sustainability Manual to incorporate best practices and provide guidance and protocols for project management. This manual promotes energy and resource efficiency, supplier and subcontractor diversity, ethics, anti-corruption practices, safety, training, community involvement, carbon management and green initiatives. All are critical aspects of our sustainable business model and are an important consideration in our clients’ selection processes. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 3 While it’s important for our business conduct to be defined by “doing things right,” it’s essential that our business conduct be known for “doing the right things.” Fluor’s history is built on adherence to strong ethics, compliance and business practices— it is a critical element of the Fluor culture. We have willingly accepted highly visible, global A Message from the leadership roles in promoting and improving ethical standards and work every day to improve transparency and Chairman & CEO eliminate corrupt practices broadly across industries and geographies. About the Company During 2012 I was honored to co-chair the B20 Task Force on Improving Transparency and Anti-corruption. Fluor About the Report remains committed to active leadership and participation with the B20 executive leaders from the international business community to advise and recommend concrete actions the government leaders of the G20 summits can take to combat corruption. 2012 progress report Fluor was honored to receive Transparency International-USA’s Corporate Leadership Award for 2013. This is a great tribute to Fluor’s strong culture of integrity and we are pleased to be recognized for this achievement. Additionally, Ethics & Compliance we were honored to be named as one of Ethisphere Institute’s World’s Most Ethical Companies for 2013 – for the seventh consecutive year. Governance Sustainability is a practice and a core belief of our company. It serves as a powerful nexus among our strategic Employees & Workplace direction, the expectations of our clients and the demands of the markets and communities we serve. We are Health, Safety committed to these principles. & Environment Community & Social Sincerely, Service gri CONTENT index David T. Seaton Chairman and Chief Executive Officer July 2013 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 4 A Message from the About the Company Chairman & CEO About the Company % 2.1 – 2.4 About the Report Headquartered in Irving, Texas, Fluor Corporation (NYSE: FLR) is one of the world’s largest publicly traded engineering, procurement, construction, 2012 progress commissioning, fabrication, operations, maintenance and project report management companies. Ethics & Compliance Governance For more than a century, Fluor, through its operating Consistently rated as one of the subsidiaries, has been a trusted global leader in Employees & Workplace providing exceptional services and technical knowledge world’s safest contractors, Fluor’s Health, Safety across a broad range of industries. Clients rely on Fluor primary objective is to develop and & Environment to deliver world-class solutions that optimize their assets, improve their competitive position, increase execute projects on schedule, within Community & Social their long-term business success and support their budget and with excellence. Service sustainability goals. Consistently rated as one of the world’s safest gri CONTENT index contractors, Fluor’s primary objective is to develop and 41,000 + execute projects with excellence. Fluor has more than 41,000 employees in 79 countries and performs work on more than 1,000 projects in any given year in over 40 specialized industries. This diversified model allows us to take on the challenges of front-end engineering and design optimization, to smalland mid-sized employees capital projects, to complex megaprojects from concept to completion – even as economic and competitive 79 dynamics change. Fluor's Diversified Business Segments Oil & Gas Oil & Gas provides engineering, procurement, countries construction and construction management services for some of the largest and most complex upstream, 1,000 + downstream and petrochemical projects in the world. The group designs and builds processing plants, refineries, pipelines, offshore facilities and other energy assets in remote and challenging locations around the globe. projects Global Services Global Services provides a wide array of solutions to help industrial clients optimize their performance. 40 + The group offers facility management, site-based maintenance, plant engineering, industrial fleet and equipment services, small capital construction and temporary professional staffing. Government specialized industries Government provides engineering, procurement, construction services, logistics services, base and facilities operations and maintenance, contingency 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 5 response, and environmental and nuclear services 6% 3% support to the U.S. government. Several agencies rely on the group’s immense competencies, including the 12% A Message from the Departments of Defense, Energy, Labor, Homeland Chairman & CEO Security and State. 44% About the Company Industrial & Infrastructure About the Report Industrial & Infrastructure helps to build the foundation of modern societies and economies. The group provides project management, engineering, 35% 2012 progress procurement, construction and maintenance solutions report to the mining and metals, highway and rail transit, aviation, heavy civil, manufacturing and life sciences New Awards by Segment Ethics & Compliance industries all over the world. Power Governance Global Services Power Industrial & Infrastructure Employees & Workplace Power designs, builds, commissions and retrofits Oil & Gas facilities to meet the world’s demand for electricity. Government Health, Safety The group is a partner of choice on power generation & Environment projects across all fuel types and technologies, including Community & Social fossil, renewables and nuclear, and is an expert in Service environmental compliance and emissions retrofit work. 15% 25% Detailed information about Fluor’s operations is available in the company’s 2012 Form 10-K report on gri CONTENT index pages 4-8. 15% % EC4 – Fluor did not receive any significant financial assistance from any government during 2012. Financial Highlights 25% % 2.8 – Fluor’s market capitalization on December 31, 20% 2012, was $9.6 billion. For 2012, revenues were $27.6 billion with net earnings of $456 million. Cash and Consolidated Backlog by Region marketable securities at December 31, 2012, were $2.6 billion. Total assets were $8.3 billion and long-term United States Europe, Africa & Middle East debt was $520 million. Total shareholders’ equity stood Canada at $3.3 billion. New awards for the year were $27.1 Asia Pacific & Australia billion and year-end backlog was $38.2 billion. Latin America 27.4 27.1 2.761 26.9 3.40 2.607 2.610 2.71 39.5 38.2 34.9 1.98 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 Consolidated Consolidated Earnings Cash & Marketable New Awards Backlog Per Share Securities (dollars in billions) (dollars in billions) (dollars) (dollars in billions) 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 6 % 2.8, LA1, LA13 12% 3% 3% Our Global Workforce A Message from the Fluor is a FORTUNE 200 company with a year-end 2012 Chairman & CEO global workforce of more than 41,000 employees – 35% About the Company with 32,592 salaried and 8,601 craft/hourly workers. In 2012, our salaried workforce was 76 percent male and About the Report 24 percent female. 47% 2012 progress % 2.9 report Significant Changes in New Awards by Segment Ethics & Compliance Reporting Period Power Governance Global Services Board of Directors Industrial & Infrastructure Employees & Workplace Fluor’s Chief Executive Officer David T. Seaton was Oil & Gas named chairman of the board in February 2012. Government Health, Safety Armando J. Olivera, retired president and chief & Environment executive officer of Florida Power & Light Company Community & Social and director of AGL Resources Inc., joined the board 3% 5% 4% Service in August 2012. Management Executive-level personnel changes included the gri CONTENT index retirement of D. Michael Steuert, senior vice president and chief financial officer, in May 2012. Biggs C. Porter, previously the chief financial officer of Tenet 48% 40% Healthcare Corporation, was appointed as his successor. % 2.10 Backlog by Segment 2012 Notable Awards Power and Recognition Global Services Industrial & Infrastructure • Fluor was proud to rank number one in the Oil & Gas engineering and construction sector for FORTUNE Government Magazine’s “Most Admired Companies” list. • Fluor was ranked number one in Engineering NewsRecord magazine’s 2012 list of Top 100 Design-Build 2% 13% Firms and number two on its Top 400 Contractors list. 31% 3% In 2012, two Fluor leaders received prestigious recognition from industry associations: 7% • Senior Vice President Bob Prieto was named to the Construction Management Association's College of 8% Fellows, making him one of only 58 Fellows in the association's 30-year history. 9% • Senior Vice President and Chief Procurement Officer 27% Jim Scotti was named a member of the National Academy of Construction for leadership in advancing Employees by Region the procurement profession within the construction Africa Latin America industry and in developing strategic partnerships Asia Europe with suppliers around the world. Australia Middle East Canada United States Additional awards of significance are noted in the progress reports beginning on page 11. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 7 % 4.13 % 4.14, 4.15 2012 Sustainability-Related Stakeholder Engagement A Message from the Memberships and Associations Fluor actively engages with the following types of Chairman & CEO Listed below are the principal associations and stakeholder groups. More information about our About the Company initiatives with which Fluor is involved at a global, engagement can be found in the progress reports companywide level in the areas of sustainability: beginning on page 11. About the Report • American Society of Civil Engineers, Committee on • Clients Sustainability (United States) • Employees, union organizations 2012 progress report • World Economic Forum – Global Risk Network; Global • Institutions, governments, legislators Agenda Council on Corruption; and board seat and Ethics & Compliance additional leadership participation in the Partnering • Nongovernmental organizations Governance Against Corruption Initiative (Switzerland) • Shareholders • B20 Task Force on Improving Transparency and • Society at large, communities Employees & Workplace Anti-corruption, co-chair Health, Safety • Subcontractors, suppliers, business associations & Environment • United Nations Global Compact, signatory Additional memberships of note are included in the Community & Social Service progress reports beginning on page 11. gri CONTENT index Our Employees 2012 Employees by Business Group  LA 13 SALARIED EMPLOYEES: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES: Oil & Gas 11,323 Industrial & Infrastructure 4,310 Government 10,018 Global Services 2,940 In 2012, our salaried workforce was Power 715 76% male Other Total Salaried 3,286 32,592 24% female Total Craft & Hourly Employees 8,601 41,193 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 8 A Message from the About the Report Chairman & CEO About the Company % 3.1 About the Report Our annual sustainability report features quantitative and qualitative data for calendar year 2012, with additional material from previous years or 2012 progress related to important events or notable information available in 2013 prior report to the publishing of the report. This report also serves as Fluor’s annual Ethics & Compliance Communication of Progress under the United Nations Global Compact. Governance Employees & Workplace Health, Safety & Environment Community & Social Service gri CONTENT index % 3.6 Ethics & Compliance; Community Relations; Corporate Scope and Boundary Affairs; Facilities; Government Relations; Health, Safety & Environment (HSE); Human Resources; Investor The reporting scope is global, unless otherwise noted Relations; Law; Sales; Supply Chain & Procurement; and for situations or circumstances where reporting Strategic Planning. data are collected and available only for a certain geography, business or issue. The report covers Fluor’s The report was developed to provide information to corporate operations as well as its business groups clients, employees, shareholders, lenders, financial and wholly-owned subsidiaries worldwide and their analysts, rating agencies, suppliers and subcontractors, material economic, environmental and social impacts. nongovernmental organizations, news media and the All financial figures are presented in U.S. dollars unless communities in which the company operates. otherwise noted. Fluor used the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as a guide for developing this report. In determining content, Fluor’s % 3.5 Sustainability Committee considered the company’s Materiality and Reporting Process mission and experience, as well as the reasonable expectations and interests of our stakeholders, key This report is aligned with the information contained in among them, Fluor’s clients. our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K, our 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders and our 2013 Annual Proxy Fluor's sustainability report covers information that Statement. reflects our overall company strategies, goals and priorities and includes data that are reasonably Fluor has prepared this report under the direction of available. the company’s Sustainability Committee. Materiality of content included in this 2012 Sustainability Report % 3.10, 3.11 – No significant changes in reporting and its prioritization were assessed and determined scope, boundary or measurement methods occurred by Fluor’s Sustainability Committee, which has during 2012, nor were there any re-statements of representation from senior executive management; information from prior reports. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 9 A Message from the Chairman & CEO About the Company About the Report What is the GRI? The Global Reporting Initiative is a nonprofit 2012 progress report organization that promotes economic, Ethics & Compliance environmental and social sustainability. GRI Governance provides all companies and organizations with a Employees & Workplace Health, Safety comprehensive sustainability reporting framework & Environment that is widely used around the world. Community & Social Service Application Level gri CONTENT index The GRI Reporting Framework advises that companies self-declare a report application level.” By self-declaration, Fluor’s 2012 report meets the criteria for application level “B.” Application levels of “A,” “B” and “C” define the amount of GRI standard disclosures that a reporting organization addresses in its sustainability report. According to the GRI, application levels reflect a degree of transparency, as opposed to a sustainability performance grade. For a full explanation of the GRI guidelines, visit www.globalreporting.org. % 3.7, 3.9 – In this document, Fluor reports on the % 3.4 – For more information about Fluor’s global GRI 3.1 indicators that were relevant to its business sustainability efforts and to share your thoughts about operations and measurable in 2012. In the context this report, please contact: of Fluor’s carbon footprint, this report represents Kirk Grimes emissions produced within the corporate boundary and Group President excludes emissions produced at client sites. However, Chairman of the Fluor Sustainability Committee all health, safety, environmental, economic, stakeholder Fluor Corporation engagement, governance, human rights, labor 6700 Las Colinas Boulevard practices, philanthropy and community service data Irving, TX 75039 included in this report cover Fluor and its subsidiaries. corporate.communications@fluor.com % 3.12 – A GRI Content Index is included with this 469.398.7000 report to provide an index of locations where content % 3.2, 3.3 – Fluor has published a sustainability report relating to the specific GRI G3.1 profile disclosures and annually since 2008. Prior year Sustainability Reports are indicators deemed most relevant to Fluor’s ability to available online at fluor.com/sustainability. create sustainable value can be found. The Index is located on pages 32-39. % 3.13 – Fluor did not employ an external agency or organization to audit this report. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 10 2012 Progress Report Ethics & Compliance Governance Employees & Workplace Health, Safety & Environment Community & Social Service 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 11 A Message from the Ethics & Compliance Chairman & CEO About the Company On average, Fluor employees serve hundreds of clients on more than 1,000 About the Report projects in 79 countries around the world each year. In this challenging environment, our strong commitment to ethics throughout our business helps drive responsible behavior, maintain our corporate reputation and 2012 progress report enhance our financial performance. Ethics & Compliance Our Management Approach We take leadership roles with other external Governance We use a comprehensive ethics and compliance stakeholders to advance the anti-corruption agenda Employees & Workplace program that guides our employees, business partners, through collective action. Recent examples include: suppliers and subcontractors. This dynamic program Health, Safety • Fluor helped found the World Economic Forum involves leadership and oversight, risk assessments, & Environment (WEF) Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) policies and procedures, extensive communication and in 2004. Fluor Chairman and CEO David Seaton is a Community & Social training programs, monitoring, reporting and other board member of PACI and co-chairs the WEF's Global Service initiatives. We continually improve and enhance our Agenda Council on Corruption. ethics and compliance program by monitoring our evolving risks and benchmarking best practices in our • Seaton is co-chair of the B20 Task Force on Improving gri CONTENT index company, industry and the global business community. Transparency and Anti-corruption, which met in Mexico in June 2012. We believe collective action is critical to affect positive change. Fluor takes a leadership role in external • Fluor serves on the steering committee of the United initiatives focused on eliminating corruption and Nations Global Compact’s 10th Principle on Antibribery, creating a level playing field for businesses and Corruption. engaging governments through collective action. • Fluor helped lead the initiative to develop the AsiaStakeholder Engagement Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Hanoi Principles % 4.16, 4.17 – Our employee engagement efforts are for Voluntary Codes of Ethics in the Construction and designed to equip our employees with the information Engineering Sector. and resources they need to make the right decisions. • Fluor provided the private-sector perspective for the We engage employees through face-to-face meetings, introduction of Transparency International’s Assurance videos, web conferences, emails, newsletters and Framework for Corporate Anti-Bribery programs in online resources. We also have risk-based ethics and 2012. In 2013, Fluor is preparing to serve as a pilot compliance training for all employees. company for testing of the framework. We engage with our clients, • Fluor co-chaired an anti-corruption workshop cosponsored by the Confederation of Indian Industries business partners, suppliers and and the U.S. Department of Commerce, which brought subcontractors on ethics and together more than 40 representatives throughout compliance as part of our regular India to develop a set of business ethics principles for the engineering and construction sector there. business processes. We seek to do • Fluor executives served in leadership roles in external business with third parties who share conferences such as the Engineering and Construction our standards and values. Our clients Risk Institute’s Sponsor’s Meeting, the Engineering and depend on us to bring our ethical Construction Audit Roundtable, the Practicing Law Institute’s Advanced Corporate Compliance Institute, culture and innovative programmatic the annual Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics solutions to the delivery of their conference and others. projects around the world. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 12 Risk Management % SO2 – Fluor employs robust risk-management programs throughout the company to meet the A Message from the Improving Transparency challenges inherent in an industry with a fluid project Chairman & CEO and Combating Corruption base and quickly evolving risks. We utilize a formalized About the Company and systematic process for assessing, managing and The B20 Task Force on Improving monitoring the company’s business risks related to About the Report Transparency and Anti-corruption, projects, investments and acquisitions. For both our co-chaired by Fluor Chairman and CEO own company and our clients, the job of managing risk David Seaton, met at the B20 Summit and identifying opportunities begins when a project 2012 progress held in Los Cabos, Mexico, in June 2012 is still a prospect. We seek the “root causes” when report and continued to urge efforts to combat identifying events that may go wrong during project Ethics & Compliance corruption and improve transparency. execution. We will not pursue a project if we determine Key priorities for G20 governments and it cannot be executed without violating our ethics and Governance the business community were issued, compliance standards. We proactively develop and Employees & Workplace along with key priorities for joint monitor mitigation strategies for risks with the potential government and business action. to affect our stakeholders. Health, Safety & Environment Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption At the 2012 Summit, the B20 urged G20 Corrupt practices distort markets, curb innovation, Community & Social leaders to give a clear and permanent suppress economic growth and divert limited resources Service mandate to the G20 Working Group on from local populations. Corruption is also estimated Anti-corruption in order to lock in and to increase the cost of doing business on a global further advance the considerable scale by up to 10 percent according to “The Business gri CONTENT index progress that G20 countries have made Case Against Corruption,” a joint publication by the on combating corruption and improving International Chamber of Commerce, Transparency transparency. In particular, the business International, the United Nations Global Compact community invited the G20 to further and PACI. develop the Seoul Anti-Corruption Action Plan by: % EC1 – Corruption is an ethical issue that has significant repercussions for Fluor's long-term success. • Enhancing transparency in government Given this, and our company’s risk profile including procurement frequent contact with governments around the world, our anti-corruption program is extensive. • Promoting, extending and While our employees are especially vigilant when implementing collective action and dealing with public-sector officials, Fluor prohibits all sectoral initiatives forms of commercial bribery as well. Our Anti-Bribery • Engaging the private sector in the and Corruption Policy provides clear standards for review mechanisms of the United employees that apply to every business environment Nations Convention Against Corruption and context. Facilitation payments are prohibited unless and the Organisation for Economic pre-approved in writing by Fluor’s Law department, Co-operation and Development allowed under all applicable anti-corruption laws, and (OECD) Anti-Bribery Convention properly and accurately recorded, as outlined by PACI. • Encouraging cross fertilization within Transparency is a key element of our anti-corruption the private sector and between the program. Fluor ranked number one on the 2012 public and private sectors for training Transparency International Defence Companies Antiand capacity-building activities Corruption Index, which ranks 129 companies from 35 countries into six bands based on the transparent • Encouraging the adoption of business systems and procedures they have in place to prevent codes of conduct with a specific focus corruption. Fluor was the only company to place in on subject matter experts the highest band. A major purpose of the Index is to • Strengthening the legal and regulatory demonstrate what good looks like in a global context framework on anti-corruption to serve as a useful benchmark and resource for companies to raise their standards. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 13 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on ethics and compliance risk areas for targeted % 4.8, 4.9 – Fluor’s Code of Business Conduct and employees and directors. For example, we implemented Ethics is the centerpiece of the company’s commitment a targeted anti-corruption training campaign for A Message from the to conducting its global business legally and with employees in high-risk positions or locations. Other Chairman & CEO high standards of integrity. It acts as a resource for initiatives completed in 2012 include the rollout out of About the Company employees when they need information or guidance a new ethics and compliance training website in seven before making a decision or taking action. With the languages with a new, improved curriculum of ethics About the Report addition of Portuguese in 2012, our Code is now and compliance courses. available in eight languages. Continuous efforts are Monitoring made to ensure it represents best practices in ethics 2012 progress Fluor again conducted its annual Code of Business and compliance, resulting in our company’s strong report Conduct and Ethics Certification in 2012. One hundred performance in doing the right things. percent of the company’s salaried employees confirmed Ethics & Compliance We expect all of our suppliers and subcontractors, and their understanding of and commitment to adhere Governance their supply chains, to maintain high ethical standards. to the Code. A key purpose of this practice is to give They are required to comply with Fluor's Business employees an additional opportunity to disclose ethical Employees & Workplace Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers and concerns or any potential conflicts of interest. Health, Safety Contractors. We conduct due diligence when selecting Additionally, Fluor’s Internal Audit team conducted & Environment suppliers and subcontractors, and continuously monitor its annual review of our adherence to anti-corruption any red flags during our business relationship. Community & Social standards through its regular and special audits Service Training throughout the world. The team also reviewed our Training is one of the most critical components for ethics and compliance program. the success of any ethics and compliance program. Reporting gri CONTENT index Fluor’s comprehensive training program has a multiIt is of the highest importance to Fluor that employees topic curriculum to ensure employees understand the are able and willing to readily report concerns about risks that apply to their positions and comply with the suspected unethical behavior. In addition to having the related Fluor policies and practices. opportunity to speak with their immediate supervisor, % SO3 – One hundred percent of Fluor’s salaried others in management, Human Resources or an employees have received Code training, with emphasis investigating department, our company has in place an on our anti-corruption program and other key risk areas. anonymous, toll-free Compliance and Ethics Hotline, In 2012 we completed development of a new Code including website-reporting mechanisms, to facilitate training course and launched a pilot of the new course employee reporting around the globe. to 800 employees. We intend to roll it out to all salaried % SO4 – During 2012, a total of 967 reports employees in 2013. were received. In all cases where the reports were Additionally, more than 8,000 employees participated substantiated, disciplinary and/or corrective actions in specialty, web-based training modules in 2012. were taken. Hotline reports by category are Face-to-face training classes included project-specific, shown below: anti-corruption training, as well as other classes focused 4% 11% 10% Hotline Report by Category (percent of total) Human Resources/ Conflict of Interest 2% 48% Employee Relations Issues Financial/Internal Controls Health/Safety/Environment Miscellaneous 7% Substance Abuse Request for Guidance Thefts/Bribery/Kickbacks 5% 13% 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 14 Clients, partners, suppliers and subcontractors also for Voluntary Codes of Ethics in the Construction are encouraged to use Fluor’s Compliance and Ethics and Engineering Sector and other anti-corruption Hotline to report any suspected misconduct involving initiatives A Message from the Fluor. Managed by a third-party company, our hotline Chairman & CEO • C onfederation of Indian Industries initiative to is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with develop business ethics principles for the Indian About the Company translation and interpretation support in more than engineering and construction sector 180 languages. About the Report • C ommittee to Address Facilitation Payments, global In 2012, we continued to strengthen our Compliance steering committee and Ethics Policy Regarding Reporting, Investigations 2012 progress and Corrective Actions as well as our Investigation • T he Corporate Executive Board’s Compliance and report Protocols. Our goal is for every employee to feel Ethics Leadership Council confident in reporting any good-faith ethical concern so Ethics & Compliance • T he Conference Board’s Global Council on Business we can appropriately address it promptly and maintain Conduct Governance our high standards for ethics and compliance. • E thics and Compliance Officers Association, Employees & Workplace 2012 Awards and Recognition sponsoring partner % 2.10 – Fluor's ethics and compliance efforts earned Health, Safety the following recognition in 2012: • E thics Resource Center, contributing fellow & Environment • Fluor ranked number one on Transparency Community & Social International’s Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Service Index for publicly demonstrating the systems and Our Management Approach procedures it has in place to prevent corruption. to Public Policy gri CONTENT index • Fluor was included on the World's Most Ethical Companies list by the Ethisphere Institute for its We believe Fluor has a right and responsibility to leadership in promoting ethical business standards. advocate positions on issues that are vital to the Fluor is one of 23 companies to be honored every year company’s stakeholders. Our public policy efforts since the list's inception in 2007. are focused on policies and initiatives that promote 2012 Associations and Memberships sustainable economic growth, free markets and % 4.12, 4.13 – Listed below are the principal innovation in the markets we serve. Fluor complies associations and initiatives in which Fluor is involved in with all registration and reporting regulations placed the areas of compliance and ethics: on this activity. •W orld Economic Forum − Global Agenda Council on Corruption − Partnering Against Corruption Initiative, board seat and additional leadership participation • B20 Task Force on Improving Transparency and Anticorruption, co-chair • Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation – Hanoi Principles 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 15 A Message from the Governance Chairman & CEO About the Company Strategic relationships built on trust are fundamental to our ability to address About the Report challenges, develop solutions and grow our business. We know we must earn our stakeholders' trust every day. Our corporate governance principles, which promote fairness, transparency, responsiveness and accountability, 2012 progress report strengthen our stakeholder relationships, enhance our reputation and Ethics & Compliance support the long-term success of our business. Governance Our Management Approach Board Independence and Diversity Employees & Workplace % 4.1, 4.5, 4.6 – We strive to develop and implement Fluor’s dedication to sound corporate governance Health, Safety governance policies and practices that earn the begins with strong board leadership and an & Environment confidence and trust of our shareholders, while also independent and fully informed board of directors. With supporting the long-term success of the company. the exception of our chairman and CEO, all directors Community & Social We believe this is especially important given increased are independent within the meaning of New York Service shareholder focus on corporate governance and Stock Exchange rules and Fluor’s corporate governance growing regulatory requirements. guidelines. In addition, each of the Audit, Governance and Organization & Compensation Committees is gri CONTENT index Our board of directors annually reviews our corporate composed entirely of independent directors who governance policies and practices against those oversee critical matters, such as the compensation suggested by various corporate-governance analysts policy for executive officers; succession planning; and the practices of other public companies. The corporate governance guidelines, policies and practices; changes we have made to our governance principles the director nominations process, corporate finance in the last three years are indicative of the effectiveness strategies and initiatives; and the integrity of the of these reviews and our commitment to shareholder company’s financial statements and internal controls accountability. Enhancements include: over financial reporting. • Transitioning to Declassified Board – We have begun The board believes directors should possess a diverse the process of declassifying our board of directors, range of experience, adding to the board's depth and which will be completely declassified, with all breadth for the benefit of shareholders. Accordingly, members elected on an annual basis, in 2014. our directors have experience in industries in which • Granted Shareholders the Right to Call a Special the company operates, such as oil and gas, power Meeting – In 2012, our board, with the approval and government contracting, or have particular skills of shareholders, amended our Certificate of that are beneficial to the company’s business, such Incorporation to grant holders of at least 25 percent of as knowledge of financial matters, risk oversight and our outstanding shares of common stock the right to compliance, and familiarity with non-U.S. markets. call a special meeting of shareholders. % LA13 – In its annual review of the skills and • Removed Supermajority Provisions – We have removed characteristics required of board members, the board supermajority-voting provisions from our Certificate also considers diversity of thought and background of Incorporation and bylaws, and replaced them with including gender, race, ethnicity and age. Currently, majority-voting provisions. our board includes two female members and one Hispanic member. Stakeholder Engagement % 4.16, 4.17 – We engage with shareholders on an More information on our board can be found in our annual basis and as questions arise on governance proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange issues, including those relating to executive Commission on March 13, 2013, which is available at compensation. We proactively seek input from investor.fluor.com. shareholders prior to our annual shareholder meeting. We respond throughout the year to shareholder calls and letters. We also engage shareholders and others in the investment community through regular investorrelations activities. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 16 A Message from the Employees & Workplace Chairman & CEO About the Company Fluor people are on the ground in 79 countries helping to improve About the Report economies and lives. Our employees drive our success. Our Management Approach We launched Fluor's Alumni Network, a fully 2012 progress Our approach to managing our employees and operational online portal, in 2012 as a means to report the workplace includes policies, procedures and engage with former Fluor employees. The site offers Ethics & Compliance practices that support our commitment to human a private career portal for alumni and provides Fluor rights and fair labor practices. In addition, our recruiters and hiring managers with direct access Governance approach creates opportunities for every employee to a source of proven talent. Since April 2012, more Employees & Workplace to be productive and secure, earn a fair income and than 5 percent of Fluor alumni job candidates were develop professionally, regardless of race, gender, rehired through the Alumni Network. Health, Safety nationality, religion, sexual orientation or any other & Environment Human Rights and Fair Labor Practices factor protected by law. Fluor’s strong commitment to ethics and compliance Community & Social In implementing this approach we strive to: establishes the parameters for human rights and Service fair labor practices that apply across the company, • R espect laws regarding human rights regardless of prevailing local laws and customs. • E stablish a safe workplace that is free of violence More information on our ethics and compliance gri CONTENT index and harassment policies and practices can be found in the Ethics & Compliance section of this report. The company is • F oster positive relationships between employees not aware of any incidents or violations regarding and Fluor management human rights during 2012. • V  alue diversity, provide equal employment Forced and Compulsory Labor opportunities and implement fair recruiting, hiring Fluor in no way promotes, condones, practices or and retention practices tolerates the use of forced or compulsory labor, • O ffer competitive salaries and benefits aligned human trafficking or sale of sexual acts of any kind. with the markets in which we operate This companywide mandate, which includes Fluor, its employees, business partners, suppliers and • P rovide training and development opportunities subcontractors, is articulated in our Code of Business to help employees reach their potential Conduct and Ethics for employees and in Fluor’s Employee Engagement Business Conduct and Ethics Expectations for Suppliers % 4.16, 4.17 – We engage with our employees and Contractors. These policies apply regardless of around the world in face-to-face meetings within local laws or customs. Fluor encourages employees and business groups and functions, town hall meetings, other stakeholders to report any activities that are not webcasts and video conferences and through in compliance and provides reporting mechanisms, a variety of other communication vehicles. We including an anonymous, toll-free Compliance and also conduct periodic companywide employee Ethics Hotline. The company also takes measures to engagement surveys to measure and better adhere to all applicable local laws and regulations understand employee concerns and perceptions on regarding forced or compulsory labor, including those a variety of issues. We expect to implement another related to wages and benefits. Fluor is not aware survey in 2014. of any incidents or violations. Fluor employs a risk management process, which may include such things as In 2012, Fluor launched a new global employee investigating potential or actual forced labor issues that intranet portal that serves as a news and exist in a location where we may work and initiating information platform and social businessany actions the company might deem necessary should networking tool. Employees can access company such instances exist. The company has no knowledge and business news stories, career management of any significant risks for compulsory or forced labor resources and local office information. The social incidents in any of its operations. business-networking tool enables employees to share information and resources, collaborate in Child Labor real time on projects and participate in Fluor observes and abides by minimum-age laws and online communities. regulations prohibiting the hiring of underage persons 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 17 on any of its projects or in any global offices. While the any form of unlawful discrimination and harassment. company has legitimate internships, apprenticeships Managerial and supervisory training courses contain and other related programs, Fluor strives to ensure that company and location-specific requirements. The A Message from the all programs meet laws and regulations related to hiring company also employs an open-door policy to Chairman & CEO and compensation. The company does not utilize or foster direct communication between employees About the Company support child labor in any way, and all Fluor employees and management. Employees may choose to discuss are above the legal age for the country in which they any concerns with their immediate supervisors, About the Report are employed. The company has no incidents of child or they may contact their office or project Equal labor and does not believe any of its operations are at Employment Opportunity, Human Resources or risk for an incident or violation. Industrial Relations representatives at any time. 2012 progress To help all employees understand and practice report Security behaviors that exemplify inclusion in the workplace, % HR3 – Fluor maintains its strong commitment Ethics & Compliance the company offers courses on diversity and to a workplace free from acts of violence, threats inclusion, and includes definitions of expected Governance of violence, harassment or any other disruptive conduct within its policies, procedures and behavior by establishing programs that promote the Employees & Workplace practices to encourage respectful behavior among highest standards of employee safety and security. employees. Health, Safety This includes a zero-tolerance policy that prohibits & Environment actual or threatened violence by employees against Providing Decent Work co-workers, visitors or others who have contact with Fluor provides work that is productive and delivers Community & Social employees during the course of their duties. Fluor a fair income; security in the workplace and social Service security personnel receive training in company policies protection for families; better prospects for personal and procedures that relate to human rights issues. development and social integration; freedom for people to express their concerns, organize and gri CONTENT index Union/Collective Bargaining participate in the decisions that affect their lives; % HR5, LA4 – Fluor believes that having a and equality of opportunity and treatment for all collaborative environment benefits all involved women and men. With a workforce of more than parties, including employees, clients and 41,000 employees worldwide, Fluor believes that shareholders. The company acknowledges meeting the needs of its employee population is employees’ legal rights to choose without fear critical to sustaining and growing the company’s of retaliation, coercion or harassment, whether business. or not to join third-party organizations. These rights are in accordance with the law related to % LA1 – Our approach to providing decent work third-party involvement, which may include labor includes establishing fair practices to recruit, unions and/or trade unions, in countries in which hire and retain a diverse population of qualified we work. About 29 percent of Fluor's U.S. directemployees; offering competitive, market-based total hire workforce is covered by collective bargaining compensation; providing training and development agreements. However, this percentage fluctuates opportunities for employees to build their skills and as our project-based workforce changes. Fluor talents; and implementing programs that promote managers and employees are given instruction and employee health and wellness. periodic training about these rights. Recruiting and Hiring Non-discrimination Many recruiting initiatives take place across the % LA13 – Fluor values every member of its company to hire local workers. By recruiting and workforce and has policies to ensure that every hiring local residents in regions where we have person is treated with dignity and respect. The projects, Fluor demonstrates its commitment company has measures in place to recruit, hire, to sustaining the communities in which it develop and retain employees based upon specific operates. In 2012, Fluor’s global recruiting team job-related specifications, including experience, responded to the reemergence of mega energy qualifications and other criteria. It is Fluor’s policy to and chemicals projects in the Gulf Coast region of cultivate an environment that does not unlawfully the United States. Through targeted career fairs discriminate on the basis of race, color, age, for local residents, integrated networking with sex, sexual orientation, religion, national origin, local government organizations and increased disability, veteran status, genetic information or community involvement efforts, Fluor successfully any other criteria protected by local, state, federal staffed local projects with local residents, which or country-specific law. All leaders, managers, improved job opportunities for Gulf Coast residents. supervisors and employees are expected to observe To continue to recruit and hire local employees, practices that maintain an environment free from the company offers a Talent Investment Program 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 18 for select positions, offering incentives to current long-term disability income protection and postemployees who refer candidates who are hired. employment retirement options in the United States. The specific benefit programs offered to A Message from the employees take into account the employee’s status, Chairman & CEO service, applicable legal requirements, industry About the Company practices and local customs. In the United States, About the Report Expanding Opportunities part-time employees may elect the same benefits as those who are full-time, with the exception of longfor Women and short-term disability except where mandated by state law. 2012 progress Fluor locations around the world are report focused on increasing representation Fluor’s pay, benefits and other programs that and opportunities for women to support comprise total compensation are examined on a Ethics & Compliance equal opportunity employment, as well regular basis to ensure market competitiveness and Governance as help develop a more diverse and updated to reflect local-market labor standards. Any skilled workforce. defined benefit plans at Fluor remain consistent Employees & Workplace with industry standards and are funded according to Health, Safety For example, Fluor’s office in Saudi Arabia the appropriate government regulations. & Environment implemented a Saudi female employment initiative. The purpose was Community & Social to augment its job localization efforts in Service support of the Kingdom’s Saudization Tailoring Benefits in Spain policy, which is designed to increase the number of Saudi nationals working in Fluor's Spain office initiated FluorFlex in 2012, gri CONTENT index the private sector. Fluor hired its first which increased the offering of competitive benefits Saudi female employees in 2012 and according to the country's tax-advantage schemes. plans to continue the integration of Employees can choose from a range of tax-exempt Saudi women into the workforce, products and services such as lunch vouchers, helping lead the way in the engineering nursery services, public transport tickets, housing and construction industry. rentals, medical health insurance, computers and professional training. Additionally in 2012, Fluor's Growing Representation and Opportunities for Women (GROWSM) program – a companywide networking initiative for Training and Development employees – continued to expand Providing suitable training and development globally with active chapters in 16 opportunities for all Fluor employees is essential to locations in Africa, Asia, Europe, North sustaining employee engagement and performance. America and South America. Fluor continues to enhance existing programs and add new ones. Fluor’s company policy encourages all employees to complete a minimum of 40 hours of job-development training each year. In 2012, 11,874 professional classroom courses Competitive Salary and Benefits were completed, with total classroom hours at % EC3 – To attract and retain qualified employees, 92,870. For online courses, 60,605 courses were Fluor pays competitive salaries based on prevailing completed, totaling 130,907 hours. Other types economic conditions and business needs. To ensure of informal learning opportunities that were fair compensation, we consider a variety of factors, documented totaled 163,280 hours. For our video including an individual’s job duties, responsibilities distance-learning courses, 2,131 employees across and personal performance. 26 different countries completed 14,901 hours of distance training. The Fluor Instructor Academy As part of a total compensation package, Fluor trained 130 instructors to teach Fluor University® provides standard offerings for benefits, such as courses, and 72 instructors received training on paid time off for holidays, vacations, illness or using video distance learning to deliver courses. injury, family emergencies, medical appointments and other obligations imposed by law. Health and welfare coverage is included, as are shortand 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 19 % LA11 – Examples of 2012 professional training Employee Health and Wellness initiatives include: Fluor believes that helping employees understand and adopt healthy lifestyle habits contributes to A Message from the • F luor’s Global Business Leader Track (GBLT), an a more productive workforce and supports the Chairman & CEO accelerated leadership program, continues to company's focus on sustainable practices. prepare local talent to assume leadership roles in About the Company their home countries. This accelerated leadership About the Report program includes a combination of international and home-country assignments, cross-functional opportunities, mentoring and stretch projects. Video Distance Learning In 2012, to augment the formal learning for the 2012 progress report GBLT program, Fluor chose Harvard Business and Sustainability Publishing’s Leadership Direct to offer blended Ethics & Compliance Video distance learning, which enables delivery of modules mapped to the company’s experts to share knowledge from remote Governance core skills. locations, is a key component in how Employees & Workplace • N ew Leader Program training was developed in Fluor trains employees on projects. It also 2012 and then conducted over a six-month period supports Fluor's commitment to Health, Safety sustainability by reducing car and to build management skills and experience for & Environment new supervisors with fewer than five years of airplane travel and the associated Community & Social experience, resulting in 110 employees from five greenhouse gas emissions. In 2012, Fluor Service regions participating. expanded its video distance-learning curriculum to 121 courses, and • F luor’s Core Skills online training was launched in experienced a 21-percent increase in 2012, giving employees access to digital resources gri CONTENT index participants and a 13-percent increase in to help them learn about the 12 core skills that are the number of offices and project sites measured in employee performance assessments. using the technology. • F luor’s Farnborough, United Kingdom, office launched a construction internship program. • C onstruction operations developed Construction Accelerated Management Program (CAMP), an accelerated program for leaders in construction. • A construction basic skills training course for Promoting Health and Guinea National Locals on the Simandou Iron Ore project trained approximately 120 laborers in their Wellness in the Philippines local dialect. Health and wellness initiatives support • F luor’s Former Military Program focused employee engagement and productivity on military recruits who had management while helping Fluor better manage its experience. These employees received training health insurance and other related costs. In in subjects including contracts and business the Philippines, Fluor negotiates substantial communication. discounts with pharmaceutical, optical and % LA12 – Fluor’s standardized and electronic other health-care providers and passes the performance assessment process spans the savings to its employees and their company, measuring all employees on 12 essential dependents. Preventive health-care core skills. All eligible employees are expected programs include vaccinations, education to participate. In 2012, 96 percent of eligible programs, screenings and check-ups. In employees completed assessments. 2012, more than 200 employees and their dependents participated in hepatitis B We also conduct a significant amount of craft screenings and vaccinations. training. In 2012, we continued to improve our accredited welder training programs through partner colleges. Upon successful completion, students use Fluor's job placement and readiness services to assist them with entry into the construction industry. We also added two new courses to our Field Supervisor Training series. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 20 % 4.13 % 2.10 2012 Memberships 2012 Awards A Message from the Fluor holds local, national and global memberships • “ Bronze” Telly Award for Video “Benefits Chairman & CEO in numerous human resources, management and Communications” About the Company professional organizations. The following list provides a • E xpatriate Executive of the Year from the Asia CEO sample of the variety of groups included. About the Report Awards, Dan Spinks, Philippines Country Manager • A merican Council on International Personnel • A merican Society for Training and Development (ACIP) (United States) (ASTD) “BEST” Award 2012 progress report • A pprenticeship Carolina, part of the National • GI Jobs Top 100 Military Friendly Employers Apprenticeship Program (United States) Ethics & Compliance • F it-Friendly Worksite from the American Heart • A ssociate Builders and Contractors: Texas Gulf Association for Savannah River Nuclear Solutions Governance Coast, Greater Houston and Pelican Chapters. (United States) • Glassdoor Best Places to Work 2012 Employees & Workplace • Catalyst (United States and India) • 2 012 Rice Global E&C Forum Award for Excellence Health, Safety for Fluor’s GROW program & Environment • C onference Board – council participation, HR Executive Leaders, Leadership Development and Community & Social Global Diversity and Inclusion Executives (United Service States) • Construction Benefits Group (United States) gri CONTENT index • I nternational and American Council of Benefits (Global) • N ational Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE)(United States) • N ational Engineers Week Foundation Leadership Council Member (United States) • P hilippine Business for Social Progress (the Philippines) • S ociety of Women Engineers (United States) 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 21 A Message from the Health, Safety & Environment Chairman & CEO About the Company Solving today's challenges in ways that are safe and environmentally sound About the Report delivers value to our clients, employees, communities and shareholders. It also helps build a sustainable future. 2012 progress report Our Management Approach issues as part of our regular operations at facilities, We believe balancing the needs of global development job sites, fabrication yards and office locations Ethics & Compliance with the well-being of our employees, clients, suppliers, around the world. When specific HSE issues arise, we subcontractors, communities and the environment is evaluate any hazards, specify mitigation measures and Governance critical to the long-term success of our business. We identify clients, business partners and other affected Employees & Workplace strive to successfully execute complex projects in a safe stakeholders. and environmentally sound manner. Health, Safety On specific projects and job sites, our clients take the & Environment We set comprehensive and aggressive health, safety lead on stakeholder engagement. Fluor provides client and environmental (HSE) goals for workforce safety that support for public hearings, town hall meetings and Community & Social drive us to continuously improve our performance. We other engagement activities. Our joint venture partners Service champion HSE practices across all of our operations lead stakeholder engagement efforts related to issues and monitor advances in sustainable environmental that may arise at these locations with Fluor providing solutions for the benefit of our clients and society. support as needed. gri CONTENT index We engage with employees on HSE policies and procedures through training, regular communications Recognizing Exceptional HSE Talent such as HSE email alerts and monthly updates, quarterly newsletters and articles posted on Fluor's intranet. All communications reinforce Fluor's HSE cultural mindset, In 2012 Fluor appointed Stephen Johnson as a new HSE which calls for every employee to own and address any Fellow, recognizing his exceptional talents in process HSE issue that may arise even if it is not their own. safety management. The Fluor Fellows program formally recognizes technical experts serving as thought leaders in Fluor engages in collaborative partnerships with their industries. He joins four other HSE Fellows among 33 a number of industry and regulatory research and total Fellows and 28 Senior Fellows. informational organizations. The company is a member of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the U.S. Green Building Council; Approximately 850 dedicated HSE professionals work around the world, directing the implementation of the company's HSE policies, management systems and procedures. Among their areas of expertise are process safety, personnel safety, fire protection, environmental Leadership in Design permitting and impact assessments, consequence and Infrastructure modeling, environmental monitoring, industrial hygiene, sustainability and field operations. Often times In 2012, 134 Fluor employees were accredited our clients take advantage of Fluor’s capability to design in the U.S. Green Building Council's and build environmentally friendly capital projects Leadership in Energy and Environmental using a sustainability approach that is detailed in Fluor's Design program (LEED®). Additionally, Sustainability Manual. The approach includes energy employees began to achieve the Institute for and resource efficiency, supplier and subcontractor Sustainable Infrastructure's new credential for diversity, anti-corruption practices, safety, training, Envision™ Sustainability Professional to community involvement, carbon management and implement the sustainability rating system for green initiatives. civil infrastructure. Stakeholder Engagement % 4.16, 4.17 – We engage regularly with employees, communities and other stakeholders on HSE-related 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 22 actively supports the Center for Chemical Process Safety which represents both self-perform and subcontractors, and the National Safety Council and in 2012 became a experienced 0.07 lost workday incidents per 200,000 partner in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's global hours worked, an uptick from 2011, but A Message from the ENERGY STAR® program. Our employees are active performed within our goals for both total recordable Chairman & CEO participants in the Construction Industry Institute, the case incidence rate and restricted workday case rate. About the Company American Society of Civil Engineers' Committee on Sustainability and other organizations. About the Report A Proven HSE Management System % PR1 – Fluor's HSE Management System, comparable Lost Workday Cases 2012 progress to ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ANSI Z-10, and the (with days away) per 200,000 hours worked report U.S. Occupational Safety & Health Administration Voluntary Protection Program, integrates the highest Ethics & Compliance 0.08 international standards into each project phase and Governance verifies our consistent and complete performance. Our 0.07 sustainability process, highlighted in our Sustainability 0.06 Employees & Workplace Manual, reflects the requirements of ISO 26000. In order 0.05 Health, Safety to identify and apply the best practices across all of 0.04 & Environment our global operations, our HSE Management System is continually reviewed and enhanced. The Management 0.03 Community & Social System was further enhanced in 2012 by creating and 0.02 Service deploying subject-knowledge tests to reinforce best 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 practices. gri CONTENT index % EN26 – A key component of our Management System is our Corporate HSE Field Audit Program, which was redesigned in 2012 to emphasize leading indicators in the following key areas: Total Recordable Cases • HSE program development and coordination per 200,000 hours worked • Management-in-action 0.5 • Training, communication and HSE culture initiatives • Field execution 0.4 These were significant improvements that reflected the value of a more proactive approach. Data collected from 0.3 our 2012 audits were used to identify improvement opportunities. 0.2 Health and Safety Our health and safety statistics represent real people: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 our employees who drive our success. Successfully managing health and safety issues to the lowest possible risk levels is an essential component of our Fluor's restricted workday case incidence rate in 2012 was 0.05. strategy and integral to the way we do business. We strive to follow world-class health and safety principles and procedures throughout our operations. Taking Heroic Action While Fluor continues to be recognized as one of the More than 20 years ago, Fluor established its Silver safest contractors in the engineering and construction Cross Award program to recognize employees who industry, we believe that any incident is unacceptable have acted in a lifesaving manner and assisted others in and should be preventable. Consequently, we distress either on or off the job. In 2012, 31 employees thoroughly evaluate cases that may occur to earned the award, which is now named the Silver immediately identify areas for improvement. Medallion Award, for a total of 302 award-winners. 2012 Health and Safety Performance % LA7 – Fluor continued to sustain a strong safety record in 2012, with total work hours increasing 33 However, we are saddened to report that two Fluor percent to 426 million. Our office and field performance, employees died in work-related incidents in 2012, and 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 23 our subcontractors experienced three work-related % LA9 – In addition to stressing the importance of HSE fatalities. To address these unacceptable losses, we to its employees, Fluor also collaborates with trade are working to improve the practices and procedures unions to help ensure that all workers embrace our A Message from the and enhance training that focus on specific preventive commitment to HSE matters. Prior to the start of our U.S. Chairman & CEO actions. and Canadian union projects, the Industrial Relations About the Company group holds pre-job conferences with members of the Fluor’s proprietary Managing Safety to Zero (MS20SM) Building and Construction Trades Council to familiarize About the Report program tracks leading and trailing indicators in real the union representatives with the project and time to proactively improve working conditions and introduce key members of the project management reduce incidents. We employ this program globally with team and subcontractors. By aligning on health, safety 2012 progress success in many countries and with multiple clients. report and environmental issues in advance, projects benefit Key enhancements in 2012 included determination of from a stronger start. the severity potential of observations and incidents, Ethics & Compliance measurement of participation quality and simplified The Environment Governance data entry. % EN23, EN28 – We remain steadfastly committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s Environmental Employees & Workplace Health and Safety Assistance and Engagement Programs Principles 7 through 9. For the eighth consecutive year % LA8 – Fluor makes every effort to protect its workers Health, Safety since the company began tracking these data in 2004, from health and safety risks and offers assistance & Environment we received no Notices of Violation for environmental programs, such as educational classes, counseling and issues and no resulting monetary or other sanctions for Community & Social prevention/risk control measures. These programs non-compliance. In addition, Fluor had no significant Service can help workers and their families around the world spills in 2012. manage serious disease cases. gri CONTENT index Fluor’s Carbon Footprint tCO2e = metric tons of carbon dioxide TOTAL: 104,966 113,505 124,222 107,121 106,020 114,808 115,160 80000 70000 60000 50000 40000 30000 20000 10000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Scope 1 direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 indirect greenhouse gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam Scope 3 other indirect greenhouse gas emissions, such as travel 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 24 Our Carbon Footprint our operations in an environmentally responsible % EN16 – Fluor established its global carbon footprint manner. We continue to identify appropriate ways to baseline in 2006 for its offices, fleets at those offices reduce carbon emissions through energy efficiencies, A Message from the and air travel, but not including client/project sites. We recycling activities, renovations and conservation Chairman & CEO follow the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol standards efforts. About the Company for our inventory, with equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e) The number of projects Fluor designs, constructs as the quantification metric. The process of measuring About the Report and maintains each year influences our total GHG and reporting our facilities’ carbon footprint provides emissions. As our business increases, the company’s valuable information that we use to effectively manage GHG emissions increase, as shown on the chart on page 2012 progress 24. Conversely, when business decreases, the company’s report GHG emissions decrease. Ethics & Compliance GHG Emissions Normalized When Fluor’s absolute GHG emissions are normalized Governance by Revenue by revenue, as shown in the chart on the left, the substantial effect of efficiency measures is revealed. per year | tCO2e Employees & Workplace Over the seven-year period, Fluor achieved a 43-percent reduction in its normalized carbon footprint. We Health, Safety continue to evaluate opportunities to enhance 8 & Environment 7.4 sustainability innovation and energy efficiency 6.8 Community & Social 7 throughout all of our facilities. Service 6 5.6 % 4.12 – To drive accountability and ensure transparency in our global operations, we proactively 4.9 5.0 4.9 5 report our GHG emission information to our gri CONTENT index 4 .2 stakeholders and the CDP, the world’s largest database 4 of corporate climate change information for use by financial and policy decision makers. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Pursuing Energy Efficiency Our efforts to improve energy efficiency, lower Sketch of Fluor's new Amsterdam office 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 25 operating costs and integrate environmentally friendly off appliances and office equipment at the end of solutions into our operations are apparent in our offices the workday and switching lights off when leaving a and facilities around the world. We work to meet and conference room or office for a period of time. A Message from the exceed the standards set by leading sustainability Chairman & CEO % EN3, EN4 – Direct energy consumption by Fluor’s organizations. Several of our facilities, including our facilities in 2012 was approximately 133,000 gigajoules About the Company headquarters in Dallas, Texas, have received the U.S. (GJ) for natural gas, diesel, gasoline, LPG and heating Green Building Council's LEED® certification. About the Report oil. Indirect energy consumption was approximately Fluor’s operations in Haarlem, the Netherlands, 394,000 GJ for electricity and steam. announced in 2012 that a new Amsterdam office Recycling 2012 progress building will be constructed for occupancy in 2015. % EN5 – Virtually all Fluor offices have active recycling report The building is designed to be certified as “Very Good” programs. Approximately 62,000 gallons of liquids, by the Building Research Establishment Environmental Ethics & Compliance primarily cooking and motor oils, and 1,100 tons of Assessment Method (BREEAM), with features such paper were recycled during 2012. We also recycled Governance as carbon dioxide-controlled ventilation in meeting approximately 3.5 million pounds of assorted bulk areas and the restaurant, photovoltaic cells on the roof, Employees & Workplace materials including toner cartridges, batteries, charge points for electric vehicles and underground cardboard, filters, glass containers, aluminum Health, Safety storage of heat to warm the building in the winter and cans, tires, plastic containers, iron and steel, and & Environment cold to cool the building in the summer. landscaping trimmings. Community & Social Buildings totaling more than 1.6 million square feet at Conservation and Avoidance Initiatives Service three of our offices in Aliso Viejo, California, Houston, % EN5 – Conservation and landfill avoidance activities Texas, and Greenville, South Carolina, earned the U.S. are an important part of Fluor’s global HSE initiatives. Environmental Protection Agency’s ENERGY STAR® On an ongoing basis, many of our offices donate gri CONTENT index certification in 2012. This certification is based on furniture, office equipment and supplies, carpet and energy conservation, capital improvements and utility computers to schools, homes for the elderly and rebates, for multiple years. These certifications help nonprofit organizations. In the Farnborough, United enhance our company’s reputation with clients seeking Kingdom office, all general waste goes to a wasteto identify, design and build green standards into their energy plant that converts waste into energy for its own facilities. customers. During renovations, furniture and materials % EN5, EN6, EN7, EN18 – Energy-efficiency activities are reused, as are low-emitting and recycled-content help us manage the amount of carbon emissions materials, where possible. Instead of complete generated at our global facilities. With approximately replacement, employees look for opportunities 8.7 million square feet of office space and associated to minimize waste while making our offices safer. land in 26 countries, voluntary and diverse For example, one facility ground uneven sidewalk conservation, energy-efficiency and green initiatives joints instead of replacing them, which reduced the are providing cost-effective solutions and contributing amount of concrete waste. Our ongoing initiative to significant value to the company. In 2012, we reduced promote double-sided printing resulted in savings of energy consumption by more than 11 million kilowattapproximately 6.2 million sheets of paper. Combined hours, or 1.3 kilowatt-hours per square foot. with the paper we recycled, we conserved more than 1,130 tons of paper in 2012. We achieved these reductions by integrating a variety of energy-efficiency and conservation best practices into Water conservation approached 700,000 gallons our everyday operations. Reduction approaches include through deployment of low flush valves, installation of energy-efficient appliances and office equipment for automatic faucet sensors and commodes, installation of both new office space and renovations; energy-efficient solar faucets, use of biodegradable cleanser, rainwater lighting; timed lighting and water heater systems; collection at facilities and reclamation of grey water for window tinting; reduction in office temperatures and irrigation at various facilities. lighting at night and on weekends; white roofs; and % EN5 – Our transportation-related initiatives include consolidation of servers. Energy audits were used to using energy-efficient vehicles, such as electric, hybrid determine the optimal areas for improvements. When and diesel models, as well as lighter/smaller vehicles renovations or replacements were scheduled, efficiency aimed at decreasing fuel consumption. Several offices was priority. For example, at the Greenville, South provide employee commuter and courier shuttles, Carolina, facility, two smaller high-efficiency boilers and encourage carpooling, telecommuting, bicycling replaced one larger boiler to allow staged operations, and other transportation programs to reduce which reduces natural gas usage. Fluor employees did environmental impact. their part by making behavioral changes like turning 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 26 Our Sustainability Advancements Benefit efficient design and planned LEED certification for the Our Clients new Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility. Sustainable % EN6 – In addition to our carbon footprint and construction management efforts include hazardous A Message from the conservation efforts, Fluor has proven experience in material and site remediation; storm water management; Chairman & CEO helping clients quickly achieve HSE compliance in the pollution prevention; and management of energy About the Company most cost-effective manner. Over the past three decades, consumption, emissions, building commissioning Fluor has delivered innovative solutions to help clients and waste. Sustainability features for operations and About the Report realize their sustainability goals. Fluor’s expertise in this maintenance include regenerative braking and interior arena is demonstrated in the following examples: environmental quality in the rolling stock. 2012 progress •W  ith Fluor acting as an advisor, Levi Strauss & Co. 2012 HSE Awards and Certifications report North American distribution centers reduced water % 2.10 – Fluor was honored with a number of external use by more than 10 percent, electrical use by 5 recognitions in 2012. Our sites and offices reported Ethics & Compliance percent and natural-gas use by more than 40 percent. external HSE recognition from clients, government Governance These 2012 results were highlighted in the Levi Strauss agencies and nongovernmental organizations. Corporate Climate Change Strategy Report. Employees & Workplace • T wo Fluor infrastructure projects were named to • Efforts in water and energy conservation at sites Roads & Bridges magazine’s Top 10 Roads list. The I-15 Health, Safety maintained by Fluor helped IBM Corporation realize Corridor Expansion project near Provo, Utah and the & Environment approximately 5 percent energy and cost reductions western extension of SH 161 President George Bush Community & Social in 2012. Turnpike in the Dallas/Fort Worth region received Service recognition reflecting significant safety success. • Suncor Energy MacKay River Oil Sands Project selected Fluor to provide project management and • F luor was the highest-ranking engineering, engineering services on its MacKay River Oil Sands procurement and construction management gri CONTENT index Project near Fort McMurray, Alberta, Canada. Fluor is company in Newsweek’s Green Ranking for publicly using its patent-pending innovative 3rd Gen Modular traded companies. Our ranking of number 100 for U.S. ExecutionSM approach, which maximizes work done in companies and number 190 for global companies a safe, controlled fabrication facility and significantly represents the emphasis that the company places on reduces the facility footprint. sustainability and environmental stewardship. • Fluor was selected by PNM Resources, Inc. to provide • T he American Society of Civil Engineers awarded the environmental-services upgrades at the San Juan Windsor-Essex Parkway in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, Generating Station in New Mexico. The upgrades are with their 2012 Sustainable Civil Engineering award. expected to provide one of the highest NOX removal Fluor is a member of the consortium responsible efficiencies in the country and will comply with the for finance, design, construction, operations and Environmental Protection Agency’s federal plan to maintenance of the parkway. address regional haze at the plant. • F luor’s Chayvo Expansion Project received ExxonMobil • T he I-495 Express Lanes in northern Virginia, designed Development Company’s President’s Safety, Security, and operated by a Fluor-led consortium, opened Health and Environment Award. ahead of schedule and with an excellent construction • F luor’s Moscow office received ExxonMobil safety record. The lanes relieve traffic congestion, Development Company’s Safe Contractor of the provide better access to key employer centers and Year Award. deliver the infrastructure needed to grow businesses and create additional jobs. With Fluor’s innovative • F luor in Richland, Washington, earned the Association design-build solutions, the project finished under of Washington Business 2012 Better Workplace Award budget and saved hundreds of homes that would as well as its fourth Star award in the U.S. Department have been impacted by the original plan. of Energy’s Voluntary Protection Program. • A s the managing partner for the Eagle P3 Project in • F luor’s Farnborough, United Kingdom, office received Denver, Colorado, Fluor is responsible for the design, the Engineering Construction Industry Association’s build, financing, operation and maintenance of nearly Safe Working Award as well as the Order of Distinction 40 miles of new commuter rail. The sustainability from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents program on this project addresses a diverse range for a minimum of 15 consecutive Gold Awards. of social, economic and environmental issues. These • F luor’s Plant Scherer and Plant McDonough include community outreach, regional procurement operations won Southern Company’s Triangle Award of materials, waste management including reduction for Safety. and recycling, energy efficient lighting and water 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 27 • T he Malaysian Society for Occupational Safety and • M ary Kay O’Conner Process Safety Center Health recognized Shell Hijau and Fluor’s operations (United States) for outstanding health, safety, security A Message from the • N ational Safety Council (United States) and environment (HSSE). Chairman & CEO • U .S. Green Building Council (United States) • Fluor’s Minera Escondida mine site received the About the Company National Safety Award from Minera Escondida • C onstruction Industry Institute’s Sustainability About the Report Limitada. Community of Practice (United States) • T he Kearl Oil Sands project was recognized by Imperial Supply Chain and Procurement Associations Oil for excellent safety performance, professionalism and Memberships 2012 progress report and demonstrated HSE culture. • C APS Research A number of Fluor facilities and projects were certified Ethics & Compliance • C onstruction Industry Institute or recertified by several entities. Governance • I nstitute for Supply Management • ICA Fluor, ISO 14001 Employees & Workplace • N ational Minority Supplier Development Council, • South Africa operations, ISO 14001 corporate member (United States) Health, Safety • Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk, Russia operations, ISO 14001 & Environment •W omen’s Business Enterprise National Council • Fluor United Kingdom operations, ISO 14001 (United States) Community & Social Service • GeneSys Telecommunications Ltd., ISO 14001 •W omen’s Enterprise Alliance Council, corporate committees (United States) • Fluor United Kingdom operations, Achilles Certificate of Assessment, Category B2 Assessment and • N ational Contract Management Association gri CONTENT index Registration on the UVDB Verify Assessment Database (United States) % 4.13 • E ngineering and Construction Contracting Association 2012 HSE Associations and Memberships (United States) • American Institute of Chemical Engineers, Center for • P rocurement Round Table (United States) Chemical Process Safety (United States) • H ouston Minority Supplier Diversity Council • American Society of Civil Engineers, Sustainable (United States) Engineering Certification Program (United States) • P roject Management Institute (United States) • BuildSafe South Africa (South Africa) • C ouncil of Supply Chain Management Professionals • International Organization for Standardization (ISO) (United States) 14001 and 14064 (Switzerland) • International Facility Management Association 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 28 A Message from the Community & Social Service Chairman & CEO About the Company Vibrant, growing communities – the building blocks of a strong global About the Report economy – are vital to the future success of our business. Fluor is working with stakeholders around the world to address challenges and advance the quality of life in the communities where we operate. 2012 progress report Our Management Approach Education Ethics & Compliance Robust communities drive demand for our services, Strong education systems, particularly in the disciplines provide an educated workforce and are home to a of science, technology, engineering and math (STEM), Governance network of skilled suppliers, contractors and other are essential to our ability to source and hire skilled Employees & Workplace business partners. Our management approach to employees in the future. Fluor supports higher building vibrant communities includes relationshipeducation and university STEM programs, as well as Health, Safety building initiatives with local community, nonprofit and those benefiting secondary grades. & Environment nongovernmental leaders, philanthropic programs and % EC1 – In 2012, Fluor made grants to American and Community & Social employee volunteerism. international universities that totaled more than Service We focus our philanthropic efforts in the areas of $1.3 million and invested $580,000 in new and education, social services, community and economic renewed scholarships for children of Fluor employees. development, and the environment. These four In partnership with nonprofit and nongovernmental gri CONTENT index areas align with our business priorities and leverage organizations, Fluor supported more than 106,000 our capabilities as a global engineering and hours of STEM training and enrichment to more than construction company. As a result of this alignment, 2,400 middle and high school students. our philanthropic efforts have a much greater positive impact on our communities. % EC1 – Fluor, its employees and the Fluor Foundation contributed more than $7.4 million in 2012 in financial support to philanthropic community initiatives and programs. Employees volunteered more than 31,000 Building Futures hours to community projects around the globe. Community Engagement For more than 11 years % 4.16, 4.17 – As part of our ongoing business process, we engage with our community stakeholders on a Fluor employees have project-by-project basis and through philanthropic donated backpacks filled and community programs and initiatives. We actively engage with diverse local suppliers and subcontractors with the basic tools and around the world on an ongoing basis and in accordance with project contracts. Connecting and forming supplies students need for partnerships with diverse businesses enables Fluor to learning as part of the serve its clients more effectively and align with local businesses and communities. Building Futures Project. In We establish relationships with community leaders, 2012, 19 Fluor sites donated nonprofit and nongovernmental organizations to identify specific needs and programs in communities more than $117,000 to where we have a presence. We engage regularly with provide school supplies to these community partners in a variety of ways including face-to-face meetings, conferences and employee more than 8,000 children participation on local boards and issue-specific campaigns. Fluor employees often act in their local around the world. communities as thought leaders on key issues such as the need for more rigorous education standards and system, as well as career pathways. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 29 Social Services Environment As a global company working in both developed and As an engineering and construction company, Fluor is underdeveloped countries, we strive to improve our sensitive to its impact on the environment and the need A Message from the communities through programs that meet basic human to preserve environmental resources. We manage our Chairman & CEO needs. Through partnerships with food banks, mealbusiness in a manner that is consistent with the United About the Company delivery services and other organizations in 2012, Fluor Nations Global Compact's Environmental Principles as is and its employees provided almost 400,000 meals to detailed in the Health, Safety & Environment section of About the Report those who were hungry. this report. Along with feeding the hungry, Fluor supports We also fulfill our commitment to responsible 2012 progress prevention programs and emergency services for stewardship of the environment through support of report individuals in crises. Last year, Fluor assisted 24,000 organizations that protect natural resources and habitats individuals by investing in community programs such as through conservation, restoration, beautification and Ethics & Compliance drug abuse counseling, immunizations for low-income environmental education. In 2012, Fluor supported Governance children, healthcare check-ups for the disadvantaged environmental initiatives such as shoreline cleanups, and emergency shelter for victims of domestic abuse. tree plantings and recycling drives. Through volunteer Employees & Workplace activities, Fluor employees recycled and disposed of % EC1 – In North America, Fluor and its employees Health, Safety more than 27 tons of litter and planted more than 4,500 support social services in local communities through & Environment trees, plants and shrubs. United Way. In the 2012-2013 North American United Community & Social Way campaign, the company and its employees Service donated $4.3 million, a 5.4 percent increase over 2011. Economic and Community Development Our Centennial Community Fund We support strong local economies and stable % EC8, EC9 – Fluor created the Centennial Community gri CONTENT index communities through a broad range of programs Fund in 2012 in celebration of the company’s 100th including those that build affordable housing and year. Ten community-involvement projects from around refurbish community-serving facilities, teach young the world were selected and each received $10,000. people life skills and support a diverse network of More than 1,500 employees volunteered more than businesses. 5,000 hours to help bring these projects to fruition and Through these initiatives in 2012, we achieved the improved nearly 45,000 lives. At year-end, two projects following: received “Best-in-Class” distinction and each received an additional $10,000. % EC8, EC9 – Helped build or refurbish 50 homes and facilities in communities across the globe Supporting the U.S. Military Supported life-skills enrichment Fluor is proud to serve the women and men of the armed forces at 50 forward operating bases in training for more than 1,900 young Afghanistan. Through our philanthropic efforts, we people around the world strive to make positive impacts in the lives of military personnel and their families. In 2012, Fluor supported % EC6 – Spent approximately $831 initiatives like Hiring Our Heroes to help veterans and million with small-, minorityand military spouses find meaningful employment; the Army Scholarship Foundation to support scholarships women-owned businesses, or for family members of service members; Homes for approximately 21 percent of the Our Troops to build homes for veterans that have given $4 billion spent with U.S.-based to our country and have returned home with serious injuries; and Hidden Wounds, Inc. to provide interim suppliers and subcontractors. and emergency counseling services to military veterans. Globally, Fluor spent approximately $14.7 billion with in-country suppliers and subcontractors, or approximately 75 percent of the $20 billion projectspend in 39 countries. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 30 2012 Community and Social Services Awards • U nited Way of Greater Houston: Top 100 in the Greater and Certifications Houston Area, No. 1 United Way Donor in Fort Bend % 2.10 – Fluor was honored with external recognition in County A Message from the 2012 for our community and social services efforts. Chairman & CEO • 2 011 2012 Orange County United Way Leadership • 2012 United Way of Calgary Workplace Campaign Giving Award About the Company President’s Award 2012 Associations and Memberships About the Report • 2012 United Way of Calgary Workplace Campaign % 4.13 – Listed below are the principal associations Engineering Challenge Award and initiatives in which Fluor is involved in the areas of Community & Social Service: 2012 progress • United Way of Greenville (South Carolina) County report Inaugural Spirit of Giving Award for Corporate • Center for Corporate Citizenship, Boston College, Leadership Carroll School of Management (United States) Ethics & Compliance • Change the Equation (United States) Governance Employees & Workplace Health, Safety & Environment Community & Social Service Fluor by the Numbers • More than 2,400 middle and high school students received more than gri CONTENT index 106,000 hours of STEM academic training or enrichment through a variety of Fluor community-partner investments. • Fluor and its employees provided nearly 400,000 meals via participation in feeding programs and meal-delivery organizations. • As a result of Fluor investments, more than 24,000 individuals received preventive and emergency services including drug-abuse counseling, immunizations for low-income children, health care check-ups for the disadvantaged and emergency shelter for those at risk of domestic abuse. • Fluor and its employees contributed to the building or refurbishment of nearly 50 homes and other facilities. • More than 1,900 young people received life-skills enrichment training as a result of Fluor's support of youth-serving organizations and initiatives. • Fluor employees recycled and disposed of more than 27 tons of litter and beautified and restored our communities by planting more than 4,500 trees, flowers and shrubs. • Fluor helped provide more than 3,500 individuals with environmental education, totaling more than 14,000 hours. • Fluor employees volunteered more than 31,000 hours to community projects around the globe. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 31 GRI Content Index The GRI Reporting Framework advises that companies self-declare a report application level.” By self-declaration, Fluor’s 2012 report meets the criteria for application level “B.” Application levels of “A,” “B” and “C” define the amount of GRI standard disclosures that a reporting organization addresses in its sustainability report. According to the GRI, application levels reflect a degree of transparency, as opposed to a sustainability performance grade. For a full explanation of the GRI guidelines, visit globalreporting.org. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 32 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Strategy and profile disclosures 1. strategy & analysis A Message from the Chairman & CEO 1.1 Statement from the most senior A Message from the Chairman & CEO. decision maker of the organization About the Company about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. About the Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, A Message from the Chairman & CEO. and opportunities. 2012 progress 2. organizational profile report 2.1 Name of the organization. Fluor Corporation Ethics & Compliance 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or About the Company, pages 5–6. Governance services. Employees & Workplace 2.3 Operational structure of the About the Company, pages 5–6. organization, including main Health, Safety divisions, operating companies, & Environment subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Community & Social 2.4 Location of organization’s About the Company, page 5. Service headquarters. 2.5 Number of countries where the See Item 2, page 26 of Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at organization operates, and names investor.fluor.com. of countries with either major gri CONTENT index operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Details regarding Fluor’s ownership are available on page 1 and Exhibit 21 of Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at investor.fluor.com. A listing of Fluor’s subsidiaries is included in Exhibit 21 of Fluor’s Form 10-K, available at investor.fluor.com. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic See pages 1-11 of Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at breakdown, sectors served, and types investor.fluor.com. of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. About the Company, pages 6-7. 2.9 Significant changes during the About the Company, page 7. reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting About the Company, page 7. period. Ethics & Compliance, page 15. Employees & Workplace, page 21. Health, Safety & Environment, page 27. Community & Social Service, page 31. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 33 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Strategy and profile disclosures 3. report parameters: Repor t Profile A Message from the Chairman & CEO 3.1 Reporting period for information About the Report, page 9. provided. About the Company 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 2011 Fluor Sustainability Report. About the Report About the Report, page 10. 3.3 Reporting cycle. About the Report, page 10. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding About the Report, page 10. 2012 progress the report or its contents. report 3. report parameters: Repor t Scope & Boundar y Ethics & Compliance 3.5 Process for defining report content. About the Report, page 9. Governance 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., About the Report, page 9. Employees & Workplace countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, Health, Safety suppliers). & Environment 3.7 State any specific limitations on the About the Report, page 10. Community & Social scope or boundary of the report. Service 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, See Exhibit 21 of Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at subsidiaries, leased facilities, investor.fluor.com. outsourced operations, and other gri CONTENT index entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and About the Report, page 10. the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any reAbout the Report, page 9. statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statements. 3.11 Significant changes from previous About the Report, page 9. reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3. report parameters: GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the GRI Content Index. Standard Disclosures in the report. 3. report parameters: Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with About the Report, page 10. regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 34 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Strategy and profile disclosures 4. Governance, Commitments, and E ngagement: Governance A Message from the Chairman & CEO 4.1 Governance structure of the Governance, page 16. organization, including committees See pages 12-16 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at About the Company under the highest governance body investor.fluor.com. responsible for specific tasks, such About the Report as setting strategy or organizational For a discussion of the Board’s role in risk oversight, see page 11 of oversight. Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at investor.fluor.com. Additional information on Fluor’s Corporate Governance Guidelines and committee charters is available on our website. 2012 progress report 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the See pages 11-12 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at Ethics & Compliance highest governance body is also an investor.fluor.com. executive officer (and, if so, his/her Governance function within the organization’s management and the reasons for Employees & Workplace this arrangement). Health, Safety & Environment 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary See pages 9-10 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at board structure, state the number of investor.fluor.com. Community & Social members of the highest governance Service body that are independent and/or non-executive members. gri CONTENT index 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders See pages 17, 18 and 85 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at and employees to provide investor.fluor.com. recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Governance, page 16. members of the highest governance See pages 21-58 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at body, senior managers, and investor.fluor.com. executives (including departure Fluor does not report on compensation for all senior managers, arrangements), and the organization’s but only certain executives as required by the proxy rules. performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Governance, page 16. governance body to ensure conflicts See pages 17-18 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at of interest are avoided. investor.fluor.com. Fluor’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the company’s website. 4.7 Process for determining the See page 16 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at qualifications and expertise of the investor.fluor.com. members of the highest governance A description of our directors’ qualifications can be found on pages 2-8 body for guiding the organization’s of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at investor.fluor.com. strategy on economic, environmental, Fluor does not separately consider the board’s qualifications with and social topics. regard to social and environmental topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements Ethics & Compliance, page 14. of mission or values, codes of Fluor’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is available on the conduct, and principles relevant to company’s website. economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 35 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Strategy and profile disclosures 4. Governance, Commitments, and E ngagement: Governance (continued) A Message from the Chairman & CEO 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Ethics & Compliance, page 14. body for overseeing the organization’s See page 11 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at About the Company identification and management of investor.fluor.com. economic, environmental, and social About the Report performance, including relevant risks Fluor does not have a board committee that specifically oversees and opportunities, and adherence environmental and social performance. or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, 2012 progress and principles. report Ethics & Compliance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest See page 12 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at governance body’s own performance, investor.fluor.com. Governance particularly with respect to The Board’s performance with respect to environmental and social economic, environmental, and social performance/issues is not separately evaluated. Employees & Workplace performance. Health, Safety & Environment 4. Governance, Commitments, and E ngagement: Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Does not apply. As a service provider, Fluor does not manufacture or Community & Social precautionary approach or principle sell products. Service is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Employees & Workplace, page 15. gri CONTENT index environmental, and social charters, Health, Safety & Environment, page 25. principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations (such About the Company, page 8. as industry associations) and/or Ethics & Compliance, page 15. national/international advocacy Employees & Workplace, page 21. organizations. Health, Safety & Environment, page 28. Community & Social Service, page 31. 4. Governance, Commitments, and E ngagement: Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged About the Company, page 8. by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection About the Company, page 8. of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.16 – Approaches to stakeholder Ethics & Compliance, page 12. 4.17 engagement, including frequency Governance, page 16. of engagement by type and by Employees & Workplace, page 17. stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised Health, Safety & Environment, page 22. through stakeholder engagement, Community & Social Service, page 29. and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 36 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Performance Indicators 1. environmental: Materials A Message from the Chairman & CEO EN3 Direct energy consumption by Health, Safety & Environment, page 26. primary energy source. About the Company EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Health, Safety & Environment, page 26. About the Report primary source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation Health, Safety & Environment, page 26. 2012 progress and efficiency improvements. report Ethics & Compliance EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient Health, Safety & Environment, pages 26–27. or renewable energy-based products Governance and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of Employees & Workplace these initiatives. Health, Safety & Environment EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Health, Safety & Environment, page 26. consumption and reductions Community & Social achieved. Service 1. environmental: Emissions, Effluents, & Waste gri CONTENT index EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Health, Safety & Environment, pages 24–25. gas emissions by weight. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Health, Safety & Environment, page 26. emissions and reductions achieved. EN23 Total number and volume of Health, Safety & Environment, page 24. significant spills. 1. environmental: Products & Ser vices EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Health, Safety & Environment, page 23. impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 1. environmental: Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines Health, Safety & Environment, page 24. and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 2. HU MA N R IGHTS: Investment & Procurement Practices HR3 Total hours of employee training on Employees & Workplace, page 18. policies and procedures concerning Complete data are not available. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 2. HU MA N R IGHTS: Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which Employees & Workplace, page 18. the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 37 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Performance Indicators 3. LA BO R practices and decent work : Employment A Message from the Chairman & CEO LA1 Total workforce by employment type, About the Company, page 7. employment contract, and region. Employees & Workplace, page 18. About the Company Complete data are not available for employment type and About the Report employment contract. 3. LA BO R practices and decent work : Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Employees & Workplace, page 18. 2012 progress collective bargaining agreements. report 3. LA BO R practices and decent work : Occupational Health & Safety Ethics & Compliance LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, Health, Safety & Environment, page 23. Governance lost days, and absenteeism, and number Fluor does not report this information by region. of work-related fatalities by region. Employees & Workplace LA8 Education, training, counseling, Health, Safety & Environment, page 24. Health, Safety prevention, and risk-control programs & Environment in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members Community & Social regarding serious diseases. Service LA9 Health and safety topics covered in Health, Safety & Environment, page 24. formal agreements with trade unions. gri CONTENT index 3. LA BO R practices and decent work : Training & Education LA11 Programs for skills management Employees & Workplace, page 20. and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Employees & Workplace, page 20. regular performance and career Complete data by gender are not available. development reviews, by gender. 3. LA BO R practices and decent work : Diversity & Equal Oppor tunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies Fluor considers his information confidential and proprietary. and breakdown of employees per For biographical information on Fluor’s Board of Directors, see pages category according to gender, age 2-8 of Fluor’s 2013 Proxy Statement, available at group, minority group membership, investor.fluor.com. and other indicators of diversity. Employees & Workplace, page 18. About the Company, page 7. Governance, page 16. 4. S O C IE T Y: Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Ethics & Compliance, page 13. business units analyzed for risks Data are not collected. related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained Ethics & Compliance, page 14. in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to Ethics & Compliance, pages 14–15. incidents of corruption. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 38 GRI Index GRI GRI Fluor Level of indicator definition comments & cross-reference disclosure Performance Indicators 5. PRODUC T RESPONSIBILIT Y: Customer Health & Safety A Message from the Chairman & CEO PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Health, Safety & Environment, page 23. and safety impacts of products About the Company and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of About the Report significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 2012 progress report 6. ECONOMIC: Economic Per formance Ethics & Compliance EC1 Direct economic value generated Fluor provides financial information, including revenues, cost of and distributed, including revenues, revenues, cost of capital (including interest expense and dividends to Governance operating costs, employee shareholders), corporate general and administrative costs (including compensation, donations and other compensation costs) and retained earnings, in its quarterly and annual Employees & Workplace community investments, retained filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. For full-year earnings, and payments to capital 2012 financial information, see Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at Health, Safety providers and governments. investor.fluor.com. & Environment Community & Social Service, pages 29–30. Community & Social Ethics & Compliance, page 13. Service EC2 Financial implications and other See page 24 of Fluor’s 2012 Form 10-K, available at risks and opportunities for the investor.fluor.com. gri CONTENT index organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s Employees & Workplace, page 19. defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance About the Company, page 6. received from government. 6. ECONOMIC: Market Presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of Community & Social Service, page 30. spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6. ECONOMIC: Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of Community & Social Service, page 30. infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing Community & Social Service, page 30. significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Full disclosure Partial disclosure Not applicable 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 39 3rd Gen Modular Execution is a service mark of Fluor. BREEAM is a registered service mark of the BRE Group. Energy Star is a joint program of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the U.S. Department of Energy. Fluor and Fluor University are registered service marks of Fluor Corporation. GROW (Growing Representation and Opportunity for Women) and MS20 (Managing Safety to Zero) are service marks of Fluor. LEED is a registered trademark of U.S. Green Building Council. United Way is a registered service mark of United Way Worldwide. Fluor Corporation 6700 Las Colinas Boulevard Irving, Texas 75039 fluor.com ©2013 Fluor. All Rights Reserved.
