July 10, 2013 H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, It is with great pleasure that GIA (Gemological Institute of America) confirms our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in regard to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. GIA is dedicated to ensuring the public trust in gems and jewelry by upholding the highest standards of integrity, academics, science and professionalism through education, research, laboratory services and instrument development. Engagement with the Global Compact and documenting how we promote the value and diversity of each individual; protect the health and safety of our employees, students, customers, environment and communities in which we operate; and oppose corruption in all forms is an integral part of our effort to successfully carry out our public benefit mission. This Communication on Progress (COP) describes the efforts GIA has taken thus far to implement and support the principles of the Global Compact within our sphere of influence. Sincerely, Susan Jacques Chair of the GIA Board of Governors GIA’s Commitment to the U.N. Global Compact July 10, 2013 GIA is committed to respecting the value, the fundamental human rights, and the dignity of each individual and we celebrate the diversity of our staff and constituents. We treat people fairly and equitably, including:  Equitable employment opportunities;  Compensation and benefit programs that meet or exceed legal requirements;  High standards of health and safety for our employees and constituents;  rd Direct employee access via 3 party service (multi-lingual support, toll-free access, and 24/7 availability) to senior management and the Board of Governors for employee concerns and to all reports by the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Governors, and,  Education and support for several communities in which we operate. GIA supports freedom of association for all staff, including the right to individually and collectively express, promote, pursue and defend common interests. In addition, GIA categorically rejects and prohibits forced, compulsory labor and child labor as diametrically opposed to the value and dignity GIA accords all individuals and communities. GIA strictly adheres to the governing laws and best practices in these areas, including:  That employees are free to terminate their employment at any time;  Compensation, benefit packages, rest and meal breaks that meet or exceed legal requirements in all locations in which the Institute operates;  A minimum hiring age of 18 or as otherwise permitted by law. GIA ensures that employment decisions, including hiring, promotion, compensation, and tenure are founded on equal treatment and fairness, and are not influenced by, or based in any way upon race, religion, color, national origin, gender, age, disability, veteran status, marital status, sexual orientation and any other classification protected by law. GIA is committed to protecting the health and safety of our employees, students, customers, environment, and communities in which we operate. GIA’s Safety, Health, and Environmental policy is implemented through the following strategic and operational guiding principles:  Compliance with global, national, state, and local statutes, regulations, standards and guidelines protecting safety, health, and the environment.  In the absence of laws and regulations, or where they are inadequate for our operations, we apply sound management practices according to prevailing international standards. GIA values and respects our local and global environment. By promoting sustainable operational practices whenever possible, we seek to reduce waste in our facilities and to abide by environmental safety standards in our global communities. GIA strives to use its resources efficiently to meet the needs of its employees and customers, while operating in a manner that is environmentally and socially responsible and economically sound. GIA’s Sustainable Business Principles are:  We choose energy-efficient, environmentally responsible products and services when possible.  We reduce waste through recycling where local laws will permit, and handle or dispose of waste using responsible and safe methods and in accordance with applicable laws.  We establish energy management systems in our owned facilities and incorporate environmentally safe and sustainable energy sources.  We support and encourage activities that promote sustainable business practices and environmental protection. GIA is governed by a strict global anti-corruption policy. We do not tolerate corruption in any form, including the bribery of government officials and inducements offered to others. GIA conducts internal audits, and engages an independent third party to conduct external audits of our global laboratory locations addressing:  Bribery and facilitation payments  Business partners  Child labor  Community engagement and development  Discipline and grievance procedures  Discrimination  Environmental protection  Forced labor  Freedom of association  General employment terms  Hazardous substances  Health and safety  Hours of work  Human rights  Legal compliance  Remuneration  Use of energy and natural resources  Waste and emissions During and between these audits, we review policies applicable to the areas listed above and ensure that adequate training has been delivered to help ensure all staff follow the policies and procedures. When we are onsite, we review all areas for health and safety compliance and we meet with staff in various areas to confirm that they are aware of GIA’s policies and procedures. Should any infractions arise during these audits, they are documented for immediate corrective and future preventive action. As warranted, the results of these audits are presented to GIA’s president and CEO for review. GIA’s Global Code of Conduct, which is available on our website, is periodically updated and signed by employees globally.
