Sri Lanka Caring Commitment Renewed Annual Review 2012 Our Core Values We are Christian We are Responsive We are Partners We are Stewards We Value People We are Committed to the Poor World Vision Sri Lanka 1 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed Children by their very nature are the most vulnerable group in society and yet they are also the future of our country. All across our island, we see children in urgent need of the most basic requirements of life – food, water, sanitation, healthcare, education and love. At World Vision we are passionate about children and committed to bringing fullness of life to the most vulnerable and disadvantaged. Every day for thirty five years, that is what our team at World Vision has been doing. Even as we mark another milestone in our journey of Caring Commitment, we renew our pledge to continue to care for the children of Sri Lanka. World Vision Sri Lanka 2 Annual Review 2012 Our vision for every child, life in all its fullness; Our prayer for every heart, the will to make it so. World Vision Sri Lanka 3 Annual Review 2012 Contents Message from the Chairman of the Board 4 Board of Directors 5 Message from National Director 6 Accountability and Transparency 8 Structure and Governance 9 World Vision’s Presence In Sri Lanka 10 Our Work 11 Caring Commitment Renewed 12 Sector Review 23-32 Education 24 Economic Development 26 Water and Sanitation 28 Health and Nutrition 30 Special Initiatives 33-34 REMIND Healing for brokenness 34 RIWASH Water as a connector for feuding communities 36 Sustainable Agriculture The Growing Oasis... 38 LIFT Livelihood Intervention For Transformation 40 Sustainability Reporting 42-53 Our Commitment to Sustainability 43 Sustainability Report 44 GRI Compliance 47 Child Well Being Report 54-64 Financial Review 65-83 Independent Auditors’ Report 66 Statement of financial activities 68 Balance sheet 69 Statement of changes in accumulated fund Cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements 72 Financial Highlight 84 Statistics 84 Corporate Information 85 Executive Summary Sinhala 86 Executive Summary Tamil 88 World Vision Sri Lanka 4 Annual Review 2012 Message from the Chairman of the Board It is with great pleasure that I write this message for the Annual Review in respect of the year ended 30th September 2012. During this period, World Vision Lanka commemorated 35 years of service for the children and communities of Sri Lanka. We continued to reach out to the poorest and most vulnerable communities that are under-served and in need of assistance towards creating a full and enduring life for all our children and the communities they live in. The highlight of the year was no doubt the commemoration of the 35th anniversary of our work in Sri Lanka in our journey of caring commitment for the children. This Journey has been a challenging and enriching experience and our programmes have impacted the lives of many thousands of children all across the country. I have personally witnessed and have been heartened to see our programmes rebuilding hope and helping to improve livelihoods for a sustainable future for some of the most vulnerable communities. We continued to build on engaging other stakeholders who also wish to make a difference in our communities. Our collaboration and partnerships with several leading private and public sector institutions over the last year have been very encouraging. This year too, we re-iterate our ongoing commitment towards sustainability reporting. In doing so we firmly believe that we can communicate our progress transparently and more effectively to our key audiences and challenge ourselves to serve in a sustainable way. “ We continued to reach I salute my colleagues on the Board who tirelessly serve with passion and deep out to the poorest and most commitment, contributing their time, experience and knowledge to enhance the vulnerable communities value of our programmes and wish the incoming Chair, Marina Tharmaratnam, that are under-served and in God’s richest blessings in her leadership. need of assistance towards Our National Director Suresh Bartlett and his team and the entire staff have creating a full and enduring done an extremely commendable job and I wish to record the Board’s sincere life for all our children and the appreciation of their efforts. communities they live in.” Ravi Algama Board Chair World Vision Sri Lanka 5 Annual Review 2012 Board of Directors Ravindra Algama Sunil Wijesinghe Ravindra Algama is an Attorneyat-Law and has Sunil Wijesinghe is an engineer by profession and an independent practice in Colombo. He is also is currently the Deputy Chairman of the Bartleet the co-founder of the Environmental Foundation Group of companies and is the Managing limited. He has served on the Board of World Director of BC Computers. He hasserved on the Vision Lanka since 1996 and has been the Board board of World Vision Lanka since1996. He also Chair since 2006. serves as director on the Board of Vision Fund Lanka since 2004. Ravindra Fernando Marina Tharmaratnam Ravindra Fernando holds a MBA from the Marina Tharmaratnam was the Chief Executive University of Colombo and is a Fellow of the Officer/ Director of Union Assurance from Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). He is the 2003 to 2009. She is a Chartered Accountant Operations Director at Malaysian Blue Ocean and a member of the Certified Management Strategy A guest lecturer at INSEAD(France) Accountants (Sri Lanka).She has been a member and member of several corporate Boards. He of the World Vision Lanka Board from 2003 and has been a member of the WorldVision Lanka has also served on the Board of Vision Fund Lanka Board from 2000. from 2004. Dr.Mrs. Sylvanthi Ariadurai Rt Rev Dhiloraj Canagasabey Dr. Mrs. Sylvanthi Ariadurai is a Medical Doctor Rt Rev Dhiloraj Canagasabey is the Bishop of employed at Lady Ridgeway’s Hospital for the Colombo Diocese of the Church of Ceylon. Children in Colombo. Dr Ariadurai is a Bachelor He was previously the Archdeacon of Nuwara of Medicine and Bachelor of Surgery (MBBS) and Eliya. He has been a member of the World Vision an MD (Anaesthesiology). She has served on the Lanka Board from 2007. board of World Vision Lanka since 2003. Suzette de Alwis Roshan Perera Suzette de Alwis is the co-founder of MA’S Roshan Perera is a Senior Economist at the Tropical Food Processing (Pvt) Ltd, suppliers of Central Bank of Sri Lanka. She holds Phd in spices condiments and sophisticated processed Economics from the University of Melbourne, food market for local and global markets. She has Australia. She is also Passed Finalist of the served on the Board of World Vision Lanka since Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 2007. (CIMA). She joined the Board of World Vision Lanka in 2010. Kevin Jenkins Trihadi Saptoadi President – World Vision International(Ex-officio Regional Leader World Vision South Asia and Member) Kevin Jenkins became President and Chief Pacific Region and ex-officio Board member. Executive Officer of World Vision International Saptoadi has a Master of Business Administration in October 2009. He previously served the (International Management) from IPMI and organisation as a sponsor, volunteer, fund-raiser and Mount Eliza Business School Monash University, Board member with World Vision Canada. Jenkins Melbourne. Former National Director of World holds a MBA from Harvard Business School. Vision International Indonesia (WVI) 2006-10. Suresh Bartlett National Director of World Vision Lanka and ex-officio Board member, Chairman Vision Fund Lanka. Suresh Bartlett has extensive experience in business, finance, international development, program and project management leading and managing organisations in the corporate and non-profit sectors. He is qualified in Finance and Management (UK & Australia) World Vision Sri Lanka 6 Annual Review 2012 Message from National Director The year 2012 was of special significance to World Vision Lanka (WVL) as it marked the completion of 35 years of its work in Sri Lanka. A special highlight was the opportunity provided to us to host the World Vision International (WVI) Board Meeting and showcase the work accomplished in Sri Lanka to the President and members of the International Board. We recorded an overall growth in all our programmes across the country and were able to expand our reach to some new geographical areas. The success of some of our special initiatives and the opportunity to replicate them in other locations was especially noteworthy. During the year we marked the completion of three of our 15-year Area Development Programmes (ADP) in Kebithigollewa, Sevanagala and Wanathawilluwa after an enriching journey in partnership with the communities. In all three ADPs we left behind fully empowered communities who now have ownership of their future development and sustainability. The changes we accomplished in these ADPs was especially heartening. Most families now have access to clean drinking water, children are now back in school and enjoying better health and nutrition. Children also have a space for their talents and voice and families have better housing and sustainable livelihoods. Even as we transitioned from three ADPs we were able to commence two new ones in Welikanda and Lindula. The Area Rehabilitation Programmes (ARP) in the “ We were also encouraged conflict affected areas of Chankanai and Chavakachcheri in the North and Vaharai by the success of two of and Trincomalee in the East, will also be now transitioned to ADPs. our special projects – the Rural Integrated Water and We were also encouraged by the success of two of our initiatives – the Rural Sanitation project (RIWASH) Integrated Water and Sanitation project (RIWASH) and the ‘Reconciliation and the ‘Reconciliation Through Mental Health in the Northern Districts’ (REMIND)project. Through Mental Health in the This year too we continue with our commitment to sustainability reporting. Northern Districts’ (REMIND) In addition to providing crucial transparency and accountability measures, project.” sustainability reporting also helps organisations improve internal processes, engage stakeholders and persuade investors.The key drivers for the quality of sustainability reports are the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and we continue to benchmark our reports against these rankings. A new feature in our report is the special section on Child Well Being aspirations and our efforts at having standardized indicators and baselines for measuring our performance and tracking progress. We are able to demonstrate evidence-based impacts which is truly ground breaking in many respects. World Vision Sri Lanka 7 Annual Review 2012 Our sincere gratitude is due to all our donors, sponsors, local and international partners, Government Ministries, local authorities and other stakeholders as well “ In all three ADPs we left as the communities we serve for all their support and encouragement. behind fully empowered communities who now Our staff deserves a special tribute for the high quality team effort they put in to have ownership of their organize all the events in connection with the visit of the WVI Board and for their future development and continued work in the respective programmes – often going the extra mile to sustainability.The changes we ensure that all details were in place. had made in these ADPs was especially heartening. Most Our Board Chair and the Board members continued to be a source of strength and guidance throughout the year. They also participated in many joint activities with families now have access to our staff and also took time to visit our programmes in the field and encourage clean drinking water, children and motivate our staff and the communities we serve. Their close engagement are now back in school and with us and their support and advice is deeply appreciated. enjoying better health and nutrition. Children also have a space for their talents and voice and families have better housing and sustainable Suresh Bartlett livelihoods.” National Director World Vision Lanka World Vision Sri Lanka 8 Annual Review 2012 Accountability and Transparency In compiling this Review World Vision Lanka has made an intentional effort to move towards greater accountability and transparency. Strong accountability mechanisms are crucial for our organizational sustainability. Without the trust of our stakeholders we cannot fulfill our Mission. By holding ourselves “accountable”, we demonstrate that we are worthy of this trust. This report contains a special section on Child Well Being aspirations and our efforts at having standardized internationally accepted indicators and baselines for measuring our performance and tracking progress. We are able to demonstrate evidence-based impacts and make corrections where necessary. World Vision Lanka is accountable to: • The children and communities we serve – without accountability to our primary stakeholders our efforts to alleviate poverty and address injustice are less likely to be realised and our legitimacy and credibility to act and speak out on such issues will be undermined. • Our donors and partners – without accountability to the individual donors and partner organisations who support our work and also those we seek to engage (i.e. the government, public and private sector partners), our reputation and opportunity for continued support may be reduced. • Our partners and peers – without accountability to the World Vision partner poverty alleviation would be limited. Strong accountability mechanisms are crucial • Our regulators – without accountability to those who help to ensure that we do our work properly and who shape our legal operating environment our for our organisational credibility would not be strengthened. sustainability. Without the trust of our stakeholders • Our people – without accountability to our staff and volunteers, our operational capacity and integrity may be eroded. Mission. By holding ourselves “accountable”, we The provision of information on our activities, our performance and our demonstrate that we are operations in this Annual Review is one of the ways in which we seek to satisfy worthy of this trust. our accountability obligations. Reporting period: This Annual Review covers our activities and performance for the period 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012, in alignment with the World Vision International’s The information included in the report has been determined through consultation with World Vision Lanka staff and reviewed by the Senior Management.The report has been prepared in accordance with the Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Accountants of Sri Lanka and informed by the Global Reporting Initiative’s reporting guidelines and NGO Sector Supplement. World Vision Sri Lanka 9 Annual Review 2012 Structure and Governance World Vision Lanka is part of the World Vision International Partnership which is made up of over 90 offices worldwide, most of which are governed by local boards or advisory councils. By signing the World Vision International Covenant of Partnership, each partner agrees to abide by common policies and standards. World Vision Lanka applies the policies and standards of the World Vision International Partnership in accordance with the local context. While it is a member of the World Vision International Partnership, World Vision Lanka is also a distinct legal entity with its own Board of Directors whose role is to provide overall direction and guidance of World Vision Lanka as well as its participation in Partnership processes. The Board is also involved is the strategic planning and approval of the overall country strategy. The internal accountability of offices within the Partnership is managed through a range of audit, review and quality assurance processes at the country and programme levels, to ensure alignment and compliance with World Vision principles and policies. At the Partnership level, three major internal reviews are scheduled for each office.These are generally carried out by World Vision staff once every three years: Peer Reviews Peer Reviews assess the governance of local offices and the effectiveness and alignment of local Boards and Advisory Councils. The reviews include both a selfThe internal accountability of assessment by the office and an independent assessment by a small team from offices within the Partnership across World Vision. is managed through a range of audit, review and quality Programme Capability Reviews assurance processes at the These reviews ensure that sufficient programming capabilities exist to enable the country and programme achievement of strategic objectives, and that the proper relationship between levels, to ensure alignment implementing offices and fund raising offices has been established. The reviews and compliance with World include both a self-assessment by the office and an independent assessment by a Vision principles and policies. small team from across World Vision. Operational and Finance Audits These are risk based reviews carried out by World Vision’s internal audit teams.The audits are focused on all areas of national office and field operations, programme quality and effectiveness, compliance with regulations, policies, procedures and standards in addition to examining the integrity of the organisation’s finances. All of the above reviews have taken place at World Vision Lanka and acceptable oraligned ratings have been received for each of them. World Vision Sri Lanka 10 Annual Review 2012 World Vision’s Presence In Sri Lanka Programme Locations Chankanai Area Development Programme (ADP) Jaffna Chavakachcheri Area Rehabilitation Programme (ARP) Street Children’s Project Kilinochchi Humanitarian & Emergency Affairs Project (HEA) Kilinochchi Mullaitivu Completed ADP Mullaitivu Mannar Mannar Vavuniya Vavuniya Kebethigollewa Trincomalee Horowpothana Anuradhapura Kalpitiya Wanathawilluwa Trinco South Galenbidunuwewa Nawagaththegama Vaharai Polonnaruwa Mundalama Giribawa Mahakubukkadawela Koralai Pattu Ehetuwewa Welikanda Batticaloa Puttalam Kiran Eravur Pattu Matale Vellaveli Kurunegala Kotavehera Willgamuwa Paddiplai Wennappuwa Naavithanvelly Kandy Padiyathalawa Rideegama Kandy Rideemaliyadda Negombo Ampara Gampaha Ganga Ihala Korale Walapane Kegalle Badulla Bibile Wattala Nuwara Eliya Pathana Mattakkuliya Lindula Nuwara Eliya Lunugala Dehiwela Colombo Monaragala Bogawanthalawa Ambagamuwa Pottuvil Meegahakiula Kalutara Ratnapura Sevanagala Thanamalvila Neluwa Galle Lunugamvehera Weeraketiya Hambantota Matara World Vision Sri Lanka 11 Annual Review 2012 Our Work A distinctive feature of World Vision’s work is its long-term approach toward sustainable development. World Vision selects the most under-developed and poorest regions in the country and establishes its Area Development Programmes (ADPs) at these locations. The ADPs have a life span of approximately 12-15 years and are initiated in clearly defined geographical clusters of rural or urban communities, with populations ranging from 10,000 to 100,000 people. ADPs serve the communities by equipping them to envision, plan, implement, monitor and evaluate the programmes in an interdependent relationship with local governments and other stakeholders. World Vision provides technical support, funding and expertise for these programmes. Most ADPs have a balance of activities in four key focus sectors education,economic development, health and nutrition, and water and sanitation. Cross-cutting themes of gender, environment, disability, HIV/AIDS, child protection, conflict sensitivity etc are intentionally interwoven into all our programmes to enhance their effectiveness and add value to our work in the focus sectors. The grassroots community programming compels ADP teams to build stronger coalitions with community-based organizations, civil society, government, and nongovernment development organizations. Children are always at the heart of our work and our response and focus is especially aligned to the wellbeing and empowerment of children, their families and their communities. World Vision’s 41 development programmes operate in over We focus on children because they are the best indicator of a community’s social 1000 villages in 20 Districts health. When children are fed, sheltered, schooled, protected, valued and loved, a community thrives. spread across Sri Lanka. We believe it is crucial to provide The development programmes can sometimes be interrupted and face setbacks special protection for children due to both natural and man-made disasters. Therefore, ADPs also integrate during emergencies as they processes such as disaster mitigation and disaster risk reduction that enhance are often prone to neglect stability and help build more peaceful and resilient communities. and abuse. Our projects focus World Vision’s 41 development programmes operate in over 1000 villages in on child protection, health 20 Districts spread across Sri Lanka. We believe it is crucial to provide special and nutrition, water and protection for children during emergencies as they are often prone to neglect sanitation, livelihood recovery, and abuse. Our projects focus on child protection, health and nutrition, water and and community based disaster sanitation, livelihood recovery, and community based disaster management. management. Working in coordination with the government and other organizations, the Humanitarian Emergency Affairs team covers a variety of activities from relief responses that meet the urgent and basic needs of affected populations to long term responses that would ensure lives returned to normalcy. World Vision uses persuasion, dialogue and reason to advocate for changes that will positively impact people’s quality of life and addresses the root causes of poverty. Often these actions involve changing the hearts and minds of people from the policy makers to members of the community. World Vision Sri Lanka 12 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed The last year marked a watershed in the work of World Vision in Sri Lanka as the organization completed 35 years of caring commitment to the children of Sri Lanka with a strong renewal of the pledge to strive to bring fullness of life to every child. Right throughout all our programmes in every district in the country we were pleased to note the impacts of our work reflected in the improved lives of the children and the communities we serve. Children now have access to education, enjoy improved water supply and sanitation facilities and have access to better healthcare. They are also now intentionally cared for and protected and are more involved in decisions that affect their lives. During the year we completed our 15-year development programmes in three areas – Kebithigollewa, Sevanagala and Wanathawilluwa and left behind empowered communities with access to sustainable livelihoods who are now able to fend for themselves and continue their development. Much of our work was focused once again on the caring and support for the conflict affected communities in the North and the East who have now been resettled in their homes but are in desperate need of support as they strive to rebuild their lives. Even as we assisted the families to set up sustainable livelihoods we also focused on the children in the communities and set out to ensure that all their requirements in health and education were addressed. World Vision implemented the Participatory Nutrition Improvement Project (PNIP) targeting pre-school children in the post-war Kilinochchi district. The effects of war, including its impact on livelihoods, have contributed to chronic malnutrition, infirmity and injury, poor access to healthcare and education were just some of the many issues faced by the children. The PNIP programme fed an average of 3,100 children at 87 pre-schools in the Karachchi division with nutritious meals including samaposha, rice, green gram and chick peas throughout 2012. The project was instrumental in improving school attendance and children’s participation in classroom activities. WorldVision also conducted several other projects to ensure sustainability and progressive development of communities and children. Through its education-specific relief projects, WVL assisted the children of Killinochchi and Mullaitivu districts by constructing five new pre-schools and renovating six others. WVL also assisted the training of pre-school teachers, providing learning kits, awareness on children rights in schools and support to primary and secondary school students who are lagging behind in their studies. More than 50,000 students throughout the North have benefitted from these projects. World Vision has also integrated principles of disaster risk reduction into its programmes, including hazard management, community resilience in post-disaster contexts, and working with communities (CBOs in particular) to ensure sustainability without dependence on external sources. One of the encouraging aspects has been the amazing work achieved in the crucial area of mental health. The ‘Reconciliation Through Mental Health in the Northern Districts’ (REMIND) project which was launched in October 2010 by World Vision in partnership with AusAid, the Ministry of Health (MOH), and the College of Psychiatrists and has had great success in its endeavor to improve the mental health and well-being of communities in the northern province of Sri Lanka. People living in northern Sri Lanka had experienced prolonged conflict, displacement and extreme poverty. As families resettle in their villages and begin to rebuild their lives, often their most urgent and important need is mental health and well-being. World Vision Sri Lanka 13 Annual Review 2012 Almost all families displaced by conflict, have experienced some form of distress, such as losing one or more family members, uncertainty about still missing relatives, getting wounded or disabled. Many, including children, had to go through multiple horrific experiences. The war also resulted in a large number of widows, who are often marginalised in society. Children from widowed or ‘broken’ families are found to suffer from mental stress both at home and from the fact that other children are avoiding them. Teachers report that most children exhibiting abnormal behavior are from broken families. World Vision’s mental health and psychosocial support projects are aimed at strengthening community-based psychiatric counseling services and psycho-social group therapy, combined with awareness raising activities among parents and teachers to better understand and improve mental health and child development. One of the highlights of the year has been the continued success of the Rural Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (RIWASH) Project which is a joint programme of AusAid and World Vision Lanka. The programme will run through 2011-2015 and aims to provide water supply and sanitation facilities to over 23,000 persons including 7,500 school children spread over a number of estates, schools and rural villages in the Nuwara Eliya District – one the most impoverished districts in the country. Each time a particular phase or project is completed and handed over to the communities to manage the real value of the programme manifests itself several times over in the excited laughter and joy of children as they splashed each other with water from the new taps installed in their houses. To date, over 13,500 individuals have benefitted from having direct access to a supply of clean water and from improved sanitation facilities. This will greatly reduce the exposure of children to water borne diseases and improve their overall health and wellbeing. One of the aims of the RIWASH programme was the building of the capacities of the community, local government and other stakeholders so that once empowered, the communities would actively engage in making decisions concerning them, and enlightened institutions would promote such participation. We were indeed pleased to note many changes in the local governance of the plantation sector and the active involvement of the plantation workers in decisions affecting their lives. Our programmes on social accountability have been very popular with the communities most of whom are now well trained in good governance, the dangers of drug and alcohol abuse, child rights, human rights and protection and issues of domestic violence, women’s rights etc. World Vision Sri Lanka 14 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed Little Sheyhara makes a case for special children Choo… Choo… Choo … Choo.. , Sheyhara (7) is playing with Sheyara was born with multiple physical complications in her favorite toy – a colourful LEGO train in the verandah of her almost every part of her body. Her spine was crooked, her house in Munnakara in Negombo – an urban town in Sri Lanka. hands and legs were twisted, she had only one kidney and her chest was raised causing constant phlegm problems. She was Today is a special day for Sheyhara because she has a new very vulnerable to diseases and Nilmini had to take extra special playmate – WVI’s President and CEO Kevin Jenkins has dropped care of her daughter. in to visit with her and her family. Standing beside a small table she picks up some colourful building blocks and with a few The advent of World Vision into Negombo changed all that. Staff expert flicks of her wrists she transforms them into colourful in the Area Development Programme persuaded Sheyara and carriages for her train; a few more twists and she has produced her parents to join a club for families with children who have an engine too. special needs. They learned that they weren’t the only couple who had looked upon their child’s disability as something Squatting on the floor beside her Kevin tries his hand with some shameful and one which must remain hidden. of the blocks but he needs more time to figure them out and Sheyhara suppresses a giggle as she reaches out to assist him. Counselling programmes helped them A friend of Sheyhara’s comes over to her house to join in the change their whole approach towards fun and play trains with her. It wasn’t long ago that nobody came to play with Sheyara and she remained hidden away by her caring for Sheyhara – they are now embarrassed parents, proud of her and no longer feel Nilmini and Shiran who were hurt by the inquisitive stares of embarrassed about her condition and people as they themselves struggled to cope with caring for they are now able to take sheyhara their precious little daughter. out with them wherever they go. World Vision Sri Lanka 15 Annual Review 2012 World Vision also provided for the four major operations on series of colourful drawings of her family, school, house and her Sheyhara’s hands and hips making it possible for the little girl to favourite animals. She responds to questions in perfect English – move about for the first time. her favourite subject at school. Nilmini says the counselling programmes helped them change Sheyhara is full of questions too which she puts to her mother. their whole approach towards caring for Sheyhara – they are Why is my hand different to yours? Why is my younger cousin now proud of her and no longer feel embarrassed about her taller than me? Why can’t I learn to walk faster? They are not condition and they are now able to take sheyhara out with questions of hurt but a thirst to know. them wherever they go.Counselling convinced them that their daughter had a lot to contribute. She needed friends. The answers can wait a while though – Sheyhara has other tasks to perform – like getting her train into the station on time …. Sheyhara now studies in a regular class in a regular school and choo… choo …choo …..choo has lots of friends. She excels in her studies and has perfect scores in every subject. “She is a keen student and loves learning she gets full marks in every subject,” says mum Nilmini proudly. Sheyhara revels in the attention she gets and the initial shyness has now all gone and is replaced by a dazzling smile she brings out her school work to show us. Soon we are engrossed in the World Vision Sri Lanka 16 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed When hope blooms again… Its school holidays for Pavithran (7) but the little boy cannot Even with roofs damaged by shelling and bullet-holes in the walls be separated from his school books. Every morning he spends children went to school whenever possible until the schools time studying and learning with a teacher – a university student were too damaged to function or had to house displaced – who helps him revise lessons and be prepared for the new families. school year. There was also another reason why children in Kilinochchi “My favourite subject is math,” Pavithran smiles shyly as he turns stopped schooling.They had to get married to avoid recruitment page after page covered with sums he has completed. into the armed group. Subhashini (then 16) made the same choice. Watching him study is a dream come true for Subhashini (25) his mother. Nothing makes her happier than to see him with “That was the only solution for boys and girls at that time,” she his books. recalls, “so all the students began to drop out of school and get married to avoid recruitment. But those under aged like me Growing up at the heart of war, education was not a choice for couldn’t register their marriage, so the next option was to have children in Kilinochchi; survival was. As the hostilities intensified, a child to prove you are a new family.” education slipped further away from them into a blurry dream. “Schooling was interrupted all the time,” says Subhashini who “I did the same. But I looked too small to become a mother was in school at that time, “Every class had a bunker to hide and the armed group didn’t believe Pavithran was our baby. So in and three or four times a day we would vacate the classes they still forcibly recruited my husband. It was only after I got to go in to the bunker. But still we wanted to come to school Pavithran’s birth certificate did they release him. every day.” My husband’s sister (16 at that time) was forcibly recruited “When we heard too many aircrafts in the sky, we wouldn’t go before she could get married and was killed in battle the to school, knowing the bombs would be dropped somewhere. following year.” But we all had a thirst to study and just like other children we had dreams. I wanted to become a Math teacher,” she says going back to her school days. World Vision Sri Lanka 17 Annual Review 2012 Growing up at the heart of war, education was not a choice for children in Kilinochchi; survival was. As the hostilities intensified, education slipped further away from them into a blurry dream. Subhashini could never imagine Pavithran or any child in her village would ever know education for she didn’t know if anyone would survive the brutal war. But her family survived and many others did too. And though they were broken and traumatized, they returned ‘home’ to rebuild their lives right from the beginning. World Vision together with other organizations and the government supported their return and assisted them through the resettlement and rehabilitation, catering to their immediate needs. “World Vision provided us with goats to support livelihood recovery and I trust I will be able to get a stable income from it,” she said. Today, the young mother of two is hopeful once again. “My only dream is to see my children have a good education and be able to achieve their dreams. Education is becoming expensive for us and it will become more difficult to afford when my two-year old also starts with preschool. I am hopeful World Vision would support my children’s education,” she beams. “I feel very proud and happy when I go through my son’s school books,” smiles Subhashini, “I can see that he excels in Math.That was my favourite subject too.” Helping children return to school was a priority for World Vision and immediate action was taken to renovate and rebuild their damaged school buildings providing them a safe place to study once again. While World Vision’s work in Kilinochchi is moving from relief mode to an Area Rehabilitation Programme, with the support of World Vision Australia, there will be a lot more work to help children continue schooling and catch up on the studies they missed. And hopefully Pavithran and his brother or any child in Kilinochchi will never have a reason to give up schooling. World Vision Sri Lanka 18 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed A helping hand and strength for another day Thanga (36) loved and was immensely proud of all her five for her son fading, the anger began to build up within her. She children; but she had a special bond with her first born Karthik, stopped eating and began to neglect her household chores. an extremely bright boy who had just sat for the Ordinary Level She frequently lost her temper with her husband and children, exam and was expecting very good results. sometimes even displaying violence. Even as the civil war raged in their hometown Kilinochchi, The family didn’t know how to react to the situation nor did Thanga’s one hope was that her children would be safe. Each they fully understand why Thanga was behaving this way. “I felt day she would wait for their return from school, fear and dread that her condition worsened when she began to talk about what lurking in her heart until all five were safely home. One day, Karthik would be doing if he was home” said Thanga’s husband Thanga’s worst nightmare came true Karthik was forcibly Senthilmurugan (46). “When she saw other boys of Karthik’s recruited by the rebels. age or boys resembling him, she would be angry or would stop eating and talking.” he continues. Five months later,Thanga saw him. Her child, who had the entire world ahead of him, was now holding a gun. Thanga’s heart During this time, her younger son had recounted at school that broke. She tried to cope with the situation as best she could. his mother was not eating and was sad all the time.A Community When the war escalated in 2009, the family was displaced more Support Officer (CSO) of the REMIND project was alerted by than thirty times. “We had to leave him behind” recalled Thanga, the school.The CSO began to visit Thanga at home and involved tears welling up in her eyes. When they reached the IDP camps, the whole family in helping Thanga through her ordeal. there was no news of Karthik’s whereabouts. Thanga was advised to seek medical help, and the CSO through The hope that her son would one day return to her burned her frequent visits monitored Thanga’s progress, checking if she bright in Thanga’s heart. “When the war ended, we were happy had taken her medication and was getting proper nutrition. to come back to our home, in case Karthik had written to us or Through regular counseling sessions with the CSO, Thanga wanted to find us.” she continued. But she never saw or heard gradually began to feel comfortable enough to discuss what from her son again. she was going through. “During these sessions, I was reminded about how much my other children needed me. This affected The family slowly tried to rebuild their lives. But Thanga had me and made me think about how my condition was affecting changed. Even at the camp, she felt anger, but now with hope my family” said Thanga. World Vision Sri Lanka 19 Annual Review 2012 Through the family counseling sessions, her husband and children She intends to attend a sewing class and begin a dressmaking began to understand what Thanga was going through and also business at home. how to cope with it. “Now when my mother is angry with me, I don’t say anything back. I help her with the housework and go “Now that I have someone to talk to and don’t feel so isolated, with her to fetch water, to make sure she is alright. I try to make I feel better. I take part in community activities and that keeps her feel better when she cries.” said Kiruja, Thanga’s 9 year old me busy although sometimes my family’s financial situation gets daughter. me down. Still, I want my children to study well and I too want to contribute by starting a small sewing business and making With the support and encouragement of the CSO and her own palmyrah products.” family, Thanga is now integrating with the community and is active in the community development committee. She was never The counseling sessions have also helped Thanga’s husband and employed, but has obtained a loan and bought a sewing machine. children toward the healing process. “Before the CSO began visiting us, I didn’t know that my wife needed medical attention. The family slowly tried to rebuild Now I can recognize similar situations in other families and have even advised them to seek help.” explained Senthilmurugan. their lives. But Thanga had changed. Even at the camp, she felt anger, but For Thanga, the journey has been far from easy. But she has learnt to take each day as it comes and now knows that she is now with hope for her son fading, the not alone in her pain. anger began to build up within her. World Vision Sri Lanka 20 Annual Review 2012 Caring Commitment Renewed To dream beyond the sunrise… One of the biggest impacts war had on children in Kebithigollewa were through Ulpotha (the aesthetic talent pool). It moulded is that it crushed their ability to have hopes and dreams beyond our lives, disciplined us and strengthened our character. I even their boundaries. Every boy – even as young as 5 years wanted learnt explore my creativity and to stay calm during chaos.” to be nothing more than a civil security person with a weapon for protection. “The workshops taught me to dream, set goals and work towards them. It was a great strength for my education as well Survival was everything and their dreams sometimes were as as my personal life,” she says, “And for the first time I had a short and simple as a hope to see the next sunrise. But it was dream. I wanted to enter university someday.” a big hope for someone who was hiding in the dark in fear not knowing when death would grab them. Girls hardly hoped. Anuruddika (22) was one of them. “It was too impossible,” she says, “As a child, there was nothing I could Girls hardly hoped. Anuruddika think of that I could become when I grew up. I was always afraid (22) was one of them. “It was too that with the situations that surrounded us I won’t be able to complete my studies. I was almost sure I wouldn’t.” impossible,” she says, “As a child, there was nothing I could think of World Vision’s many programmes – positive thinking, art and that I could become when I grew drama and other character development workshops under child development began to change their attitudes and renew up. I was always afraid that with the their hope in the future once again. situations that surrounded us I won’t “World Vision was the invisible force behind every programme be able to complete my studies. I was we had. If not for them, none of those professionals would have almost sure I wouldn’t.” visited our areas,” says Anuruddika, “My favourite workshops World Vision Sri Lanka 21 Annual Review 2012 Anuruddika’s father passed away when she was 12. She, her younger sister and brother live with their mother. “Children – especially girls – from this area were always considered shy, ugly and backward. They lacked character and feared to talk to anyone. We were like that when we were growing up and my daughters were like that too,” says Anuruddika’s mother. “But World Vision took my children under their protective care,” she says, “I watched my daughters lose their backwardness and emerge with confidence which I thought was never possible. Because of their care my children have grown to be strong and beautiful. I have faith in their future now.” By the time you read this story Anuruddika is already in University, pursuing her dream and following a degree in environment management – a passion that was hidden within her from childhood. World Vision Sri Lanka 22 Annual Review 2012 World Vision Sri Lanka 23 Annual Review 2012 Sector Review Education 24| Economic Development 26| Water and Sanitation 28| Health and Nutrition 30| World Vision Sri Lanka 24 Annual Review 2012 Education In many poverty stricken communities in Sri Lanka, education remains a privilege and children are easily pulled Key Interventions out of school and into the labour force. • Providing basic facilities for play schools, preschools, The lack of training among preschool teachers and primary and secondary schools inadequate attention to ECCD education together with • Conducting awareness programmes on Early poor learning resources – ICT, libraries, laboratories and Childhood Care and Development (ECCD) for inadequate basic water and sanitation facilities are all community leaders, government officers, young contributory factors. couples, adolescent girls, parents and teachers This year we are pleased to see many school-dropouts • Capacity building training for teachers, mentors, back in school; children continuing to be in school with parents association and management committee new supplies of school equipment and slow learning formation and strengthening of Pre school students benefitted by study assistance classes. management societies (PSMS) • Supporting educational department to have extra In all our ADP‘s we have not only focused on ensuring curricular activities and award scholarships for the education for every child, but also assisted the government best performing and needy students in improving the overall education system by supporting teacher training and providing infrastructure facilities. • Partnering with the educational department to conduct mock examination World Vision Sri Lanka 25 Annual Review 2012 Dilakshan’s back to school and a whole new world At the first sounds of the ringing of the school interval bell, Later the police officer together with some other people (the Dilakshan (11) races his brothers and friends to the climbing government child monitoring committee members) visited frames at the playground to see who could climb to the top our home and advised our father to send us back to school,” first.This is their favourite time of the day, when they get to test Dilakshan continues. each other’s skills at the climbers and there is a lively merriment in the air as the friends laugh and cheers the efforts of the Realizing his mistake Nallarathnam made every effort to enroll teams. the children back in school. World Vision supported the family by sponsoring all three children and providing them with school A few years ago this was but a dream for Dilakshan who had stationary and other educational aid to help them start going dropped out of school since his mother went overseas for work to school again. and they were left in their father’s care. Nallaratnam their father was a fisherman who didn’t understand the value of education “It was like a whole new world. Everything changed including and showed little interest in sending the children to school and our daily routine. We used to sleep late, eat and play all day but they stayed back playing all day at the beach. today we wake up early excited to go to school. During free time we do our school work instead of going out to play,” the During this time a World Vision mobiliser (community young boy says with a twinkle in his eye. volunteer) visited their home in Thalawai Village – a remote area in EravurPattu, and encouraged them to join the Gandhi “Most of the children in this school attend the Gandhi children’s Children’s Club. Although Dilakshan and his two brothers club and it reflects in their school extra-curricular activities. dropped out of school they took this invitation and started These children perform very well at school event and we ask attending the Children’s club regularly. They enjoyed taking them where they gained such confidence or learnt that item, part in sports activities and events organized by the club. The they simply say that they were trained at the children’s club,” facilitators were also very interested in the well-being of the adds the principal of the school. children and often inquired about their education and taught the children the importance of going to school. The opportunities provided through the children’s club have enabled them to enhance their skills and talents as well. Putting “At the children’s club, whenever they ask who was not his sporting skills to the test at the recently held school sports going to school everyone would point at us. I felt very sad meet, Dilakshan was placed 1st in the 200m race as well as 2nd and disappointed. The mobilisers spoke to us and our father. in the high jump and long jump events. World Vision Sri Lanka 26 Annual Review 2012 Economic Development Although there is a gradual drop in the unemployment rate in Sri Lanka, a large percentage of the employed Key Interventions population does not have a stable income. AGRICULTURE Some of the inherent weaknesses identified are programme • Home gardening delivery without proper segmentation of living standards • Integrated farming and sustainable agriculture • Cash crop cultivation including poverty, high levels of dependency and limited • Rain water harvesting, live fencing sustainability in the sector and a low emphasis on savings • Integrated pest management, low-chemical fertilizer mobilisation with the result that the poor remain in the • Access to Markets / Educating farmers on marketing poverty cycle. produce In all its programme areas World Vision assists families ANIMAL HUSBANDRY to develop a sustainable income method and find access • Dairy, goat, poultry farming • Para veterinary services to markets through a variety of activities such as home gardening, fisheries, agriculture, animal husbandry and FISHERIES cottage industry. • Inland fisheries, Construction of fishing ponds • Provision of crab boxes, fishing nets, fishing vessels, WVL’s micro finance arm Vision Fund Lanka focuses its lagoon canoe, boats and engines, small and big vallam work in areas where WVL already has a presence and is • Awareness programmes on lagoon conservation and the economic driver that helps communities in their quest mangroves plantation to overcome poverty through sustainable means. • Providing technical inputs and fish fingerling for inland fishermen MICRO FINANCE • Creating employment opportunities/skills training • Loans for livelihoods, housing, small business World Vision Sri Lanka 27 Annual Review 2012 A truck load of vegetables… Armed with new agriculture knowledge and methods through the vegetables. But when the farmers realised they came only Integrated Farming and Sustainable Agriculture Project, farmers when the prices were high and would not sight the village and in Sevanagala now gathered the crop every month.Their baskets abandoned them with their vegetables when the prices dropped were filled everyday with vegetables and a good market was a they began to send their vegetables to me because I would not need. One of the key components of the Integrated Farming abandon them,” he says. and Sustainable Agriculture Project introduced by World Vision is group formation and establishing marketing networks. Currently he collects vegetables everyday and pays farmers a fair price. “I like to pay them on time so that they don’t have Jayalath volunteered to be the marketer for the 20 farmers in to come looking for it. Its part of the good practices we learnt his village. from the project,” Jayalath smiles. “When the Project gave us training in marketing and marketing A lorry loaded with over 1000 kg of vegetables leaves for techniques I was very interested. But this was something totally Colombo every evening from his collection point and even new to me and initially I was worried if I would get a good farmers from other surrounding villages have begun to give income and if I should just stick to being a farmer,” he says. their crop to him. “I started collecting vegetables on a bicycle but now I have managed to buy a tractor,” smiles Jayalath. Eight volunteers from different villages came together to form a marketing committee and they received an initial 47,000 loan to In order to reduce waste of vegetables, Jayalath also gives start their marketing work. World Vision connected them with training to farmers about times to pick the vegetables and Cargills (one of the largest and widespread retail chains in Sri packing. He provides vegetables to additional three shops in Lanka). The committee decided on a date to collect vegetables Colombo now. “I’ve received a good income from this and I from the farmers and send them over to Cargills outlets. managed to complete my house and even buy a motor bike for my elder son,” he says. “There’s a lot of risk in marketing because you don’t have a big profit all the time,” says Jayalatha, “so some of the marketers in He still does farming but just enough to sustain his family. our group became inactive. But I learnt that if you don’t give up, “World Vision’s guidance is the strength and the wind beneath it returns to you later when the harvest is bountiful.” my wings,” Jayalath says. “There was a time I had to struggle with other marketers who came to our villages with their lorries from towns and bought World Vision Sri Lanka 28 Annual Review 2012 Water and Sanitation Water is the most essential of basic needs. Despite being surrounded by water and with many water sources within Key Interventions the country, throughout Sri Lanka there exists many vulnerable populations with no access to clean water and INFRASTRUCTURE basic sanitation facilities. • Provision of water supplies and sanitation facilities • Renovating and extending irrigation canals and tanks Approximately 14% of the population has no access to • Building / Cleaning wells • Construction of clean drinking water projects, sanitation facilities, and many lack the necessary knowledge common bathing places and storm water drainage and awareness on hygiene. systems • Ensuring water quality meets sphere standards While supporting the Government’s efforts towards • Solid and liquid waste management, maintenance of achieving its millennium goals, World Vision’s water and WATSAN systems sanitation activities aim to assist rural communities to • Conducting hygiene promotion initiatives gain access to clean and safe water supplies, sanitation and • Use of alternative energy for water projects hygiene. MICRO ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT • Green Kitchen Gardens • Training to establish Small Enterprises • Sanitation shops through micro finance facilities PARTNERSHIPS AND CAPACITY BUILDING • National, District and Divisional Steering Committees established • Assistance in formulation of Village and Development Plans World Vision Sri Lanka 29 Annual Review 2012 Water at home means more time for children’s studies and play Very few families in Saranagama, Padhiyathalawa (east Sri Lanka) “We women spent all our time for water – taking the children had a safe well with clean water at home. Almost every family for their bath, washing clothes, fetching water for cooking and made a twice daily pilgrimage morning and evening to the lake drinking and guarding the water we collected so that not a drop for bathing and washing and to collect water for drinking and is wasted and there’s enough to get through the night. We used cooking. water with care and learnt to manage it more than anything else in our life,” says Kusumawathi another community member. October through March was a period they dreaded the most. The months got trapped in a rude dry spell year after year “After a day’s hard work when the men went to take a bath they without fail, parching the land and forcing the families to travel would return home close to mid night after waiting in the queue at least 2-3 miles in search of water for their day-to-day needs. to have a few splashes of water,” she says, “We all suffered a lot.” Tharuka (11) and her elder sister used to go with her mother When World Vision offered to solve their water issue with a too. For some years her mother carried her, then she began to water scheme, the community instantly offered their fullest walk the distance carrying water in a small pail that was not too support. Both men and women worked through the day in the heavy. But Manjula (6) Tharuka’s brother never had the chance. hot sun and through the night under the light of lamps and torches laying the network of pipelines and building the tank. “Dry months were the most difficult and my sister and mother While initially the water was pumped from a well tested clean, had suffered more than I,” says Manjula,“most of that season the today World Vision has connected them to the Water Board of children in our village spent time collecting water that they had the area who supplies water to the 20,000-litre tank through no time for school.” out the day. “We can never forget those days,” recalls Nimal, a member of Today 143 families have clean water at home and the project the Saranagama community, “There were times when the lake has also extended the water project to the village school. The would run dry and we used coconut shells to scoop whatever community has formed a water committee that looks after the the remaining water collected in little pools at the bottom maintenance of the water project. They also monitor the water of the lake. When that finished we would dig 5-foot holes in usage and collection of payment for it. random places in the lake looking for water.” World Vision Sri Lanka 30 Annual Review 2012 Health and Nutrition Sri Lanka has achieved commendable progress in its health and nutrition sector and is one of the very few countries Key Interventions that are likely to achieve the MDG’s. However, whilst the overall indicators are impressive there are still pockets of AWARENESS vulnerable communities where malnutrition is alarmingly • Awareness programmes on Health & Nutrition and high. sanitation and hygiene practices • Capacity Building programmes for Public Health staff, Pre School teachers, Community leaders and The Mother and child remain priority in all our activities volunteers which support the Government’s efforts to achieve its • Public Health Awareness Campaigns (Dengue, Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). A range of Diarrhoea, Malaria etc) programmes are implemented across all ADPs and other • Rehabilitation programmes for malnourished project areas to fight malnutrition and uplift the nutritional children (PD Hearth) status of children – especially those below the age of 5. • Advocacy on health and nutrition issues WVL adopts a ‘life cycle approach’ to monitor levels of SCREENING nutrition at the different stages of a child’s development. • Field Medical screening/clinics/ health camps for The FY12 data indicates a significant decrease in levels children of stunting, wasting and underweight in children in most • Emergency Medical Assistance for children ADPs. While wasting is a pervasive nutritional problem • De-worming and Micro Nutrient supplementation programmes (iron) in Sri Lanka there is a distinct decline in 12 ADPs, when compared to values in FY11. FEEDING • Pre School Mid-Day meal programme • Special food supplementary package for pregnant mothers • Provision of dry rations for needy families World Vision Sri Lanka 31 Annual Review 2012 Health for all. . . Sevanagala Divisional Hospital, is second home for little Sithumini building. But the new building is complete with a big waiting area (5). She spends few days every month in the children’s ward for the patients, toilets and a spacious room for the doctor.” for nebulising. Since an attack of Malaria when she was small, “WorldVision has also gifted the hospital with medical equipment Sithumini suffers frequent wheezing and her mother rushes her and necessary furniture as well,” says the doctor, “The nebuliser here because it is the closest hospital to them. “This is very is very useful as many children suffer from wheezing in this area. convenient. Otherwise I would have to take her to Embilipitiya” Because of the generator we received we are able to treat them she says. even if there’s a power failure.” Situated closer to most populated areas of the Division, the The doctor says an intercom system World Vision established hospital covers a population of over 60,000 people and is in the hospital helps doctors to be informed when a patient accessed by people from neighbouring divisions as well. needs urgent medical attention. “It makes our work a lot more efficient and easy. Otherwise staff have to come looking for us “But the hospital lacked many facilities to cater to the medical to give the message,” he says. needs of the people,” says Dr. Chaminda Withana, “It is only after World Vision began to work in this area that the hospital The hospital has 30 staff including four doctors.“We have enough improved.” facilities now to cater to the patients,” says Dr. Chaminda. There was no children’s ward before and children were kept in Among its many health initiatives in Sevanagala,World Vision has the same ward as the adults. World Vision renovated a broken conducted mobile medical clinics for children, health awareness storeroom and changed it into a colourful children’s ward with programmes and has assisted the Medical Office of Health with ten beds. knowledge and equipment needed to serve the community more effectively. “We also received from them a new building for the outpatients who otherwise had to stand outside in the hot sun and the rain,” says Dr. Chaminda, “There was no place to sit and I still remember how mothers used to carry the children and stay under trees for their turn. There was hardly space for the doctor too. He saw the patients in a small room behind the main World Vision Sri Lanka 32 Annual Review 2012 World Vision Sri Lanka 33 Annual Review 2012 Special Initiatives REMIND Healing for brokenness 34| RIWASH a connector for feuding communities 36| Sustainable Agriculture The Growing Oasis 38| LIFT Livelihood Intervention For Transformation 40| World Vision Sri Lanka 34 Annual Review 2012 REMIND Healing for brokenness Reconciliation Through Mental Health in the Awareness programs are in progress and include ways people Northern Districts of Sri Lanka REMIND can support each other; such as using innovative methods of The REMIND project was launched in October 2010 by World communication, empathy, comforting others and problemVision and has since helped to improve the mental health and solving. Special training was given to key community contacts, well-being of communities in the northern province of Sri Lanka e.g. local shop-owners, community leaders, teachers, and in partnership with the Ministry of Health (MOH), Provincial other people whom communities have common and frequent MOH and the College of Psychiatrists. AusAid has funded this interaction with. Here they were also introduced to the programme from its inception and it is now being complemented Information, Education, Communications (IEC) materials. with ECHO funding in the second phase. One of the key support groups for community members in People living in northern Sri Lanka have experienced prolonged times of crisis are their spiritual leaders. Therefore awareness conflict, displacement and extreme poverty. As families resettle programs for spiritual leaders across the four major faiths have in their villages and re-establish their livelihoods, mental health taken place in the Northern Province to enable them to better and well-being has been identified as an urgent and important support their communities as well as know how and where to need. refer people who require more clinical support. By addressing peoples well-being there is opportunity to Community Support Officers (CSO) perform a vital mental potentially shield individuals from psychiatric illness, encourage health outreach function as well as encouraging greater care for speedier emotional and social recovery as well as support people living with mental illness or those requiring specialized families and communities to look towards a positive and care. peaceful future. A key aspect of the role of the CSO is to identify people in the Through the REMIND project the local health sector has community who require specialized support from the Mental opportunities to better engage in post-conflict programs, which Health Units of the District Hospital. will ultimately contribute to more sustainable peace-building efforts. The CSO also provides a range of other services such as monitoring medication, linking people with other service providers through the provision of clinical and psychosocial World Vision Sri Lanka 35 Annual Review 2012 referrals (from psychiatric support at the hospital to disability Ten Community Support Centers were constructed across support for clients with physical disabilities), raising community the five districts of the Northern Province to improve the awareness of mental health issues common in Northern accessibility of mental health and psychosocial support services Province and one-on-one psychosocial support for clients. to community members. These centers are meant to act as a community hub from where the CSOs for each district will be Children and youth have particular individual needs to feel based. The Centers will offer related information (IEC materials connected to others. However, children often struggle to and other resources), accessible to families and the interested verbalize such needs and require targeted activities that support public. They further provide private consultation areas where their needs for belonging and community engagement. With community members can speak with CSOs. this in mind, REMIND partnered with the Provincial Education Department to facilitate a workshop to give children an These centers are managed by local community based opportunity to bond with others and to develop their creative organisations and supervised by the Public Health Inspectors skills by learning new ways to express themselves and their (PHI) attached to the district hospitals. feelings. To reduce the stigma people with mental health face, World Vision Lanka is working with a street drama performance group based in Jaffna to prepare and perform a series of educational skits on the impact of stigma and how to effectively care for others, including those with mental illnesses. Based on the success of this initiative the Jaffna performers have started to train new drama groups recently established in Mullaithivu and Kilinochchi to take this message to those communities as well. World Vision Sri Lanka 36 Annual Review 2012 RIWASH Water a connector for feuding communities Riwash Creating Dynamic Change Using water as a connector, RIWASH has been able to The Rural Integrated Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (RIWASH) minimize conflicts between these two previously antagonistic Project is a joint programme of AusAid and World Vision Lanka. communities. After the Ouvakelle community expressed their The programme aims to provide water supply and sanitation consent, RIWASH made the two communities use water from facilities to over 23,000 persons including 7,500 school children the same purification facility with two separate pipeline systems spread over a number of estates, schools and rural villages in managed by a Care Taker from Ouvahakelle and Meter Reader the Nuwara Eliya District – one the most impoverished districts from McDuff. in the country. Within the same community too limited access to the common In addition to the provision of better water and sanitation water taps on the estate used to create conflicts between facilities, the project has connected previously disenfranchised members as they competed with each other for water. estate communities with local service delivery systems by creating new collaborative partnerships and intentionally building linkages between community representatives, estate RIWASH has created a management and the local administration. dynamic process of change in RIWASH has created a dynamic process of change in the district’s governance system changing nearly a century old the district’s governance system system within the plantation community. changing nearly a century old The lack of access to water and sanitation facilities was one system within the plantation of the primary causes of tension within and between the communities of Ouvakelle and McDuff as the water source for community. both communities originated from the upper reach level with the Ouvakelle region. World Vision Sri Lanka 37 Annual Review 2012 “Before RIWASH gave us water on tap, groups of nearly 25 line homes shared a common tap. It was an open pipeline. We use to have squabbles with the group living below because they always diverted water from our tap. But now we don’t have to wait in line or fight with others”, said Kogulavanni from one of the estates. Increased linkages with service providers have imbued confidence among CBO representatives to engage with all stakeholders at public and private forums. When a dispute between private estate owners and community members arise, local government is able to act as a mediator and help resolve their dispute. “In Gartmore the private estate owner insisted that the Water Board should be in charge of billing for water and not the CBO. So the Pradeshiya Sabha (local council) had to intervene and make them aware the importance of placing the CBO in charge of the billing process. After discussions with the management, they all agreed on the way forward which was very encouraging. People’s attitudes have also changed. Now they are becoming more aware of their entitlements. They are also more inclined to work together with us because of this project” Vellayan Dinesh Kumar, Chairman, Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha said. The District Level Coordinating Committee (DLCC) is part of government’s Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (RWSS) programme which has been underway since 2001. Up to now the RWSS initiative has provided water and sanitation facilities to over 100,000 households in the district. However, disenfranchised communities in most remote and isolated estates evidently did not benefit from this effort due to a lack of resources and weak collaborations between local decision making bodies and the estate management. “The RWSS project was introduced 20 years ago. But it has been a very challenging task due to the shortage of resources… We are very happy with this system. We want to replicate the RIWASH 2 design elsewhere,” said Vellayan Dinesh Kumar, Chairman, Ambagamuwa Pradeshiya Sabha. World Vision Sri Lanka 38 Annual Review 2012 Sustainable Agriculture The Growing Oasis... World Vision’s response to climate change “World Vision gave us home-based training and fed us with This is the driest season of the year in Wanathawilluwa and the many techniques of cultivation as well as conservation,” says worst since 1948. The land is parched and the sun has bleached Irene, “And each of us had to grow a Tikiri Kotuwa a mini the vegetation into a brown tint. But on this brown canvas are vegetable garden (size) that would provide enough for home 800 green dots of oases – World Vision’s response to climate consumption.The garden was fenced-in and plants grew in small change. pots or beds with a composting area in the middle.World Vision staff worked and sweat with us in building the gardens and made Irene Malani’s (55) home garden is one of the green dots. It has frequent visits to evaluate” grown from ¼ acre upto 2 acres of greenness and knocked them out of their low paying labour work into a stable income “When the Tikiri Kotuwa proved a success, I stopped labour and a food secure home. Even in this near-drought season Irene work and committed myself to agriculture. After the cash crops has enough vegetables to feed her six children and her ten proved a success, my husband too gave up labour work and grand children. joined me in agriculture” smiles Irene, “It gives us a sustainable income and chemical free food for the family.We don’t spend on “Our cultivation used to be limited to a few months before. food or medicine anymore.” The rest of the year we went for daily labour. If we stayed without work for one day the next day there was no food for While the Initiative covered knowledge and training in water the children,” recalls Irene, “If we didn’t get our pay on time we management, pest control, soil and water conservation, had to stay hungry; If anyone fell sick, we had to compromise on World Vision also integrated animal husbandry and rainwater meals to pay for the medicine.” harvesting to support it and provided the families with training also on dairy farming. Irene has three cows and fish in her Climate is the decision maker of plant growth and productivity rainwater harvesting ponds. and agriculture is the worst victim of climate change pushing farmers into the vicious cycle of poverty. World Vision’s Apart from the Tikiri Kotuwa, Irene plants around 30 different Sarabhumi (fertile land) initiative seeks to reduce the varieties of fruits, vegetables and medicinal plants. vulnerability of natural and human systems to climate change effects, ensuring food security and sustainable livelihood. World Vision Sri Lanka 39 Annual Review 2012 Perennial crops come up at different stages of the year and she plans to enlarge the green dot to five acres this year. Taking a Vision Fund loan, she’s already used a backhoe to clear the land. Today, her garden is a mini-agro-lab with covered compost beds in one corner, a cow shed designed to collect cow dung and made into a magic porridge for the cleared land, earthworms working on wormy wash, variety of sapling waiting to take position, a drip irrigation keeping them smiling and every leaf that falls off a tree finds its way to the composting area. Her garden has many awards even at the District level and is one of the six model farms in Wanathawilluwa that are used as learning labs not only by the community but also by university students and agriculture officers.There are 22 farmers receiving training under Irene. Most of them women who otherwise stay home idle or go for labour work. Irene visits their gardens often providing advice and help and shares seeds and saplings with them. All her daughters and daughters-in-law do cultivation now and her grandchildren follow. “My biggest joy is that none of my children had to follow on our foot steps to labour work and they will never have to,” says Irene. World Vision’s Sarabhumi (fertile land) initiative seeks to reduce the vulnerability of natural and human systems to climate change effects, ensuring food security and sustainable livelihood. World Vision Sri Lanka 40 Annual Review 2012 LIFT Livestock Initiative for Transformation Livestock Initiative for Transformation Each input package included all kinds of construction material The Livestock Initiative for Transformation (LIFT) project was needed for the poultry shed, the cost of hired labour, one initiated to strengthen livestock-based economic development hundred (100) one-month-old hybrid chicks, a pack of poultry activities in the Area Development Programmes (ADPs). drugs/medicinal items sufficient for four months, supply of poultry feeds over 16 weeks from the date of delivery of These ADPs promoted empowerment of the poor and smallchicks up to the date of laying eggs and supply of food basket scale livestock keeping through the transfer of assets and for the consumption of beneficiary families actively involved in facilitating access to improved technology and practices, construction activities related to poultry sheds. technical know-how, finance and markets. The majority of the beneficiaries did not have adequate The project thus enabled the poorest of the poor households experience in poultry management as business enterprises. in the ADP communities to earn increased incomes, generate World Vision facilitated training cum exposure programmes for assets and enhance the intake of nutrition by the children beneficiaries to improve their knowledge and skills in poultry thereby improving child-well-being. management. The goal of this project was to increase income with improved The project aimed to assist market access for poorest households and communities toward improved Child wellbeing. The project aimed to assist beneficiaries to increase incomes beneficiaries to increase incomes of their families through small scale home based poultry farms and use the additional income of their families through small for their children’s nutrition, health and educational needs. scale home based poultry farms The LIFT project established 240 home based poultry farms in and use the additional income for the Wennappuwa and Horowpathana ADP areas, by distributing free input packages worth approximately Rs.200,000/to each their children’s nutrition, health and family. educational needs. World Vision Sri Lanka 41 Annual Review 2012 Nirasha (38) and her husband did labour work to provide for the farm, World Vision provided us not only technical training their three children. “I used to go to houses outside our village but also leadership training, group dynamics and team building looking for domestic work. Most days I couldn’t find work and which build in us confidence and character.” the days I could I got paid Rs 400/= (4 USD) for a full day of work. Often it was not even enough to provide my children “I never ever thought of myself as a leader since I have no their meals,” says Nirasha. economic or social power. But LIFT project brought out a leader in me and I became a leader for the small group.” “Many days we ate only one meal and because we were poor no one in the community really cared about us,” she says. “Today I have a stable income at home. I receive 80-90 eggs daily and my income has greatly increased,” she says, “With a steady When World Vision staff visited her house to invite her to be income I was able to build a safer and a better house for my part of the initial meeting to commence the Livestock Initiative family and I am able to send my children for English classes and For Transformation (LIFT) Project she understood very little other study assistance classes they need.” how it would impact her life. “I am recognised and respected in my village too.” “I didn’t get work that day so I decided to attend the meeting to see what it was. When I got there most of the people from The livestock programme has enabled parents of the poorest our village had come,” says Nirasha, “World Vision engaged us families to take better care of their children, fulfilling their in different activities – drawing the village map, categorizing educational and nutritional needs through the income earned households based on wealth and assets, and making village from their livestock yards. A system is in place to help them profiles.Through the activities they identified the poorest of the share their products with neighbours who have children, to poor families. Our family was one of them.” ensure that their nutritional needs are also met. The poultry programme has helped families bring down malnutrition “World Vision told us that they would support us with poultry amongst children by increasing their nutrition intake. farming – a home based income. It gave me so much hope that I began to attend every meeting and activity that was facilitated “More than the extra income I get, I’m really happy that my by World Vision,” smiles Nirasha. children are able to have a healthy meal,” says Nirasha, “My second child, who is now six, was underweight since she was “But I doubted if I had the confidence or the capability or the two. But now it has increased up to the required weight.” knowledge to carry out a poultry farm. I wasn’t sure if I could take such a big responsibility,” she says, “But before we started World Vision Sri Lanka 42 Annual Review 2012 Sustainability Reporting Our Commitment to Sustainability 43| Sustainability Report 44| GRI Compliance 47| World Vision Sri Lanka 43 Annual Review 2012 Our Commitment to Sustainability World Vision Lanka has included in this annual review a special section on sustainability reporting to improve our accountability and transparency to our stakeholders about the work that we do in all our programmes across the country. We believe it is important to make clear our commitment to sustainability because sustainability and poverty alleviation are inexorably linked. Our work is based on the principle of sustainable development. As described, sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. We seek to meet the needs of the present through development and relief programmes that address requirements such as clean water, education, agriculture, preparation for natural disasters and health. All of our work on alleviating poverty contributes to progress on achieving the Millennium Development Goals. We focus on children and their communities to ensure that future generations can meet their own needs. Our programs are designed to assist transformation to restore and enable life with dignity, justice, peace, and hope through empowering children to be agents of change; fostering mutually beneficial relationships; interdependent and empowered communities; and systems and structures that contribute to the elimination of poverty. We aim to meet challenges to sustainability, including food insecurity, climate change, the decreasing availability of resources such as water and energy, weak We aim to meet challenges to governance, economic insecurity and the displacement of people. Our programmes sustainability, including food are designed to support changes that are economically, environmentally and insecurity, climate change, socially sustainable. the decreasing availability of resources such as water and energy, weak governance, economic insecurity and the displacement of people. Our programmes are designed to support changes that are economically, environmentally and socially sustainable. World Vision Sri Lanka 44 Annual Review 2012 Sustainability Report GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE NGO SECTOR SUPPLEMENT COMPLIANCE TABLE 2012 This table has been prepared using the G3 reporting framework of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the NGO Sector Supplement: globalreporting.org. One of the objectives of the GRI reporting framework is to allow users to compare performance across different organisations.The table aims to provide a reference to the Standard Disclosures which users of the reporting framework will be familiar with. We have assessed our GRI application level as C (self declared). World Vision Lanka’s 2012 Annual Review is available at: http://www.worldvision.lk Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2012 unless otherwise specified) Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Pages 4, 6-7 organization. (Chairman and ND’s Reports) Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Page 85 Corporate information 2.2 Primary activities (e.g., advocacy, social marketing, Page 11-13 research, service provision, capacity building, humanitarian assistance, etc.). Indicate how these activities relate to the organization’s mission and primary strategic goals (e.g., on poverty reduction, environment, human rights, etc.). 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including Pages 9-10, 66-83 (Organisational Structure and Governance, national offices, sections, branches, field offices, main Programme locations, Auditors report) divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Page 85 Corporate Information 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. World Vision Lanka operates within Sri Lanka. Note however that World Vision Lanka is a member of the World Vision International Partnership which operates in over 90 countries around the world. For more information see the World Vision International Accountability Report available at wvi.org 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Page 85 Corporate Information 2.7 Target audience and affected stakeholders. Page 8 Accountability and transparency 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Page Pages 68-69, 84 (Financial activities, balance Sheet, Key Statistics) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding None size, structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. None World Vision Sri Lanka 45 Annual Review 2012 Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2012 unless otherwise specified) Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 1 October 2011 to 30 September 2012 provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 30 September 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its Dion Schoorman Group Director – Public Engagement World contents. Vision Lanka Email: dion_schoorman@worldvision.org Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content. Page 8 Accountability and transparency 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, All information in the table relates to World Vision Lanka, and subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See not to any other World Vision entity which is a member of the GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. World Vision International Partnership 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of None the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased Not applicable facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of None information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the None scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures This table in the report. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including Page 9 (Organisational Structure and committees under the highest governance body Governance) responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance Page 5 body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function The Chair of the Board is a non-executive director within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement). Describe the division of responsibility between the highest governance body and the management and/or executives. World Vision Sri Lanka 46 Annual Review 2012 Sustainability Report Contd. Strategy and Profile Disclosures Reference (page references to WVL Annual Review 2012 unless otherwise specified) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state All Board members are non-executive directors the number of members of board and/or non-executive members highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Page 8 (Accountability and transparency) GRI Performance Indicators Indicator 1: See page 47 NGO1 Involvement of affected stakeholder groups in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes Indicator 2: See page 48 NGO2 Mechanisms for feedback and complaints in relation to programmes and policies and for determining actions to take in response to breaches of policies. Indicator 3: See page 49 NGO3 Systems for programme monitoring, evaluation and learning, resulting changes to programs and how they are communicated. Indicator 4: See page 50 NGO4 Measures to integrate gender and diversity into programme design, implementation, and the monitoring evaluation and learning cycle. Indicator 5: See page 51 NGO5 Processes to formulate, communicate implement and change advocacy positions and public awareness campaigns. Indicator 6: Page 74-75, 76 NGO8 Sources of funding by category Indicator 7: See page 52 NGO9 Mechanisms for workforce feedback & complaints, and their resolution Indicator 8: During the year the Internal Audit Unit conducted SO2 Percentage and total number of programmes/business 16 audits in the programme areas. An external units analyzed for risks related corruptions. FCMG audit was also conducted. Indicator 9: See page 53 EN16 and EN18 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Indicator 10: Page 84 (Statistics) LA1 Total workforce, including volunteers by type, contract World Vision Sri Lanka 47 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Involvement of affected stakeholder groups Indicator 1: NGO1 Involvement of affected stakeholder Groups in the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of policies and programmes Community Participation is practiced as a foundational principle in our Learning through Evaluation with Accountability and Planning (LEAP) standards and explicitly includes participation of all partners. Partners/stakeholders include but are not limited to children and families, local communities and their organizations, and relevant government officials. Further design, monitoring and evaluation activities are considered as an opportunity to build capacity among programme partners. Programming staff respect the confidentiality of personal information disclosed by respondents. They obtain informed consent from respondents for the purposes to which their data will be used. Programming staff communicate evaluation findings in ways that clearly respect our partners’ dignity and security. In an emergency response,World Vision endeavours to ensure that people affected by disasters are active participants throughout the disaster management process. Special attention must be paid to children and other vulnerable groups. In an emergency response, World Vision endeavours to ensure that people affected by disasters are active participants throughout the disaster management process. Special attention must be paid to children and other vulnerable groups. World Vision Sri Lanka 48 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Mechanisms for feedback and complaints Indicator 2: NGO2 Mechanisms for feedback and complaints in relation to programmes and policies and for determining actions to take in response to breaches of policies. Our primary accountability is to the children and communities we serve. Key principles that promote accountability to children and communities include transparency, openness, informed consent (providing children and communities with the information they need to make informed decisions), appropriate mechanisms for reporting concerns, and accountability for results (allowing communities to contribute to defining and measuring success). Integrated programming is put into action through a suggested eight-step approach that programme staff can follow in collaboration with communities and local stakeholders. It leads staff and communities through a participatory, empowering process to research, design, manage and end a shared programme. In an emergency response, people affected by disasters are always active participants throughout the disaster management process. Special attention is accorded to children and other vulnerable groups. WVL’s Advocacy Unit intentionally uses Community Based Performance Monitoring (CBPM) and Citizen Voice and Action (CVA) approaches in engaging with all external stakeholders especially the service providers Our primary accountability is to the children and communities we serve. Key principles that promote accountability to children and communities include transparency, openness, informed consent (providing children and communities with the information they need to make informed decisions) World Vision Sri Lanka 49 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Programme monitoring evaluation Indicator 3: NGO3 Systems for programme monitoring, evaluation and learning, resulting changes to programmes and how they are communicated. Monitoring and evaluation systems are primarily based on Learning through Evaluation with Accountability and Planning (LEAP) standards of semi annual and annual monitoring of indicators. General programme and project review is done by the staff and also with the children and community on some occasions.This leads to reflections, lessons learning and adapting to changes required for the improvement of the project performance, effectiveness, management and sustainability. In instances where projects are partnered with other stakeholders, quarterly or semi-annual reviews also take place among the programme staff and the respective stakeholders to collectively engage in learning and evaluation. Furthermore regular monitoring is conducted through monthly reporting and monthly management meetings within the programme team as part of programme management. Occasionally, monitoring and evaluation tools such as Most Significant Change (MSC), best stories, documentaries are also utilised. The communication of results and impacts is generally made through monthly management report, annual and semi-annual reports. The dissemination of some significant results also takes place through a range of World Vision publications such as the annual report, quarterly newsletters, brochures, fact sheets and our In instances where projects dedicated website. Some of these are also featured in external media and in Sponsors and Donor owned websites and other publications are partnered with other stakeholders, quarterly or semi-annual reviews also take place among the programme staff and the respective stakeholders to collectively engage in learning and evaluation. World Vision Sri Lanka 50 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Integration of Gender Indicator 4: NGO4 Measures to integrate gender and diversity into programme design, implementation, and the monitoring evaluation and learning cycle. Gender is one of six cross-cutting programme themes identified in the LEAP Guidelines and prioritised as important to all World Vision programmes. These guidelines state that: ‘Sustainable development practice and impact cannot be achieved without explicit recognition that every policy, programme and project affects women and men differently. Addressing gender as a cross-cutting issue requires that women’s views, interests and needs shape the development agenda as much as men’s, and that programme strategies support progress towards more equal relations between women and men, girls and boys.’ WVL integrates Gender as a cross cutting theme in the programme management cycle. Through this process women’s active participation is ensured during the Assessment, Design, Implementation, Monitoring, Evaluation and Reflection processes. The inclusion of women in the programmes occurs in both the long term development process and in Humanitarian Emergencies. Additionally, depending on the contexts and issues that Women and Girls face, special projects too are designed to mitigate/address these issues. WVL integrates Gender as a cross cutting theme in the During the Preliminary assessment processes, separate discussions with Women programme management and Girl Children are conducted to assess the context to identify issues faced cycle.Through this by Women and Girls. After these discussions, during the designing process our teams have made it mandatory that Women and Girls actively participate in the process women’s active participatory designing process. The team ensures that the Voice of Women and participation is ensured Girls are heard and included in the designing process. during the Assessment, Design, Implementation, Monitoring, During the implementation, special emphasis is given to encourage women Evaluation and Reflection leadership in the programmes by promoting Self Help Groups, Community Based processes. Organizations where women become members and get elected as office bearers and decision makers, where women and girls get priority in Sectoral programmes (Water and Sanitation. Economic Development and Education). Through Gender Self Assessment processes/audits the organizations assesses itself on the extent of integration of gender issues. The Advocacy Unit conducts special programmes on Gender,Womens Rights, Convention for the Elimination of all forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) in our projects. World Vision Sri Lanka 51 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Advocacy Approaches Indicator 5: NGO5 Processes to formulate, communicate implement and change advocacy positions and public awareness campaigns. World Vision’s advocacy work around the globe is guided by the following principles set out in the World Vision International Advocacy Policy: • World Vision must act judiciously and responsibly when engaged in advocacy. • To fail to speak or act on behalf of the poor in certain situations will be failure to enact Core Values and will be inconsistent with World Vision’s Christian development stance. • There are conditions in which neutral ground does not exist; silence or absence of action can in fact promote one outcome against another. • Advocacy should flow from listening to and consultation with the poor who are most directly affected. • Advocacy positions must be shaped by our Core Values and must be consistent with our mission. • Advocacy must promote perspective and solution as opposed merely to formulating a description of a problem or statement of fact. • Advocacy must be issue-oriented and specific rather than expressing blanket endorsement or condemnation of a particular government or political group. • When there is no formal policy position, advocacy will only be undertaken when there is an urgent situation or crisis where human life or well being is at stake. When advocacy occurs where there is no formal policy,appropriate Advocacy must be issuepolicy discussions and decisions should follow. oriented and specific • Advocacy positions will be based on the widest possible consultation,especially rather than expressing with those colleagues present in the situation. blanket endorsement or • Advocacy will have careful regard for its risk to life and its impact on ministry in all countries where World Vision has a presence. condemnation of a particular • World Vision Lanka’s advocacy work is driven through the intentional government or political group. engagement of relevant inter-agency advocacy coalitions and forums in the humanitarian sector and through trusted networking with external stakeholders. World Vision Sri Lanka 52 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Mechanism for Workforce feedback Indicator 7: NGO9 Mechanisms for workforce feedback & complaints, and their resolution World Vision Lanka encourages a culture of performance, accountability and adherence to values and to this end has in place several mechanisms to facilitate workforce feedback and complaints including a standard grievance policy. Staff are also encouraged to use the feedback forum which is available through its internal newsletter and there is also a special mailbox to which any feedback or grievances could be sent. The organization conducts an annual staff survey among all staff globally where staff are encouraged to voice their sentiments about the company and how engaged they feel. The survey is anonymous and attracts a global response of around 80% of staff. World Vision Lanka responds to any concerns raised through this survey in a regular dialogue between management and staff at all levels. Additionally, the Integrity and Protection Hotline (Whistle blower) is available to all staff for direct feedback of any grievances. World Vision Lanka encourages a culture of performance, accountability and adherence to values and to this end has in place several mechanisms to facilitate workforce feedback and complaints including a standard grievance policy. World Vision Sri Lanka 53 Annual Review 2012 GRI Compliance Direct and Indirect Emissions Indicator 9: EN16 and EN18 Total direct emissions and indirect green house gas emissions by weight. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Energy Use in 2012 As the natural environment is critical for sustaining life – providing air, water, food and shelter – good stewardship plays an important part in ensuring the sustained well-being of children,families and communities. World Vision recognises the impacts that human activities can have on the natural environment and our planet’s climate,including our own activities as an organisation (air travel, energy and resource use, transportation, supply chain choices, etc). Purchased electricity 35% Over the last few years World Vision Lanka has intentionally In house energy use 2% worked towards improving its environmental performance in Vehicle fuel use 53% an effort to reduce the organisation’s contribution to climate Paper use 1% change and environmental degradation. Air travel 9% World Vision decided to track the carbon footprint of its operations in four selected areas – air travel, fuel consumption, electricity usage and paper use which were identified as the most significant environmental impacts of our programmes. After an initial approach where we measured our consumption against previous estimates, this year we are now able to measure the consumption in actual terms. This year too there has been an overall improvement across Total CO2 Emission all selected areas despite a significant increase in our overall CO2 operations in terms of manpower, vehicles and programme Tones locations. 1,000 There were notable reductions in air travel, use of paper and in800 house energy consumption. Purchased electricity was also less than last year despite the increased cost of electricity and the 600 additional site locations. Fuel was slightly higher than last year but this was due to the increased cost of fuel and the additional 400 vehicles in use. 200 Carbon Foot Print FY12 FY 11 FY 12 0 2011 2012 Purchased electricity 347.41 339.41 In house energy use 28.56 20.07 Vehicle fuel use 483.40 507.77 Paper use 34.67 13.57 Air travel 100.96 82.13 Total CO2 emission (In CO2 Tones) 995.00 962.95 World Vision Sri Lanka 54 Annual Review 2012 Child Well Being Report Improving Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition 56| Access to clean water source and proper Sanitation facilities 57| Improving Child Health and Nutrition 58| Children are educated for life 60| Children are cared for, protected and their voices are heard and respected 61| Participatory Living Standard Ranking 62| World Vision Sri Lanka 55 Annual Review 2012 Child Well Being Report During the last two years World Vision Lanka (WVL) underwent a thorough process of reviewing its contributions towards its Child Well Being Targets (CWB) and Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) based on country targets. WVL has made intentional efforts to improve programme quality by strengthening the Design Monitoring and Evaluation (DME) system and processes, introducing evidence based programming, enhancing staff competencies and capacities and ensuring the required structures are in place. This change management process has enabled us to align our programmes more effectively with our Child Well Being targets to ensure our operations are geared to optimum effect. We now have internationally accepted indicators with baselines and can track the progress of our programmes. This enables us to learn from programmes that make good impact and also make course corrections where impact is limited. Key Insights Health – The overall health indicators are commendable with significant improvement in all areas – particularly infant mortality however there still exist pockets of vulnerable communities across the country where malnutrition is a serious concern. Immunisation rates are very high as is knowledge on hygiene and on HIV/AIDS. Access to safe drinking water and appropriate sanitation facilities are impacted by the absence of high quality water sources and contamination of existing sources which are challenges that need to be overcome in order to improve this indicator. Nutrition – Whilst Sri Lanka has done well in decreasing stunting and under weight rates, wasting is still very high across the country. Also a majority of ADPs indicate challenges with intake of diversified diet. Although food is available We now have internationally negative behavioral or poor feeding practices among families cause malnutrition of children. Therefore behavior changes, food security and feeding practice accepted indicators with programs have to be strengthened. baselines and can track the progress of our programmes Education – There has been marked improvement in the attendance at school and increased awareness on the value of education among parents and care givers in periodically.This enables us the ADP areas. A strong focus on capacity building and skill development is to learn from programmes needed to increase literacy which is now integrated in our design and redesign that make good impact and ADPs. also make course corrections Participation & Protection – The level of participation of children has been where impact is limited. commendable across all our programme areas. Nevertheless children are often unable to adequately articulate themselves. Therefore perceptions of family members with regard to the rights of children and further empowerment of children is a requirement and we have again strengthened our programming models through number of interventions. The graphical representations on the following pages show the baselines for the standard internationally accepted indicators. The single line bars represent indicators baselines documented as reference points for ongoing monitoring and comparison. The two bar graphs represent baselines and the progress made against them. The figures in parentheses represent the age of the ADP in years. If baselines for these indicators were available at the inception of the programmes the impact would be more demonstrable and significant. However based on the work done in the area of programme quality we can now monitor progress and demonstrate impact against the baselines on an annual basis. World Vision Sri Lanka 56 Annual Review 2012 Improving Maternal and Child Health and Nutrition Chart 1 Coverage of essential vaccines among children in ADPs 97. 0 98. 0 99. 0 97. 0 100. 0 1 00.0 97. 0 100. 0 100 86.6 80 75.0 60 40 20 0 EAS PO T KBG PADI THA GIR WEN B OG RDG MEE (17) (15) (14) (14) (13) (13) (11) (4) (3) (2) Critical Attention Required Acceptable WV's Thresholds <75% 75%-80% >80% Chart 2 Proportion of mothers who report that they had four or more antenatal visits while they were pregnant with their youngest childroport 98.0 100. 0 97.0 99.0 96.4 100 89. 0 90.0 90.0 80 60 40 20 0 EAS AMB WIL SEV PA D THA NUW BIB (17) (16) (16) (14) (14) (13) (6) (5) Critical Attention Required Acceptable WV's Thresholds <40% 40%-60% >60% World Vision Sri Lanka 57 Annual Review 2012 Access to clean water source and proper Sanitation facilities Chart 3 Proportion of households having year-round access to clean and safe drinking water 100 89.18 84.0 0 83.4 4 85.0 0 82.0 0 77.00 75.0 0 78.0 0 80 70.0 0 70.7 0 64.0 0 62.0 0 57.00 60 40.1 8 40 20 14.5 5 0 EAS AMB WIL SEV KBG THA MAN ERA WEN KIR PADD BIB RDG JAF LUNG (17) (16) (16) (14) (14) (13) (12) (12) (11) (8) (8) (5) (3) (3) (2) Critical Attention Required Acceptable WV's Thresholds <60% 60%-90% >90% Chart 4 Proportion of households having access to improved, hygienic sanitation facilities (for defecation) 95. 0 96.0 100 92. 3 92.0 79.0 76.0 75. 0 75.0 75.0 74.0 80 63.0 63.0 60 54.0 45. 0 40 20 10.3 0 EAS AMB WIL KBG HOR THA ERA WEN PADD NGG NUE BIB PAT JAF LUNG (17) (16) (16) (14) (13) (13) (12) (11) (8) (6) (6) (5) (3) (3) (2) Critical Attention Required Acceptable WV's Thresholds <60% 60%-80% >80% World Vision Sri Lanka 58 Annual Review 2012 Improving Child Health and Nutrition Chart 5 Prevalence of stunting among children under five years of age 60 52 41 40 36 34 33 31 32 30 30 27 28 25 26 27 22 22 22 20 16 14 13 0 AMB WIL POT NGB THA KIR NGG NAV PAT RDG (16) (16) (15) (15) (13) (8) (6) (6) (3) (3) FY11 values * coloured bars are for values in FY12 Low Medium High Very High <20% 20%-29% 30%-39% >40% Chart 6 Prevalence of underweight among children under five years of age 60 52 45 42 40 36 35 36 33 33 34 32 33 32 30 30 31 29 29 28 29 28 27 25 25 25 23 20 21 20 20 18 15 0 AMB WIL PO T NGB PAD I THA GIR KIR NGG NAV NUE KAL BOG PA T RDG (16) (16) (15) (15) (14) (13) (13) (8) (6) (6) (6) (4) (4) (3) (3) FY11 values * coloured bars are for values in FY12 Low Medium High Very High <10% 10%-20% 20%-30% >30% World Vision Sri Lanka 59 Annual Review 2012 Chart 7 Prevalence of wasting among children under five years of age 50 46 40 33 30 30 26 26 24 24 21 20 19 20 19 19 19 20 20 18 17 18 17 14 14 13 13 12 12 10 10 0 AMB WIL PO T NGB PAD I SEV THA KIR NGG NAV NUE PAT RDG (16) (16) (15) (15) (14) (14) (13) (8) (6) (6) (6) (3) (3) FY11 values * coloured bars are for values in FY12 Low Medium High Very High <5% 5%-9% 10%-14% >15% Chart 8 Proportion of children receiving minimum dietary diversity 100. 0 10 0 85. 0 80 75 .0 75. 5 75. 0 72. 0 65. 0 62 .0 62. 0 60 55. 1 46. 0 47 .0 44. 0 40 36. 0 19. 0 20 0 EAS AMB PO T NGB PA DI S EV THA MANN ER A WEN NGG NUW BOG PAT RDG (17) (16) (15) (15) (14) (14) (13) (12) (12) (11) (6) (6) (4) (3) (3) Low Good <80 >80% World Vision Sri Lanka 60 Annual Review 2012 Children are educated for life Chart 9 Proportion of Registered Children involved in formal education 110.0 80.0 60.0 40.0 20.0 0.0 Primary educ on Secondary educ on Chart 10 Proportion of children who are functionally literate 100 93 88 86 90 84 85 82 80 78 79 80 68 70 70 60 60 60 59 60 55 56 50 46 38 40 35 30 20 10 0 Low Risk Moderate Risk High Risk Critical Risk WV Thresholds >80% 71%-80% 50%-70% <50% World Vision Sri Lanka 61 Annual Review 2012 Children are cared for, protected and their voices are heard and respected Chart 11 Percentage of children who attend child societies (ages 6-18) 100 90 90 92 80 80 80 77 70 71 70 70 65 63 60 55 56 55 50 50 50 50 43 45 40 32 25 20 0 LUN EAS AMB PO T WEE WIL PAD THA HOR GIR ERA MAN WEN KIR PAD NE NAV NEL KAL BI B BOG EH E KOR (18) (17) (16) (15) (15) (15) (14) (13) (13) (13) (12) (12) (11) (8) (8) (6) (6) (6) (5) (5) (4) (4) (3) Chart 12 Vigilance Committees Formed and Child Rights Awareness Programmes Conducted 50 42 40 34 32 30 25 25 25 25 24 23 22 22 22 20 18 18 18 17 13 12 12 11 11 11 10 10 8 6 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 LUN EAS WILG POT WEE SEV PAD THA HOR MAN ER A PAD D NAV NE L KAL BI B EH E BOG KOR MUN GIK (18) (17) (15) (15) (15) (14) (14) (13) (13) (12) (12) (8) (6) (6) (5) (5) (4) (4) (3) (3) (2) Vigi la nc e Committees Ch ild Righ ts Awarene ss Progra mme s World Vision Sri Lanka 62 Annual Review 2012 ADP HH against Segments of Participatory Living Standard Ranking: Chart 13 Poorest of the Poor HHs 60.00% 50.00% 40.00% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 0.00% BOG ERA GIK HOR KOR MEE MUN NAV NGB PADI PADD POT RDG VEL VAH WAL WKT WEN WILG Chart 14 Poor HHs 80.00% 70.00% 60.00% 50.00% 40.00% 30.00% 20.00% 10.00% 0.00% BOG ERA GIK HOR KOR MEE MUN NAV NGB PADI PADD POT RDG VEL VAH WAL WKT WEN WILG World Vision Sri Lanka 63 Annual Review 2012 ADP HH against Segments of Participatory Living Standard Ranking: Chart 15 Vulnerable non-poor HHs 40.00% 35.00% 30.00% 25.00% 20.00% 15.00% 10.00% 5.00% 0.00% BOG ERA GIK HOR KOR MEE MUN NAV NGB PADI PADD POT RDG VEL VAH WAL WKT WEN WILG Chart 16 Sustainable livelihoods and Micro Business HHs 45.00% 40.00% 35.00% 30.00% 25.00% 20.00% 15.00% 10.00% 5.00% 0.00% BOG ERA GIK HOR KOR MEE MUN NAV NGB PADI PADD POT RDG VEL VAH WAL WKT WEN WILG World Vision Sri Lanka 62 Annual Review 2012 World Vision Sri Lanka 63 Annual Review 2012 Financial Review Independent Auditors’ Report 64| Statement of financial activities 66| Balance sheet 67| Statement of changes in accumulated fund 68| Cash flow statement 69| Notes to the financial statements 70| World Vision Sri Lanka 66 Annual Review 2012 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Members of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited Report on the financial statements 1 We have audited the accompanying financial statements of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited which comprise the balance sheet as at 30 September 2012, and the related statements of financial activities, changes in accumulated fund and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes as set out on pages 70 to 81. Management’s Responsibility for the Financial Statements 2 Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with the World Vision International Policies and Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-forProfit Organisations issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion 3 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of our audit. We therefore believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. World Vision Sri Lanka 67 Annual Review 2012 To the Members of World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited (Contd) Opinion 4 In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited maintained proper accounting records for the year ended 30 September 2012, and the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Organisation’s state of affairs as at 30 September 2012 and of the results of its activities, changes in accumulated fund and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the World Vision International Policies and Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-forProfit Organisations issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements 8 These financial statements also comply with the requirements of Section 151 (2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS 8 April 2013 COLOMBO World Vision Sri Lanka 68 Annual Review 2012 Statement of financial activities (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes Year ended 30 September 2012 2011 Incoming resources 3 2,867,628,529 2,769,613,913 Project expenditure 4 Direct staff costs (371,553,417) (340,362,628) Other direct costs (2,098,006,502) (2,065,285,338) Indirect costs (130,676,635) (97,540,887) Total project costs (2,600,236,554) (2,503,188,853) Net surplus on projects 7 267,391,975 266,425,060 Other revenue earned 6 47,657,779 34,865,522 Administrative costs (327,466,979) (259,361,859) Net (deficit) / surplus on operating activities 5 (12,417,225) 41,928,723 The notes on pages 72 to 83 form an integral part of these financial statements World Vision Sri Lanka 69 Annual Review 2012 Balance sheet (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes 30 September 2012 2011 ASSETS Non current assets Property, plant and equipment 10 264,300 264,300 Investments 11 135,698,277 89,999,979 135,962,577 90,264,279 Current assets Receivables 12 15,692,923 16,412,507 Deferred expenses Nil 97,377,574 Deposits and prepayments 13 21,769,337 19,542,797 Cash and cash equivalents 14 316,804,046 147,342,103 354,266,306 280,674,981 490,228,883 370,939,260 FUNDING AND LIABILITIES Accumulated fund Unrestricted funds 15 132,320,871 97,222,585 Restricted funds 16 86,564,737 87,686,903 218,885,608 184,909,488 Non-current liabilities Defined benefit obligations 18 137,556,517 125,727,853 137,556,517 125,727,853 Current liabilities Payables 17 60,018,498 60,301,919 Deferred Income 73,768,260 Nil 133,786,758 60,301,919 490,228,883 370,939,260 I certify that these financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007. Finance Director The World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these financial statements. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on ……………………. Directors Directors The notes on pages 72 to 83 form an integral part of these financial statements World Vision Sri Lanka 70 Annual Review 2012 Statement of changes in accumulated fund (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Restricted Unrestricted Total funds funds Balance as at 1 October 2009 58,519,520 42,227,345 100,746,865 Surplus for the year 2,074,119 49,843,053 51,917,172 Currency translation difference Nil (2,505,927) (2,505,927) Balance at 30 September 2010 60,593,639 89,564,471 150,158,110 Balance as at 1 October 2010 60,593,639 89,564,471 150,158,110 Surplus for the year 27,093,264 14,835,460 41,928,724 Currency translation difference Nil (7,177,346) (7,177,346) Balance at 30 September 2011 87,686,903 97,222,585 184,909,488 Balance as at 1 October 2011 87,686,903 97,222,585 184,909,488 Surplus for the year (1,122,166) (11,295,059) (12,417,225) Currency translation difference Nil 46,393,345 46,393,345 Balance at 30 September 2012 86,564,737 132,320,871 218,885,608 The notes on pages 72 to 83 form an integral part of these financial statements World Vision Sri Lanka 71 Annual Review 2012 (all amounts in Sri Lanka Rupees) Notes Year ended 30 September 2012 2011 19 176,175,957 (7,420,287) Gratuity paid 18 (8,673,495) (5,111,513) 167,502,462 (12,531,800) Sale of assets 6 15,960,021 18,571,817 Interest received 6 31,697,758 16,293,705 (Investment in) / withdrawal of interest bearing instruments. 11 (45,698,298) 20,570,885 1,959,481 55,436,407 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 169,461,943 42,904,607 Movement in cash and cash equivalents Beginning of the year 147,342,103 104,437,496 Increase 169,461,943 42,904,607 End of the year 14 316,804,046 147,342,103 World Vision Sri Lanka 72 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements 1 General information 2.1 Basis of preparation 1.1 World Vision Lanka (Guarantee) Limited (World Vision The balance sheet, statement of financial activities, Lanka) was incorporated under section 21 of the statement of changes in accumulated fund and the cash Companies Act No.17 of 1982 and re-registered under flows together with the accounting policies and notes Companies Act No 07 of 2007 as a company limited by to the financial statements comply with the World guarantee. Vision International Policies and Sri Lanka Statement of Recommended Practice for Not-for-Profit Organisations The registered office is located at 1119/2/1, Maradana issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Road, Colombo 08. The object of the World Vision Lanka Lanka. is to help destitute, needy and orphan children including families and communities without discrimination of The financial statements have been prepared on a nationality, caste or creed and to undertake relief historical basis. of those affected by natural calamities and during emergencies and to help the poor and needy to achieve 2.2 Foreign currency transactions self reliance. 2.2.1 Functional currency and presentation currency The functional currency of the organisation is Sri Lanka The activity of World Vision Lanka focuses on four main Rupees. sectors namely; economic development, education, health & nutrition and water & sanitation including the As per the instruction of the World Vision International, cross cutting areas, such as protection including child the World Vision Lanka keeps its books and records protection, environment, gender and peace building. in United States Dollars and the financial statements are primarily prepared and presented in United States 1.2 World Vision Lanka is domiciled in Sri Lanka and is the Dollars (US$) which is different to its functional local representation of World Vision International. The currency of Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR). principal place of activity of the organisation is located at 1119/2/1, Maradana Road, Colombo 8. 2.2.2 Translation in to presentation currency Except for certain activities that will conclude on the (a) All foreign exchange transactions (transactions in realization of their relevant activities in accordance with currencies other than US $) are converted in to US $ at the relevant terms of reference, the financial statements the rate of monthly average exchange prevailing in the have been prepared on a going concern basis. month in which the transactions were effected. 1.3 The notes to the financial statement on pages 72 to 83 (b) All assets and liabilities in currencies other than US $ an integral part of the financial statements. are converted in to US $ at the rate of the exchange ruling at the balance sheet date. 1.4 The notes to the financial statements are in US dollars unless otherwise indicated. (c) The resulting gains and losses are accounted for in the statement of financial activities. 2 Summary of significant accounting policies 2.3 Property, plant and equipment The principal accounting policies applied in the Property, plant and equipment purchased with the preparation of these financial statements are set out exception of land and building are not recognized below: in the balance sheet and are charged directly to the statement of financial activities as per the World Vision These policies have been consistently applied in all International Policies. the years of financial statement presentation, unless otherwise stated. World Vision Sri Lanka 73 Annual Review 2012 2.4 Receivables The activities for which these restricted funds may and Receivables are carried at anticipated realizable value. are being used are identified in the notes to the financial An estimate is made for doubtful receivables based on statements. a review of all outstanding amounts at the year end. Irrecoverable balances are written-off during the year in 2.7 Defined contribution plans which they are identified. All employees are members of the Employees’ Provident Fund and Employees’ Trust Fund, to which the Company 2.5 Cash and cash equivalents contributes 15% and 3% respectively of such employees’ For the purpose of the cash flow statement, cash and basic or consolidated wage or salary. cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and term deposits. 2.8 Defined benefit obligations Terminal benefits are provided for all employees at the 2.6 Funds rate of one half of the basic or consolidated wage or a. Unrestricted Funds salary, cost of living and all other allowances applicable Unrestricted funds are those that are available for use for the last month of the financial year for each year of by World Vision Lanka at the discretion of the Board, in completed service. The provision is funded fully by fixed furtherance of the general objectives and which are not deposits with bank. designated for specific purpose. 2.9 Income recognition Surplus funds are transferred from restricted funds a. Incoming Resources to unrestricted funds in terms of the relevant Donor Income realized from restricted funds is recognized in Agreements or with the subsequent approval of the the statement of financial activities only when there Donor. is certainty that all of the conditions for receipt of the funds have been complied with and the relevant Contributions received from the general public are expenditure that is expected to compensate has been recognized in the statement of financial activities on a incurred and charged to the statement of financial cash basis. activities. Unutilised funds are carried forward as such in the balance sheet. b. Restricted Funds Where grants are received for use in an identified Gifts and donations received in kind are recognised project or activity, such funds are held in a restricted at valuation at the time that they are distributed to fund account and transferred to the statement of beneficiaries, or if received for resale with proceeds financial activities to match with expenses incurred in being used for the purposes of the Project at the point respect of that identified project. Unutilized funds are of such sale. held in their respective fund accounts and included under accumulated fund in the balance sheet until such All other income is recognised when the Company is time as they are required. legally entitled to the use of such funds and the amount can be quantified. This would include income receivable Funds collected through a fund raising activity for any through fund raising activities and donations. specific or defined purpose are also included under this category. Grants are recognised in the financial statements at their fair value. When the grant relates to an expense Where approved grant expenditure exceeds the income it is recognised as income over the period necessary received and there is certainty that the balance will be to match it with the costs, which it is intended to received such amount is recognized through receivables compensate for on a systematic basis. in the balance sheet. World Vision Sri Lanka 74 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements Grants related to assets are generally deferred in the balance sheet and credited to the statement of financial activities over the useful life of the asset. b. Revenue Interest earned is recognised on an accrual basis. Net gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment and other non current assets, including investments, are recognised in the statement of financial activities after deducting from the proceeds on disposal, the carrying value of the item disposed of and any related selling expenses. Other income is recognised on an accrual basis. 2.10 Expenditure recognition Expenses in carrying out projects and other activities of World Vision Lanka are recognised in the statement of financial activities during the period in which they are incurred. Other expenses incurred in administration, restoring and maintaining of property, plant and equipment are accounted for on an accrual basis and charged to the statement of financial activities. 2.11 Deferred income / expenses Where funds earmarked for projects are not fully utilised at the date of the balance sheet, such amounts are carried forward as deferred income. Where expenses of projects exceed earmarked funds received and it is certain that donors will reimburse these expenses, such amounts at balance sheet date are carried forward as deferred expenses. 2.12 Information The accounting policies have been consistently applied, unless otherwise stated, and are consistent with those used in previous years. World Vision Sri Lanka 75 Annual Review 2012 3 Incoming resources 2012 2011 Restricted Direct funding and other 84,933,194 210,424,008 Unrestricted Received from World Vision International 2,627,036,795 2,305,132,014 Receipt from support office 155,658,541 254,057,891 2,867,628,529 2,769,613,913 4 Project expenditure 2012 2011 Ambagamuwa ADP 83,487,693 64,335,085 Eastern ADP 57,302,986 55,691,452 Eravur Pattu ADP 68,768,456 60,198,023 Galenbidunuwewa ADP Nil 24,890,471 Giribawa ADP 99,285,361 87,666,696 Horowpathana ADP 97,198,812 91,100,033 Kebethigollewa ADP 14,957,613 11,074,232 Kiran ADP 54,062,064 43,342,845 Lunugamvehera ADP 62,392,951 54,659,353 Mahakumbukkadawala ADP Nil 20,520,448 Mangrove ADP 47,262,394 47,118,937 Mannar ADP 62,575,980 52,735,922 Paddipalai ADP 77,886,544 69,454,306 Padiyathalawa ADP 69,332,633 60,510,520 Pothuvil ADP 69,985,831 58,501,981 Sevanagala ADP 23,564,055 28,586,134 Sri Lanka Usda Grant Nil 3,307,487 Street Children 18,945,921 16,486,369 Thanamalwila ADP 70,397,688 56,346,862 Wanathawilluwa ADP 31,388,546 50,457,583 Weeraketiya ADP 22,054,375 30,318,771 Wennapuwa ADP 55,881,691 67,472,191 Wilgamuwa ADP 81,111,349 65,361,994 Conflict Mitigation & Conflict Management Project Nil 5,881,395 Gift Catalogue Program Nil 155,496 Navithanvalley ADP 37,651,794 35,688,352 Kalpitiya ADP 40,781,812 35,032,618 Neluwa ADP 55,930,808 36,807,077 Nuwara Eliya ADP 79,826,709 56,424,885 Strategic Initiatives 14,350,990 12,431,504 Early Childhood Care and Development Nil 4,869,541 Navagaththegama ADP 46,320,538 34,561,139 North Idp Response 269,044 4,617,305 Estern Idp Response Program Nil 3,113,388 1,442,974,638 1,349,720,395 World Vision Sri Lanka 76 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements 4 Project expenditure (Contd) 2012 2011 Brought forward from page 75 1,442,974,638 1,349,720,395 Bibile ADP 83,648,489 53,195,377 Lanka Tsunami Response Team Nil 1,635,353 Sl/Phl Fy08 Children & Peace Building Project Nil 183,650 Perma Culture, Livelihoods & Nutrition Project (Plnp) -Aus Adps 23,617,168 32,498,056 Capacity Building For Wvl Hea Team HEA 321,826 2,541,062 Ehetuwewa ADP 29,841,734 23,418,372 Capacity Building Project For Field Based Coordinators 1,083,903 431,604 Mainstreaming Conflict Sensitive And Peace Building Tools Project Nil 3,145,831 Prevention Of Child Rights Violation And Child Abuse 11 12,057,392 8,610,059 East Area Rehabilitation Program 158,420 7,146,472 North Area Rehabilitation Program 9,891,674 30,621,975 Bogawanthalawa ADP 30,695,467 16,798,460 Kalpitiya Water Project-Koica Nil 2,387,508 North & East Arp Wva-Hea 19,586,355 36,645,843 Navithanvely Peace Project 4,403,986 5,923,772 Family Helps Project For North And East Nil 105,701 Ganga Ihala Korale ADP 16,975,621 9,841,608 Koralaipattu ADP 19,016,488 7,883,195 Food Security Program 19,565,552 25,531,017 Jaffna ARP Wvaus-HEA 22,597,894 14,522,789 North Returns Project HEA Nil 2,007,922 Integrated Food Security And Women Empowerment Project Nil 4,725,451 Blanket Supplementary Feeding -HEA 493,413 315,811 Rideemaliyadda ADP 9,711,477 11,500,715 One Laptop Per Child Project (Olpc Project ) 136,368 7,604,709 N/Eliya Drinking Water Supply Project Nil 590,191 Rideegama ADP 31,202,743 15,107,817 Early Recovery/Livelihoods In Jaffna For Returning Idps-H E A 5,239,197 4,938,400 Livelihood Assistance For Returnees In Northern-H E A Nil 30,902 Csa Consortium Project 428,656 4,215,877 Vital Assistance For Returning Idps In Northern Sri Lanka-H E A Nil 27,361,364 Pathana ADP 25,307,705 8,587,891 North Returns Livelihood Response Gc Support-Kilinochchi-H E A Nil 2,888,315 North Returns Livelihood Response Gc Support-Mullaitivu-H E A Nil 4,570,850 Riwash 2 (ACRP 3) 156,173,741 100,701,691 Babarakelle Water Project Nil 11,051,894 Nutrition Initiative For Transformation (Nift) 7,565,127 7,872,034 Mundalama ADP Assesment and Design 13,856,486 8,692,918 North Arp Gift Catalog-Hea 347,658 5,433,231 Northern Province Livelihood Recovery And Creation Project For Returnees Nil 15,826,774 Relief Assistance To Flood Affected FamiliesEast 5,629,532 9,461,236 Wattala ADP 7,381,992 5,679,146 Walapane ADP 11,141,926 1,929,238 Prevention Of Child Abuse And Other Child Rights Violations-11 13,724,735 8,158,815 Rural Integrated Nutrition Project 5,745,879 5,030,599 East & West Peace Project 3,512,295 10,672,617 Study On Innovative Practices For Child Retention Project Nil 1,752,753 Northern Sri Lanka Idp Recovery Project Ofda 168,173,906 245,685,871 WVL Disaster Management Project-NEPRF 11,103,819 7,210,094 Northern Sri Lanka Humanitarian Relief Project Jpf Phase 3 Nil 16,131,003 2,213,313,262 2,188,524,228 World Vision Sri Lanka 77 Annual Review 2012 4 Project expenditure (Contd) 2012 2011 Brought forward from page 76 2,213,313,262 2,188,524,228 East Arp-Vaharai And Eachchilampattu 25,213,615 6,072,663 Wvl Capacity Building Project 55,316 4,875,079 Remind Project-Reconciliation Through Mental Health Integration In The Northern Districts (Remind) 36,787,561 30,155,532 Participatory Nutrition Improvement Project 14,508,582 14,754,826 Jaffna ARP-WVC 20,669,315 9,814,668 Livelihood Recovery & Creation Project Vulnearable Returnees-North (1,332,558) 43,236,641 Reconstruction Of Education Centres And Facilitating The Improvement Of Drr Structures 12,648,152 7,369,972 Flood Disaster Response/Recovery 2,674,117 32,245,050 East Flood Response-C I D A -HEA 213,841 19,048,797 Flood Disaster Response/Recovery Nil 11,527,753 W F P Soft Food For Work 9,737,801 1,885,405 North ARP WV Korea-HEA 3rd Year 20,020,089 13,861,193 Mainstreaming Project (Start Up Phase) 8,279,966 4,192,794 Flood Disaster Response,Vaharai Division 327,815 2,740,906 Lunugala ADP 9,528,218 2,159,057 Relief Assistance To Flood Affected Families In East Sri Lanka Nil 29,148,993 Gift Catalogue Support For Flood-Affected Populations In Northern Sri Lanka 10,319,789 6,771,704 Integrated Food Security And Women Empowerment Restoring Livestock Project Nil 5,789,315 Support For Conflict-Affected Returnees In Northern Sri Lanka 41,356,131 5,025,520 Staff Capacity Building Project 3,162,836 14,654 Vaharai ADP Assesment and Design 7,731,885 32,354 IDP Return Response/Recovery 23,650,998 10,889,751 Livelihood Assistance For Returning Idps In Northern Sri Lanka 1,395,175 29,138,313 Northern Returns Livelihood Response Gift Catalogue Support 8,906,280 1,883,032 Trinco South ADP 7,371,589 155,822 Chavakachcheri ADP 4,231,809 74,527 Meegahakiula ADP 12,951,333 8,535 Gender Mainstreaming Project For Wvl Projects 1,169,038 Nil Jaffna ARP WVK Water Project 9,285,211 69,803 Gender Equity For Food Security Project 5,459,548 Nil East Flood Response Project: Tank Renovation 2,412,020 Nil WV Lanka Operations Capacity Building Project 3,679,344 Nil Improved Mental Health In Mula 10,301,018 Nil Lindula ADP 3,029,128 Nil Jpf6 Livelihood Recovery & Creation Project For Vulnerable Returnees -North 18,504,380 Nil Welikanda ADP 1,366,735 Nil Jpf 7 Livelihood Recovery & Creation Project For Vulnerable Returnees -North 10,677,917 Nil Promotion Of Permaculture Home Gardens Project 939,346 Nil HIV/AIDS & STI Awareness & Education Project 3,019,579 Nil Northern Returnee Education And Health Support 720,634 Nil GNs, BBB Programs 35,949,739 21,721,966 2,600,236,554 2,503,188,853 World Vision Sri Lanka 78 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements 5 Other revenue earned 2012 2011 Interest income 31,697,758 16,293,705 Sale of assets 15,960,021 18,571,817 47,657,779 34,865,522 6 Operating activities The following items have been charged in arriving at net (deficit) / surplus. 2012 2011 Directors’ remuneration Nil Nil Project expenses (excluding staff cost) 1,809,986,259 1,771,561,737 Employee benefits (Note 8) 789,215,426 722,526,114 Publicity 338,852 151,616 Audit fee and related expenses 1,382,986 1,096,673 7 Staff cost 2012 2011 Salaries and benefits 702,008,180 638,613,898 Defined contribution plan 66,705,035 60,573,635 Defined benefit obligation (Note 18) 20,502,211 23,338,581 789,215,426 722,526,114 8 Tax Effective 1 April 2006, the Company was liable to income tax at the rate of 30% on 3% of grants received as per Section 102 (1) of Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 unless the it applies for remission of income tax from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue. The Company is liable to income tax on interest and other income at the rate of 10%. The other sources of income constitute interest income on which income tax has been deducted at source by the financial institutions in which deposits have been made. World Vision Sri Lanka 79 Annual Review 2012 9 Property, plant and equipment 2012 2011 Land Navagaththegama ADP 264,300 264,300 10 Investments Investments mainly consist of fixed deposits and Treasury bills. The fixed deposits are with Standard Chartered Bank, National Development Bank, DFCC Bank and Nations Trust Bank. 2012 2011 Investments 135,698,277 89,999,979 The above deposits are held for the purpose of payment of staff gratuity and repatriation allowance. 11 Receivables 2012 2011 Advances 2,342,473 2,975,493 Interest receivable 3,317,966 861,076 Other receivables 10,032,484 12,575,938 15,692,923 16,412,507 12 Deposits and prepayments 2012 2011 Deposits 6,124,806 6,196,026 Prepayments 15,644,531 13,346,771 21,769,337 19,542,797 World Vision Sri Lanka 80 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements 13 Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 Cash in hand 885,037 721,562 Short term bank deposits 187,691,573 89,326,466 Cash at bank 128,227,436 57,294,075 316,804,046 147,342,103 14 Unrestricted funds 2012 2011 Balance at beginning of the year 97,222,585 89,564,471 Unrestricted (deficit) / surplus in operating activities 35,098,286 7,658,114 Balance at end of the year 132,320,871 97,222,585 15 Restricted funds 2012 2011 Balance at beginning of the year 87,686,903 60,593,639 Unrestricted (deficit) / surplus in operating activities (1,122,166) 27,093,264 Balance at end of the year 86,564,737 87,686,903 16 Payables 2012 2011 Accrued expenses 38,674,333 37,266,842 Retention (See (a) below) 18,622,676 9,199,611 Revolving loan payable Nil 2,604,963 Other payables 540,938 8,660,428 Repatriation Provision 2,180,551 2,570,075 60,018,498 60,301,919 (a) Retention represents 5% on contract value in respect of all the constructions completed and held for a period of 6 months subsequent to completion. World Vision Sri Lanka 81 Annual Review 2012 17 Defined benefit obligations 2012 2011 Balance at beginning of the year 125,727,853 107,696,401 Provision for the year 20,502,159 23,142,965 Payment made during the year (8,673,495) (5,111,513) Balance at the end of the year 137,556,517 125,727,853 18 Cash generated from/ (used in) operations 2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities (Deficit) / surplus of income over expenditure (12,417,225) 41,928,723 Adjustments for: Gratuity provision (Note 18) 20,502,159 23,142,965 Deferred (income)/expenses 171,145,834 (63,405,425) Exchange difference on revaluation 46,393,345 (7,177,346) Sale of assets (15,960,021) (18,571,817) Interest income (Note 6) (31,697,758) (16,293,705) Operating surplus / (deficit) before working capital changes 177,966,334 (40,376,605) Changes in working capital Decrease in receivables 719,584 37,838,393 Decrease / (increase) in prepayments and deposits (2,226,540) 480,532 Decrease in payables (283,421) (5,362,607) Cash flows from / (used in) operating activities 176,175,957 (7,420,287) 19 Contingent liabilities The Company had applied for remission of income tax from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue under Section 102(3) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 (subsequently amended by Amendment Act, No. 10 of 2007) on the grounds that it is solely engaged in: a) rehabilitation and the provision of infrastructure facilities and livelihood support to displaced persons in any area identified by the Government for such purposes; and b) other activities approved by the Minister as being humanitarian in nature, taking into consideration the nature and gravity of any disaster and the magnitude of relief consequently required to be provided. World Vision Sri Lanka 82 Annual Review 2012 Notes to the financial statements The company has obtained remissions up to year of assessment 2010/11 and all tax liabilities up to 2010/11 have been fully settled. During the year, the Company has settled LKR 21,699,109 (2011 LKR 8,519,628) in respect of income tax. The income tax settled is included under administrative expenses. In the event the Company fails to obtain the remission for the year of assessment 2011/2012 from the Commissioner General of Inland Revenue, it will be liable to income tax on the grant income at the stipulated rates. Considering the above, no provision has been made for the year of assessment 2011/2012 in respect of income tax on 3% of the grants received at the rate of 28% as stipulated by Section 102 (1) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006. 20 Commitments Capital commitments There were no material capital commitments outstanding at the balance sheet date. Financial commitments There were no material financial commitments outstanding at the balance sheet date. 21 Directors’ interest and related party transactions The directors during the financial year were ; Mr Ravindra Algama Mr Sunil C Wijesinghe Ms Marina A Tharmaratnam Dr. Ms Sylvanthi Ariariadurai Mr Ravindra Fernando (Resigned on 2 December 2011) Rt Rev Dhiloraj Canagasabey Ms Suzette De Alwis Dr. Ms Roshan Perera Mr Samuel Sureshkumar Bartlett Mr Trihadi Saptoadi The director, Mr Samuel Sureshkumar Bartlett is also the director of the Vision Fund Lanka Limited. The balances arising from transactions with Vision Fund Lanka Limited are as follows; World Vision Sri Lanka 83 Annual Review 2012 22 Directors interest and related party transactions (Contd) (a) Purchase of services Nature of transactions Amount paid / (received) 2012 2011 Fund transfer 11,537,650 26,938,134 Other administration expenses 2,087,366 Nil Capital allocation (13,625,016) (25,944,463) The director was not directly or indirectly involved in any contracts with the Company during the year ended 30 September 2012. (b) Outstanding balances arising from transactions with related parties. 2012 2011 Amount due to Vision Fund Lanka Ltd Balance as at 30 September Nil Nil 23 Post balance sheet events No events have occurred since the balance sheet date which would require adjustments to, or disclosure in, the financial statements. World Vision Sri Lanka 84 Annual Review 2012 Financial Highlights Breakup of the Expenditure Total Income 2010 to 2012 Funding Usage Programme Wise US $ Mn 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 Programme Expenditure 89% Area Development 0 Programme 68% 2010 2011 2012 Administration Expenditure 11% Humanitarian Emergency Assistance 20% Special Projects 12% Statistics Locations Districts: GN Divisions: Villages: 21 587 1,378 Beneficiaries Individuals: Families: Children: 966,588 255,759 260,000 Staff profile Total staff: 507 Male: 377 Female: 130 Indirect employees: 720 Male: 144 Female: 576 World Vision Sri Lanka 85 Annual Review 2012 Corporate Information Name of the Company: World Vision Lanka (Gte) Limited Legal Form: 1. Incorporated as a Company limited by guarantee under the Companies Act No: 07 of 2007Registration No: GA 16. 2. Registered as a Voluntary Social Services/Non Governmental Organization under Voluntary Social Services Organizations Act No: 31 of 1980Registration No: FL 46901. Registered Address 1119/2/1, Maradana Road, Colombo 8 Contact Details Tel: 94 (11) 269 1233 Fax: 94 (11) 269 7577 Web: www.worldvision.lk Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers 100, Braybrooke Place, Colombo 2. Company Secretary Corporate Management Services (Pte) Ltd 6th floor,Vision House, Galle Road, Colombo 4 Bankers: HSBC Nations Trust Bank People’s Bank Seylan Bank Standard Chartered Bank Funding Partners: World Vision Australia World Vision Canada World Vision Finland World Vision Germany World Vision Hong Kong World Vision Japan World Vision Korea World Vision Singapore World Vision Taiwan World Vision UK World Vision USA Australian Agency for International Development (AusAid) Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) Department for International Development (DFID) Office of United States Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) United States Agency for International Development (USAID) World Vision Sri Lanka 86 Annual Review 2012 Executive Summary Sinhala /ln,d .ekSfï w¨;a jQ lemùu'''' Y%S ,xldj ;=< j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh isÿ lrk jevlghq;=j, Èhfn;aula .sh jif¾ iksgqyka flßKs' ta iEu <uhl=gu Ôú;fha mßmQ¾K;ajh f.k fokakg W;aidy lrk njg jk fmdfrdkaÿj w¨;a lsÍu;a iuÕ j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh Y%S ,xldfõ <uhska fjkqfjka lem ù lghq;= lsÍfï jir 35la iïmQ¾K lsÍu;a iuÕh' rfÜ iEu Èia;%slalhlu wm isÿ lrk wfma ish¨ jevigyka uÕska wm fiajh lrk <uhskaf.a iy m%cdjf.a jeäÈhqKq jQ Ôú;j, we;s jQ n,mEfï mrdj¾;kh jk nj i|yka lrkafka i;=áks' <uhskag ±ka wOHdmkh i|yd msúiSfï wjia:d we;' Tjqyq jeäÈhqKq l< c, iemhqï iy ikSmdrCIl myiqlï N=la;s ú¢;s' tfiau jvd fyd| fi!LHdrCIdjlg msúiqï wjia:d Tjqkag ysñh' Tjqka ±ka wNsm%dhslj /l n,d .efka' Tjqka ±ka iqrCIs;h' tfiau ;ukaf.a Ôú; ms<sn| ;Skaÿ ;SrK .ekSfï§ Tjqyq jvd odhl fj;s' f.jqKq jif¾§ wms m%foaY ;=kl wfma jir 15l ixj¾Ok jevigyka iïmQ¾K lf<uq' leì;sf.d,a,Ej fijK., iy jkd;ú,a¨j hk tu m%foaY ;=fka wm b;sß lr meñKsfha ;sridr Ôjfkdamdhka i|yd wjia:d iys; n,.ekajQ m%cdjkah' wo Tjqkag ;ukaf.a Èú iß lr .kakg iy Tjqkaf.a ixj¾Okh È.gu mj;ajd f.k hkakg yelsh' wfma fndfyda jevlghq;=j, wjOdkh h<s;a fhduq jQfha W;=re iy kefÕkysr m<d;aj, .egqïj,ska n,mEï we;s jQ m%cdj /ln,d .ekSug iy Tjqkag iydh ,nd §u i|ydh' Tjqyq ±ka h<s;a Tjqkaf.a ksjdij, mÈxÑ ù isá;s' tfy;a ;u Ôú; kej; f.dvkÕd .ekSfï jEhfï§ Tjqyq Wmldr ,nd .ekSfï ±ä wjYH;djl miq fj;s' ta m%foaYj, mjq,aj,g ;sridr Ôjfkdamdhka ia:dms; lr .ekSu i|yd wm iydh jk w;f¾ mjd wms ta m%foaYj, m%cdjf.a orejka flfrys o wjOdkh fhduq lf<uq' ta wkqj Tjqkaf.a fi!LH iy wOHdmk wjYH;d iy;sl lsÍu i|yd wms l%shd lf<uq' mYapd;a hqo ld,Sk ls,sfkdÉÑ Èia;%Slalfha <uhska b,lal lr .ksñka j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh iyNd.s;aj fmdAIKh jeäÈhqKq lsÍfï jHdmD;sh ia:dms; lf<ah' Ôjfkdamdhkag t,a, jQ n,mEu we;=¿j hqoaOfhka we;s jQ n,mEï ksid ksoka.; ukaofmdaIKh fn,ySk;dj iy ;=jd, we;s lrkakg fya;= jQ w;r <uhska uqyqK ÿka fndfyda .eg¨ w;ßka folla jQfha fi!LHdrCIdj yd wOHdmkh i|yd jQ ÿ¾j, wjia:dh' iyNd.s;aj fmdaIKh jeäÈhqKq lsÍfï jHdmD;sh hgf;a lrÉÑ m%foaYfha fmr mdi,a 87l <uhska 3100 lg muK 2012 jir mqrd iufmdaI iy,a uqxweg iy lv, wvx.= fmdaIKSh wdydr imhkq ,eìKs' <uhskaf.a mdi,a hEu j¾Okhg iy Tjqka mx;s ldur l%shdldrlïj,g iyNd.S ùfï j¾Okhg jHdmD;sh Wmldrl úh' m%cdjf.a iy <uhskaf.a ;sridr nj iy m%.ukh ixj¾Okh iy;sl lrkakg j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh ;j;a jHdmD;s lsysmhla fufyhjkq ,eìKs' tys wOHdmk úfYaIs; iyk jHdmD;s yryd w¨;a fmr mdi,a myla bÈ lsÍfuka iy ;j;a fmr mdi,a yhla w¨;ajeähd lsÍfuka j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh ls,sfkdÉÑ iy uq,;sõ Èia;%slalj, <uhskag iydh ,nd ÿkafkah' fmr mdi,a .=rejreka mqyqKq lsÍfuka o bf.kSfï WmlrK lÜg, iemhSfuka o mdi,aj, <ud whs;Ska ms<sn| ±kqïj;a lsÍfuka o m%d:ñl yd oaú;Shl mdi,aj, ÿ¾j, ;;a;ajfha miq jQ <uhskag wOHdmkh i|yd Wmldr lsÍfuka o j¾,aâ úIka iydh ,nd ÿkafkah' fï jHdmD;sj,ska W;=f¾ <uhska 50 000lg jvd m%fhdackh w;aúh' ;u jevigyka w;rg wdmod wjodku wvq lsÍfï uQ, O¾u o j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kh tl;= lf<ah' wka;rdh l<ukdlrKh mYapd;a wdmod ikao¾Nh ;=< m%cdj m%lD;s ;;a;ajhg m;a lsÍu iy ndysr iïm;a u; hefmkafka ke;sj ;sridr nj iy;sl lsÍu m%cdjka iuÕ jev lsÍu ta jevigykaj,g wh;a úh' id¾:l;ajh w;a lr .;a tla Èß .kajk iq¨ wxYhla jQfha udkisl fi!LHfha ;SrKd;aul fldgi ;=< isÿ l< mqÿuh okjk jev fldgih' World Vision Sri Lanka 87 Annual Review 2012 W;=f¾ Èia;%slal ;=< udkisl fi!LHh yryd m%;sikaOdkh jHdmD;sh Èh;a lf<a 2010 Tlaf;daïn¾ udifhah' fuh ´iataâ wdh;kfha fi!LH wud;HdxYfha ufkdaÑls;ail wdh;kfha iy j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kfha yjq,a jHdmD;shla úh' Y%S ,xldfõ W;=re m<df;a m%cdjkaf.a iqn idOkh iy udkisl fi!LH jeäÈhqKq lsÍug ±rE m%h;akh ;=< úYsIag id¾:l;ajhla fuuÕska w;alr .ekqKs' Y%S ,xldfõ W;=f¾ Ôj;ajk ñksiaiq È.= ld,Sk .egqï wj;eka ùï iy wka; ÿmam;a nj w;aúkafodah' ;u .ïudkj, mjq,a kej; mÈxÑ jk úg iy ;u Ôú; kej; f.dvkÕd .kakg mgka .kakd úg b;d yÈis iy jeo.;a wjYH;dj jkafka udkisl fi!LHh iy iqn idOkh fõ' hqo .egqï ksid ish¨u mjq,a mdfya wj;eka úh' Tjqyq l=uk wdldrhl fyda wdmodj,g uqyqK ÿkafkdah' mjqf,a idudðlhl=f.a fyda jeä .Kklf.a Ôú; wysñ ùu ;ju;a w;=reoyka ;u mjqf,a idudðlhka ms<sn| wksYaÑ; nj ;=jd, ,eîu fyda wdndê; njg m;aùu tn÷ wdmod fõ' <uhska we;=¿ fndfyda fokl=g úúOdldr ìh okjk w;a±lSï ,nkakg isÿ úh' fndfyda .Kkla jQ jekaoUqjka o hqoaOfha m%;sM,hla úh' Tjqka ks;rj iudcfhka fldka lrkq ,efí' jekaoUqjkaf.a <uhska iy leä ì£ .sh mjq,aj, <uhska udkisl wd;;sfhka fmf<k nj fy<sfõ' Tjqyq ksjfia§ fukau wfkla <uhska Tjqka uÕ yeßu ksid o mSvd ú¢;s' widudkH yeisÍï rgdjka m< lrkafka leã ì£ .sh mjq,aj, <uhska nj .=rejre jd¾;d lr;s' j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kfha udkisl fi!LH iy ufkda iudcuh iyfhda.s;d jHdmD;sj, b,lal jkafka m%cd uQ,sl ufkdaÑls;ail Wmfoaik fiajdjka Yla;su;a lsÍu iy ufkda iudcuh lKavdhï Ñls;aidjh' tys§ ujqmshka w;r ±kqïj;a nj by< ±ófï l%shdldrlï iy .=rejreka w;r <uhska ms<sn| jvd fyd| wjfndaOhla we;s lr .ekSu iy <ud udkisl fi!LH iy <ud ixj¾Okh jeäÈhqKq lsÍu taldnoaOj isÿ flf¾' È.ska È.gu id¾:l;ajh w;a lr .;a jif¾ tla lemS fmfkk jHdmD;shla jkafka .%dñh ifudaOdksl c,h ikSmdrCIl yd le<s li, jHdmD;shh' th ´iataâ iy j¾,aâ úIka wdh;kfha taldnoaO jHdmD;shls' jevigyk 2011-2015 olajd l%shd;aul jkq we;' tys§ mqoa.,hka 23 000lg wêl msßilg c, iemhqu iy ikSmdrCIl myiqlï ,nd fokakg b,lal lr we;' thg kqjrt<sh Èia;%slalfha j;=j, mdi,aj, iy msáir .ïudkj, me;sÍ isák mdi,a <uhska 7 500la o we;=<;ah' kqjrt<sh rfÜ tla ÿmam;au Èia;%slalhls' ksYaÑ; jHdmD;shla fyda jHdmD;shl wÈhrla iïmQ¾K lr tys l<ukdlrKh m%cdjkag Ndr fok iEu j;djlu ;u ksjdij, iú lrk ,o w¨;a c, lrduj,ska tk c,h tlsfkld u; bi .ksñka <uhska ,nk úfkdaoh iy kÕk iskyj uÕska jevigyfka ienE jákdlu oi .=Khlg;a jvd jeä nj fudkjg meyeÈ,s fõ' wo jk úg mqoa.,hka 13 500lg jeä msßilg msßisÿ mdkSh c,h ,nd .ekSfï wjia:dj iy jeäÈhqKq l< ikSmdrCIl myiqlï ,nd .ekSfï wjia:dj ysñ ù we;' fï uÕska <uhskag c,h ksid we;s jk frda. fndfyda f,i wvq jkq we;' tfiau Tjqkaf.a iuia; fi!LH ;;a;ajh iy iqnidOkh jeäÈhqKq jkq we;' .%dóh ifudaOdksl c,h ikSmdrCIl iy le<s li< jHdmD;sfha tla b,lalhla jkafka m%cdjka m<d;a md,kh iy wfkla Wkkaÿj olajk md¾Yajhkaf.a yelshdjkaf.a Odß;dj f.dvkeÕSuh' túg jrla n, .ekajQ miq ;ukag wod< ld¾hhka ms<sn|j ;SrK .ekSug m%cdj l%shd lrkq we;' nqoaêu;a wdh;k uÕska tn÷ iyNd.s;ajhka m%j¾Okh lrkq we;' ;ukaf.a Ôú;j,g n,mdk ;SrK .ekSfï§ j;= wxYfha m<d;a md,kfha iy j;= lïlrejkaf.a l%shdldÍ odhl;ajfha fndfyda fjkialï isÿ ù we;s nj wm i|yka lrkafka b;d i;=áks' iudc j.lSu ms<sn| wfma jevigyka m%cdjka w;r w;sYh ckm%sh ù we;' ta m%cdjf.a fndfyda fokdg ±ka hymd,kh u;ameka iy u;a øjH Ndú;fha Nhdkl nj <ud whs;Ska udkj whs;Ska iy wdrCIdj iy ldka;d whs;Ska iy .Dyia:d m%pKav;ajh wdÈ foa ms<sn| fyd| mqyqKqjla ,nd § we;' World Vision Sri Lanka 88 Annual Review 2012 Executive Summary Tamil ftdj;jpnyLf;Fk; mh;g;gzpg;G GJg;gpf;fg;gl;Ls;sJ..... xt;nthU rpWtUf;Fk; tho;tpd; g+uzj;Jtj;ijf; nfhz;LtUtjw;F ghLgLtjw;fhd cWjpnkhopapd; gykhd GJg;gpj;jnyhd;Wld; ,yq;ifapd; rpWth;fisf; ftdj;jpnyLf;Fk; mh;g;gzpg;gpidf; nfhz;l 35 tUlq;fis epiwT nra;j jhgdkhf ,yq;ifapy; Nth;s;l; tp\dpd; gzpapy; ghhpa jpUg;GKidia fle;j tUlk; Fwpj;Jiuj;jJ. ehl;by; cs;s xt;nthU khtl;lj;jpYk; rfy vkJ nraw;wpl;lq;fs; KOtJk;> ehk; Nritaspj;j rpWth;fspdJk;> rdr%fq;fspdJk; Nkk;ghlile;j tho;;f;ifapy; vkJ gzpapd; jhf;fq;fs; gpujpgypj;jikia Fwpj;Jf;nfhs;tjpy; ehk; kfpo;r;rpailfpd;Nwhk;. rpWth;fs; jw;NghJ fy;tpf;fhd miljiyf; nfhz;bUf;fpwhh;fs;> jpUe;jpa ePh; tpepNahfj;ijAk;> Rfhjhu trjpfisAk; mDgtpf;fpd;whh;fs; mj;Jld; rpwe;j Rfhjhug; guhkhpg;Gf;F miljiyf; nfhz;bUf;fpwhh;fs;. mth;fs; jw;NghJ kdjhuf; ftdj;jpw;nfLf;fg;gLfpwhh;fs;> ghJfhf;fg;gLfpwhh;fs; mj;Jld; jkJ tho;;f;ifiag; ghjpf;Fk; jPh;khdq;fspy; mjpfstpy; rk;ge;jg;gl;Ls;shh;fs;. Mz;bd; NghJ nfg;gj;jpnfhy;yht> nrtdfy kw;Wk; tdhj;jtpy;Y Mfpa %d;W gFjpfspy; vkJ 15 tUl mgptpUj;jpr; nraw;wpl;lq;fis ehk; epiwNtw;wpAs;sJld;> epiyj;jpUf;fj;jf;f tho;thjhuq;fSf;fhd miljYldhd mjpfhukspf;fg;gl;l rdr%fq;fis ehk; gpd;Nd tpl;Lr;nrd;Ws;Nshk;. ,th;fs; jw;NghJ jkf;fhf jhNk cjtpnra;af;$bath;fshf ,Ug;gJld;> jkJ Kd;Ndw;wj;ijAk; njhlUfpd;wdh;. jkJ tPLfspy; kPs;FbNaw;wg;gl;Ls;s tlf;fpYk;> fpof;fpYk; Nkhjyhy; ghjpf;fg;gl;l> Mdhy; jkJ tho;f;ifia kPs;fl;bnaOg;Gtjw;F ghLgLk; epiyapYs;s rdr%fq;fs; Mjuit ehbepw;gjdhy;> mtw;iwf; ftdj;jpw;nfLg;gjw;;fhfTk;> Mjutspg;gjw;fhfTk; vkJ mjpfsT gzpahdJ kPz;Lk; xUKiw Nehf;fpidf; nfhz;Ls;sJ. epiyj;jpUf;fj;jf;f tho;thjhuq;fis mikg;gjw;fhf FLk;gq;fSf;F ehk; cjtpaspj;Js;s mNj Ntis> rdr%fq;fspy; cs;s rpWth;fs; kPJ ehk; Nehf;fpidf; nfhz;bUe;jJld;> Rfhjhuj;jpYk;> fy;tpapYk; mth;fspd; rfy Njitg;ghLfisAk; ftdj;jpw;nfLg;gjw;F Kd;te;Js;Nshk;. Aj;jj;jpw;Fg; gpe;jpa fpspnehr;rp khtl;lj;jpy; Kd;-gs;sp rpWth;fis ,yf;Fg;gLj;jp gq;nfLg;gpyhd Ngh\hf;F Nkk;gLj;jy; fUj;jpl;lj;ij (PNIP) Nth;s;l; tp\d; mKy;gLj;jpaJ. tho;thjhuq;fs; kPjhd jhf;fk; cs;slq;fyhf> rpWth;fspdhy; Kfq;nfhLf;fg;gl;l ngUksT gpur;ridfspy; xd;whd ehl;gl;l Ngh\hf;F> gytPdk; kw;Wk; fhak;> Rfhjhug; guhkhpg;Gf;Fk;> fy;tpf;Fkhd Nkhrkhd miljy; Mfpatw;Wf;F Aj;jj;jpd; jhf;fq;fs; gq;fspj;Js;sd. 2012Mk; Mz;L KOtJk; fiur;rpg; gphptpy; 87 Kd;-gs;spfspy; ruhrhpahf 3>100 rpWth;fSf;F rkNgh\h> NrhW> ghrpg;gaW kw;Wk; nfhz;ilf;fliy Mfpad cl;gl Ngh\hf;fpyhd czTfis PNIP nraw;wpl;lk; Cl;baJ. ghlrhiyf;Fr; nry;Yk; khzth;fspd; vz;zpf;ifiaAk;> tFg;giwr; nraw;ghLfspy; rpWth;fspd; gq;nfLg;igAk; Nkk;gLj;Jtjpy; fUj;jpl;lk; fhuzkhf tpsq;fpaJ. rdr%fq;fspdJk;> rpWth;fspdJk; epiyj;jpUf;Fk;jd;ikiaAk;> Kd;Ndw;wj;jpyhd mgptpUj;jpiaAk; cWjpg;gLj;Jtjw;fhf ngUksT NtW fUj;jpl;lq;fisAk; Nth;s;l; tp\d; elj;jpaJ. mjd; fy;tp-Fwpg;ghd epthuzf; fUj;jpl;lq;fspd; Clhf> Ie;J Gjpa Kd;-gs;spfis epUkhzpg;gjd; %yKk;> NtW MW Kd;-gs;spfisg; Gduikg;gjd; %yKk; fpspnehr;rp kw;Wk; Ky;iyj;jPT Mfpa khtl;lq;fspd; rpWth;fSf;F Nth;s;l; tp\d; yq;fh cjtpaspj;Js;sJ. fw;ifg; nghl;lspfis toq;Fjy;> ghlrhiyfspy; rpWth; chpikfs; kPJ tpopg;gpaiy Vw;gLj;Jjy; kw;Wk; jkJ fy;tpapy; gpd;jq;fpa epiyapYs;s Muk;gepiy kw;Wk; ,uz;lhk;epiyg; ghlrhiy khzth;fSf;F Mjutspj;jy; Mfpadtw;wpYk; Nth;s;l; tp\d; yq;fh cjtpaspj;jJ. ,f; fUj;jpl;lq;fspypUe;J tlf;F KOtJk; 50>000f;F Nkw;gl;l khzth;fs; gadile;Js;shh;fs;. ,luhgj;J Kfhikj;Jtk;> NguopTf;F gpe;jpa #oikTfspd; rdr%f kPl;rp kw;Wk; ntspahh; %yq;fs; kPJ jq;fpapUf;fhky; epiyj;jpUf;Fk;jd;ikia cWjpg;gLj;Jtjw;fhf rdr%fq;fSld; (Fwpg;ghf rdr%f mbg;gilapyhd jhgdq;fSld;) gzpahw;Wjy; Mfpad cl;gl mjd; nraw;wpl;lq;fspDs; mopT ,luhgj;Jf; Fiwg;gpd; jj;Jtq;fis Nth;s;l; tp\d; xd;wpizj;Js;sJ. cstpay; Rfhjhuj;jpd; Kf;fpakhd Jiwapy; rhjpf;fg;gl;l tpag;gila itf;Fk; gzpNa Cf;fkspf;Fk; mk;rq;fspy; xd;whFk;. World Vision Sri Lanka 89 Annual Review 2012 AusAid, Rfhjhu mikr;R kw;Wk; kNdhjj;Jttpayhsh; fy;Y}hp Mfpatw;Wldhd gq;fhz;ikAld; Nth;s;l; tp\dpdhy; 2010 xf;Nuhghpy; Muk;gpf;fg;gl;l ~tlf;F khtl;lq;fspy; cstpay; Rfhjhuk; Clhf kPspzf;fk;| (REMIND) vd;w fUj;jpl;lkhdJ ,yq;ifapy; tlf;F khfhzj;jpy; rdr%fq;fspd; cstpay; Rfhjhuj;ijAk;> NrkeyidAk; Nkk;gLj;Jtjw;fhd mjd; Kaw;rpapy; mjpfsT ntw;wpia mile;Js;sJ. ,yq;ifapd; tlf;fpy; thOk; kf;fs; njhlh;e;JNk NkhjiyAk;> ,lg;ngah;itAk;> kpjkpQ;rpa tWikiaAk; mDgtpj;Js;sdh;. jkJ fpuhkq;fspy; FLk;gq;fs; kPs;FbNawp jkJ tho;f;ifia kPs;fl;bnaOg;Gtjw;F Muk;gpf;ifapy; mtw;wpd; kpfTk; mtrukhdJk;> Kf;fpakhdJkhd Njitahf cstpay; RfhjhuKk;> NrkeyDk; tpsq;Ffpd;wd. Nkhjypdhy; ,lk;ngah;e;j mNdfkhf rfy FLk;gq;fSk; xd;W my;yJ mjpfsT FLk;g cWg;gpdh;fis ,oe;jik> ,d;DNk fhzhky; NghAs;s cwtpdh;fs; gw;wpa cWjpaw;w jd;ik> fhakile;jik my;yJ mq;ftPdkile;jik Nghd;w VNjh tifapyhd Jd;gj;ij mDgtpj;Js;sd. rpWth;fs; cl;gl ngUk;ghyhNdhh; gy;-vz;zpf;ifapyhd gaq;fu mDgtq;fis milaNtz;bapUe;jJ. ghhpa vz;zpf;ifapyhd tpjitfisAk; Aj;jk; tpistpj;Js;sJ. mth;fs; mNdfkhf r%fj;jpy; Xuq;fl;lg;gLfpd;whh;fs;. tpjitia my;yJ ~rpije;j| FLk;gq;fisr; Nrh;e;j rpWth;fs; tPl;by; cstpay; mOj;jj;jpypUe;Jk;> Vida rpWth;fs; mth;fis jtph;f;fpwhh;fs; vd;w cz;ikapypUe;Jk; ghjpg;giltJk; fz;lwpag;gl;Ls;sJ. mrhjhuz elj;ijia ntspg;gLj;Jk; ngUksT rpWth;fs; rpije;j FLk;gq;fspypUe;Nj tUfpd;wdh; vd Mrphpah;fs; Fwpg;gpLfpd;wdh;. rpWth; cstpay; Rfhjhuj;ijAk;> rpWth; Kd;Ndw;wj;ijAk; rpwg;ghfg; Ghpe;Jnfhs;tjw;Fk;> Nkk;gLj;Jtjw;Fk; ngw;NwhhpdJk;> Mrphpah;fspdJk; kj;jpapy; tpopg;gpaiy cah;j;Jk; nraw;ghLfSld; ,ize;J rdr%fmbg;gilapyhd cstpay; kUj;Jt Mw;wg;gLj;jy; NritfisAk;> csepiy-r%f FO Fzg;gLj;jiyAk; gyg;gLj;Jtij Nth;s;l; tp\dpd; cstpay; Rfhjhu> csepiy-r%f MjuTf; fUj;jpl;lq;fs; Fwpf;Nfhshff; nfhz;Ls;sd. AusAid kw;Wk; Nth;s;l; tp\d; yq;fh Mfpatw;wpd; ,ize;j nraw;wpl;lnkhd;whd fpuhkpa xd;wpize;j ePh;> MNuhf;fpa kw;Wk; Rfhjhu (RIWASH) fUj;jpl;lj;jpd; njhlh;r;rpahd ntw;wpNa tUlj;jpd; rpwg;gk;rq;fspy; xd;whFk;. nraw;wpl;lk; 2011-2015 KOtJk; ,lk;ngWnkd;gJld;> ehl;bd; kpfTk; tsk;Fd;wpa khtl;lq;fspy; xd;whd Etnuypah khtl;lj;jpy; xU njhifapyhd Njhl;lq;fspYk;> gpd;jq;fpa fpuhkq;fspYk; gue;Js;s 7>500 ghlrhiyr; rpWth;fs; cl;gl 23>000f;F Nkw;gl;lth;fSf;F ePh; tpepNahfj;ijAk;> MNuhf;fpa trjpfisAk; toq;Ftij Fwpf;Nfhshff; nfhz;Ls;sJ. xt;nthU jlitAk; fl;lnkhd;W my;yJ fUj;jpl;lnkhd;W Kbtile;J> nraw;wpl;lj;jpd; cz;ikahd ngWkjpia epUtfpg;gjw;F rdr%fq;fSf;F ifaspf;fg;gLk; NghJ> jkJ tPLfspy; epWtg;gl;Ls;s Gjpa Foha;fspypUe;J ntspNaWk; ePiu xUtUf;F xUth; rpWth;fs; gPr;rpabf;Fk; NghJ mth;fspd; kfpo;r;rpiaAk;> rphpg;gpidAk; fhzKbfpd;wJ. ,d;Wtiu J}a;ikahd ePhpd; tpepNahfj;jpw;F Neubahd miljiyf; nfhz;bUg;gjpypUe;Jk;> jpUe;jpa MNuhf;fpa trjpfspypUe;Jk; 13>500f;F Nkw;gl;l jdpg;gl;lth;fs; ed;ikaile;Js;shh;fs;. ,J ePhpdhy; fhtg;gLk; Neha;fSf;F rpWth;fs; ntspg;gLtij mjpfsT Fiwf;Fk; vd;gJld;> mth;fsJ KOikahd Rfhjhuj;ijAk;> NrkeyidAk; Nkk;gLj;Jk;. rdr%fj;jpdJk;> cs;quhl;rp kw;Wk; NtW gq;fhsh;fspdJk; Mw;wysTfisf; fl;bnaOg;GtNj RIWASH nraw;wpl;lj;jpd; Fwpf;Nfhs;fspy; xd;whFk;. ,jdhy; mjpfhukspf;fg;gLk; NghJ> jk; rk;ge;jg;gl;l jPh;khdq;fis vLg;gjpy; rdr%fq;fs; RWRWg;Gld; <LgLtJld;> ,j;jifa gq;nfLg;gpid tptuk;njhpe;j epWtdq;fs; Nkk;gLj;Jk;. ngUe;Njhl;lj; Jiwapy; cs;qh; Ml;rpapYk;> jkJ tho;f;ifiag; ghjpf;Fk; jPh;khdnkLg;gjpy; ngUe;Njhl;lj; njhopyhsh;fspd; jPtpukhd gq;nfLg;gpYk; ngUksT khw;wq;fisf; ftdj;jpw;nfLg;gijapl;L ehk; cz;ikapNyNa kfpo;r;rpailfpd;Nwhk;. r%f tifnghWg;Gf;$Wjy; kPjhd vkJ nraw;wpl;lq;fs; rdr%fq;fSld; kpfTk; gpurpj;jkhditahFk;. rdr%fq;fisr; Nrh;e;j ngUk;ghyhNdhh; ey;yhl;rpapYk;> Nghijg;nghUspdJk;> kJghd J\;gpuNahfj;jpdJk; mghaq;fspYk;> rpWth; chpikfspYk;> kdpj chpikfspYk; kw;Wk; ghJfhg;gpYk;> tPl;L td;Kiwg; gpur;ridfspYk;> ngz;fs; chpikfspYk; ed;F gapw;Wtpf;fg;gl;Ls;sdh;. World Vision Sri Lanka 88 Annual Review 2012 Our Core Values We are Christian We are Responsive We are Partners We are Stewards We Value People We are Committed to the Poor Countries Where World Vision Works Produced by Copyline (Pvt) Ltd www.worldvision.org.lk World Vision Lanka 1119/2/1, Maradana Road Colombo 08 Sri Lanka
