IKEA Group Sustainability Report FY12 Table of contents 01 Introduction 03 Resource and energy 3 About the IKEA Group independence 5 Our Swedish roots 25 Responsible sourcing 6 Message from Mikael Ohlsson 39 More sustainable products 8 Message from Steve Howard 47 More sustainable buildings and transport 10 FY12 highlights 58 Energy and water in our supply chain 11 IKEA Group Sustainability Strategy 04 Better life for people 02 A more sustainable life at home and communities 16 Products for a more sustainable life 68 A great place to work at home 73 Human rights at IKEA 19 Engaging customers 75 The best places to work – suppliers 85 Strong communities 05 Governance and ethics 91 How we work 92 Sustainability governance and management 96 Business ethics 97 Public policy THE IKEA GROUP CO-WORKERS PER FUNCTION INTRODUCTION As of August 31, 2012, the IKEA Group had operations Retail: 106,500 in 44 countries, including 30 service trading offices in Purchasing, distribution, 25 countries. We also had 33 distribution centres and wholesale, range and other: 14,500 11 customer distribution centres. The IKEA Group had Industry group: 18,000 a total of 298 stores in 26 countries. Total IKEA Group co-workers in FY12: 139,000 Range Strategy & Product Development Supply Chain The IKEA Group CO-WORKERS PER REGION of companies IKEA Group Retail Europe: 99,000 North America: 18,000 IKEA Group IKEA Group Industry Staff functions Asia & Australia: 11,000 Russia: 11,000 PURCHASING PER REGION SALES PER REGION Europe: 63% Europe: 79% Russia, Asia & Australia: 33% North America: 14% North America: 4% Russia, Asia & Australia: 7% Table of contents 3 Our vision is to create a better everyday life for the many people Table of contents 4 INTRODUCTION Our Swedish roots Sweden has a long tradition of combining beauty and function in home furnishing. But when we started our business, design was not something very many people could afford. So our mission has always been to give people with thin wallets a chance to furnish their homes in a beautiful and functional way. We call it “democratic design”. We started out in Småland, a region in southern Sweden known for its stony landscape, expansive forests and hard-working people. Here, practical solutions to everyday life challenges are as important as economising with resources. Our common sense values such as simplicity, cost-consciousness, humbleness and willpower have been the basis for everything we do – and still are. We’ve made a lot out of very little for more than 60 years now. The stone wall is a symbol of IKEA, representing simplicity and hard work. Table of contents 5 INTRODUCTION Message from Mikael Sustainability is a great driver of innovation at IKEA – from how we design our products, to how we produce, package and transport them. It goes very well with our business model to offer good quality products at affordable prices, meaning we have to be a low cost company which includes being careful with earth’s limited resources. We want to create a better everyday life for the many people. While our business is home furnishing, our vision gives us the opportunity, and responsibility, to act beyond the home and apply our vision to everything we do. We have set out to grow and develop IKEA in harmony with people and the planet. Our new sustainability strategy, “People and Planet Positive”, aims at inspiring millions of customers to live a more sustainable life at home, making IKEA Mikael Ohlsson is the President energy and resource independent as well as creating a better life for people and Chief Executive Officer of and communities. We will continue to publicly share our efforts and results on the IKEA Group. our way forward. Over the years, our co-workers and suppliers have taken big steps. Many products that save energy and money have been developed. We continue to increase our share of renewable materials that come from preferred sources. We are increasing our direct deliveries to minimise transport and traditional wooden pallets have been changed to paper pallets – developments that save money and are better for the environment. And I am very proud that all our home furnishing suppliers, after 12 years of hard work, are approved according to our supplier code of conduct (IWAY). Table of contents 6 Our co-workers’ commitment is fantastic. We recruit based on our values and expect everyone to take responsibility INTRODUCTION and learn on the job. We are not perfect, and sometimes we make mistakes. Then we openly admit them, correct and move on with new learnings and insights. We believe that it is possible to combine successful business with responsible behaviour. Our new code of conduct provides a good foundation for our business ethics – ethics that we will never compromise. A better life at home for the many people will not happen by itself. Together with our co-workers, customers, suppliers and other partners, we will continue to invest in renewable energy, new technologies and new materials, and thereby create an even better IKEA. And we will continue to support children – the most important people in the world through the IKEA Foundation. We’ve decided to use our strength to create something good – and what is good for people is also good for us in the long run.” Mikael Ohlsson, President and Chief Executive Officer of the IKEA Group Table of contents 7 INTRODUCTION Message from Steve Since joining a couple of years ago I’ve learnt that IKEA is made up of enthusiasts who like to get things done. And we’ve done a lot. Through products that save energy and water or reduce waste, we are enabling more and more people to save time and money – things that are becoming more important than ever before. We have also taken a stand on the energy we consume in our operations – we want to use less and for the energy we use, we want it to come from renewable sources, mostly the sun, wind and biomass. This will help stabilise costs, protecting us from fluctuating energy prices. In the past year we produced renewable energy equivalent to 34% of our total energy use and at the end of FY12, we had 250,000 solar panels on our buildings and 83 wind turbines in operation. Steve Howard is the Chief SusIt’s also important that we have a long-term sustainable supply of wood and tainability Officer for the IKEA cotton, two of our most important raw materials. To increase the amount of Group and a member of the wood and cotton available that meets our preferred sources requirements, Executive Management team. which include Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certified wood or cotton that is produced in line with the Better Cotton Initiative, we go right back to the source and support projects to train farmers and improve forest management. All our wood is sourced from suppliers that meet our forestry standards and in FY12, 22.6% of our wood was from forests certified by the FSC. More than a third of our cotton came from preferred sources. Table of contents 8 We want to help create a better everyday life for the people working in the factories we source from and having all INTRODUCTION our home furnishing suppliers approved against our supplier code of conduct (IWAY) is a major milestone. We want to continue in this direction as it not only benefits workers, but also suppliers and our own business. We also have to look to the future. In 2020 many more customers will visit our stores using convenient public transport or perhaps by a friendly IKEA car share. If we can make it happen, they’ll be able to use a solar powered electric vehicle for home delivery or rent an electric van from the car park. They’ll know that all our raw materials are sustainably sourced or recycled, and that the company is 100% renewably powered. They’ll be able to buy from a bigger range of simple and affordable products that enable them to manage and produce energy in the home, sort and reduce waste, or use just the right amount of water. We’ll still be selling sofas to sit on but I hope they’ll come from a solar powered factory, delivered by electric vehicles, using recycled materials and sustainably certified cotton. There will be a solution to reuse or recycle your old sofa if you are finished with it after 10 or 20 years. It’s our dedicated co-workers, together with our suppliers and other partners, who will make this a reality. And in fact, we are already well on the way today!” Steve Howard, Chief Sustainability Officer for the IKEA Group Table of contents 9 Increased volume of wood Committed FY12 coming from FSC certified forests to 22.6%, up to convert all lighting we sell highlights from 16.2% to LED by FY16 Sourced 34% of 86% of waste recycled our cotton from across our operations preferred sources 100% of Reduced CO2 emissions from home furIKEA buildings by 17%, nishing supcompared with FY11 Dishwashers pliers IWAY 22–51% approved more efficient Energy consuming products or being compared 32% more efficient compared phased out with 2008 with 2008 €82 million donated in calendar year 2012 by the 83% of co-workers IKEA Foundation to support are proud of the €1.5 billion committed for children living in poverty way IKEA works renewable energy with sustainability investments up to 2015 47% of managers are women, up from 40% in FY11 91% of materials used in our products were renewable, Produced renewable energy recyclable or recycled equivalent to 34% of our total energy consumption Launched People & Planet Improved energy efficiency Positive sustainability by 3% in our stores, comstrategy for 2020... Completed more than 1,000 pared with FY11 Table of IWAY audits contents 10 INTRODUCTION People & Planet Positive: IKEA Group Sustainability Strategy One of the biggest challenges in the 21st century is We list some of our key commitments for FY20 on the how to tackle the expected shortage of resources and next page. As People & Planet Positive was released at climate change, while providing a good quality of life the end of FY12, we will start to report progress next for people around the world. Our new sustainability year. This report explains our progress against our strategy, People & Planet Positive, builds on our many previous targets in our strategy for 2015. years of working with environmental and social Sustainability is one of the four cornerstones of the issues and explains how we will play our part in meetGrowing IKEA Together business direction. People & ing those challenges. Planet Positive will help us to grow within the limits of one planet. To meet future customer needs and address the higher price of raw materials and energy, while driving down See People & Planet Positive – IKEA Group Susemissions and maintaining our low prices, we need to tainability Strategy 2020 transform our business. Simply working towards being less bad will not get us where we need to be – we need transformational change – which means changing old ways and embracing the new, being bold, innovative and committed to taking action. Our strong values of togetherness and enthusiasm, a constant desire for renewal and our commitment to make our goals a reality will support us in taking the many steps, both large and small. Our plans are described in People & Planet Positive. Table of contents 11 INTRODUCTION People & Planet Positive commitment highlights Strive towards energy independence through being a leader in renewable enEnsure sustainability is part of our 2 Resource and energy ergy, and becoming more energy efficient throughout our operations and supply chain. everyday work. independence • By the end of FY15, we will produce • By the end of FY15, 95% of IKEA co-workers Strive for resource independence by using rerenewable energy equivalent to at least state that “sustainability is a natural part of sources within the limits of the planet and by en70% of our energy consumption. the everyday work”. couraging all waste to be turned into resources. • By the end of FY20, the IKEA Group will • Ensure sustainability is included in all personal • By FY17, 50% of projected wood volume will produce as much renewable energy as we development and incentive schemes. come from preferred sources. consume in our operations. • Ensure improved knowledge, training • By end of FY15, all cotton used will be proand best practice sharing to enable all coduced in line with the Better Cotton Initiative. workers to contribute to and actively challenge 3 A better life for people • By the end of FY15, all main home furnishing IKEA to become more sustainable. materials, including packaging, will be either and communities made from renewable, recyclable or recycled Take a lead in contributing to a better life for materials. people and communities impacted by our business. 1 A more sustainable life at home • By the end of FY15, 90% of our home furnish• By the end of FY15, all IKEA suppliers (within ing products will be more sustainable with the IWAY scope) comply with our supplier code Take the lead in developing and promoting documented environmental improvements, of conduct, IWAY. IWAY will be continuously products and solutions that enable customers covering both resource use and product assessed and strengthened. to live a more sustainable life at home. functionality according to our sustainability product score card. • Ensure that the requirements we place on our • By the end of FY20, achieve more than a own operations, with regards to environmenfourfold increase in sales from products and Develop our business through investing in renewtal, social and working conditions, meet or solutions, inspiring and enabling customers to able energy sources, energy efficiency, store exceed those we require of our suppliers using live a more sustainable life at home. expansion and refurbishment, low carbon transour people strategy. portation and range development. Engage and involve people and communities • Support the realisation of human rights and around our stores, our suppliers and co-workers • We will maintain or exceed current investment have a positive impact on people’s daily lives, through impactful, relevant and unique commulevels and publicly report on progress. with the UN Guiding Principles on Business nication. • All stores will have been included in “IKEA and Human Rights as our base. • By the end of FY15, at least 95% of co-workGoes Renewable” (page 51) by the end of • Building on our belief that our actions should ers, 95% of our suppliers and 70% of consumFY15. always have the best interests of the child in ers view IKEA as a company that takes social • Every new IKEA store, distribution centre, or mind, we will use the Children’s Rights and and environmental responsibility. industrial group factory will be located, deBusiness Principles to strengthen the work signed, equipped and operated to be the most we do throughout our business to protect the sustainable IKEA facility at that point in time. rights of children. Table of contents 12 Jim Leape Sara Nordquist INTRODUCTION Director General, WWF International Sales team, Kitchens, Malmö store, Sweden The base of WWF’s partnership with Part of my job is to talk to customIKEA is to transform markets. We ers about the sustainability benefits find many ambitious targets in IKEA’s of our kitchen products and show them People & Planet Positive that will help how much electricity and water they can transform the markets of timber and cotton as well as save. Knowing that we are really investing in sustainreducing emissions in society and help many people ability makes my job easier.” live a more sustainable life at home. IKEA has come far, but still has hard work in front of it to reach all of its tough goals. WWF warmly welcome these commitments and hope that they inspire other companies to similar action.” John Sauven Executive Director, Greenpeace UK People & Planet Positive puts IKEA at the foreHarish Jakhar front of leading companies looking at the fundaProduct Engineer, IKEA Group mentals of how to transform their business model in the face of environmental threats ranging from food We only have one Earth for us all to and energy security issues through to water shortages share. We need to use our resources and loss of biodiversity. On renewable energy, the carefully, and replace and replenish them. IKEA vision of getting 100% renewable energy in their Sustainability can be complex, but if we own operations by 2020 is the kind of ambition that if approach it in the right way, it will make us more comother companies followed would provide a huge boost petitive. I believe this is what Growing IKEA Together to clean technology globally.” is all about.” Table of contents 13 A more sustainable life at home Table of contents 14 A MORE SUSTAINABLE A more So enabling our customers to live more sustainably LIFE AT HOME will make a significant difference, and with 690 million visitors to IKEA Group stores worldwide, even small sustainable changes will add up to a big impact. life at home FY12 at a glance • Committed to convert all the lighting we sell to LED by FY16 Many people want to live more sustainably – to recycle • Launched new products and solutions that support our more, to use less energy and water and to cut down on customers to live a more sustainable life at home waste. But customers often need advice on what steps • Our energy consuming products were 32% more efficient to take and can’t afford to spend more time or money. than those installed on the market in 2008 We can inspire and support our customers to live more sustainably – and save money too – by using less People & Planet Positive – new targets energy and water, and reducing waste. By offering • By the end of FY20, achieve more than a fourfold increase products and solutions that are affordable and simple in sales from products and solutions, inspiring and enabling to use, we can make it easier to live a more sustainable customers to live a more sustainable life at home life at home. • Our energy consuming products will be, on average, at least This has been a priority for IKEA for a long time. Now 50% more efficient than our range was in 2008 with the launch of our new sustainability strategy, we plan to go further in developing and promoting prod• By the end of FY16, all our electric hobs will be energy ucts that enable customers to live more sustainably. efficient induction hobs1 By the end of FY20, our goal is to have achieved more • By the end of FY16, our entire lighting range will switch to than a fourfold increase in sales from these products LED offered at the lowest prices and solutions. • By FY17, offer the most energy efficient home appliances at Around a quarter of our carbon footprint comes the lowest price from customers using IKEA products in their homes. 1 Exceptions may occur due to local conditions Table of contents 15 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Products for a more FOLKLIG induction hob. LIFE AT HOME IKEA induction hobs use magnetic field techsustainable life at home nology to heat the pan, not the rest of the hob or surrounding air. This reduces cooking time by up to 60% and energy use by up to 40%. We have already launched many products and solutions that enable customers to live more sustainably, ENASTÅENDE dishwasher. and many more are in development. To achieve our Our dishwasher range is curgoals, we will communicate clearly with our customers rently between 22% and 51% and measure our progress. more efficient than products on the market in 2008. In FY12, we defined what we mean by a sustainable life In Europe, all our fridges, freezers, ovens, at home product. It must enable our customers to either: dishwashers and washing machines now have an A, • Save or generate energy; A+ or A++ energy rating. This means they are among • Reduce waste; the most efficient products according to the EU energy • Recycle more; or rating system, which rates products from A+++ to D. • Save water. Lighting uses 20% of energy in the home. All our lighting will be LED, the most efficient lighting technology, During FY13, we will set up a process for measuring by FY16. (Lighting a brighter future, page 18). progress in product development and sales, and establish baseline data so we can track our progress. Energy Our energy-consuming products include lighting, televiISANDE fridge/freezer, launched in FY12, has a A++ sions and appliances such as hobs, fridges, ovens and rating for energy efficiency. All our fridges and freezers washing machines. Improving efficiency can bring big are now between 23% and 54% more energy efficient energy savings for our customers. And we can have a than the average installed on the market in 2008, reducing customer energy bills. We’ve also improved real impact by offering efficient products at a low price insulation and storage features, making it easier for so that all our customers can afford them. In FY12, our customers to keep food fresh for longer and reduce energy consuming products were 32% more efficient food waste. than those installed on the market in 2008. Table of contents 16 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Water LIFE AT HOME Domestic water use accounts for 10% of overall freshwater consumption. Most of our taps use a pressure compensating aerator, which adds air to the flow, reducing water use without affecting pressure. This can reduce consumption by up to 40%, and reduce costs for customers where water use is metered. We’ve also improved the water efficiency of many dishwashers and washing machines. Across our dishwasher range, we have improved water efficiency by 22–51% compared RATIONELL recycling series fits into a kitchen cabinet or drawer and has lids that lock in odours. with products in our range in 2008. RINGSKÄR tap reduces water use by 40%. IKEA 365+ food containers enable customers to store left-overs and reduce food waste. All containers BOHOLMEN sink accessories enable can be used in the fridge, freezer customers without a dishwasher to reand microwave. The smaller conduce water used for washing up by up tainers have a vent in the lid that to 60%, compared with running water. makes heating in the microwave Waste more efficient and the larger containers have a removable grid that Recycling reduces waste to landfill and creates new helps keep vegetables stored in the sources of materials that can be used again. But waste container fresher for longer. can be bulky and sorting it in the home can be difficult when space is tight. Our solutions make recycling easier and more efficient for customers, and with our food storage and waste sorting products, customers can reduce food waste too. Table of contents 17 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Lighting a brighter future LED also opens up new design opportunities as the flexible LIFE AT HOME lights can be built in, allowing unique shapes and designs for We’re transforming lighting at IKEA, from the lamps and LED lamps that were not possible with traditional incandeslight bulbs we sell to the lighting we use in our own buildings cent bulbs. LED also produces colours more faithfully and and stores. By FY16, all the lighting we sell will be converted can be more pleasing on the eye than many conventional to LED, a more sustainable and cost-effective technology. energy-saving bulbs. We sold over 3.6 million LEDARE LED bulbs in FY12, supportOur LED range will continue to evolve as we invest in product ing millions of people in saving money on their household development and further improving affordability. For example, energy bills, and we want to be market leader in this area. we hope to introduce dimmable LEDs and stronger bulbs with LED consumes 85% less ena light output equivalent to conventional 100W bulbs. ergy than traditional incanIKEA sells almost 80 million light bulbs each year. We expect descent lighting and lasts 20 our commitment to LED will have a significant impact on the times longer (up to 20 years overall lighting market, encouraging other companies to folper bulb). It is even more low our lead. efficient than conventional energy-saving bulbs and the Samantha Smith bulbs last an average of 10 WWF Global Climate and Energy Initiative years longer. LED bulbs contain no mercury and can be Climate change is a huge threat, and it’s mostly fully recycled. caused by CO2 emissions from fossil fuels. To The cost of an LED bulb can be more expensive than other fight it, we need to use less energy wherever we can. types of energy-saving bulbs, but because LEDs last such a Almost 20% of global electricity consumption comes long time they are significantly more cost effective over the from lighting, so shifting lighting to LED technology is lifetime of the bulb. We have reduced our prices, thanks to a cost-effective way to get change at scale. IKEA condevelopments in technology and by working with our suppliverting its lighting range to LED will have a real impact ers, and we are confident we can make further reductions so in reducing energy use in many households.” that more customers can benefit from LED. Table of contents 18 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Engaging customers LIFE AT HOME Investing in new ideas IKEA GreenTech is investing in innovative technolWe aim to inspire and inform customers about sustainogies relating to energy, water, waste, advanced ability and to get them involved in what we’re doing. materials and future sustainable homes. Its goal: to support projects that will enable IKEA to offer Research projects are enabling us to better underinnovative new products that contribute to a more stand the reality of our customers’ everyday lives sustainable life at home. and to find ways to support a more sustainable life at IKEA GreenTech started in 2008. It is an investhome. By knowing how they live day to day we can ment company, fully owned by the IKEA Group create the solutions they really need. with SEK 500 million (approximately €60 million) of capital. It has already invested and committed €12 million in companies working with clean technology, energy management and vegetarian food as well as a clean technology venture capital fund. FY12 at a glance • Concluded a study with WWF to identify how we can assist customers and co-workers in living a more sustainable life at home • Updated our website to provide more sustainability information for our customers People & Planet positive – new targets IKEA GreenTech • By the end of FY15, at least 95% of co-workers, 95% of our suppliers and 70% of consumers view IKEA as a company that takes social and environmental responsibility. Table of contents 19 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Research Communications LIFE AT HOME During FY12, we completed our project with WWF in We use many methods to share what we’re doing and Sweden and China to test the best ways to support communicate the benefits. As well as information incustomers and co-workers to live more sustainably. store, we launched an updated section on our website The aim was to identify challenges and barriers and with examples of products and tips to tackle issues like find relevant solutions that don’t require people to food waste and CO2 emissions. spend extra time and money. IKEA FAMILY is our club for regular customers, with We will use the findings to support our efforts to more than 55 million members worldwide. Members engage and inspire customers, as well to shape our receive frequent communications from IKEA and speproduct development (Experiencing a more sustainable cial prices on the IKEA FAMILY and general IKEA range life at home, page 21). of products. We plan to introduce new products into the IKEA FAMILY range that will inspire and support We are also using findings from research we carried our customers to live more sustainably, including prodout among 10,000 consumers (including IKEA customucts to manage and monitor home energy use. ers) and co-workers in China, Europe and the US. This study explored people’s attitudes and perceptions of IKEA and sustainability and the best way for IKEA to engage customers and consumers. Consumer views on sustainability • A significant proportion of consumers (35%) feel they could • Over 70% of consumers surveyed care about sustainability. do more to live sustainably but cost is seen as a barrier for They want to live sustainably and would welcome IKEA playsome (20%) ing an active role to support them • Customers would like IKEA to prioritise sustainability issues such • The majority of co-workers consider sustainability important as renewable energy, product durability and sustainable wood and welcome IKEA making it a priority Table of contents 20 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Experiencing a more sustainable life at home LIFE AT HOME To make a sustainable life at home a an energy monitor motivated people we supported nine families in Sweden reality for our customers, we need to because they could see the difference to test out different home furnishing understand how they live and which that turning down the heating or switchsolutions, focusing on water, energy and solutions best fit their needs. Our project ing off a light actually made. waste. They included LED lights, waste with IKEA customers in Sweden and cosorting and recycling bins, kitchen equipPromote interaction and sharing. workers and their families in Shanghai, ment, such as pressure cookers and food Participants felt more motivated when China, has shown us that we should: storage systems, and rugs, blankets and they could see other people going blinds to improve insulation. Offer “real” solutions. To change bethrough the same experience and share haviour it’s important to find approaches ideas with each other via the website We measured their feedback and the enthat are relevant to how people actually and blog that were created for the vironmental impact of their actions. The live. Solutions need to be simple and project. This made it easier to see that families shared their experiences with us straightforward, not complicated, timethe small actions each family was taking through meetings and interviews. They consuming or expensive. They may differ added up to a big impact. Hearing about also posted updates to a special website in each country or even region because the project directly from those involved and blog that could be viewed by particiof the way people live and the differwas inspiring and motivating for other pants and other customers. ences in local infrastructure and services customers and co-workers too. The results were impressive, with famisuch as recycling. Change inspires change. Many families reducing non-recyclable waste by Focus on the benefits. When commulies found that focusing on reducing an average of 45% and energy used for nicating with customers and co-workers, energy, water and waste inspired them lighting by 10–30%. we should explain the practical benefits to take action in other areas too. For exIn China, we supported ten co-workers of a sustainable life at home, like how ample, several families reported eating and their families to develop individual it can save money and time, as well as less meat and changing their shopping improvement plans focusing on energy. being good for the planet. habits to reduce food waste. A display, profiling IKEA solutions for a Measure progress. People changed About the project. The project ran sustainable life at home, was developed their behaviour when they could see the from FY11 to FY12 and was developed in the store to inspire customers and difference it made. For example, using with WWF. Over the course of six months co-workers. Table of contents 21 A MORE SUSTAINABLE Calle Löfgren Anfei You LIFE AT HOME IKEA customer and Sales team, Kitchens, participant in our IKEA Shanghai Beicai research project store with WWF We switched all We achieved our lighting to much more than LED, bought an inducI expected and some of the results were tion hob, upgraded our refrigerator, pretty amazing. We dramatically restarted reusing water and sorting our duced the amount of rubbish we throw waste. We also stopped leaving appliaway – almost everything is now recyances on stand-by. I was impressed cled or composted and our electricity bill with what a difference it made. is lower than it used to be. Before the project, I used to think that The products from IKEA were generally the environment was a topic for governvery useful. I was even able to carry the ments and had nothing to do with me. bins on my bicycle to the recycling facilNow I know that you can do something to ity, which makes recycling much more change the world, little by little every day. practical. The hardest thing was trying I want to tell others about my experience to cut water use – with three daughters and share it with customers in-store.” the shower is often in demand. I’m still working on this! Being involved in the project has inspired me to keep making changes. My philosophy now is, if you can make a change for the better or choose a more sustainable product, why not do it?” Table of contents 22 Resource and energy independence Table of contents 23 RESOURCE AND Resource and energy ENERGY INDEPENDENCE independence Not being wasteful and making more from less goes back to our roots. We want to economise with resources and this influences us every day. We have decided to become resource and energy independent which means that we can continue to create the products our customers want at a low price. By using resources more sustainably, we can be part of global efforts to protect the environment and tackle climate change. We are becoming more energy efficient and generating our own renewable energy. And we are working with our suppliers to inspire them to do the same. Thanks to the size of our business and our longstanding commitments, we can have a significant impact – for example, by playing our part in making materials such as more sustainable cotton and wood common materials and influencing behaviours in whole markets in areas such as energy-efficient lighting. Table of contents 24 RESOURCE AND Responsible sourcing Forests ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Wood is one of our most important materials, used in By sourcing our raw materials responsibly, using them many of our products. We continually look for ways to carefully and seeking out more sustainable supplies, get the most out of the wood we use by designing our we are able to contribute to continued availability at products to minimise the amount of material needed low prices. and increasing the efficiency of manufacturing. We focus on raw materials that are most important to For many years we have worked with others to increase our business and those that have the highest potential the supply of wood from responsibly managed forests. environmental or social impact: wood, cotton, palm oil, We are one of the founding members of the Forest leather and food. Stewardship Council and we now have 19 foresters working to ensure that all wood is sourced in compliance with our forestry standards and to increase the share of certified wood in our supply chain. FY12 at a glance People & Planet Positive – new targets • In addition to suppliers meeting our IWAY Forestry • By FY17, quadruple the volumes of wood material coming Standard, the volume of wood from forests certified by the from preferred sources, to 50% of total projected volume of Forest Stewardship Council increased to 22.6% from 16.2% wood, compared with FY11 • Supported 13 WWF projects that aim for more responsible • By FY17, all leather to be fully traceable and produced to standforest management through, for example, FSC certification ards that help protect forests and respect animal welfare • Sourced a third of cotton for our products from preferred • By FY15, all cotton to be produced in line with the Better sources Cotton Initiative • Purchased GreenPalm certificates to cover all of the palm oil used in our products during FY12 • Worked with external organisations to improve sustainability standards in the leather industry • Introduced two new organic food products in our Swedish Food Markets Table of contents 25 RESOURCE AND Our work with responsible forest management helps • Working with other businesses, NGOs and governENERGY INDEPENDENCE to safeguard wood supplies for the future of our busiments to tackle illegal logging, support legislation ness and to protect biodiversity, prevent deforestation that protects forests, promote biodiversity and and support the livelihoods of communities in forest increase the availability of wood from responsibly regions. Well-managed forests can play an important managed forests role in mitigating climate change. Sourcing countries, types of wood used – All wood used in our products is sourced from suppli% of wood sourced ers that meet our IWAY Forestry Standard, designed to ensure that wood is logged legally and does not have a negative impact on the environment. Wood makes Poland 22% up around 60% of all materials used in our products. Germany 8% In FY12, we used 13.56 million m3 of solid wood and Russia 8% wood-based board materials (not including paper and Lithuania 7% packaging). This is around 0.7% of the total wood used Sweden 7% commercially around the world, making us one of the China 6% largest users of wood in the retail sector. Romania 6% We secure a long-term supply of wood by: France 4% • Making sure the wood we use meets the IWAY Slovakia 3% Forestry Standard, part of IWAY, our supplier code Other countries of conduct. We use audits to check compliance <2% 29% • Using more wood from preferred sources (recycled wood and wood from forests certified as responsiTypes of wood sourced – % bly managed by the Forest Stewardship Council). We aim to source 50% of our wood from preferred Solid wood 42% sources by FY17 Wood-based board 58% • Using wood more efficiently – creating designs that minimise the use of wood or use recycled wood Table of contents 26 RESOURCE AND Progress in FY12 Total wood used in IKEA products (m3 rwe) ENERGY INDEPENDENCE In FY12, we increased the proportion of total wood m3 rwe (solid and board) coming from preferred sources to 15 13.78 13.56 12.32 22.6% (16.2% in FY11). The proportion of solid wood 12 coming from preferred sources increased to 23.5% 9 from 22.9% but we did not reach our target of 35%. Total wood used in One of the main challenges is a shortage of FSC-certi6 IKEA products (m3 rwe) fied wood, with only about 7% of the world’s produc3 tive forest areas currently certified to FSC standards. This means many of the countries we source from 0 are not able to supply a sufficient volume of certified FY10 FY11 FY12 wood. We are working with our partners to tackle this (see Working with others, page 95). Wood from preferred sources (%) Preferred sources include FSC-certified and recycled wood. Currently our data is only for FSC-certified 60 wood, but we expect to be able to report data for the 50 percentage of recycled wood used from FY13. Round 50 wood equivalent (rwe) is the volume of roundwood (logs) required to produce our products. 40 35 Wood used in This data covers all wood used in IKEA products, IKEA products 30 from preferred including solid wood and wood-based board. Paper 23.6 22.9 22.6 23.5 sources, % total used in products, such as napkins, is not included. 20 16 15.8 16.2 Wood used in packaging and printing, which makes Solid wood used up 5% of our total wood volume, is also not included. 10 in IKEA products 7 We estimate that approximately 85% of packaging is from preferred made from recycled materials. During FY13, we plan to sources, % total 0 implement a consistent approach for sourcing of paper FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Goal FY17 and packaging across the IKEA Group. Table of contents 27 RESOURCE AND We encourage all suppliers of products containing solid in addition to our IWAY audits of suppliers of products ENERGY INDEPENDENCE wood or wood-based board to achieve certification to containing wood, and commissioned an additional five the FSC Chain of Custody standard (CoC). The CoC from third-party auditors. Wood supply chain audits can standard is designed to prevent illegally logged wood cover the entire supply chain back to the forest. Ten and other types of unwanted wood from entering the suppliers were not able to provide full documentation supply chain. It requires suppliers to undergo regular on the source of their wood, which means we cannot be third-party audits. The CoC is separate from the FSC sure that the wood they supply is from legal sources. responsible forestry standard, and suppliers can be We have discontinued working with these suppliers until CoC certified even if they are not sourcing wood from they are able to meet our standards on traceability. FSC-certified forests. See www.fsc.org for more information. IWAY and wood supply chain audits FSC Chain of Custody certification (%) FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Number of IWAY and wood 87 63 124 139 116 supply chain audits 70 62 63.5 •N  umber of these performed 3 3 7 5 5 60 by 3rd party auditors Share of IKEA Audited volumes (IKEA and 1.5 0.5 1.27 1.69 2.34 50 47 suppliers that 3rd party audits) (million m3) 42.2 are FSC Chain •A  udited volumes as share 10.3 12.3 17.3 40 of Custody of total wood used in IKEA 35.3 34.9 products, % certified, % 30 Audited wood volumes that 80 92 97 94 95.2 23.9 comply with IKEA minimum 19.6 20.3 20 Share of total forestry requirements, % wood volume 10 7.9 from these We regularly review and update the IWAY Forestry suppliers, % Standard. For example, during FY12 we included re0 quirements for sourcing of bamboo and recycled wood. FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 During the year, we commissioned a third-party In FY12, we carried out 111 wood supply chain audits assessment to make sure our systems comply with the to assess compliance with the IWAY Forestry Standard, Table of contents 28 RESOURCE AND requirements of the new EU Timber Directive and simideveloped by the FSC to make it easier to identify and ENERGY INDEPENDENCE lar legislation in the USA. As a result, we have extendprotect forests that are particularly important because ed our full IWAY requirements to a number of suppliers of their biodiversity and other local factors. The projects who provide very small quantities of wood to IKEA. also promote responsible trade in forest products and focus on combatting illegal logging. Working with others We work with WWF, the conservation organisation, and Wood-based board is made from many different others to improve forest management practices and to materials, including sawdust, sawmill chips, logging increase the availability of FSC-certified wood. Since we residues, recovered wood, and waste wood from veneerbegan working with WWF in 2002, we have helped to ing processes. Tracing these sources can be challenging, increase FSC certified forest areas by around 30 million and our standards require suppliers to only use wood hectares, in the countries where we work together. from countries or regions where there is a low risk of unsustainable or illegally logged wood entering the board We support 13 WWF projects in 11 countries that aim material supply chain. In China, IKEA is working with the for more responsible forest management through, for Chinese Academy of Forestry to create more detailed example, FSC certification and to identify and protect risk maps for each Chinese state. This will enable us to forests with High Conservation Value. This term was identify and investigate higher-risk sources. Working with WWF to protect virgin forests in Romania Romania is one of our most important Together we have mapped areas ecological value. The campaign in sourcing countries for beech wood. of High Conservation Value Forest, 2011 generated around 2,000 newsWe’ve been working with WWF since which is an important first step in paper articles and more than 100,000 2002 to promote responsible forest preserving these areas. people signed a petition to the Minmanagement in Romania and source istry of Environment. A ministerial more certified wood for our products. As part of the partnership, IKEA suporder was published that will guaranThis joint effort has contributed to ported a WWF campaign to protect tee the protection of the habitats of 720,000 hectares of forest becoming the country’s 200,000 hectares of 13,000 species in virgin forests. FSC certified and a further 2 million virgin forests. These virgin forests hectares are due to be certified soon. have great scientific, educational and Table of contents 29 RESOURCE AND Forestry in Karelia area is excluded from logging to protect biodiversity ENERGY INDEPENDENCE IKEA leases and manages forests in the Karelia region and water courses. We expect to finalise the High of Northwest Russia through Swedwood, a company in Conservation Value forest inventories in 2014 the IKEA Industry Group that operates sawmills and manufactures furniture. Karelia has significant areas of • The forests are allowed to regenerate naturally after old forest that are rich in biodiversity compared with logging but we also plant trees in cases where natural forests that have been intensively managed. Sourcing regeneration is unlikely to be successful wood there brings added responsibilities, which we take very seriously. • We work with a number of NGOs, authorities and local organisations to improve forestry management During FY12, a number of NGOs raised concerns about practices in the region and in Russia as a whole, and IKEA forestry practices in Karelia, in particular, that will continue to do so areas of old-growth forest were being logged. We took the allegations seriously and conducted our own inves e will keep engaging with NGOs and others in Karelia W tigation. We also brought in certifiers who reconfirmed and provide our stakeholders with information about our compliance with the Forest Stewardship Council our actions. (FSC) standard. Swedwood Karelia passed the annual FSC audit in 2012 without any major non-compliances. Some NGOs have questioned whether FSC forestry standards are strict enough. We believe that the FSC • Our operations in Karelia have been Forest Managehas had a significant and positive impact on forest ment certified by the FSC since 2006 management practices in Russia and that it provides the best way forward for businesses, NGOs, govern• To protect water courses, wetlands and biodiversity, ments and communities to work together to further we leave trees and groups of trees standing in improve practices around the world. FSC standards harvested areas are developed and reviewed by a wide range of stakeholders. Expanding FSC certification to more Russian • We identify areas of forest with High Conservation forests would be a significant step forward and we will Value or where there are endangered species. These continue to support this. areas are set aside. Currently, about 20% of the lease Table of contents 30 RESOURCE AND The IWAY Forestry Standard ENERGY INDEPENDENCE The IWAY Forestry Standard, part of the IKEA supplier code of conduct, sets out the minimum criteria for all wood and board supplied to IKEA: • Not from forests that have been illegally harvested • Not from forestry operations engaged in forest-related social conflicts • Not harvested in geographically identified Intact Natural Forests (INF) or High Conservation Value forests, unless they are certified as responsibly managed • Not harvested from natural forests in the tropical and sub-tropical regions being converted to plantations or non-forest use • Not from officially recognised and geographically identified commercial genetically modified (GM) tree plantations. Suppliers must have procedures in place to implement these standards throughout their supply chain and be able to track and report the origin of their wood. Forest Stewardship Council standards FSC standards vary from country to country depending on the type of forest, local conditions and stakeholder interests, but are guided by a set of common principles and criteria determined by the FSC’s members. Among other things, they aim to: • Protect biodiversity • Ensure forest regrowth • Protect the rights and needs of people who work and live in the forest • Stimulate economic development. See www.fsc.org Table of contents 31 RESOURCE AND Cotton Countries we source cotton from ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Around 0.8% of cotton grown in the world ends up in (% of cotton sourced) IKEA products. This soft, breathable and renewable material is a key input for our home furnishing range, from BIRGIT bed sheets to KAJSA curtains. As a big India 40% cotton buyer – we used 150,000 tonnes of cotton in USA 28% FY12 – we are working to ensure better social and enPakistan 21% vironmental standards in the supply chain. China 6% Others 3% Together with WWF and the Better Cotton Initiative, we Turkey 2% want to help transform conventional cotton – making it more sustainable as well as affordable. Cotton cultivation and processing must be managed carefully to avoid damaging the environment with chemical pesticides and intensive water use. The majority of Our preferred sources for cotton cotton is grown on small farms in developing countries • Cotton from farmers licensed to grow Better Cotton. where crops are picked by hand. The industry is known Licensing is done by the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI), an for its many social challenges, including low incomes, independent organisation that sets social and environmental child and forced labour, and health risks from chemical criteria for more sustainable cotton production. Applying BCI fertilisers and pesticides. This is why we work with farmprinciples can bring significant reductions in chemical pestiers to raise standards, and strictly prohibit child labour cide, fertiliser and water use. We are a BCI founding member. in our supply chain. The IKEA Foundation also supports Read more at www.bettercotton.org projects in cotton growing areas to address the root causes of child labour (page 85). • Farmers working towards the BCI standards. Most of this cotton is supplied by farmers involved in IKEA–supported By FY15, our target is that all cotton used will be profarm projects, run by WWF and other NGOs in countries like duced in line with the Better Cotton Initiative. We are China, India, Turkey and Pakistan. also reducing the amount of cotton we use by improving efficiency, blending cotton with other textiles and • Farmers in the USA and Australia using other sustainability replacing it with alternative materials such as viscose standards. (see More sustainable materials, page 42). Table of contents 32 RESOURCE AND Progress in FY12 For the first time, Better Cotton was used in almost ENERGY INDEPENDENCE In FY12 we sourced almost 51,000 tonnes of cotton every category of IKEA home furnishing products, from preferred sources. We bought around 15 times including lamp shades, mattresses, carpets, textiles more Better Cotton than in FY11. and chairs. The overall volume of cotton reduced because suppliers We think it’s important that Better Cotton becomes a bought 30% less cotton. This was due to lower product standard material rather than a marginal or premiumorders and having sufficient cotton in stock from the priced product. In FY12, IKEA suppliers purchased previous year. The share of cotton from preferred 11,000 tonnes of Better Cotton produced globally, sources in our products increased from 24% in FY11 to leaving substantial quantities on the market to encour34% in FY12. This includes Better Cotton, cotton from age wider take-up. farmers working towards the BCI standard or other Cotton used in IKEA products (tonnes) sustainability standards. 250,000 24.2% 13% 200,000 6.6% 34% 150,000 Cotton from preferred sources 100,000 Conventional 50,000 cotton 0 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 We invested €1.9 million in FY12 in sustainable cotton farming projects, reaching more than 100,000 farmers. We also started a project to use cotton more efficiently by standardising the way we construct fabric. This could save 10–15% of the cotton needed to make the same amount of fabric. Table of contents 33 RESOURCE AND Making a difference to cotton farmers ENERGY INDEPENDENCE The once lush Godavari river basin in central India now experiences regular droughts due to climate change and decades of poor water management. Farmers, like Swarupchand Maher, are finding it hard to make enough to support their families. Swarupchand’s 28 acre farm includes cotton and commercially grown vegetables and in the past his income barely supported his household of eleven people from five generations. Since getting involved in an IKEA and WWF project to promote more sustainable farming practices in his village, he and his family enjoy a better quality of life. Swarupchand has adopted drip irrigation for 14 acres of cotton, saving water and making it possible to plant other crops between the cotton plants. He uses more organic fertiliser, improving the soil quality, and uses less pesticide. These changes have improved his income and partly thanks to this, he’s been able to buy a tractor, a car and a gas cooking system. Other farmers in the village are following his lead and learning from his new farming techniques. Table of contents 34 RESOURCE AND Palm oil The GreenPalm programme – approved by the RSPO ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We use palm oil in our candles, some food products and – is designed to support the production of sustainable for processing rattan which is used in some of our furnipalm oil and sells tradable GreenPalm certificates to ture. Palm plantations are often associated with deforusers. We purchased 40,000 GreenPalm certificates estation and loss of biodiversity in tropical regions. to cover each tonne of palm oil used in our products during FY12. The amount of palm oil used in FY12 compared to FY11 remained stable, but we purchased Our approach to palm oil includes: 20,000 fewer certificates because we overestimated • Reducing our use of palm oil by identifying alternatives the number of certificates needed in FY11. Because of the complexity of the palm oil supply chain, most • Supporting production of more sustainable palm oil of the oil produced sustainably is intermingled with by buying GreenPalm certificates for all the palm oil conventional palm oil. Our goal is for all our palm oil to we use come from segregated sources by 2020. • Working with NGOs, businesses and multilateral organisations to tackle the problems associated with In addition, we are working with Johnson & Johnson, palm oil production and to encourage improvements. Kraft Foods and the Indonesian government to support a United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) sustainable palm oil project in Indonesia. The project, which is now in its second year, aims to encourage Our goal is that by FY20 all the palm oil currently used sustainable palm oil production among small-scale prowill either come from verified sustainable sources or ducers and improve their livelihoods. be replaced by more sustainable raw materials. We received a score of 8 out of 9 on the WWF Palm Oil A not-for-profit organisation, the Roundtable on SustainBuyers’ Scorecard 2011, which assesses the perforable Palm Oil (RSPO), sets standards for the production mance of retailers and consumer goods manufacturers. of sustainable palm oil. We are an active member of the RSPO and support its work to increase the availability of sustainable palm oil. This includes participating in the RSPO Trade and Traceability working group. Table of contents 35 RESOURCE AND Leather ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Leather and sheepskin are used in a wide range of home furnishing products, from KIVIK sofas to LUDDE rugs. Brazil supplies around half of the six million square metres of leather and sheepskin we use annually. In some countries, cattle farming and leather processing can be associated with deforestation, displacement of indigenous people and forced or child labour. The leather supply chain is complex and includes cattle farmers, slaughterhouses, tanneries and finishers. We set minimum social, environmental and animal welfare standards for our direct suppliers, including a requirement that leather does not come from suppliers linked with deforestation in the Amazon. We are working towards a chain of custody for leather used in our products. Slaughterhouses in the supply chain sign a self-declaration that states that they will provide the names of the farms that leather is sourced from, if requested by IKEA. The next step is to work with suppliers and sub-suppliers to verify this chain of custody through audits. This is a challenge with so many sub-suppliers and small-scale cattle farmers in the supply chain. We continue to work with external organisations to develop minimum social and environmental criteria for leather production that will apply to all levels of the supply chain, from the farm onwards. Table of contents 36 RESOURCE AND Food standards for the farmed salmon industry, and ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We serve and sell food to 261 million customers a year the final standard has now been published by the through our store restaurants and Swedish Food Markets. Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC). Our goal is for all salmon products to come from ASC-certified Our approach includes: sources by 2015. We are currently assessing our sup• Using more sustainable ingredients, which includes pliers against the new standards. purchasing ingredients that have been certified to recognised standards and applying animal welfare Animal welfare standards We have worked with Compassion in World Farming • Reducing the carbon footprint of our food business (CIWF), an independent NGO, for many years to im• Tackling food waste (page 55) prove animal welfare standards. In FY12, we worked • Working with food suppliers to implement our IWAY with CIWF to develop welfare standards for pigs and standards (page 81). laying hens. During FY12, we also worked with the non-profit Global Animal Partnership to adapt standards Coffee and tea developed for the US market for global use. However, All coffee sold and served at IKEA has been UTZ Certified this process is taking longer than we anticipated and is since 2008 – UTZ Certified is an independent organisation not currently a viable alternative to implementing our that recognises coffee, tea and chocolate that have been own welfare standards. grown sustainably and is one of the leading sustainability standards for these commodities. We approved our new global animal welfare policy in FY12. It sets out our commitment to the humane and One out of our four chocolate tablets is UTZ certified. We respectful treatment of animals used in our food and aim for 100% UTZ Certified chocolate and tea by FY15. other products. We are integrating the policy into our Packaging for UTZ Certified products includes a code purchasing requirements. Currently it is a challenge to that enables customers to trace the origins of a certified source some animal products in line with this policy. product back to the plantation on which it was grown. In these areas, we will continue to engage with supSalmon pliers and other stakeholders to improve standards so Salmon is an important product for IKEA. In FY12, we that all the animal products we buy meet the policy continued to participate in the WWF Salmon Aquaculrequirements. ture Dialogue to support development of sustainability Table of contents 37 RESOURCE AND The global animal welfare policy contains the following Reducing our food carbon footprint ENERGY INDEPENDENCE requirements: We know that the production and sourcing of some ingredients is more carbon intensive than others. Rearing For example, meat-based products have a higher carTo ensure a good living environment and the freedom bon footprint. To tackle this and to improve customer to express normal behaviour: choice in our restaurants, we are exploring lower• Adequate space and shelter shall be provided to carbon alternatives for some popular menu items. One avoid unnecessary stress, injuries or discomfort example is chicken meatballs, which have a lower car• Access to enough food and fresh water to ensure bon footprint than our traditional pork meatballs and health and vigor have been tested in two stores. • Animals must have access to rapid diagnosis and We estimate the footprint for all food sold and served treatment to avoid unnecessary suffering, injury during FY12 was 520,000 tonnes of CO2. We are develor disease oping our methodology so we can report more accu• Animals must be respectfully and humanely treated. rately in the future. We hope to use the findings to raise For example, procedures such as live-plucking or awareness among our product development teams, and force feeding are not acceptable. inspire them to consider the carbon footprint of different food options when developing our range. Transport and slaughter The method of transport and slaughter must be perWe also carried out research with WWF and Sheffield formed in a way that minimises stress and suffering to Hallam University in the UK to explore long-term trends the animals. in the food supply chain and the implications for our business. This showed us that health and environmental Organic considerations relating to food are closely connected We always provide one organic menu option in our resand should be considered together in our food strategy. taurants. We have 17 organic products in our Swedish Food Market range (out of a total of 120), of which two were introduced in FY12: GURKA INLAGD EKOLOGISK (organic pickled cucumbers) and GODIS FRUKT EKOLOGISK (organic fruit candy). Table of contents 38 RESOURCE AND More sustainable Now we want to do even more. Across our range we ENERGY INDEPENDENCE are finding ways to further integrate sustainability into products product design and development without compromising on safety, quality, style, function, durability or price. We are exploring how we can turn waste into new resources and use more sources of recycled FY12 at a glance: materials in our products. • Evaluated 73% of products against our Sustainability Score Card, of which 35% were classified as “more These changes are better for the environment and for sustainable” our business, particularly in this era of rising costs • 91% of materials used were renewable, recyclable and increased scarcity of raw materials. Because of or recycled our scale and influence with suppliers and customers, changes we make can have a significant impact. • Concluded our project with WWF to explore how IKEA can contribute to a closed loop society Our approach includes: People & Planet Positive – new targets • Creating tools to inspire product developers, • All main home furnishing materials and packaging technicians and supplier developers to integrate will be made from renewable, recyclable or recycled sustainability materials by FY15 • Selecting more sustainable materials, including those that are renewable, recyclable and recycled • 90% of total sales value will come from home furnishing • Using materials efficiently and exploring how we can products classified as more sustainable by FY15 be part of a society where all materials are reused or recycled We have always used resources carefully to reduce • Testing the safety, quality and durability of waste and to keep our prices down, which enables us our products to reach more customers. Our product developers and designers develop many products directly on the factory floor, where we have expertise of what is technically possible to produce with a minimum of resources. Table of contents 39 RESOURCE AND Integrating sustainability in product Sustainability Product Score Card ENERGY INDEPENDENCE development We have now evaluated 73% of products (by sales We have a number of tools and management value) against our Sustainability Score Card, compared processes that enable us to improve product sustainwith 7% in FY11. ability performance: Products can score up to 400 points in total across 11 criteria. However, since the functionality of the product influences the criteria it can score points against, it’s Sustainability Score Card helps developers and unusual for products to achieve a high score in all 11 technicians assess and areas. Currently products that achieve a score of over improve the sustainability 120 out of 400 are considered “more sustainable”. The of products. Criteria relate to how the product is maximum score to date is 253, and the average score designed and produced. across our range is 89. Thirty-five per cent of our sales value from the products we’ve evaluated comes from products identified as more sustainable. Our goal is Materials Guides explain the sustainability performance 90% by FY15. In the future, if a product does not score Life Cycle Assessment Tool helps product developers to of individual materials and over 120 points, we will put an action plan in place to help product teams choose understand and compare the materials for new products improve its score within a year. Any exceptions will have relative environmental perforto be approved by a senior manager. or replace existing materials. mance of different materials. During FY12, we trained around 200 product developers, sourcing developers and technicians to use the Score Card. We continue to review its effectiveness Resource Chain unit initiated in FY12 to and to get feedback from co-workers who use it. We support our use of recycled materials Material Risk Council and reverse material flows. are reviewing how to make the Score Card easier to assesses all potential use and how to further integrate it into product new materials from a safety, quality and susdevelopment in a consistent way. Read about IWAY, tainability perspective. our code of conduct for suppliers. Table of contents 40 RESOURCE AND Our sustainability Score Card ENERGY INDEPENDENCE in practice y Produc t Our Sustainabilit A score of 253 makes the MÅLA easel the highest-scoring ria product on our Sustainability Score Card. Score Card crite sing less material “The high score is More from less (u thanks to a new conin the produc t) struction,” explains l Renewable materia Sharon Wilts Jansen, Project Leader, “that Recycled material saves on material, tter material Environmentally be the use of renewe environment than (less impact on th able material from standard materials) sustainable forestry clable and its recyclabilSeparable and recy ity. The supplier for Produc t quality MÅLA also uses ency (number of prod ergy from renewable Transpor t ef ficien ) sources, and the uc ts per container whole product scores oduc tion Energy-efficient pr highly on our quality n energy in produc tio criteria.” Use of renewable ef ficiently a supRaw materials (how terials) plier uses raw ma use of energy and Produc t use (less in customers’ water; less waste homes) Table of contents 41 RESOURCE AND More sustainable During FY12, we mapped all the materials we use ENERGY INDEPENDENCE and identified three significant materials that are curmaterials rently not renewable, recyclable or recycled. These are polyurethane foam (mainly used in our mattresses Our goal is that all main materials in our home furnishand sofas), silicone (used in food storage products) and ing products will be renewable, recyclable or recycled melamine (used in plastic table ware and food storage by FY15. “Main materials” are defined as all materials products). We are exploring ways to restrict their use, except additives, lacquering or other extra substances replace them with alternatives, or increase recyclability. that would finish, glue or surface-treat the product. Foam is our priority since we use it in high volumes. Renewable, recyclable, recycled materials (%) We set a goal to source 50% of all non-renewable materials (including plastics) used in our products from 100% recycled sources by the end of FY17. For plastics this 100 91% 90 88% will be a significant increase as less than 10% of plas80 tic used in FY12 was recycled. We need to work hard 70 to make sure that recycled plastic meets our high qual60 ity standards. We are making progress and introduced 50 Renewable, recyclable, recycled plastic into a number of new and existing 40 recycled materials % products during FY12. These are not niche products 30 but sold to IKEA customers around the world. 20 10 0 GOSA SYREN pillows use a soft down-like FY11 FY12 Goal polyester microfibre filling made from recycled FY15 PET bottles. Recycling infrastructure varies widely from country to country. We define a material as recyclable if it can be recycled on an industrial scale in at least one SKARPÖ – This new chair is made from 100% recycled plastic. IKEA market. Table of contents 42 RESOURCE AND We are using materials with sustainability benefits, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE including some that reduce our use of cotton or wood. Bright sustainability ideas lead to Examples include: hemp, lyocell and viscose to replace cotton; new types of plastics; and the use of bamboo low prices Make our popular lamp, TEXTUR, even more affordable to replace other wood species. and sustainable. That was IKEA technician Harish Jakhar’s challenge, and he set about his task in a typical IKEA way: IKEA PS dining table uses bamboo, a fast-growing, renewable resource that is stronger than other seeking simplicity, sustainability and a low price. types of wood. First he made the lamp easier to MYSA quilts are made using 50% lyocell, derived from assemble by eliminating 24 of the wood cellulose. Lyocell is comfortable and breathable, 33 components, almost halving and using it means less cotton is needed. the lamp’s weight. Then Harish reduced the packaging weight by SOARE is a placemat made from water hyacinth, a 28% and, with less volume, manrenewable material harvested from the wild. Water aged to fit 128 lamps on a pallet hyacinth is a weed that grows abundantly and can clog (there were only 80 before). rivers and waterways. By removing water hyacinth, goods can be transported more easily by boat, rather Finally, he changed the fabric covthan by road. These place mats are all unique since ering and used cotton blended with they are hand-made. viscose (which comes from wood). The new lamp, called VIDJA, went A new approach to foam on sale in FY12 at a 34% saving on We use approximately 80,000 tonnes of polyurethane foam each the original low price. We love that year in mattresses, sofas, pillows and chairs. Foam is low cost, the most sustainable ideas are comfortable, durable and easy to roll and pack. But up until now often also the simplest ones. Just the foam we use has not been renewable, recyclable or recycled. imagine how much more we can We are investigating alternative comfort materials that can resave all around us. place or reduce the amount of foam we use. We are also investigating the use of renewable raw materials for foam production and recycling processes for foam. Table of contents 43 RESOURCE AND Durability • KOTTEBO basket made from coconut palm leaf. We ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We want our products to be functional and well made adapted the product design and changed the way the and give long-term enjoyment. This is better for the material is cut during production. This has halved the environment and for our customers. But we know amount of waste material generated and enabled us to there is more we can do to ensure our products have reduce the purchase price by 3%. the durability that suits their purpose. Nearly all IKEA products are tested for durability before they go on • COLIGHT – A new type of lightweight particle board sale and are regularly tested once they become part of designed by Swedspan, a business within the IKEA Inour range. This includes mechanical tests for products dustry Group that manufactures particle boards mainly like sofas and chairs, and, for textiles, tests that asfor IKEA. COLIGHT is 30% less dense than a standard sess wear and colour fastness. We also assess quality particle board. This means less wood and resin is used as part of the Sustainability Score Card by reviewing and the product is lighter to transport so trucks can be the number of customer product returns. filled up to 30% more efficiently. Reflecting the quality of products in our range and A BILLY bookcase made from COLIGHT weighs customer expectations, we offer extended guarantees just 15kg, 30% less than one made with standard on a number of items, including 10, 15 and 25 year particle board, without sacrificing product quality. guarantees for some products (e.g., some of our matCOLIGHT also uses a special glue that reduces emistresses, taps, knives and pans). sions of formaldehyde. More from less We use materials efficiently and always aim to make more from less. We also work with suppliers to improve efficiency in production. Reducing the volume of materials used can make products more efficient to transport and reduce emissions. Recent examples include: • VIDJA lamp (see Bright sustainability ideas lead to low price, page 43). Table of contents 44 RESOURCE AND Closing the loop ENERGY INDEPENDENCE How can we begin the transition to a closed-loop society? Our Closing the Loop project with WWF, concluded during FY12, was set up to help answer this question. The project involved testing a number of recycled materials for use in our products and today we have several products with recycled content (for example SKARPÖ, see right). As part of the project, we also set up recycling points in pilot stores and offered a small incentive for customers to bring back old and unwanted products for recycling. We found the recycling points were useful as a way to raise customer awareness on sustainability issues. We also explored whether our own waste plastic packaging material could become a useful source of recycled plastic for our products. The early results were positive and we are continuing to explore this opportunity. The project also showed that: • To get the maximum benefits from recycling we must also take social and economic factors into account. • Recycling is often the better choice but this depends on where and how the material is recycled. For example, in some countries increased recycling of wood may result in more virgin wood being used in heat generation. • Recycling of renewable resources such as wood and textiles can be just as important as the recycling of nonrenewable materials. • We should challenge assumptions about recycling because new technologies and opportunities are emerging all the time. Table of contents 45 RESOURCE AND Product safety We have 9,500 products in our range. In FY12, the folENERGY INDEPENDENCE We have a rigorous process to test and monitor the lowing products were recalled: safety of all our products during development and pro• ELGA FENSTAD and PAX AURLAND wardrobe mirror duction, and we get feedback when they are on sale. glass doors, where there were some cases of mirTests are based on European and international safety rors detaching themselves and breaking standards and assess how customers might assemble • BUSA children’s folding tent, recalled due to cases and use products. All products in our children’s range of the steel wire frame breaking and leading to go through additional risk assessments and testing. sharp wire ends protruding through the tent fabric • ANTILOP high chair safety belt, where there were All co-workers have a duty to report safety-related incidents of the belt unexpectedly opening incidents or concerns through our safety alarm system. • DÅTID, NUTID and FRAMTID ovens, which we A central team monitors and investigates all reports and recalled due to reports of internal wire shelves can stop sales of a product immediately if needed. We falling down during use set the threshold for reporting very low so that we do • SÄNDA lighting track, where there was a defect that not miss any potential risks. We train co-workers in our could have presented the risk of a minor electric shock stores on our safety alarm process. Our Product Safety • SNIGLAR cot, which we recalled due to screws and Compliance School combines classroom sessions that were too short to secure the mattress support and e-learning to enable different functions across IKEA in place. to prevent, identify and investigate safety issues. If a decision is made to recall a product for safety Chemicals reasons, we communicate the recall widely through We aim to avoid using chemicals that could potentially our stores, internet sites, the local press, our internal be harmful to people and the environment, and we newsletter, social media sites and our IKEA FAMILY always try to select materials, surface treatments and network. We work closely with suppliers to investigate production techniques with the lowest possible emisthe reasons for the recall and to prevent a similar situsions. Our range shall comply with the strictest laws ation from happening again. Any lessons learned from and safety standards in all our markets, and we have a safety alarm or product recall are integrated into our detailed requirements on the use of chemicals in the product risk assessment process and used to update manufacturing process. If one country tightens its rules, relevant policies. we introduce these new regulations in all IKEA markets whenever possible. Table of contents 46 RESOURCE AND More sustainable buildings and transport ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We aim to drive environmental innovation and demonFY12 at a glance: strate a better way to do business through our opera• Produced renewable energy equivalent to a third of our total tions. This is why we are continuously improving the energy consumption energy efficiency of our buildings; using renewable • Improved energy efficiency by 3% in our stores, compared energy; minimising waste and water use; and reducing with FY11 our transportation emissions. • Reduced CO2 emissions from IKEA buildings by 17% from FY11 Using resources within the limits of the planet and pro• Reduced CO2 emissions by 7.3% per cubic metre of products tecting the environment is also good for business as it shipped, exceeding our 4% goal reduces our costs. • Held 40% more co-worker meetings by phone and web • Used 8% more water in IKEA buildings compared with FY11 • Generated 6% more waste than in FY11 but waste recycling rates increased at stores, distribution centres and Swedwood People & Planet Positive – new targets • By the end of FY15, we will produce renewable energy equivalent to at least 70% of our energy consumption, and by the end of FY20 we, on Group level, will produce as much renewable energy as we consume • Become 20% more energy efficient in our own operations by the end of FY15, compared to FY10 • By the end of FY15, reduce carbon emissions from our own operations by 50% compared to FY10 (in relative terms) • By the end of FY16, reduce transport-related carbon emissions by 20%, compared to FY11 • Strive for zero waste to landfill wherever possible, with a minimum of 90% of the waste from our stores and other IKEA operations sorted for recycling by the end of FY15 Table of contents 47 RESOURCE AND Carbon footprint IKEA carbon footprint (tonnes of CO2) ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Operating IKEA buildings and employee commuting contribute by far the smallest part (2.5%) of our total GHG emissions FY12 carbon footprint. Most emissions come from raw mateScope 1 (IKEA owned energy generation from gas, 116,000 biomass and oil boilers and diesel generators) rial extraction, manufacturing and distribution, and Scope 2 (purchased electricity and district heat) 598,000 this is why we work closely with our suppliers to supTotal scope 1 + 2 emissions 714,000 port them with managing their impacts (see Energy Scope 3* (raw material production, emissions 32,479,000 and water in our supply chain, page 58). Customer from suppliers, goods transport, business travel, transport is also a significant impact. employee commuting, customer transportation, product use and product end-of-life) Total scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions 33,193,000 IKEA carbon footprint – from raw materials to product end-of-life * Scope 3 emissions estimated based on the draft GHG protocol corporate value chain accounting and reporting standard FY12 tonnes of CO2 Raw materials 16,821,000 In FY12, our scope 1 and 2 emissions (emissions Production and distribution 4,433,000 from IKEA buildings) decreased by 17% from 859,616 – Suppliers* 3,088,000 tonnes to 714,126 tonnes compared with FY11. Much – Goods transport** 1,293,000 of this reduction was due to stores and distribution – Business travel*** 52,000 centres in Germany switching to a renewable energy IKEA 822,000 tariff. We reduced CO2 across all parts of our business, – Buildings**** 714,000 including the IKEA Industry Group, by buying more – Employee commuting 108,000 renewable energy and improving energy efficiency. Customers 9,443,000 – Transportation to stores 2,271,000 We are improving our methodology for calculating – Product use 7,172,000 our scope 3 emissions and will apply a more accurate Products’ end-of-life 1,674,000 approach in FY13. Carbon intensity, measured as CO2 Total 33,193,000 emissions (scope 1 and 2) per cubic metre of products sold, decreased by 22% to 27 kg of CO2/m3 in FY12. * Direct suppliers of home furnishing products, food and the IKEA catalogue ** Excludes customer deliveries This was due to a reduction in CO2 emissions from *** Business travel includes flights and rental cars IKEA buildings, and increased sales. **** Buildings include stores, distribution centres, Swedwood and Swedspan facilities and offices. Excludes IKEA Components’ (IKEA C) two production facilities Table of contents 48 RESOURCE AND Scope 1 and 2 emissions – IKEA buildings Energy-efficient buildings ENERGY INDEPENDENCE (tonnes of CO2) We’re working to improve energy efficiency by integrating sustainability into new store design and upgrades to existFY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 ing buildings. Stores 314,744 326,700 435,344 428,997 353,809 Examples from FY12 include: Distribution 41,604 39,963 47,999 45,151 31,451 • Introducing more sustainable lighting solutions centres including LED and natural daylight (see page 50) Swedwood 230,000 239,620 246,277 287,907 245,688 • Upgrading ventilation systems so they only operate Swedspan* 83,835 92,770 78,537 when needed Offices 5,178 2,950 4,730 4,791 4,641 • Installing and upgrading building insulation and Total** 586,348 609,233 818,185 859,616 714,126 window glazing * FY10 was Swedspan’s first year of operation. • Increasing the technical skills and awareness of ** Excludes IKEA Components’ (IKEA C’s) two production facilities. co-workers who operate buildings and machines • Tackling energy consumption at Swedwood by reducing electricity used in dust extraction at its Carbon footprint per products sold (kg CO2/m3) largest furniture factory and improving energy efficiency in drying kilns (ovens), the biggest energy 40 consumers at Swedwood sawmills 34.3 34.4 • Installing a co-generation turbine at a Swedspan 35 high-density fibreboard (HDF) factory that uses 30 26.4 27 steam to generate electricity. 25.7 25 In FY12, energy efficiency continued to improve at 20 Carbon footprint stores, distribution centres and Swedwood, with the per products 15 greatest improvement since FY05 at Swedwood. sold (kg CO2/m3) Swedspan’s energy efficiency has declined since FY10 10 because it opened a new factory for manufacturing HDF 5 boards, which is an energy-intensive process. It was in 0 this factory, however, that Swedspan installed a coFY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 generation turbine producing 5.6 MW electricity from the steam generated and used primarily for HDF production. Table of contents 49 RESOURCE AND Energy efficiency ENERGY INDEPENDENCE (% decrease against FY05 baseline)* Designing stores for the future Our store design tool, the IKEA Energy Model, simulates % decrease different heating, cooling, lighting and energy systems, against FY05 and enables us to design stores that are energy efficient baseline and use renewable energy. FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Goal Stores 7 5 7 10 13 25 In FY12, new stores with innovative energy solutions Distribution 21 21 22 33 37 25 included: centres • Fukuoka-Shingu, Japan: has the largest groundSwedwood 28 23 32 36 45 25 source heat pump system in the Japanese retail sector. Swedspan** -5 -2 25 By 2013, the store will have a photovoltaic installation * IKEA units measure energy efficiency differently: stores measure kWh/m3 sold goods; distribution centres measure kWh/m3 goods flow; Swedwood measures kWh/m2 goods with a peak capacity to generate 750 kWh produced; Swedspan measures kWh of electricity/m3 particle board produced. • Valladolid, Spain: has a combined heat and power ** Compared with FY10 which was Swedspan’s first year of operations system, efficient LED lighting, solar panels, a heatexchange ventilation system that recovers heat and a Cutting energy use in lighting fan system that pushes hot air down from the ceiling Highly efficient LED lighting is a breakthrough technology and to reduce heating needs. we’re really excited about offering it to customers (page 18). We are installing commercial scale LED lighting, along with other energy-efficient lights in many IKEA buildings. Piloted at stores in the Netherlands, Spain and Sweden and at Swedspan’s factory in Poland during FY12, energy-efficient commercial lighting including LED will be rolled out to more stores from FY13. On average, this saves 450,000 kilowatt hours and €97,000 per year per store. This includes maintenance costs, representing an 11% total saving on energy costs per year per store. Table of contents 50 RESOURCE AND IKEA Goes Renewable In FY12, we produced renewable energy equivalent to ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We want to be a leader in the use of renewable energy 34% of our total energy consumption. In addition, energy and energy efficiency. What started as a special project, generated from pellets and briquettes made from waste IKEA Goes Renewable, has become part of our everyday wood which are produced and sold by Swedwood means business. We’re investing in our own projects to generwe produced renewable energy equivalent to 51% of our ate renewable energy from solar, wind and biomass. We total energy consumption. We also purchased 1,073 GWh generate some of our own renewable energy, and we buy of renewable electricity from the grid. some from the grid. More than 250,000 solar panels have already been installed on IKEA stores and buildings across On-site renewable energy projects in FY12 included: the world, and IKEA has invested in, and is committed to • Continuing to install photovoltaic (PV) panels on stores own and operate, 126 wind turbines in six countries. New and distribution centres, bringing the total number of PV projects over the next three years will take total investinstallations to 75. On average, solar panels can supply ments in renewable energy to up to €1.5 billion. Some of between 10% and 15% of the electricity needs of a typithe renewable energy we produce off-site and on-site is cal store and can meet up to 100% of electricity needs at sold to the grid. distribution centres. Renewable energy produced by type • Securing a partnership with a clean energy company in China to install solar panels on all IKEA stores and disType GWh tribution centres in China. This will save around 6,000 Wind 290 tonnes of CO2 each year. Solar PV 29 We also invested in off-site renewable energy in FY12: Biomass 899 • We bought two operational wind farms in Poland with a Pellets and briquettes sold 633 total capacity of 28 megawatts and committed to buy Total 1,851 another wind farm that will be operational in FY13, with Percentage of total energy consumption (%) 51% a total capacity of 26 megawatts  • In Sweden we agreed to buy a wind farm that will make us energy independent in Sweden once it is completed in FY14. The wind farm will have 30 three-megawatt turbines and a 90-megawatt total capacity. Table of contents 51 RESOURCE AND The share of renewable energy powering IKEA buildHow we reduce CO2 from transport ENERGY INDEPENDENCE ings (purchased electricity and on-site generation only) • Optimising the use of equipment so that more products increased to 55% in FY12 from 51% in FY11. Our solar can fit into each load, and fewer shipments are needed and wind installations provided 319 gigawatt hours of • Increasing the number of routes which combine rail, electricity to IKEA buildings and to the electricity grid in sea and road transport and can reduce emissions FY12, more than twice the amount generated in FY11. from road transport • Co-operating with transport suppliers to increase the Renewable energy (purchased electricity and use of modern, fuel-efficient vehicles, and to explore on-site generation) as % of total consumption the use of more sustainable fuels • Delivering 56% of products directly from suppliers to FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 stores, rather than via distribution centres, reducing Stores 37 38 34 40 48 the total distance products are transported Distribution 37 41 34 39 51 • Working with organisations like Green Freight Europe centres and Green Freight Asia, to standardise approaches Swedwood 60 63 59 61 59 to monitoring, reporting and reducing transport Swedspan 62 62 67 carbon emissions. Total 47 50 47 51 55 Progress in FY12 Transport In FY12, our focus was on increasing volumes in each Around 11% of the IKEA total carbon footprint (from container and trailer. The volume of products per shipraw materials to product end-of-life) is associated with ment increased by 2.5% compared with FY11. Our goal energy used for transport of products and people (cois to reduce CO2 emissions per cubic metre of products workers and customers). transported by 20% by the end of FY16, from FY11 levels.2 We have achieved a 7.3% reduction to date. Transport of products Transport suppliers move our products from product suppliers to distribution centres and into stores by road, rail and sea. We also offer customers a home delivery service, which is operated by our customer2 Baseline for this goal restated from FY10 to FY11 to bring it into line with our new delivery carriers. sustainability strategy. Table of contents 52 RESOURCE AND Transport of products Improvements to trucks, pallets and packaging enENERGY INDEPENDENCE able us to transport more products in each shipment. We are: FY12 Goal FY16 • Using bigger trucks and containers Cubic metres of products per shipment + 2.5% (m3/shipment) • Switching from wooden to paper pallets or loading ledges. Reduction in CO2 per cubic metre of -7.3% -20% These are lower than wooden pallets, lighter and flexible products transported (CO2 grams/m3) in size. In FY12 we conducted a Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) study, comparing wooden pallets with paper pallets, which found that using paper pallets reduces the footprint A higher filling rate means less space is wasted in each of transporting IKEA products by 75,000 tonnes of CO2 shipment. Our filling rate increased to 65% and our per year – a 6% saving. goal is to achieve 70% by FY13 for inbound transport (transport from suppliers to distribution centres).3 • Working with suppliers to improve product packaging. For example, in South East Asia our supplier of children’s Filling rate for transport of products (%) SPARKA football toys doubled the number of toys per loading unit by changing the packaging. 100 75 Co-worker business travel 63 64 65 61 62 Filling rate for We encourage co-workers to reduce air travel to meet50 transport of ings and we promote the benefits of meeting by web, products (%) 25 phone and video. As well as reducing the environmental impact of travel, virtual meetings enable co-workers to 0 use their time efficiently, improve work–life balance and FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 reduce travel costs. When business travel is needed, we inspire co-workers to choose lower carbon options through online booking tools and an intranet guide. In FY12, we introduced a “green meeting” guide for coworkers organising large meetings. 3 This goal was stated incorrectly in the 2011 IKEA Group Sustainability Report Table of contents 53 RESOURCE AND Travel suppliers such as airline, hotel and rental car Customer travel ENERGY INDEPENDENCE companies have to provide us with information on their Millions of customers travel to and from IKEA stores sustainability policies and programmes. around the world each year, which has a significant environmental impact. We want to make it as easy as Co-workers held 40% more virtual meetings in FY12, possible for customers to visit stores using public or with around 600 web and phone meetings held every shared transport and this is top on our agenda when day. We added video conferencing facilities at 40 new we design new stores. Customers can shop online and sites in FY12, bringing the total to 110. The increased have their products delivered directly to their homes. use of web, phone and video meetings has limited the To reduce the impact of home deliveries we’re extendincrease in travel costs while our business has grown. ing the use of electric vehicles and those powered by Our travel costs increased in FY12 but the index (travel compressed natural gas in our customer delivery fleet. costs in relation to sales) was still 28% below our baseline in FY07. We will continue to look for ways to increase Water the use of virtual meetings to reduce travel impacts. Water stress and scarcity around the world are making Business travel water an increasingly important business issue. In FY12, total water use in IKEA buildings increased by 8% compared with FY11, although our distribution FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 centres slightly reduced water use. Swedspan’s water Number of web & 52,000 82,434 104,920 146,015 phone meetings* use increased by 53% because it opened a new factory Number of hours of 760 2,800 6,900 for manufacturing HDF boards in FY12. Swedwood’s video meetings water use increased by 6%, and it is introducing water Business travel 69 67 66 72 reduction strategies, which are in place at 80% of its expenditure index sites so far. (travel costs in relation to sales: Water use at IKEA units (m3) FY10 FY11 FY12 FY07 100) Stores 3,927,551 4,438,075 4,608,175 Distribution centres 265,524 228,772 223,292 * In 2011 we incorrectly reported the number of web and phone meetings as the number of web and video meetings. Swedwood 483,096 510,742 542,595 Swedspan* 283,277 503,861* 773,226 Total 4,959,448 5,681,450 6,147,288 * Data for water use at Swedspan in FY11 has been restated due to a mistake in reporting. Table of contents 54 RESOURCE AND Waste ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Wastewater recycling at Swedspan We generate most waste at our stores from packaging Swedspan is targeting zero wastewater from producand other materials. tion. Water is used in wood board production, mainly for making glue, cleaning the air from wood dust and Waste produced in FY12, % making the steam used to break up wood chips into Stores79% wood fibre for boards. Glue making is one of the most Distribution centres 10% water-intensive of these processes. In FY12, Swedspan Swedwood6% piloted a new approach at its factory in Lithuania, colSwedspan5% lecting wastewater from glue making, removing the waste glue, and treating and reusing the water. The new system reduced water use without affecting the All our units have high waste recycling and recovery quality of glue and is now also installed in Swedspan rates, but we want to take the next step, and our goal France. Other Swedspan units will follow. is to send zero waste to landfill. By the end of FY15, at least 90% of the waste from our stores and other IKEA operations will be sorted for recycling. Read about our work with suppliers to reduce water By the end of FY12, a number of facilities had already use on page 58, and our efforts to enable customers achieved zero waste to landfill including one of the two to save water at home on page 17. IKEA Components factories that packs most of the fitting bags for our flat pack furniture, and over 30% of Swedwood factories. All stores sort materials for recycling such as cardboard, glass, metal, paper, plastic and wood, and several stores also collect food waste from the customer restaurant and co-worker canteens. The waste is sent to a third party that turns it into biogas that can be used to fuel cars and buses or as animal feed. Table of contents 55 RESOURCE AND Products returned by customers or damaged before Waste recycling rate* ENERGY INDEPENDENCE being sold are repaired and displayed in a designated store area and sold for discounted prices. We are also Waste recycled or FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 introducing repackaging machines in many stores so used for energy, % that items can be repacked and sold. In many stores we Stores 85 86 84 86 88 provide public collection points for customers for items Distribution centres 90 90 91 90 94 such as batteries, light bulbs and appliances, which are Swedwood** 59 61 58 80 90 recycled or disposed of by specialist companies. Swedspan 86 64 40 Total 84 84 82 85 86 In FY12, we generated 6% more waste than in FY11 due to more waste being produced in stores. Both * Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products Swedwood and Swedspan generated less waste. ** Numbers restated from previously reported data to exclude waste wood Our waste recycling rate in stores, distribution cenWaste produced, tonnes* tres and Swedwood increased but the recycling rate at Swedspan decreased. The decrease at Swedspan was Waste produced, FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 due to more construction waste being generated from tonnes two construction sites. Overall the average recycling Stores 276,173 285,156 279,778 307,877 335,167 rate for our operations was 86% in FY12, compared to Distribution centres 33,952 38,929 34,369 41,758 41,933 85% in FY11. Swedwood 17,864 29,956 31,176 26,177 25,285 Swedspan 10,015 24,621 21,996 Total 327,989 354,041 355,338 400,433 424,381 * Excludes waste wood used for energy recovery or reused in products Table of contents 56 RESOURCE AND Putting waste wood Controlling other environmental impacts ENERGY INDEPENDENCE to good use at IKEA units have other impacts that they must carefully manage to Swedspan and Swedwood protect the environment. These include: Manufacturing wood boards and furniture for • Formaldehyde: We have strict standards for the use of formaldehyde. IKEA at Swedwood and Swedspan creates a Making wood boards at Swedspan involves binding together layers lot of waste wood. This is either reused as of wood with glue that contains formaldehyde. Swedspan carefully a raw material at Swedspan to produce new monitors formaldehyde emissions to the air and water and uses spewood board or sold to other companies as cial equipment to control this. It also monitors formaldehyde levels a raw material. If the waste is not suitable in the air in communities near each factory, sharing results publically to be used, it’s burned in biomass boilers to in an annual report. Formaldehyde emissions from Swedspan boards generate heat or sold as a renewable fuel are one third of “E1”, the toughest European standard for these emisto other companies. 98% of heat needed sions. The goal is to produce boards that are “as wood”, meaning by Swedwood and 90% of heat needed by that they have the same emissions that occur naturally in wood. Swedspan was provided by biomass boilers • Hazardous waste: Swedwood is reducing hazardous waste in its opin FY12. All of existing Swedspan factories erations, producing 15% less hazardous waste in FY12 than in FY11. will use biomass boilers from October 2012 Hazardous waste at Swedspan increased in FY12 due to constructing and new factories are designed to be powa new factory in Poland. ered entirely by biomass technology. • Nitrogen oxide (NOx): Swedspan and Swedwood closely monitor NOx emissions from boilers. All new boilers are installed with NOx monitors and older equipment is checked regularly and will be replaced by FY14. • Solvents: Chemicals are used for cleaning in IKEA stores and in cleaning and production at Swedwood. Swedwood replaces harmful solvents in its production processes where possible. It has reduced solvents used for cleaning by 73% since FY10, but the amount of chemicals used in production increased by 21% in FY12 compared with FY10. Table of contents 57 RESOURCE AND Energy and water in We’re working with our direct suppliers to significantly ENERGY INDEPENDENCE reduce their use of water and fossil fuels. This is better our supply chain for the planet and can reduce costs for IKEA, our suppliers and our customers. FY12 at a glance We do this by: • Developed plans with suppliers for energy-saving • Encouraging and enabling suppliers to improve energy activities at 11 energy-intensive factories in China efficiency, use alternative fuels, generate renewable energy, reduce water use and increase water recycling • 23 home furnishing suppliers powered their operations with more than 90% renewable energy • Measuring suppliers’ sustainability performance through the Supplier Sustainability Index • Increased our Supplier Sustainability Index score from 33 to 39 • Working intensively together with selected suppliers to target reductions, through our Supplier Development • Published data collected from our direct suppliers on Process and identifying best practices that can be shared water consumption for the first time with other suppliers • Developed three-year goals to improve the sustainability performance of the IKEA catalogue. To get a better understanding of environmental impacts People & Planet Positive – new targets in the supply chain, we have started measuring the en• By the end of FY15 – 20% reduction in supplier carbon vironmental performance of our direct home furnishing emissions from 2011 levels suppliers.4 We collected data from 81% of home furnishing suppliers for calendar year 2011 and estimated • By the end of FY17 – 20% improvement in supplier carbon dioxide emissions and water consumption for the energy efficiency from 2011 levels remaining 19%. Our strategy for reducing energy, water and chemical use at our direct home furnishing suppli• By the end of FY20 – Home furnishing suppliers 30% ers was updated in FY12 to reflect our People & Planet more water efficient than in 2011. Positive strategy. 4 The data in this section does not include Swedwood or Swedspan, but only external home furnishing suppliers. Table of contents 58 RESOURCE AND Supply chain carbon footprint Supplier CO2 footprint by trading area 11* ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Around 64% of our value chain carbon emissions come Trading area Carbon footprint from suppliers working with raw material extraction, (CO2 equivalent – tonnes) production and distribution. Of this 64%, the greatest Greater China 946,863 part comes from raw material extraction. South Asia 473,506 The most energyand carbon-intensive direct home South East Europe 366,641 furnishing suppliers are those producing glass and texSouth Europe 155,848 tile products in Bangladesh, China and India. Central Europe 152,336 South East Asia 150,541 In FY12, we continued to support and encourage supNorth East Europe 100,192 pliers to be more energy efficient and to consider North Europe 100,077 renewable energy options. For example: Americas 30,129 • In China we developed recommendations for energyTotal 2,476,131 saving activities at 11 supplier factories producing energy-intensive ceramic, glass, metal, plastic and * Supplier carbon footprint and energy use by trading area data is for 81% of suppliers that textile products. We estimate that factories could reported carbon emissions in calendar year 2011, and we have estimated carbon emissions for the remaining 19% of suppliers that did not report. reduce energy intensity by 5–20%. We also invited 60 factory owners to learn more about installing solar panels. All suppliers in China have access to an energy efficiency checklist, launched in FY12. This simple tool supports suppliers with identifying small changes that could enable them to improve energy efficiency by up to 20%. • We held an “Energy Day” for suppliers in Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam to share their experiences of successful factory energy efficiency initiatives. Table of contents 59 RESOURCE AND Supplier energy use by trading area – total ENERGY INDEPENDENCE energy consumption for IKEA (GWh) Greater China 2294 South Asia 2229 South East Europe 1432 Central Europe 806 South Europe 699 North Europe 648 North East Europe 476 South East Asia 453 Americas 118 Supplier CO2 footprint by product category (CO2 equivalent – tonnes)* Textiles 668,080 Glass & mirrors 277,136 Board materials 167,955 Solid wood 161,034 Ceramics 150,307 Metals 120,583 Upholstery 103.468 Plastic 69,118 Lighting 34,704 White goods 28,609 Other categories 129,260 * The data in this chart is for 81% of suppliers that reported their carbon footprint in FY12. Table of contents 60 RESOURCE AND Suppliers Go Renewable Supplier Sustainability Index ENERGY INDEPENDENCE We encourage our suppliers to be leaders in the use In the same way that we use the Sustainability Product of renewable energy. This is the focus of a new proScore Card to measure the sustainability of products gramme we are developing: Suppliers Go Renewable (page 40), we use a Supplier Sustainability Index to for launch with key suppliers in FY13. measure the environmental performance of home furnishing suppliers. Results from the Supplier Index are Many of our direct suppliers use some renewable enused in the Product Score Card. ergy but for most it is only a small proportion of total consumption. In 2011, 23 of our direct home furnishPoints from three areas make up an index score out of ing suppliers powered their operations with more than 100 for each supplier. The higher the score, the better the 90% renewable energy. Five home furnishing supplirating. We are working with suppliers to target improveers reported their operations were powered by 100% ments and improve the index results. We weight the renewable energy. Three of them are in Sweden, one scores to reflect production volumes for each supplier and in Norway and one in Vietnam. then combine them to create an overall index score. Number of home furnishing suppliers generating Supplier Sustainability renewable energy (share of renewable energy – %) Index results In FY12, 766 suppliers were evaluated. The overall weight600 Number of ed Index increased from 33 in FY11 to 39 in FY12. Supsuppliers 500 484 pliers scored highest for energy efficiency and the area where they improved the most was renewable energy. 400 300 200 116 107 100 23 0 91-100% 51-90% 21-50% 1-20% Table of contents 61 RESOURCE AND Supplier Sustainability Index (Index score, This showed that direct suppliers used 1,113 litres of ENERGY INDEPENDENCE weighted by production volumes – out of 100) water per m3 of goods in 2011. 60 FY11 The most water-intensive products to produce are FY12 textiles. Of the suppliers that reported water use in 49 50 45 2011, suppliers making textile carpets and other textile 42 40 39 products accounted for 45%. Metal and the plants that 32 32 32 33 we sell in-store also use significant amounts of water. 30 Beyond our direct suppliers, the most significant water 20 footprint is cotton cultivation (see Cutting water in cotton farming, page 64). 10 0 Direct supplier water use by trading area (m3)* Energy-efficient Renewable Raw Overall supplier production energy materials sustainability Trading area Water consumption IKEA (m3) Water in our supply chain Greater China 12,589,708 In calendar year 2011, we collected data on water conSouth Asia 10,150,972 sumption from our direct suppliers and we are publishing South East Asia 8,473,248 this for the first time. This included data on wet process South East Europe 5,003,505 water (among textile suppliers), wastewater treatment South Europe 1,053,013 and water use. In total, home furnishing suppliers used North East Europe 687,539 39.1 million m3 of water, equivalent to filling more than North Europe 496,577 15,000 Olympic-size swimming pools. In 2011, suppliers Central Europe 357,413 in Greater China used 32% of all the water consumed in America 266,415 our direct supply chain, followed by suppliers in South * This data is for 81% of suppliers that reported water use in calendar year 2011, and Asia (26%). We set a goal around water efficiency in our we have estimated water use for the remaining 19% of suppliers that did not report. strategy for direct home furnishing suppliers. We also collected data on water efficiency for home furnishing suppliers for the first time. Table of contents 62 RESOURCE AND Direct supplier water use by product guidelines for textile suppliers on how to improve ENERGY INDEPENDENCE category (m3)* water recycling, which affects both water consumption and wastewater quality. The guidelines will be rolled out in FY13. Textiles 13,841,624 Green plants 5,781,604 Our goal is that by FY20, our home furnishing suppliers Metals 3,115,347 will be 30% more water efficient compared with FY11. We Upholstery 1,314,224 will make progress towards this goal through major water Ceramics 1,199,945 projects as part of our Supplier Development Process. Solid wood 927,858 Lighting 759,594 Board materials 669,852 Glass & mirrors 619,120 Saving water in Bangladesh Natural fibres 519,513 One of our major textile suppliers, based in Bangladesh, Other categories 1,688,854 uses a significant amount of water for IKEA production, around 1.7 million m3 a year. In FY12, as part of our Supplier * The data in this chart is for 81% of suppliers that reported water use in FY12. Development Process, we launched a project together to cut water consumption by at least 20% and to test our water In water-stressed regions such as Bangladesh, China, recycling guidelines for textiles. India and Pakistan, we have water specialists tasked with supporting suppliers to reduce water use and The supplier installed 30 water metres around the plant recycle water. In FY12, they formed a new regional to understand which sub-processes use most water. We network, meeting twice a year to share best practices. are monitoring water consumption in each sub-process. Water stress varies from country to country and can Reduction targets will be set across the textile production vary locally within each country. In FY13, we will conprocess from bleaching to printing and dyeing. Together tinue to collect data from suppliers on water managewe’ve identified several points where wastewater could be ment and map local water availability. recycled and used elsewhere in the plant and will run pilot Our IWAY supplier code of conduct requires suppliers projects to test potential solutions and savings. We are also to have fully functioning effluent treatment plants to exploring opportunities to capture and use rainwater. protect water quality. In FY12, we developed additional Table of contents 63 RESOURCE AND Cutting water use in cotton farming ENERGY INDEPENDENCE Cotton farming is highly water intensive. With half of the supporting them to reduce the use of water and pesticides, world’s textiles containing cotton, most of which is grown in and to save money. We invested €1.9 million in these projects developing countries such as India and Pakistan where water in FY12. Projects include hands-on training and involve farmers can be scarce, improving water efficiency is a priority. who have adopted new practices as advocates to inspire others to do the same. WWF research suggests that farmers involved We’ve been partnering with WWF and many other NGOs since in the projects can reduce water and chemical pesticide use 2005 to promote sustainable practices among mainstream cotsignificantly, contributing to cost reductions and better earnton farmers. Together we have reached over 100,000 farmers, ings. Read about our work with cotton on page 32. Environmental impacts of the IKEA catalogue In FY12, we printed 212 million copies of However, in other areas sustainability should come from renewable sources. the IKEA catalogue in 29 languages, using performance decreased. Less of the paOur ambition is also to have all the nonmore than 32 paper and printing suppliper had recycled fibre content or came recycled fibre used in the 2016 cataers. We also publish an online version of from forests certified as responsibly logue to be FSC certified. the catalogue and a catalogue app for managed by organisations such as the Information on suppliers’ sustainability mobile. We measure the environmental Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Using performance is requested before we impact of producing the catalogue and a different type of paper in the producnegotiate contracts with catalogue supwork with suppliers to reduce energy use, tion process caused emissions to wastepliers. Our purchasers use this inforwater use, waste and carbon emissions, water per copy to increase by 24%. mation to select suppliers that support to increase the share of renewable energy We have set clear and challenging goals our ambitious goals. Learning from our and source more sustainable paper. for the coming three years to improve experiences this year, we have organIn FY12 we changed the design of the the overall sustainability performance ised workshops with our suppliers to find catalogue, making it wider and improving of the IKEA catalogue. For example, ways to improve performance for the the paper quality. In some areas, such as our ambition is to reduce energy use by next IKEA catalogue. water use and carbon emissions per copy, 10% and CO2 emissions by 20% for the sustainability performance remained 2016 catalogue, compared with the 2012 stable or improved. catalogue, and 60% of the energy used Table of contents 64 RESOURCE AND Environmental key performance indicators, ENERGY INDEPENDENCE catalogue totals FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Printed number of 198 198 197 208 212 catalogues (millions) ISO 14001 certified 61 94 89 100 94 paper suppliers (%) Catalogue paper 113,099 103,784 102,476 108,450 107,373 (tonnes) FSC-certified Chain of 5 19 21 30 23 Custody fibre (%) Recycled fibre content 6 6 11 4 2 (%) Share of renewable 40 51 50 48 42 energy (%) Environmental data per catalogue copy FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Water consumption (litres/copy) 17.92 14.96 14.26 13.55 13.39 Energy consumption (kWh/copy) 3.11 3.04 2.96 2.72 2.69 Fossil carbon dioxide (kg CO2/copy) 0.69 0.61 0.49 0.43 0.43 Emissions to air (gr VOC/copy, 1.01 0.75 1.12 1.15 1.12 volatile organic compounds) Emissions to wastewater (gr COD/ 3.88 3.83 3.49 3.47 4.29 copy, Chemical Oxygen Demand) Table of contents 65 Better life for people and communities Table of contents 66 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Better life for people AND COMMUNITIES and communities We want to play our part in creating a better life for the people and communities touched by our business. This has always been part of our approach, and it is even more important today as our business continues to grow around the world. We focus on creating the best places to work for our co-workers and those of our suppliers. We support vulnerable communities and children, and we are committed to upholding human rights in everything we do. Table of contents 67 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE A great place to work It’s part of our culture to give co-workers big responsiAND COMMUNITIES bilities. Learning in the business is what makes people grow, and when our people grow, IKEA grows too. We FY12 at a glance encourage our co-workers to try different roles – and • Women made up 47% of managers to gain experience outside their usual work area and home country. This increases understanding and • 72,000 co-workers participated in our VOICE survey knowledge within the organisation, and benefits us all • 83% of co-workers are proud of the way IKEA works in our professional roles and not least as human bewith sustainability ings. By growing together we can create a better everyday life for ourselves and our customers. People & Planet Positive new targets • Ensure that the requirements we place on our own operaWe are dedicated to making IKEA a great place to tions, with regards to environmental, social and working work and to keep improving. Our new people strategy, conditions, meet or exceed those we require of our suppliers which will be launched in FY13, builds on our values, using our people strategy. clearly explains our priorities and introduces new goals and key performance indicators (KPIs). The strategy Our co-workers are our most valuable resource and will support our different businesses and locations to make IKEA a unique company. We always recruit based achieve our goals. on our values to find engaged, diverse and straightforward people with a passion for home furnishings. In FY12, there were 139,000 IKEA co-workers in 44 Our co-workers come from all over the world but share countries around the world. the fundamental humanistic values that our culture is based on: togetherness, humbleness, simplicity, costCo-workers per region consciousness and common sense. Europe 99,000 There are endless career and learning possibilities at North America 18,000 IKEA. We offer co-workers expertise, development opAsia, Australia 11,000 portunities and support but the values must be there Russia 11,000 from the start. Table of contents 68 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Co-worker turnover (%) Diversity isn’t just about gender, ethnicity, physical AND COMMUNITIES ability, age and nationality, although these are very FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 important. We also consider factors such as educationPart-time 32 22.4 20.5 22.3 24.9 al background, parental status, and work experience to Full-time 16 11.9 10.6 11.5 14.5 be part of diversity. All 24 16.4 14.8 16.1 18.9 In FY12, employee turnover increased from 16.1% to Gender diversity (% of women) 18.9%. The reasons for this increase varied across marFY10 FY11 FY12 Goal FY15 kets. Work to calibrate our database across companies All employees 52 55 52 and markets may also have contributed. Despite the All managers 39 40 47 50 increase, our turnover rate in FY12 was acceptable in comparison with the retail industry where higher turnoWe are pleased that gender diversity in management ver rates are not unusual. increased from 40% to 47% in FY12. This increase was due to focused succession planning and targeted work Diversity and inclusion with presenting female candidates for management The way our customers live is different in every counpositions, for example in our Supply Chain function. We try, region and even from family to family. The more hope our planned focus on diversity from FY13 will move we can reflect this diversity in our workforce, the betus the rest of the way to our goal of 50% by FY15. ter we can meet our customers’ needs. An inclusive workplace where people can be themselves makes for Training and development a more creative and enterprising business. We encourage co-workers to challenge accepted solutions, test new ideas and see mistakes as opporDuring FY12 we developed plans to further integrate tunities to grow and develop. We offer regular training diversity and inclusion across our business. Each to co-workers to develop their skills and engage them business unit will set diversity goals that reflect global in their work. Co-workers can also complete e-learning priorities and local circumstances, and measure percourses relevant to their function via the online IKEA formance including recruitment, retention and engageLearning Centre. ment of a diverse workforce. We will launch a toolkit for managers that explains the business benefits of diversity and our priorities. Table of contents 69 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE must comply with relevant regulations as well as our AND COMMUNITIES IKEA backpackers own health and safety rules. Managers are accountable We want our co-workers and IKEA to grow together. for ensuring a healthy and safe working environment, Through our Backpacker Journey programme, we give coproviding visible leadership and inspiring others as workers at the beginning of their careers the opportunity role models. to develop through international placements. The backpackers get to work within different fields in two Our approach at all IKEA units includes: different countries over a year. Returning with new knowl• Mandatory safety training for all co-workers edge and experience, and a global outlook, we hope they • Safety committees, made up of co-worker representatives will move into leadership roles and expand our pool of and managers highly skilled, international IKEA managers. There were 88 backpackers in FY12 from 25 countries. In all, 203 co• Safety co-ordinators who conduct risk assessments and workers have taken part since the programme began. review safety risks • Tracking near-miss incidents and other leading indicators to create a safety culture and prevent future accidents. Health and safety Providing a healthy and safe environment for our coworkers and customers is an absolute priority and we We deeply regret the death of a co-worker in a never compromise in this area. workplace accident in the board on frame division of Swedwood during FY12. The incident happened when Managing health and safety issues is integrated into our a worker in one of our factories in Poland was crushed daily work, and we take a proactive and preventative by a moving machine. Safety procedures had not been approach. For example, every day, the duty manager followed. Following the accident we have upgraded the walks through the store before opening to check software for a number of machines to improve safety. compliance with our internal safety standards. All co-workers at the factory are attending additional safety training. We are fully cooperating with the pubAll co-workers have responsibility for creating and lic prosecution proceedings relating to the accident. maintaining healthy and safe working conditions and Table of contents 70 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Health and safety data our co-workers’ ability to perform their tasks, learn AND COMMUNITIES Health and safety data is collected and monitored by and develop, and gives them a sense of value and each unit. We don’t aggregate data for the lost-time belonging so they are engaged in their workplace. accident rate at group level. Managers must make sure their teams are kept up to date and receive the information they need to do their We are pleased that we reduced the lost-time accident jobs. We provide communications training and tools to (LTA) rate at Swedwood by 37% in FY12 from 15.07 support them. LTAs per million hours worked to 9.49. LTAs are accidents requiring more than 24 hours away from work. Our intranet site, IKEA Inside, is complemented by Measuring the number of reported incidents (nearother channels including our quarterly co-worker misses) enables us to take action before an accident magazine, ReadMe, which is written from a co-worker happens. The number of reported incidents per LTA is perspective. The magazine is translated into 19 lancurrently 25, and Swedwood aims to significantly imguages, with articles on company and product news, prove incident reporting. and many areas of the organisation have national and local magazines as well. In our stores we use regular At Swedspan, performance improved by 23% (from meetings, video screens, closed-circuit radio and no16.61 LTAs per million hours worked to 12.71). To furtice boards to keep co-workers updated. For co-workther improve performance, a detailed risk assessment ers with limited computer access at work and better process is underway involving Environmental, Health access outside work, they can access news and inforand Safety (EHS) specialists, managers and co-workers. mation on IKEA activities as well as documents relatThis will identify and address safety risks including ing to wages and benefits through an online system. those associated with specific tasks. Swedwood and Swedspan both have EHS management systems and/or In FY12, we formalised principles for co-worker relaEHS audits in place. tions and association, and we respect their rights to join co-worker associations of their choice. The policy outlines our commitment to open dialogue with coCommunication and engagement workers and their representatives, and we expect manWith 139,000 co-workers in 44 countries, we need to agers to be proactively involved in co-worker relations. communicate creatively and consistently. Wellfunctioning internal communication is a foundation for Table of contents 71 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Our VOICE survey, which is conducted by an independAND COMMUNITIES ent organisation, enables us to better understand coworker views, assess how engaged they feel with their work, and identify areas where we can do better. The survey is completed by different parts of the business each year, and every unit participates at least once every two years. In FY12, the survey was completed by 72,000 co-workers, and the results are shared with unit managers and action plans created to address lower scoring areas. We use the results to create an overall Index score and a Leadership Index result, which is used to assess the performance of IKEA leaders. In FY12, the overall result was 712 out of 1,000 (716 in FY11) and the leadership score was 74 (74 in FY11). A result of 700 or above is defined as “excellent” by the organisation that conducts the survey. VOICE result FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Goal FY15 Overall 646 663 659 716 712 700 VOICE result Leadership 72 73 73 74 74 75 Index result Table of contents 72 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Human rights at IKEA and due diligence processes, looking for ways we can AND COMMUNITIES improve and ensure we have the systems in place to achieve our goals. We will take a holistic approach, Our vision “to create a better everyday life for the working with external partners to protect and promote many people” extends beyond our co-workers and human rights along our value chain. customers to the co-workers of our suppliers and the communities where they live. Children and human rights We believe that children are the most important people We want to have a positive effect on people’s daily in the world. All our actions should always have the best lives, and we are committed to support and respect interests of the child in mind. human rights where we have influence through our business. This can be challenging because we operOur approach to children’s rights goes across our busiate in and source from countries where practices and ness. We want our products and stores to be safe and values can differ. good for children. And we design our Children’s IKEA range to inspire them and to support their development. Today, for the first time, there is a global standard to help businesses understand human rights and how to Since 1994, IKEA has been working to tackle the issue uphold them. Launched in 2011, we welcome the United of child labour and promote the rights of children. We Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human have partnered with Save the Children and UNICEF on Rights, and we will promote the principles across our these issues, and both organisations contributed to the value chain. development of our IWAY child labour standard, The IKEA Way on Preventing Child Labour (2000). Much Human rights are embedded in our supplier code of of our work with UNICEF and Save the Children has conduct, called IWAY, which applies globally (page 75) focused on creating industry-wide approaches to preand in our values and human resources policies. But venting and eliminating child labour, for example in the there is still more to do. cotton-producing sector. We have also funded (directly and now via the IKEA Foundation) programmes that go During FY13, we will set up a human rights workbeyond the supply chain and promote the education ing group that includes people from different parts and well-being of children and a better quality of life of IKEA. The group will review our policies, training for families. Table of contents 73 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE We support the Children’s Rights and Business PrinAND COMMUNITIES ciples, launched in March 2012 by UNICEF, the UN Global Compact and Save the Children. We contributed to their development by sharing our insights into the practical aspects of promoting the rights of children. The principles provide a comprehensive framework that will support us to better understand our impact on children’s well-being and improve our efforts to promote the well-being of children and prevent any negative impacts that our business could have on them. People & Planet Positive – new targets • Using the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights as our base, we will work to promote its implementation across our value chain • We will use the Children’s Rights and Business Principles to strengthen the work we do throughout our business to protect the rights of children – from supply chain and product development to advocating on behalf of children, enabling their voices to be heard Table of contents 74 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE The best places Running our business involves thousands of suppliers in AND COMMUNITIES more than 50 countries, and around 600,000 people work to work – suppliers for companies that directly supply IKEA. We want them to work under good social and environmental conditions. That’s why we have IWAY – the IKEA Way on PurchasFY12 at a glance ing Products, Materials and Services. It’s the IKEA • At year end FY12, 100% of home furnishing, components, supplier code of conduct, and it applies to all home goods transport and global food suppliers were approved furnishing suppliers. First launched in the year 2000 against IWAY (our supplier code of conduct) or being phased for home furnishing suppliers, we’ve updated and out within five months5 strengthened IWAY over time, and we continue to expand it to cover other categories of suppliers. By build• Completed more than 1,000 IWAY audits, of which 700 ing long-term relationships with suppliers, we can have were unannounced a positive influence on people’s lives across our value chain. We’ve worked with more than 50% of our sup• Began to track approval against “IWAY Musts” among pliers for more than five years. Our work with suppliers sub-suppliers so far has led to thousands of audited improvements in working conditions in our supply chain. People & Planet Positive – new targets • By the end of FY15, all IKEA suppliers (within the IWAY This section explains our approach to ensuring a betscope) will comply with our supplier code of conduct, IWAY. ter life for people in our supply chain, how we influIWAY will be continuously assessed and strengthened. ence conditions at sub-suppliers and how we audit and verify compliance with our standards. We also work with suppliers to reduce environmental impacts in the supply chain (page 58). 5 In China we are working with suppliers to reduce working hours to a 49–hour limit. As an interim step, suppliers can become IWAY approved if working hours do not exceed 60-hours a week including overtime. Table of contents 75 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE IWAY – The IKEA way for suppliers AND COMMUNITIES Suppliers by category • Applies to all direct suppliers for home furnishing products, some other (number of suppliers) categories of suppliers and selected sub-suppliers. Direct suppliers are required to communicate IWAY to their sub-suppliers Home furnishing 1084 • Requires suppliers to respect human rights, protect workers’ rights, not IKEA Food (global suppliers) 70 exceed legal requirements for working hours, pay workers in accordance IKEA Food (national suppliers) 600 with legal requirements, protect the environment and comply with local laws IKEA catalogue 32 and regulations Indirect Material Services 769 • Contains further specific requirements relevant to different types of suppliers Transport service providers 230 including catalogue, food, transport and wood suppliers Land and ocean Transport service providers 120 • Includes “IWAY Musts”, a set of basic requirements any new supplier must Customer delivery meet before we do business with them. This includes requirements to prevent child and forced labour, prevent severe environmental pollution and safety hazards, keep records of working hours and wages and have social insurance • Requires that workers do not work more than 60 hours, including overtime, Top 5 home furnishing purchasing or more than the legal limit in their country, whichever is lowest. There is one countries (%) exception to this in China where far longer hours are widespread. For now, Country % of total IKEA requires that Chinese suppliers do not exceed a 60-hour working week, China 22 including overtime. This is an interim step towards our goal that Chinese supPoland 18 pliers meet a 49-hour working week, including overtime. We are also unable to fully apply the IWAY requirement for freedom of association in China and Italy 8 Vietnam because of legal restrictions in these countries. Sweden 5 Lithuania 4 The full text of the IWAY standard can be found at www.ikea.com Table of contents 76 IWAY governance BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES Function Role The IWAY requireIWAY Council • Overall ownership of IWAY • Discuss and decide actions on high-risk supply chain issues ments are decided • Final approval of IWAY documents by our IWAY Council, • Members include the IKEA Chief Executive Officer and three other members and are based on UN of executive management (Chief Sustainability Officer, Supply Chain Manager and ILO conventions. and Corporate Communications Manager) Communicating our IWAY Council • Operational responsibility for IWAY requirements to Working • Develop IWAY Code of Conduct and guidelines suppliers, supporting Committee • Review audit results them to meet IWAY • Provide clarity on IWAY standards and resolve disagreements on audit results and following up to • Overall responsibility for training IWAY auditors ensure compliance IKEA auditors • Conduct announced and unannounced audits at suppliers with audits involve • Review action plans submitted by suppliers in cases of non-compliance several different • Conduct follow-up audits functions within and outside IKEA. Regional trading • Co-workers in regional trading offices have regular contact with suppliers in offices (products their region and are regularly on-site at factories and services locally) • Support suppliers with understanding and meeting requirements Compliance and • Independent from IKEA auditors and business units Monitoring Group • Ensure IKEA co-workers follow IWAY policies and processes in dealings (CMG) with suppliers • Perform audits to ensure that judgements by IKEA auditors are consistent globally and results are accurate • Support training and development of IKEA auditors • Report audit results to IWAY Council Third-party • Independent from IKEA auditors • Verify IKEA audit results • Conduct unannounced audits and calibration audits • Report results to Compliance and Monitoring Group (CMG) Table of contents 77 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE We work with suppliers to ensure compliance with Progress in FY12 AND COMMUNITIES IWAY through a number of steps: At year end FY12, all home furnishing, IKEA Components (IKEA C), land and ocean transport suppliers The home furnishing supplier journey with IKEA and global food suppliers were IWAY approved or being phased out within five months. This excludes 117 new Step 1 • A potential new supplier is identified suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. • Suppliers must meet basic requirements on working conditions and environmental protection, called “IWAY Musts”, before we Suppliers in China are approved with a maximum 60start business with them hour working week. Suppliers being phased out at year • New supplier joins IKEA supply chain end FY12 represented 4% of home furnishing, global food and transport suppliers. Step 2 • Within a maximum of 12 months, new suppliers must meet the full requirements of the IWAY supplier code of conduct • IWAY compliance is verified through an on-site audit Gaining IWAY approval is a significant step forward, • Supplier is approved when all requirements are met and we worked with suppliers through the process, communicating IWAY requirements clearly and supStep 3 • Follow-up audits are conducted at least once every two years. These can be announced or unannounced porting their efforts to improve social and environ• Suppliers based in some higher-risk locations including South mental standards. The most common areas of IWAY and South East Asia are audited once every year non-compliance identified during audits were: work• Audits are conducted by internal IKEA auditors. Verification ing hours and overtime; safety instructions; storage, activities are performed by the Compliance Monitoring Group and third-party auditors transport and handling of waste; wages; escape routes and emergency exits. Suppliers worked hard to corStep 4 • If areas of non-compliance are identified in follow-up audits at rect these issues and meet the IWAY requirements. an IWAY-approved supplier, an action plan is agreed with the supplier Unfortunately, not all suppliers chose to meet the IWAY • If a supplier does not comply with “IWAY Musts” at any time, requirements by the end of FY12 and, as a result, we deliveries are immediately stopped and corrective actions put stopped working with around 70 suppliers. Areas of in place • If a supplier does not comply with any other IWAY requirements IWAY non-compliance were working hours, one day off during the follow-up audit, they have 90 days to correct any in seven and social insurance. issues. If a supplier fails to correct all deviations within given timeframes, the supplier is discontinued Table of contents 78 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE The challenge now is to maintain compliance to IWAY. being achieved at suppliers that would otherwise be AND COMMUNITIES Our ambition is that suppliers share our commitment sub-suppliers to IKEA home furnishing suppliers and to sustainable business and continue to take responsioutside the current scope of IWAY. bility for providing good places to work. We are working towards IWAY approval for other types We also audit selected parts of our business for of suppliers. By the end of FY15, suppliers in China will compliance with IWAY, including distribution centres, be required to meet a 49-hour work week, including IKEA C, Swedspan and Swedwood. In FY12, there was overtime, instead of a 60-hour working week. 100% IWAY approval at distribution centres, IKEA C and Swedwood. Four out of five Swedspan units were IWAY Home furnishing suppliers approved. One facility did not comply with IWAY requirements on lighting, and we will upgrade the lightIWAY-approved home furnishing suppliers*, % ing system to more efficient commercial LED lighting. IKEA C supplies components and materials to IKEA FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 suppliers and sub-suppliers that end up in IKEA home Europe 80 79 89 90 100 furnishing products. All IKEA C suppliers are IWAY apAmericas 91 83 85 94 100 proved, which means a greater level of approval is Asia, total 21 22 26 41 92 China 7 7 7 30** 90** South Asia 34 41 62 65 93 Non-home furnishing suppliers that will reach IWAY South East 63 65 68 65 97 approval by the end of FY15: Asia • Customer delivery suppliers All regions 54 52 57 67** 96*** • Higher-risk IKEA Indirect Material and Services (IKEA IMS) * Data for home furnishing suppliers includes Swedwood factories. providers (those who supply materials and services not ** Approved with maximum 60-hour working week. *** Excludes 117 new suppliers that have up to 12 months to be approved. Includes used for IKEA products) suppliers where a non-compliance has been identified and are within the 90-day period allowed to correct the non-compliance. • Higher-risk local store services suppliers (security, cleaning and waste service providers) • National and local food suppliers • Catalogue suppliers. Table of contents 79 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Other figures Transport suppliers AND COMMUNITIES FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 Around 230 suppliers transport our products by land Number of IWAY audits/of which were unannounced and ocean. In FY12, we met our goal of 100% IWAY Europe 480/21 375/70 365/29 341/144 348/198 approval for these suppliers. We stopped working with Americas 31/0 29/2 29/1 26/12 31/15 8% of our suppliers – those that chose not to meet the Asia 693/359 646/451 645/501 626/55 607/517 IWAY requirements. One of the most challenging areas Total 1,204/380 1,049/523 1,039/531 993/711 986/730 was ensuring transport suppliers use modern, fuelefficient trucks with lower emissions. Number of IKEA Compliance and Monitoring Group calibration audits Europe 20 19 21 24 19 We made significant progress with IWAY approval for Americas 2 2 2 3 2 suppliers that deliver products directly to customers’ Asia 24 22 32 25 29 homes. The IWAY approval rate increased to 91% in Total 46 43 55 52 50 FY12, exceeding our target of 75%. This applies to Number of third-party audits (unannounced) customer delivery companies contracted centrally by IKEA, around half of the total. Europe 17 15 12 12 9 Americas 0 0 0 0 2 Asia 29 30 35 32 45 IWAY approval at transport suppliers Total 46* 45 47 47 56 91 Customer delivery Terminated businesses, number of suppliers FY12 100 suppliers, % of 100 centrally contracted Due to IWAY 20 10 10 8 47 53 suppliers approved non-compliance FY11 95 82 Ocean transport Due to non28 43 17 11 25 21 providers, % approved compliance FY10 96 and other 83 reasons Land transport providers, FY09 42 % approved 82 Number of third-party child labour audits FY08 38 Total 435 365 365 370 365 48 0 20 40 60 80 100 *In FY08, 31 of 46 third-party audits were unannounced. Table of contents 80 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Food suppliers Some countries also source food indirectly via wholeAND COMMUNITIES Companies that provide the ingredients for the Swedsalers. We plan to extend the IWAY scope to cover ish menu options in our restaurants and the food these suppliers over time. range available in the Swedish Food Market shops in-store (global food suppliers) continued to show high IKEA Indirect Material and Services levels of compliance with our IWAY supplier standards. IKEA Indirect Material and Services (IKEA IMS) is responsible for purchasing and supplying the non-home In FY10, we extended our IWAY food standards to furnishing products and services needed to run our national and local suppliers – those providing the local business. For example, it purchases store equipment food choices in our restaurants. We began auditing such as forklifts, co-worker uniforms, shopping trolthese suppliers in FY12. These audits showed a high leys, racking and lighting as well as security, waste and level of compliance. We did not complete as many aucleaning services and IT solutions. dits during the year as we had planned. To correct this, during FY13 we will provide more training and support We focus IKEA IMS IWAY audits on suppliers that pose to enable our national food purchasers to extend audits a higher risk for IWAY non-compliance, such as providto more national food suppliers. ers of store lighting equipment, cleaning and waste management services. IWAY approval at food suppliers In FY12, the number of IWAY-approved IKEA IMS sup100 National and local pliers increased slightly. The average IWAY fulfilment Goal: FY15 100 food suppliers, rate among these suppliers was 94%. The main chal7 % IWAY approved FY12 100 lenges for IWAY compliance were insufficient docuGlobal food supplimentation, breaching fire safety standards and workFY11 100 ers, % IWAY approved ing hours in China. More audits are needed, along with FY10 67 other activities to support suppliers’ development, and we are increasing our capacity to achieve this. FY09 41 FY08 13 0 20 40 60 80 100 Table of contents 81 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE IWAY approval at IKEA Indirect The results are then used by our purchasers in the AND COMMUNITIES Material and Services suppliers supplier selection process. In FY14, catalogue suppliers will be included in the IKEA Group audit programme 100 and audited against IWAY. For information on the Goal: FY15 100 environmental performance of catalogue suppliers, Average IWAY fulfilment at FY12 94 see page 64. 32 higher-risk suppliers (%) Higher-risk Indirect MateriFY11 94 Approval at catalogue suppliers 27 als and Services (IMS) suppliers, % IWAY approved 91 FY10 20 FY12 70 Industry-specific require89 ments, % approved suppliers 0 20 40 60 80 100 72 based on self-assessments FY11 90 Our stores also contract local and national suppliers FY10 65 IKEA Catalogue Sustainabil86 directly for a variety of services. In FY12 we began to ity Requirements (based on FY09 50 IWAY), % approved suppliers 73 audit higher-risk local store suppliers of security, cleanbased on self-assessments 53 ing and waste services. We conducted 35 audits in FY12 FY08 71 and we’re aiming for 100% IWAY approval by FY15. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Catalogue suppliers Swedwood and Swedspan IKEA catalogue suppliers are not assessed against Two wholly-owned companies in the IKEA Industry IWAY because the catalogue is produced by Inter Group – Swedwood and Swedspan – supply wooden IKEA Systems, the owner of the IKEA Concept and boards and furniture to other areas of IKEA. Both units the worldwide IKEA franchisor. Instead, catalogue are beginning to implement IWAY in their supply chains. suppliers must meet the IKEA Catalogue Sustainability Requirements that are based on IWAY, as well as In FY12, Swedwood conducted 24 supplier audits in industry-specific requirements for paper, artwork and nine countries, and 18 suppliers were IWAY approved. printing. Inter IKEA Systems checks compliance with Swedwood has agreed action plans with suppliers the requirements through supplier self-assessment where areas of non-compliance were found. Swedspan surveys. On-site audits are also conducted, if needed. requires direct suppliers to complete a self-declaration Table of contents 82 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE that they will comply with IWAY before Swedspan will We are beginning the substantial task of systematically AND COMMUNITIES work with them. Swedspan is identifying the most tracking sub-suppliers in our supply chain, collecting critical suppliers that will be audited against the IWAY data on IWAY compliance, understanding the challengrequirements. es they face and following up with audits. We focus on sub-suppliers we consider “critical”, because they are Investigation into purchasing operating higher-risk processes or are based in higherrisk locations. We estimate there are several thousand practices in the former GDR critical sub-suppliers. Our goal is for direct suppliers to During FY12, allegations were made about the use secure compliance with the “IWAY Musts” at their critiof political prisoners in IKEA suppliers´ production in cal sub-suppliers by the end of FY13, except in China the former GDR in the 70s and 80s. We asked Ernst & where we aim to meet this goal in FY14. Young to conduct an independent investigation. It indicated that political prisoners were involved in parts of In FY12 we rolled out a global online Sub-Supplier production units that supplied IKEA and that steps taken Tracking System, where our suppliers must register to secure that no such labour was used were insufficient. sub-suppliers. We provide guidance on which of their This was and is unacceptable to IKEA. We have made a sub-suppliers are critical for “IWAY Musts” complisummary of the findings public and have agreed to work ance and training to enable them to implement “IWAY with the Victims Organisation in Germany. IWAY and our Musts” with sub-suppliers. current working methods effectively reduce the risk of anything similar happening today. Working with sub-suppliers We estimate that there are more than 2 million people connected with IKEA across our value chain, mostly involved in the production of raw materials. Some of the more challenging issues in our value chain are found among sub-suppliers and around extraction or production of raw materials rather than direct suppliers to IKEA. Our direct suppliers are responsible for communicating the IWAY code of conduct to sub-suppliers and we support them to do this. Table of contents 83 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Going beyond compliance AND COMMUNITIES Achieving IWAY approval for home furnishing, global food and transport suppliers doesn’t mean our work is done. The challenge now is to continue supporting suppliers to maintain compliance and improve practices even further. We have already begun to work with suppliers beyond IWAY compliance, to support economic, environmental and social development more widely. For example, we are working with suppliers in South Asia to introduce better child-care facilities and more nutritious canteen food for workers. In FY12, we also continued a project to increase the number of workers paid salaries through bank accounts, instead of cash, which improves transparency over wages and enables workers to keep their money safe, manage family finances, build up savings and, over time, escape poverty. Currently, nearly 40% of workers in our supply chain in South Asia are paid through bank accounts. Table of contents 84 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Strong communities The IKEA Foundation, a charity registered in the NethAND COMMUNITIES erlands, donates tens of millions of euros to charity We want to take a lead in creating a better life for the each year through funds set aside from IKEA profits. people and communities touched by our business. This The IKEA Foundation also provides IKEA product donais part of our vision to create “a better everyday life tions, and holds workshops with UN agencies and nonfor the many people”. profit organisations to share the knowledge and skills of IKEA co-workers. At a local level, IKEA stores strive to be good neighbours, working with charities and community groups and enThe IKEA Foundation The IKEA Foundation gaging co-workers and customers. No matter what the circumfocuses on: stances, every child deserves • Protecting children At a global level, the IKEA Foundation creates opportunia place to call home, a healthy from child labour ties for children living in poverty in the developing world. start in life, a quality education, and a sustainable family • Providing a place to call income. To reach millions of home for refugee children children, the IKEA Foundation • Empowering girls supports programmes that and women FY12 at a glance can bring about large-scale • Celebrated more than 10 years of partnership with change, by working with partUNICEF India reaching 74 million children ners such as Save the Children, UNHCR and UNICEF. • €82 million donated, a 26% increase from 2011 These organisations have the knowledge, capacity and resources to reach out globally, so together the IKEA • Co-workers and customers raised €12.4 million through Foundation and its partners can create opportunities the Soft Toys for Education campaign for millions of children worldwide. Table of contents 85 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Progress in 2012 IKEA Foundation total donation (million euros)* AND COMMUNITIES Charitable giving by the IKEA Foundation is growing, € 90 € 82 as our business grows. In 2012, the IKEA Foundation € 80 donated €82 million6, a 26% increase from 2011. This € 70 € 65 was used to support 21 programme partners. The € 60 IKEA Foundation also extended its grant-giving to € 50 € 45 Annual donation by charities based in the USA and UK, such as the Clinton € 40 IKEA Foundation Health Access Initiative, for the first time, confirming € 30 – million euros €31 million for these charities to use on programmes € 20 (including soft in the developing world. € 10 toy donations) €2010 2011 2012 6 Estimated figure based on 11 month data. *This data does not include the money, volunteer hours and products donated by IKEA stores and other business units. Data on the IKEA Foundation is provided for the calendar year, not financial year. Celebrating more than 10 years in India with UNICEF For over 10 years the IKEA Foundaindustry. Around half are under 14 years • 3.6 million children are receiving tion has supported UNICEF’s work in old and almost 90% don’t attend school. quality education in more than India to end child labour and create 18,000 schools across six states The long-term partnership between the a better future for children living in • 4.9 million mothers have started IKEA Foundation and UNICEF (together poverty. By the end of 2012, the IKEA breastfeeding their newborn babies with our partnership with Save the Foundation had donated more than within one hour of birth Children) addresses the root causes of €100 million to UNICEF India and • 32 million homes now have toilets child labour, raising awareness of the reached 74 million children. • 8,000 community groups came importance of education so families can together to collectively protect Children in cotton and cotton-seed farmkeep their children in school. children’s rights ing areas are at particular risk of being With support from the IKEA Founda• 1.1 million schools now have toilets, denied fundamental rights like the right tion, UNICEF has improved children’s hand-washing facilities and safe to education. An estimated 400,000 health, hygiene and education in India: drinking water. children are working in India’s cotton Table of contents 86 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Sharing IKEA knowledge from a small innovative organisation can be the seed AND COMMUNITIES IKEA co-workers have skills and knowledge that can for big changes when implemented by a large organibe of real benefit to partners of the IKEA Foundation. sation with a global reach and impact. As well as giving money, the IKEA Foundation hosts “knowledge-sharing workshops” where IKEA co-workFor example, in 2012 the IKEA Foundation supported ers put their heads together with charity partners and Refugee Housing, a Swedish project to design nextdevelop new ways of working. In 2012, this included generation shelter tents for refugee camps. The IKEA co-workers sharing their skills in building design, IT, Foundation also supported Refugees United, a Danish quality, packaging, product design, procurement and non-profit developing innovative database and mobile transport through workshops with UNHCR, the UN phone technology to reunite refugees with their famiRefugee Agency. lies if they’ve become separated. Already more than 165,000 refugees have registered so they can begin the search for their loved ones. The IKEA Foundation Partnering for innovation has connected both these groups with the UNHCR to Some of the most exciting opportunities to create betexplore opportunities for implementing their ter lives for children come from identifying synergies approaches on a large scale. between large and small partners. One clever idea Supporting refugee children who don’t have a home Every year UNHCR supports millions IKEA co-workers showed UNHCR how gees in camps in the Middle East and of children and their families to flee IKEA designs products, sources maNorth Africa, and shared ideas on how the danger of war, famine or persecuterials, packs products and transports emergency tents can be flat-packed to tion for the safety of a refugee camp. them. Co-workers shared their core make them easier to ship. As well as donating cash to support skills for making low-cost, simple and their work, the IKEA Foundation is efficient packaging, and stackable and In this way the IKEA Foundation is using its skills to enable UNHCR to easy-to-use products. Together the making life a bit better for refugee deliver aid more efficiently to where IKEA Foundation and its partners dechildren who don’t have a home at all. it’s needed most. signed better kitchen utensils for refuTable of contents 87 BETTER LIFE FOR PEOPLE Customer and co-worker campaigns AND COMMUNITIES The IKEA Foundation involves customers and co-workers in campaigns for a good cause through IKEA stores. Soft toys for education During the holiday season at the end of each year, the IKEA Foundation donates one euro for every soft toy sold in IKEA stores worldwide. The money goes to Save the Children and UNICEF projects aimed at improving the education for children in Africa, Asia and Central and Eastern Europe. In 2011, the efforts of co-workers and customers raised €12.4 million, and since 2003 more than SUNNAN lamps €47.5 million has been raised, supporting over eight Between 2009 and 2012, every time a customer bought million children to get a better education. The IKEA a SUNNAN solar lamp, the IKEA Foundation donated Foundation IWitness Global Citizens programme another lamp to a child living in the developing world takes small groups of co-workers to visit developing without easy access to electricity. This three-year countries to see first hand the impact of donations. programme created a greater sense of security after sunset and enabled thousands of children around the In FY12, more than 12 teams of co-workers from world to continue to read, write and draw at night. around the world participated. Returning from the trip, co-workers often raise awareness among colleagues. Over the course of the programme, the IKEA FounSpeaking about his upcoming trip, Mike Martinez, a dation donated nearly 950,000 SUNNAN lamps to co-worker from the IKEA Draper store, in Utah, USA, children in Afghanistan, Bangladesh, China, Ethiopia, said, “I want to bring back the story not only to my India, Jordan, Kenya, Pakistan, Tajikistan and Yemen. co-workers, but my community as well. I want them to see how their generosity did more than just give a child they know a soft toy – it went worldwide and supported children all around the world.” Table of contents 88 Governance and ethics Table of contents 89 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Governance furnishings to present and future generations, we have to make sustainability attractive and affordable for our customers. We are integrating sustainability into the and ethics way we manage and govern IKEA. We’re a values-driven company on a never-ending journey to be the leader in life at home. We see home as the most important place in the world. We look to grow our business by focusing on our customers, our co-workers and their needs. Because we are not a listed company, we don’t have the stock market pressures and can take a long-term perspective. Our values, such as togetherness, humbleness, simplicity, cost-consciousness and common sense, guide us in our everyday work. They help us to deliver on our promise to create well-designed, functional and sustainable products at the lowest possible price. We expect our managers to lead by example and to explain and bring the IKEA values to life. Sustainability is a cornerstone in our strategic direction, is highly prioritised and serves as a catalyst for further innovation and development within IKEA. To economise with resources and constantly renew and develop is an important part of our business idea and heritage. If we are to continue to offer good home Table of contents 90 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS How we work Stichting IMAS Foundation manages Stichting IKEA Stichting INGKA Stichting financial assets on Foundation Foundation IMAS Foundation behalf of the Stichting INGKA Foundation. Stichting IKEA Foundation Stichting INGKA Foundation is the owner of INGKA is the philanthropic arm of the Holding B.V. Its purpose is to hold shares and reinvest Stichting INGKA Foundation. It in the IKEA Group and to fund charity through the funds, e.g., programmes that Stichting IKEA Foundation. improve the rights of children in the developing world and INGKA Holding B.V. is the parent company of enables them and their famiINGKA IKEA Group of companies. Its purpose is to lies to have a better future. Holding B.V. support and manage the IKEA Group. The Supervisory Board consists of: Göran Grosskopf (Chairman), Luisa Delgado, Lars-Johan Jarnheimer, Jonas Kamprad, Göran Lindahl, Peter Lund and Carl Wilhelm Ros. Ingvar Kamprad is senior advisor to the board. Range Strategy & Product Development Supply Chain The IKEA Group of companies IKEA Group Retail The IKEA Group franchises the IKEA retail sysIKEA Group IKEA Group Staff tem and methods from Inter IKEA Systems B.V. Industry functions in the Netherlands. Inter IKEA Systems B.V. is the owner of the IKEA Concept and the worldwide IKEA franchisor. Table of contents 91 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Sustainability supported by sustainability professionals working across the business – from food to retail, product development governance and the industry group – as well as issue experts (such as forestry specialists and IWAY auditors). and management About our reporting We are very conscious that our customers, co-workers Sustainability is integrated into our management and many business partners are interested in the prostructure and with the launch of our People & Planet gress we are making in fulfilling our commitments to a Positive strategy (page 11) we are further embedding more sustainable IKEA. We share our views, progress sustainability principles into our everyday work and in and setbacks through our reporting, and we welcome everything we do. feedback on how we can improve. Our Chief Sustainability Officer, Steve Howard, is The data in this report is for the financial year 2012 a member of the Executive Management Team and (FY12), which ran from 1 September 2011 to 31 August reports directly to the Group President and CEO. 2012, except where stated. It covers all wholly owned companies in the IKEA Group, unless otherwise stated. Sustainability is part of our values and a strong incenIn some cases, data has been estimated and this has tive for innovation and renewal throughout IKEA. As been indicated in the text. Data covers wholly owned one of the cornerstones of Growing IKEA Together (our operations in the IKEA Group. Data for IKEA stores long-term business direction), sustainability is included operated by franchisees outside the IKEA Group is in the annual business plans of every part of the businot reported. ness. Executive Management and the Board of Directors receive regular reports on progress against our We were unable to include data for IKEA Components key sustainability objectives. production facilities because one of the two facilities was relocated during FY12. Every co-worker at IKEA is responsible for making sustainability happen in their everyday work. By workSwedwood and Swedspan are wholly owned businesses ing together and always looking for better and more and environmental data is included in the overall envisustainable solutions at every step, it’s our co-workers ronmental data for the IKEA Group. that are the big change-makers. Their efforts are Table of contents 92 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Data for Swedspan includes a new high-density fibreboard factory opened in FY12. During FY12 we opened 11 new stores, and they are included in the scope of the report data. Where relevant, we report progress against the targets in our previous sustainability strategy. Our new People & Planet Positive strategy was launched at the end of FY12 and we will begin reporting progress against its targets next year. GRI and Global Compact Our reporting focuses on the social, environmental and economic sustainability issues we have identified as most material for IKEA. We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines on sustainability reporting as a guide when compiling this report. We are signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, a set of 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. IKEA is committed to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. As a signatory to the initiative, we communicate how our work in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption is progressing. The table on the next page shows where our performance related to the respective principles can be found in this report. Table of contents 93 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS UN Global Compact reference table Location in IKEA Sustainability Report FY12 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human rights p73-74 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human rights p73-74 The best places to work suppliers p75-84 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the A great place to work p71 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Human rights p73-74 The best places to work suppliers p76 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Human rights p73-74 The best places to work suppliers p76 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Responsible sourcing p32-33 Human rights p73-74 The best places to work suppliers p80 Strong communities p85-86 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment A great place to work p68-69 and occupation. Human rights p73-74 The best places to work suppliers p76 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Resources and energy p23-65 environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental A more sustainable life at home p14-22 responsibility; and Resources and energy p23-65 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally A more sustainable life at home p14-22 friendly technologies. Resources and energy p23-65 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Business ethics p96 including extortion and bribery. Table of contents 94 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Working with others survey provides an international benchmark for our IKEA engages with customers, companies, trade unstores, and ensures that customer satisfaction issues ions, NGOs, governments and industry organisations are regularly addressed. to develop and strengthen the impact of our work IKEA customers are encouraged to contribute to posiwithin the sustainability field. By sharing experiences tive developments through campaigns and activities and learning from others, we can accomplish more run by IKEA and our partners (see Customer and cothan we could on our own. worker campaigns, page 88). As we work towards the long-term goals in our susIn addition to the continuous dialogue within our cotainability strategy, it will be more important than ever worker teams, we keep in touch with employee views for us to take part in the debate on sustainability isthrough our regular VOICE survey (page 72). sues, to share our experiences and to listen and learn from our stakeholders. We have long-term partnerships to increase the supply of wood from responsibly managed forests, to raise standards in cotton farming and to create opportunities for children living in the developing world. Our key partners include FSC, WWF, Better Cotton Initiative, UNICEF, UNHCR and Save the Children. Engaging customers and employees To collect structured feedback from customers, IKEA conducts market research through the “Brand Capital” survey, a tool to monitor and improve the implementation of the IKEA concept and to measure customer satisfaction in each market. The survey is conducted once a year. In addition, we monitor how satisfied customers are with their local IKEA store through the annual “Customer Satisfaction Index” (CSI) survey. The Table of contents 95 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Business ethics without fear of reprisals or retaliation. Co-workers can speak to their manager, senior management, IKEA has always had a zero tolerance policy towards representatives from the human resources department bribes, the use of illegal drugs in the workplace, or co-worker representatives. In FY13 we will launch harassment of co-workers and any actions that are the IKEA trust line, which co-workers will be able to against our values. Our culture is built on values such use to raise concerns that can’t be dealt with through as simplicity, honesty and leadership by example – the normal process. values that guide us in everything we do. Anti-corruption Our culture is the inner strength of IKEA, the IKEA does not tolerate corruption in any form, whether foundation for how we do business. This is why we direct or indirect, and works proactively to prevent it. always recruit based on our values. Our vision to create a better everyday life for the many people gives Our anti-corruption policy and our code of conduct us endless opportunities as well as responsibility for describe how to act if fraud, corruption, theft or other the way we affect the world around us. misconduct is suspected. All suppliers must sign an acceptance of this policy. In FY12, we launched “Good Business with Common Sense”, our code of conduct. It reflects earlier Clear policies and an internal ethics programme with documents, including IKEA founder Ingvar Kamprad’s training and workshops are central to minimising the “Testament of a Furniture Dealer” and “IKEA Values”. risk of unwanted behaviour in the IKEA organisation. We make regular risk assessments in countries around Every co-worker will be trained on it through the world and handle any deviations to our policy and workshops where they are able to discuss potential guidelines with systematic urgency. dilemmas, how we should all behave every day and how the code should be applied. The code will be available in 26 languages via our intranet site. We promote a culture of inclusiveness and co-workers are encouraged to raise concerns they might have, Table of contents 96 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Public policy We do not make political donations. We engage with government officials and policy makWe participate in the work of trade associations who ers internationally, nationally and locally, seeking to represent their members in negotiations with legislacontribute to the legislative process in areas relevant to tors and regulators in different countries (see box). our business and our customers. We take a proactive approach to advocacy on sustainability issues, working During FY12 our public policy priorities related to suswith regulators and others to move the debate forward. tainability were eco-design, sustainable consumption, illegal logging, food labelling, waste management and Our approach to public policy is in line with the genrecycling. eral principle of honesty as established in our code of conduct. We also adhere to rules and guidelines estabOur other public policy activity included engaging with lished by national and regional authorities including the the European Commission, European Parliament and European Transparency Registry. national authorities to address barriers to investment and expansion that affect our business in some EU member states. Examples of trade association memberships • We participate in the Retail Environmental Action Programme (REAP), an initiative co-chaired by the European Commission, and the Timber Retail Coalition, which supports measures to curb illegal logging • Eurocommerce, the organisation that represents the retail, wholesale and international trade sectors in Europe • Green Freight Europe and Green Freight Asia, through which we are supporting development of a standardised approach to monitoring and reporting carbon emissions from transport • European Retail Round Table (ERRT) represents Europe’s largest retailers and works on issues related to sustainable consumption, health and nutrition, and consumer information Table of contents 97 Get in touch We welcome your feedback. Send comments and questions about this report to: sustainability.report.se@ikea.com
