Global Citizenship Report 2012 Team Spirit Contents Page Global Citizenship Welcome Report 2011 CEO Letter About AMS Going further together 1 3 4 this i(S&E)ssue... Global Citizenship The Point Communication and Making Learning Connec tions InCommunities and Development (CC&P) 7 11 15 le for our peop AMS’s magazine December 2012 Edition 11 | r clients, Delighting ou ly d productive profitably an nce between t bala Finding the righ ion profit and pass , 12 Countries , Environmental & Wellbeing 10 languages Inclusion (I&D) one shot Supply Chain Accountability Meeting a recru challenge – itment head on oint Taking PulseP rt to hea across the Citi How voices 21 26 30 n ed into actio account turn 2 The Point | December 2012 Future Aspirations Summary of 2013 Priorities 35 36 1 Global Citizenship Report Welcome Our 2012 Communication on Progress is the fifth since committing to the UN Global Compact. In the past five years our commitment to the ten principles • Develop awareness of AMS’s Global Citizenship of UN Global Compact has remained unchanged – programme however we’ve sought to refine our Global Citizenship This report covers our global business unless programme to increase the impact of our people’s efforts. otherwise stated. The 2012 Communication on Progress differs somewhat from previous. In this, and in future reports, we will Self-declaration Global Reporting Initiative frame the achievements of the year in the context (GRI) application level of a theme. This will allow AMS to highlight specific developments and initiatives whilst providing a The below table provides a detailed overview of points structure through which we can clearly and concisely that have been covered throughout this report against report on overall achievements. the GRI performance indicators. This is a self-declaration by AMS. The theme of this report – ‘Team Spirit’ – reflects the company’s approach to Global Citizenship in 2012, numerous major sporting events in the year, and the Topic Points Covered Application Level way that people from all around AMS came together in 1.1 C supporting a group of inspiring athletes competing at Strategy & Analysis one of these events. 1.2 B Organisational Profile 2.1 to 2.10 C Report Objectives 3.1 3.8/3.10 3.12 C Report Parameters This report constitutes AMS's 2012 Communication 3.9 and 3.13 B on Progress towards the UN Global Compact. Governance, Commitments 4.1 4.4/4.14 4.15 C & Engagement 4.5 4.13/4.16 4.17 B In this report, we intend to: • Demonstrate progress towards the UN Global Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Compact and report on AMS’s progress against goals set in the 2011 Communication on Progress We’ve taken into account the GRI sustainability reporting • Set goals for AMS’s Global Citizenship Programme in 2013 guidelines when putting together this report. Find out more at www.globalreporting.org • Provide a formalised, publicly accessible document which summarises our Global Citizenship efforts, ensuring transparency and accountability and Information Online supporting continuous improvement More information on our Global Citizenship programme can be found on our website www.alexandermannsolutions.com 2 Global Citizenship Report A few words from our CEO Global teams celebrate 2012 2012 was an exciting, eventful year, one in which all of The Cleveland Centre is part of our GCSC network, and us at Alexander Mann Solutions were able to embrace it’s from this network that we deliver many of the and embody team spirit services for our global clients. The GCSC teams in Bracknell, Krakow and Manila have continued to set the Celebrating our People benchmark in excellence for talent solutions – each One of our founding principles – indeed, our organisation centre is a hive of activity where talented people go vision – is people are the foundation for success. Our above and beyond to support their clients, their teams organisation is brimful of talented, intelligent people with and their communities. Look no further than our Manila a genuine passion for what they do – and working team’s supreme efforts in supporting paralympian together, they achieve the extraordinary. Adeline Dumapong through a SportsFest, or our Bracknell team’s association with the Berkshire Stags, At AMS we encourage and embrace each individual’s a visually impaired cricket club or our Krakow team’s passion, expertise and diverse viewpoints. This mix is huge commitment to achieving the successful extension essential to innovation and has helped us to refine the of our ISO 14001 certification to the Krakow office. solutions that we offer our clients, and to remain agile in a rapidly-changing world. Looking Forward Celebrating Success I’m delighted with the Global Citizenship theme for 2013, which empowers our people to be the best they I’d like to highlight a few of the successes of teams can be through our Mentoring and Networking Global around the globe. Citizenship Opportunities. One of the most rewarding I want to congratulate the three inspirational experiences in building AMS has been seeing people athletes who form Team AMS – Jody Cundy MBE, in our organisation grow, change, and learn from their Tatyana McFadden, and Adeline Dumapong. Whilst mentors, and in turn go on to be mentors who share each had a very different journey to the Paralympics, their knowledge and experience with the next they shared a common experience – hard work, generation of leaders. dedication, sacrifice, and focus. I’m very glad that AMS had the opportunity to be involved in their successes at the London Paralympics – and that the AMS community got behind the athletes so strongly. Within our business there have been some significant team wins. AMS passed a major milestone in 2012 with Rosaleen Blair the launch of our first Global Rosaleen Blair Client Services Centre (GCSC) in Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Founder & CEO, Alexander Mann Solutions 3 Global Citizenship Report About AMS About AMS What we do As the world's leading provider of talent management services, AMS delivers a full range of outsourcing, consultancy and project services that help organisations attract, engage and retain talent. Acting as a trusted advisor, we have deep expertise across multiple industry sectors. We focus on delivering business outcomes for our customers – increasing revenue, customer satisfaction, quality, market capitalization and productivity, while decreasing cost and cycle time. AMS is a global organisation. Our infrastructure is designed to deliver the best outcomes for our customers by using a combination of teams that sit onsite with their clients and offsite teams that provide remote support. This enables AMS to offer clients a unique blend of recruitment and resourcing expertise, recruitment processing capacity, and scale. We’ve built four centres of excellence that provide capacity for teams around the world. Our Global Client Service Centres are in Bracknell (United Kingdom), Krakow (Poland), Manila, (Philippines), and Cleveland, OH (USA). Where we are In all, we are active in 82 countries globally (including our head office in London, United Kingdom and smaller regional centres in places like Melbourne, Australia, Boston, USA and Hong Kong, China), and employ over 1,900 people. At any hour, on any day, in any time zone, our people are delivering resourcing and talent services to 65 outsourcing clients and hundreds more consulting clients across these countries. 5 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Who we work with Mission, Vision, and Values We have a business rich in industry knowledge and Mission: We build world-class talent and resourcing expertise. Our primary industry sectors are Defence, capability for organisations, based on the shared Engineering and Energy, Retail Banking and Financial belief that people are the foundation for success. As a Services, IT and Telecommunications; Investment Banking trusted advisor, we deliver this through innovative and and Professional Services, Healthcare and Life Sciences. measurable outsourcing and consulting services. Vision: Our business is about people clients, Our clients include: candidates, partners and the communities in which we • BAE Systems • HSBC work. And of course our people, who make it all happen. • Citi • Microsoft As such, the vision we have for our organisation is • Covidien • Novartis “Making people the foundation for success”. • Credit Suisse • Origin Energy Values: Three values encompass our approach to our • CSC • Rolls-Royce business, our people and our clients. We are passionate, • Deloitte • Royal Mail distinctive and authentic. • Freshfields • Santander • GE Capital • Vodafone Employee Value Proposition (EVP): We offer an • Zurich inspiring environment where our people can use their energy, enthusiasm and expertise to realise their aspirations and really make a difference. It’s our promise to our employees. 6 Global Citizenship Report About AMS Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Global Citizenship is an important part of the culture at AMS, and it is an embedded component of our business ethics. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our society and our environment and it is integral to all our relationships – with employees, clients, suppliers and communities worldwide. We take our corporate social responsibilities seriously, Clients and we don’t believe CSR is something that companies By listening and learning from the organisations with should stand still on; we know that we can always do which we work, we can understand what is important to more. We’re constantly looking at new or different ways them and how our Global Citizenship strategies align to make sure that our people are proactive global citizens who have a positive impact on the world around them. Opinion leaders and industry thinkers In 2007, we signed up as a participant to the United By developing relationships with leading bodies, such as Nations (UN) Global Compact, formalising our the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their long-term commitment to being a globally responsible extensive knowledge and experience Global Citizenship organisation. Participating in the UN Global Compact project teams ensures we remain focussed on structure, discipline, By formalising our relationships with Global Citizenship timescales and deliverables today and into the future. volunteers, we can expand the types of stakeholders we engage, outline our stakeholder engagement standards Stakeholder engagement and regularly capture different perspectives We recognise the importance of identifying and Non-profit organisations engaging with key stakeholders – it is they who provide By building close and long-term relationships with us with a diverse range of perspectives and experience global non-profit organisations, we can respond to the which help to inform, develop and refine our Global needs of our local communities, undertake actions to Citizenship programme. improve the environment and shape the relevancy of In turn, our stakeholders are intimately involved in our Global Citizenship policies Global Citizenship activities. Suppliers and partners Employees Working with third-party partners and suppliers, we can Through surveys and roundtable discussions we implement best practice and influence relationships to encourage open dialogue to find out what matters to our ensure stable growth and responsible business practices people – and learn how they want to make a difference 8 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Goals We developed our Global Citizenship programme with the following specific goals in mind. • To build a picture of best practice in the industry: what industry standards exist and what blue-chip client organisations are doing • To determine our stakeholder needs: what our people want, what our clients require and how our communities could or should benefit from our involvement • To understand what we should achieve from the programme as a business: how it will support our business strategy and goals, how it can help us deliver our EVP and how it will bring our people policies to life • To identify the strengths and skills in our organisation: how these add value to our communities and stakeholders These goals inform the objectives of our Global Citizenship Programme. Global Citizenship Programme Objectives Global Citizenship Programme Delivery Learning and Development – drive Learning and To deliver on these objectives, we’ve developed a set of Development in the organisation, both in internal L & D working groups. The groups are voluntary and made up programmes and externally through partnerships with of people from across the organisation, regardless of our Charities of Choice and volunteering activities seniority, geographic location or role type. Communities – support Charities of Choice in achieving Ideas and proposals around Global Citizenship are their goals and encourage AMS people to contribute channelled into working briefs that can be implemented their time and expertise where other volunteer through the working groups. opportunities arise The working groups are as follow: Environmental – examine our carbon footprint and • Corporate Culture and Practices make a determined effort to reduce it annually • Social and Economic Accountability • Environmental and Supply Chain Accountability Inclusion – be aware of the world we live in, ensure that • Employee Wellbeing the teams we build reflect a belief that success comes • Diversity and Inclusion from diversity; offer a hand up to those whose social circumstances inhibits their full potential and mobility The reporting sections of this Communication on Progress follow the efforts of the five working groups. Communication – ensure that we create and maintain channels of communication throughout the business and use those channels as efficiently and effectively as possible Accountability – ensure that there is transparency and accountability by setting specific goals and measuring progress against them Stakeholder engagement – actively engage with all stakeholder groups in order to develop solutions that really work. 9 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Global Citizenship Programme Owner Ultimate responsibility for Global Citizenship at Alexander Mann Solutions rests with David Heath. David holds dual positions at AMS as our Chief People Officer, Director of Information Technology and Telecommunications, and Director of Pharmaceutical and Healthcare Sector business units. As a member of our Leadership Team David reports on our Global Citizenship progress to the AMS community and to the Board. David has included a brief commentary and summary at the conclusion of this document. You can contact David directly at globalcitizenship@alexmann.com 10 Global Citizenship Report Global Citizenship Corporate Culture & Practices Corporate Culture & Practices To truly make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To act in a globally responsible way, we must review the initiatives, codes and schemes in order to learn from, and pride ourselves on a fair, ethical and inclusive approach to our business, our people and our clients. Assessing our achievements in 2012 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a silver medal reflecting almost complete satisfaction. 12 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Highlights of our achievements in 2012 We have achieved – with pride – almost all of our 2012 The Point commitments, and in particular want to highlight those The Point is our half-yearly employee magazine. During achievements that illustrate how hard we work to be one 2012 the Global Citizenship Corporate Cultures and team, regardless of where our people are located around Practices project team conducted surveys of The Point the world. users, and based on the feedback provide in these This year we’ve taken the time to seek feedback from our surveys, redeveloped the magazine to be an interactive audience, and to use this to refine two of our internal PDF using a friendlier layout that is accessible online. communication tools. If we had not sought this feedback, By hosting the interactive PDF online, the entire our delivery styles would have been less effective and employee population is able to access and read each lacked accessibility, diminishing the fundamental aim of edition. This is a significant achievement and something these methods of internal communication. that helps fulfil our environmental objectives as well as engaging employees who otherwise might feel distanced from the AMS family. The readership feedback surveys also helped us to understand what content is important to our internal audience, and having implemented changes to the magazine we’ve seen greater engagement with over half of survey responders noting a positive change in content. The Point has been delivered three times this year and covered wide range of topics, from Team AMS to sharing values and changing lives. We’ll continue to listen to our audience and tailor structure, mode of delivery and content to their requirements, and we’ll achieve this by seeking feedback from audiences after each edition of The Point. mountains of a fad or new-fangled GE POLAND: MAXIMISING PRODUCTIVITY In true AMS style, we leapt into action surrounded by AUTHOR hiring manager In this issue... Neither is operational excellence THROUGH SIMPLIFICATION workshops, considering the of reports. We spent days in The Point us to view it as the point amid cries of, “How can you possibly test business concept. I’d like working at full capacity, While making plans for 2012, our clients – and doing PROBLEM – the team was and candidate experience and, “If balance between delighting so profitably and productively. This is best depicted putting a high volume of candidates through a There were delays Maria Clayton someone’s communication without speaking to them?” for an interview, how on Earth will we I heard murmurings of a move which I’ve used to share my multi-step screening process. someone schedules themselves to take shape. by the following model, process and the our online system began sessions I’ve been to over between parts of the pre-screening meet. As a result, know who to expect?” Soon, ctions ideas in some of the team THE ELEMENTS OF A to a fully automated system. to GREAT time-to-hire SLA was a challenge size by 30%. the system, Making Conne and just three days to test DELIGHTING the past few months. team Over the last few months, With technical hitches, training 10th the day we faced requests to increase we’ve been working closely we felt. However, on April PERMANENT with Atos and recently agreed you can imagine the anticipation Then one day, Jerry Collier of – our first candidate team reduced the number to run a companysweat and tears paid off SOLUTION – in fact, the wide management training dawned and all our blood, and a cheer went switching the sourcing initiative. It’s less about cashier role in West Bridgford steps in the screening process, bounded into the office and asked: teaching managers the technical successfully applied for a HIRING and the recruiter focus VOLUME RE John Collington competencies moment, we had done it. team focus to proactive sourcing CHANGES TO around the hiring process across the office. At that competency-based interview. and more about changing to a combined screen and their beliefs about recruitment. but the team was by 9%, pre-screening The programme will moments along our journey, RESULT – the team size decreased our client was show them the benefits There were some painful in of value-based recruitment has to be given to our colleagues 13% and and the big impact that hiring amazing and special recognition TEMPORARY man-hours decreased by FRANCESCA COCKRAM the right people will became subject matter experts overnight, satisfied with the speed to shortlist. have on their organisation. Krakow. Our Helpdesk team PROCESS Candidate When they complete the team transformed into the SANTANDER: BOOSTING NFI THROUGH programme, each manager “licence to recruit”. will be awarded an AMS So Maria, are you the Response Management Engagement team and the Scheduling team has changed beyond all to prepare all BLY ready to take volume Intelligence team needed RECRUITMENT AMS’s magazine for our people FITA EFFECTIVE REMOTE COOPERATION recognition. Even the Business PROPROD made. track the changes being Edition 11 | December 2012 resourcing into the and high agency Another example of the amazing number of new reports to PROBLEM – low hiring volumes It’s been a while work we’re doing is in the was unlikely to meetsince we announced our relationship with Santander. but that usage meant that the team launch of the partnership Working alongside the that we’d not only save time, their NFI target. AMS and The Chemistry between Emerging Talent team, we’ve been helping our client 21st Century? I was excited by the thought exceed expectations. We’ve reduced our the quality we offered would Delighting our clients, worked to increase SOLUTION – the team form our specialist Group, to to introduce value-based assessments throughout AGENCY WORKERS REGULATIONS Go-live in March. time-to-offer by more than six days, quality of hire has increased with UCTIVELY their graduate recruitment standard of boost revenue through assessment and process. It’s absolutely (AWR) WAS often in excess of the industry : direct hiring in order to selection IMPLEMENTED ON 1 OCTOBER improved conversion ratios ely AND vital to Santander’s recruitment Surely he didn’t mean profitably and productiv of team,and ChemistryatA hiring managers has been great. CING Here are some real-life examples the on-site strategy. They’re 2011, closer collaboration between Sincewere set we’ve for the MS. looking to raise the quality of their hires and the best TRANSFORMING THE TEMPORARY COMPLETELY March 2012… silly me, 33% – and feedback from how our teams are striving to get Krakow teams. Clear targets then, gone from strength way to achieve this is by flooding RECRUITMENT of course he did! proud to help our between buddy to strength. We’re scheme their organisation MARKET AND IMPROVING changing technology, we’re Finding the right balance sourcing team, a recruiter-sourcer with the right graduates. AGENCY WORKERS’ In a world of constantly to realise the full this balance right: sourcers were invited to working with a This is a massive change financial service organisation SOUR profit and passion RIGHTS. AWR GUARANTEES client to become the first since I took up the position was implemented, andgrowing clientsnumber in strategy for Santander, It’s been a few months now of clients who are AGENCY WORKERS and candidates. who have traditionally and screening. CLIENT AND CANDIDATES to meet THE SAME BASIC RIGHTS potential of online assessments within AMS. During this time, BAE: DELIGHTING OUR assessment centres becoming increasingly hired based on the education and experience AND WORKING CONDITIONS of Chief Operating Officer from 37% to 0% switched their candidates. The programme of with a significant number THROUGH BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE RESULT – agency hiring ondropped by the way to date has been PERMANENT EMPLOYEES. AS I’ve been fortunate to meet delays in the recruitment for entry-level hires. At the same time, we talk about candidate extremely successful, with SO NOW THAT WE’VE asks if you’re ready, 12 Countries, meetings and in PROBLEM – candidates cited assessment their HR Director saying: 12-MONTH POINT, HOW PASSED HAS IT AFFECTED RECRUITMENTHE The moral of the story? When Jerry I’ve never 0-3 month andattrition of colleagues, both in one-on-onesome our key clients accepting an offer elsewhere, quality improved, evidenced by selection. and hold on tight 10 languages, team sessions. I’ve also met with process as their reason for and financial penalties applied if the SLA was exceeded. dropping from 8.7% to We 5.2%.wanted to share with T? make sure you fasten your seat belt Credit Suisse, Atos, identify exactly which parts thought for the rollercoaster ride of a lifetime! you great work like According to a survey from a from couple one shot (including Vodafone, Rolls-Royce, had the chance to However, the team couldn’t We’re starting to reap the rewards of the cool things of the ECHO as part been Confederation, the demand the Recruitment and Employment If there were calls to change and have of the process needed improving. this and the projects managed we’ve for temporary workers hasn’t Meeting a recruitment challenge – head on Royal Mail Group and GE) visit our service centres in Krakow and Cleveland. pride the incredible sense of passion These meetings have confirmed They’ve also demonstrated one of the and SOLUTION – the team developed showed where blockages offer a report which were happening – namely Programme. Nearly £700k year, and our continued collective to deliver over approval stages. The report projects and more are being targeted up to in savings are projected this since our partnership efforts with these began... about it this way. significantly affected. Over were asked how AWR has regulations had less impact 500 employers across all impacted them. 44% reported than they’d feared and 47% been sectors that the some aspects of AWR, what would you propose? Personally, I’d like to see AR Taking PulsePoint people have in working key reasons why our clients for AMS. have chosen to work with us – specifically, at the feedback and helped pinpoint businesses that needed more support, and hiring managers and provided evidence £3m in savings in 2013. In effective sharing of services, addition to ECHO, more better use of enabling IT management and This will be they’d seen some impact, way they used agency staff. but it hadn’t fundamentally said that changed the the 12week qualifying period scrapped. RC OLL E OA S However, a report compiled Finally, was AWR a good our clients. to the client, and not and improvements in performance thing? to heart an ingrained culture of delighting that the SLA fails were due to an improved culture and Harvey Nash sees it by the Confederation of British Industry what takes of being reporting will also contribute quite differently. According I’d say it’s been 100% positive. and along with our values recruiting team delays. Soon, we’ll roll out the first 46% of businesses say there’s to their stats, Before AWR, the agency This culture is commendable, key reasons I of operational excellence. been an effect on their How voices across the Citi authentic, it was one of the is new, but we anticipate to equip our teams with worker TER RESULT – the initiative In companies employing business. passionate, distinctive and of a series of training sessions was underpaid. Now, it’s us to the clients through over 5,000 people, 63% account turned into action as we strive to delight our seeing shortened time-to-hire, lower candidate to excel and delight our has been felt. say an impact fairer aspired to join AMS. But profitably in CSAT results the right skills and knowledge and easier to place agency service delivery, it’s important we do so drop-out rates and an improvement The data alone clients profitably and productively. workers into a role. RIDE all leaders and next level! exceptional But what does Alexander a fine balance, but it’s one from both our client and candidates. Mann Solutions have to and productively. This is that we’re able to give ownership to the WORKING WITH positive, negative or minimal say? Has it had a So it seems that the results managers within AMS must strive to perfect, to ensure has prompted the client to add I LOOK FORWARD TO SUCCESS with Libby Way, principal impact? To find out, I had a Q&A growth. recruitment team for some approvals and YOU TO DELIVER CONTINUED resource specialist on contingent session of AWR aren’t as negative as to invest in our continued for hiring managerdelivery. people feared – in fact, it forms one of the micro-SLAs to the contract BEYOND. Operational excellence isn’t new at AMS. In fact, FOR AMS IN 2013 AND It’s great to know that First of all, looking back are many positives. And there global service and over the last 12 months, we’ll our success, along with owned activities. our work is that AWR has had a big would you say three strategic pillars of such a positive impact having impact on you and your team? continue to keep a close eye strategic insight. on our clients. We did have fears before implementation that AWR on regulation to drive the | 2 | 8 would have a huge best | 30 December 2012 The Point December 2012 The Point These are just a couple impact. However, it hasn’t been as possible results for our December 2012 The Point clients. examples of some of the great work we’ve been doing And I’d say its effect has actually massive an impact as first expected. at ChemistryatAMS. been more positive than There’s plenty more where negative. that came from, so if If you asked any of your 2012 you’d like to find out more clients the same question, 2012 7 | The Point December why not drop Simon a line what do you think they’d 29 | The Point December on simon.cooper@chemistryatams.com say? over and say hello. We’d or just pop I believe from their perspective, love to hear from you! it’s also been positive. The from agency workers has commitment improved workers dropping out of bookings. and there have been fewer agency 17 | The Point December 2012 Jon Bailey December 2012 The Point | 18 13 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices CheckPoint CheckPoint is our regular web presentation where the on their personal PC at an allotted time. The result: Leadership Team delivers key global business updates on Checkpoint becomes an event rather than an activity, performance, pipeline and strategic programmes. The resulting in better team integrity. Likewise, there’s Checkpoint video sessions have also been redeveloped greater transparency as questions that are raised during as a communications tool; whereas previously it the course of Checkpoint can be answered by managers had been a pre-recorded or linear presentation with on the spot. little chance of interaction with presenters, it is now We do not consider this to be the final or fixed format conducted as an interview employees have the of Checkpoint, and will continue to investigate ways in opportunity to submit questions to the Leadership Team which we can further enhance accessibility, including before Checkpoint is filmed. discovering and defining new ways for employees to We’ve moved to ensure that it’s easier for AMS put forward their queries, thoughts and opinions before employees to access Checkpoint, too. The interview each edition of Checkpoint. structure allows us to record and post a video – which can be in multiple formats, and delivered in multiple ways to multiple countries in multiple time zones – rather than a webinar, which is difficult to coordinate in between time zones, and causes accessibility issues. Moreover, we’ve encouraged AMS teams to set aside time to watch Checkpoint at their convenience – where possible as a group, with other colleagues and senior managers rather than logging on to watch a webinar Commitments for 2013 • To produce and globally distribute at least two • To reinstate our focus on the delivery of AMS’s editions of our internal magazine, The Point, and Leadership Academy to all senior managers across ensure that comments that have been provided the business, extending the Academy to aspiring through readership feedback surveys are acted upon leaders within our management community as well – delivering a high-quality document, enhancing our as delivering structured follow up modules to the readers’ experience, and demonstrating that 2011/12 Academy participants feedback is heard and acted upon • To produce the Global Citizenship Report, • To produce at least two CheckPoint videocasts meeting UN Global Compact requirements on featuring messages from the Leadership Team COP and formally submit the report by its May 2013 deadline • To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team • To host a high-impact Senior Management Summit that meets or exceeds the expectations of senior attendees (based on key indicators set from feedback on the Senior Manager’s Summit in 2012) 14 Global Citizenship Report Corporate Culture & Practices Social & Economic Accountability Social & Economic Accountability As a global organisation, we must ensure that we are protecting and improving the local communities in which we operate. We should invest in projects that have positive, long-term effects on our communities. Our investment in our communities occurs in a number to support local initiatives. The brainwave of one of our of distinct ways. people in the north west of the UK has resulted in the development of a schools and colleges training Firstly, we have chosen to partner with a number of programme where young people are taught CV writing charitable organisations around the world that share our skills and interview techniques. This project has been so values of authentic, passionate and distinctive and to successful we are now supporting its roll-out in other which we can offer genuine support through the geographies where it will be welcomed. expertise of our people, not just their time. In the UK we partner with Tomorrows’ People, in Poland with Thirdly we encourage and support our people to be Leonardo, in Singapore with aidha and in the US with involved in local initiatives that they feel are personally StreetWise Partners and Boston Career Collaborative. important to them. Secondly, in geographies where our Charities of Choice Assessing our achievements in 2012 against the do not operate but where our people want to use their commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded professional expertise to replicate the support we ourselves a silver medal reflecting almost already offer those charities, we encourage our people complete satisfaction. 16 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Highlights of our achievements in 2012 In the communities arena, our people are so active and work in such amazing teams it is hard to choose achievement highlights. Here is a selection from around the globe which we believe illustrate the commitment and creativity of our employees and demonstrates our commitment to working as one team. Tomorrow’s People, UK In 2012 AMS’s support for Tomorrow’s People (“TP”) has been concentrated in supporting TP’s Working It Out programme (the “Programme”). TP developed the Programme in order to address the concern that there are a huge number of young people in the UK who are not in employment, education or training and that without support from organisations like TP they will form a “lost generation”. AMS supports the Programme through the sharing of knowledge and expertise aligned “Our mission is with its core business. Young people (16-24 year olds) on the Programme in Hammersmith and Brighton have to help excluded benefited from employability skills workshops delivered by our AMS volunteers team of volunteer experienced and disadvantaged recruiters, who help them to understand an employer’s people to get and perspective on CV development, interview techniques and general work place etiquette and behaviour. This keep a job and support helps young people improve their skills as well as increasing confidence, motivation and encouraging our partnership them to aspire to the world of work. with AMS helps TP is keen to expand its’ Working It Out programme geographically and in 2012 opened their newest strengthen the Working It Out programme in Bristol. AMS is delivery of this goal.” committed to supporting this programme wherever we can geographically. Baroness Stedman-Scott, OBE, DL, Chief Executive, Tomorrow’s People. 17 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Leonardo, Poland aidha, Singapore Our people in our Krakow Global Client Service Centre A huge team effort in Singapore means that we are able have continued to support our Charity of Choice in to report that we have selected a Charity of Choice in Poland, Leonardo, through the provision of English Singapore. The team undertook a thorough research language conversation classes as part of the charity’s and assessment process to ensure our values of being upskilling programme aimed at bringing those out of authentic, passionate and distinctive are shared. We work back into the employment market. During 2012 are now actively working with aidha, an organisation over 100 hours of classes were delivered allowing 150 established in 2006 that works to educate migrant participants to practice their English language skills. workers in Singapore. Their aim is to improve the choices of migrant, domestic workers through financial In addition to the support offered to Leonardo, our team education, enabling them to return to their home in Poland organised fundraising to support “Akademia countries with the money and business plans to launch Przyszlosci”, the campaign within Stowarzyszenie their own enterprises. AMS’s contribution has been to WIOSNA, whose aim is to help pupils who have assist aidha with the screening and selection process of problems at school, little belief in their abilities, live in their large volunteer group and to deliver introductory poor conditions and have difficult family relationships. courses on competency-based interviewing to their As a direct result of our fundraising, we managed to management team. We are looking forward to seeing make a donation for one semester in the Academy aidha’s success grow side by side with the chance for enabling one child to be tutored once a week for the our people to share their current skill set and learn entire semester. new skills by working in an industry that isn’t typically experienced at AMS. 18 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Doxa Foundation, Australia My Dream in a Shoebox, Philippines In 2012 AMS Australia has been working closely with Spurred by the desire to “do something different” at the Doxa Foundation in the State of Victoria Christmas, our people in Manila partnered with other www.doxa.org.au. Since 1993 the Doxa Cadetship members of the Business Process Association of the Program has been providing opportunities for talented Philippines in a project called “My Dream in a Shoebox”. young people from disadvantaged backgrounds to gain a The project’s aim is to provide school supplies to less tertiary education and access to a professional career. fortunate Filipino school children gifted in a shoebox, This partnership is continuing into 2013 with AMS ranging from pens and pencils to laptops and computers. employees volunteering at various Doxa programmes as The gift giving day was 14th December and only a small well as consideration being given to the Melbourne group of participants were permitted to be involved in office sponsoring a work placement for a Doxa cadet. In the actual gift giving activity which was held in Payatas, addition further research is currently being undertaken Quezon City, a place where the entire Metro Manila’s into which other charities AMS Australia can support on rubbish is dumped, where people live in shanties and more of a national basis that align to the ethos of AMS those living there are mostly called the “lower masses”. – watch this space. Finding the chapel where the gift giving activity took On one of the specific events for Doxa which AMS was place was quite difficult as all the streets looked like involved in, Murray Wilson, Chief Operating Officer alleys. When the AMS team finally arrived at the Mother from Doxa, commented: of Divine Providence Parish they could already see the pupils seated in anticipation. The AMS team was one of “Recent times have seen the focus at the Doxa the first groups to arrive, and made the most of the Cadetship Program turn to professional development. opportunity to talk to some of the children. They gladly From 3-5 August, a group of 26 cadets took part in smiled for photographs – a typical Filipino trait; we like their annual training camp in Malmsbury to expand smiling for the cameras. their professional skill set and independent living skills under the guidance of expert trainers. Presenters Seeing the children receive their gifts was a moment included Richard Smith of Mellar Marketing (Career that you can’t buy anywhere – seeing a genuinely Planning), Cheryl Smith from John Holland Aviation happy child. From our perspective, they’re just simple (Interview Role Plays), Dana Bentley of KPMG things which we can easily buy but if we put ourselves (Financial Literacy) and even cooking skills with camp in the children’s shoes, this is already enough to make chef extraordinaire James Coakley. them happy. Of particular value was a job hunting session facilitated by Douglas Craig and Prue Lamb-Jenkins from AMS. Doug and Prue discussed a broad range of subjects from researching companies to finding appropriate roles and preparing yourself for the job hunt. For those cadets about to commence their next step into working life the subject and timing could not have been better.” 19 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability ADDITIONAL ACHIEVEMENTS • SMART, a charity that develops and delivers drug • CfTB, a Government-funded charity that provides and alcohol treatment services. Our UK volunteers education services for public benefit in the UK and assisted those on the treatment programme with internationally. Our UK volunteer delivered 5 Dress CV preparation, formal letter writing skills and job for Success workshops to pupils at Easthampstead searching techniques to assist with their return to Park School to give the students an idea of how “normal” life. employers would expect them to present themselves. The sessions were fun and fast-paced with excellent • Bracknell Probation Office and SOVA, a charity feedback from the students. that supports individuals and families to steer clear of crime. Our UK volunteer underwent a rigorous • Berkshire Stags, Berkshire’s first visually impaired training and interview programme to offer her time cricket club. Our Bracknell GCSC fielded a cricket to assist clients with writing CVs and job searching team against the Berkshire Stags. The Stags won by techniques. The aim for 2013 is to set up a Job Club. a wicket but good fun was had by all and the team achieved their goal of raising £1,000 for the winners. • “Szlachetna Paczka” (“The Noble Gift”), a charity that supports needy families in Poland by providing a box • For the 5th year running, colleagues from our Krakow of basic essential items or Christmas gifts. Thanks GCSC participated in the Three Peaks Challenge in to our help, three needy families received gifts that Poland and raised 4,200 PLN. satisfied their most basic needs and also constituted a beautiful Christmas present. • International Childrens Day, 1st June. Our Krakow GCSC raised 612, 81 PLN for the Laughter for Therapy charity. The enabled 12 sessions of laughter therapy to be delivered to about 30 children in each session. Commitments for 2013 • Continue our sponsorship of the 3 parathletes • Look to develop our Schools and Colleges Training forming Team AMS Programme by investigating expanding its reach beyond the UK • Remain a strong partner with Tomorrows People and support the Working It Out programme as • To continue to extend the opportunities for our it expands into new locations where AMS is people to volunteer their time with additional also present not-for-profit organisations to compliment the work undertaken with our Charities of Choice • Continue to support our Charities of Choice in Poland, Singapore and the US • To select and work with a Charity of Choice in each of the Philippines and Australia 20 Global Citizenship Report Social & Economic Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Our focus here is to mitigate the potentially damaging effects of our company activities and help protect the environment. As a services provider, our main impacts relate to the use of energy and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the natural resources we use and the waste we produce. We seek positive environmental impacts through relationships with responsible suppliers and clients that share our views and aspirations. Assessing our achievements in 2012 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a gold medal reflecting complete satisfaction. Commitments for 2013 • In the environmental arena we will continue using • In the Supply Chain Accountability arena our main our Environment Management System and goal for 2013 is to continue to use the Echo sign remain ISO14001 accredited in our offices in e-process throughout our organisation and by sharing London and Krakow throughout 2013. We plan our success stories from a Supply Chain Management to expand the scope of our ISO14001 to our perspective within AMS and our partner suppliers, Bracknell office. encourage an expansion of its use. • Our Environmental Accountability Team is working • In accordance with our on-going, annual on establishing a consistent method of measuring commitments, we will utilities consumption and waste generation across (i) continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure AMS offices worldwide. In addition, it will continue compliance to the AMS Code for Responsible to consider the implementation of proposals from Procurement our environmental project team and adopting best (ii) review and re-design the 2012 CSR Survey to practice from our clients. ensure fit for purpose for 2013 • We plan to educate our employees of the World (iii) issue the revised Preferred Supplier List forming Wildlife Fund for Nature’s Earth Hour 2013 part of the AMS Partner Programme initiative and encourage them to personally support the event. We plan to continue to encourage (iv) support and adhere to the APSCo, RPO & MSP support for this initiative each year moving forward. Code of Conduct 22 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Highlights of our achievements in 2012 Environmental We have continued the successful approach of using e-cards in place of traditional paper cards for the festive We are thrilled to announce that we successfully season. Each year this saves paper and post impact and extended our ISO 14001 certification to the Krakow again, we used the opportunity to donate the money office. This is a great achievement and reflects the saved from the reduction in print costs to our Charities commitment of a variety of teams at AMS to of Choice in the UK, Continental Europe and US. ensuring this goal was achieved. Thank you to everyone who helped. International Organisation for Standardisation (ISO) ISO is the world’s largest developer and publisher of International Standards. It’s a network of the national standards institutes of 163 countries, one member per country, with a Central Secretariat in Geneva, Switzerland, that coordinates the system. Between 1947 and the present day, ISO has published more than 18,500 International Standards, ranging from standards for activities such as agriculture and construction, through mechanical engineering, to medical devices, to the newest information technology developments. 23 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability In 2012 we created an Environmental Accountability Supply Chain Accountability Team whose remit is to focus on improving AMS In 2012, one of our huge success stories was the environmental performance. The team is made up of 13 introduction of the EchoSign electronic signature members, based in AMS offices in Bracknell, Krakow and solution, an automatic signature process. This was London and on client sites in the UK and Singapore. The achieved a year early, ensuring compliance with our team meets on a monthly basis for a conference call environmental programme. In partnership with our and they raise and discuss any ideas or initiatives that suppliers and partners on the partner programme we could help AMS improve our environmental have adopted the use of this on online tool enabling performance and awareness among the employees. As a documents to be signed by a click of a button and result of one of their initiatives, we replaced the hand which currently supports more than three million users towel dispensers in our London office with electronic worldwide. The process offered by EchoSign automates hand dryers. This solution saves c.a. 25,000 hand towel the entire signature process from the request for sheets per month and is a great contribution to paper signature to the distribution and execution of the form usage reduction within our business. The team has also or agreement. It is a secure, subscription-based service been promoting environmental awareness among AMS enabling real-time visibility into the signature process employees. Initiatives include a car sharing programme and automatically storing and managing all signed at our Krakow GCSC and an Environment Quiz that took documents using a simple to use cloud service. place at GCSC Krakow on the 5th of June 2012, World Environment Day. In the run up to the Quiz Day a series The benefits of this tool speak for themselves but the of emails providing environment related facts was real reduction in time and costs of no longer needing distributed amongst staff. We had three winners who to have documents signed by traditional methods, were awarded with shopping vouchers. significantly accelerate the sales cycles, improves tracking and centralizes the management of signed agreements through a simple to use cloud service, this was achieved a year early to ensure we are adhering to our environmental policy. This has been a hugely successful objective in which our partners on the Partner Programme have supported us throughout 2012 and will continue to do so throughout 2013. 24 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Our best in class Partner Programme is well underway with some really positive feedback from the Code for Responsible Procurement approximately 35 partner suppliers signed up to date. (CRP) In accordance with the commitments we set out for 2012 we have succeeded in exceeding the targets we set To manage our business carefully and responsibly, out in respect of the following objectives: we have adopted a set of core values to govern our activities and interactions with all our stakeholders (i) monitoring our supply chain to ensure compliance across the world, including our suppliers. To inform to the AMS CRP, our guidelines against child and and enable this, we follow our own CRP – clear forced labour, providing healthy and safe working guidelines against child and forced labour, providing environments and anti-bribery practices healthy and safe working environments, and anti(ii) reviewing and redesigning the CSR Survey bribery practices. Each of our suppliers annually is asked to complete an online CSR questionnaire plus (iii) issue of the revised PSL sign our CRP. (iv) the development and communication of the AMS Recruitment Agency Engagement Charter We are committed to continuing to review these objectives to ensure our compliance in 2013 and will launch our CSR review during the early part of 2013 with all partners in accordance with both AMS policy and our clients’ requirements. This will enable us to set more ambitious targets for 2013 and report on our success in next year’s Global Citizenship Report. Commitments for 2013 • Continue to ensure the Employee Assistance • Continue to ensure our technology can support the Programme is made known to all employees by policies we develop and meet the requirements of advertising it internally using all forms of media. our teams of employees wherever they are located. • Continue to monitor employee satisfaction using • Continue to support local strategies to support PulsePoint and act on the employee engagement employee wellbeing including the creation of sports trends identified. and social clubs e.g. Bracknell GCSC and Manila GCSC’s SportsFest. • Maintain the Inspiring Awards scheme. • Develop both Homeworking and Temporary Working policies for a number of geographies to ensure that we are able to accommodate the demands of our clients whilst ensuring that employee productivity and work-life balance is maintained. 25 Global Citizenship Report Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing Employee Wellbeing focuses on providing all our people with the opportunity to develop healthy lifestyles and to build a balance in their lives. Health (mental, physical and financial), nutrition and diet, fitness and life balance all play a valuable part in an individual’s wellbeing. Without the wellbeing of the individuals that are AMS, our teams cannot perform to the best of their abilities. Assessing our achievements in 2012 against the commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded ourselves a gold medal reflecting complete satisfaction. 27 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing We are rightly proud of the way we support our individual’s wellbeing both in the workplace and outside. And our approach is 3 pronged: • We provide a global Employee Assistance • We celebrate success in 2 ways: (i) formally with our Programmed service (EAP) to support our employees Inspiring Awards and Internal Referral programmes in their overall wellbeing. Our EAP is a confidential and (ii) informally by ensuring that we give our and independent counselling and information service employees a chance to get together socially. available to our employees in the UK, US, Australia Our Inspiring Awards programme ensures that the and Singapore. In these countries it is available 24 commitment of all our people doesn’t go unnoticed. hours per day, 7 days per week and all year round. Each quarter, managers are asked to nominate • We monitor employee feedback through our individuals or teams that have given an outstanding employee engagement surveys “PulsePoint”. It was performance. From the nominees, individuals launched in May 2009 and its’ aim is to capture and teams are selected and thanked with their how engaged people feel working globally for AMS. performance rewarded and recognised through a Conducted twice a year, the surveys are completely personal thank you from their manager and gifts confidential and with the support of the University of vouchers. Our winners from the Summer 2012 of Bath we are able to monitor trends and career programme were additionally offered the chance to concerns to adapt the employment, environment and go to the Paralympics to support Tatyana McFadden career opportunities we offer. Analysis of the survey in the 400m final. It was a fantastic evening with results show that AMS continues to take the right Tatyana winning her first gold medal. actions in response to employee surveys. Evidence of Our Internal Referral programme encourages our our success is our celebration of being awarded the people to refer friends and family members for job Investors in Human Capital accreditation in Poland vacancies that are advertised internally. Each quarter for the [INSERT] year running. the names of all those making a recommendation are put in a hat and one name is drawn who receives a reward. During the 12 month run up to the 2012 Olympics we chose to offer a once-in-a-lifetime experience: a fortnight in London during the Views! Olympics. Four such rewards were claimed. Give Us Your e AMS employe Complete our ePoint – survey – Puls engagement March from 11th – 25th e ing place wher AMS is an inspir equally proud To make sure are succeed and to you. you’re able to what matters want to know so you can to work, we of your time is 10 minutes how you All we need AMS and st opinions on give your hone ing here. feel about work and is one globally open to every the The survey is ymous. Visit Everyone lov dential and anon March voluntary, confi nge between 11th – 25th Knowledge Excha es to the surve y. for a link a little “than When was the last time you k you” We should all said “thank you”? make recogni a habit and part sing good perform of our everyda ance contributions, y why not nomina life. And, for really excepti te someone onal For more inform for an Inspirin ation about g Award? visit the ‘My our Inspiring Reward’ section Awards scheme Knowledge of the Hub on , Exchange. the 28 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Bracknell event in July Internal referral prizewinners Informally, 2012 has been a busy year socially. Many of the events were organised to celebrate Team AMS. Globally, AMS teams from all over the world were asked to work together to create good luck messages for our Team AMS parathletes. Each geography was asked to submit their messages to the Team AMS website following a timeline that mimicked the Olympic torch relay and enabled everyone to view the messages posted to the site as the relay moved around the world. Manila SportsFest At the end of the relay, messages were collated into a souvenir book to illustrate our commitment to supporting 3 amazingly inspirational individuals with their goals to compete at the Paralympics in 2012. Each of our Team AMS parathletes received a copy of the souvenie book. Team AMS also inspired local team social events from the SportsFest at our Manila GCSC, the New York Credit Suisse team’s karaoke evening to the “race Jody and cake baking” event at the Bracknell GCSC and Wiimbledon tennis at Waterhouse Square. New York Credit Suisse team’s karaoke evening Team AMS Souvenir book Manila Singapore I would like to send a few best wishes to our sponsored athlete Jody s. Good luck, Adeline On behalf of RS components Tatyana my colleagues and I would account, from AMS in Singapore. like to wish AMS team in Singapore Adeline, Jody and Tatyan a GOOD LUCK for this year’s London Paraly mpics! GO FOR GOLD! GO TEAM AMS! From Erika Besa, AMS Manila www.team-ams.com 28/08/2012 16:23 www.team-ams.com Team AMS-Good luck Team AMS-Good luck messages-AW03.indd messages-AW03.indd 4-5 34-35 28-29 messages-AW03.indd Team AMS-Good luck 28/08/2012 16:23 28/08/2012 16:23 In support of each of these achievements we commit each year to the continued improvement of the working environment that is AMS. Commitments for 2013 • Continue to ensure the Employee Assistance demands of our clients whilst ensuring that Programme is made known to all employees by employee productivity and work-life balance advertising it internally using all forms of media. is maintained. • Continue to monitor employee satisfaction using • Continue to ensure our technology can support the PulsePoint and act on the employee engagement policies we develop and meet the requirements of trends identified. our teams of employees wherever they are located. • Maintain the Inspiring Awards scheme. • Continue to support local strategies to support employee wellbeing including the creation of sports • Develop both Homeworking and Temporary and social clubs e.g. Bracknell GCSC and Manila Working policies for a number of geographies GCSC’s SportsFest. to ensure that we are able to accommodate the 29 Global Citizenship Report Employee Wellbeing Diversity & Inclusion Diversity & Inclusion Our Diversity & Inclusion programme focuses on creating an inclusive, diverse and flexible environment within which our employees can contribute to their full potential. In any company, teams that reflect the widest possible industry thought leaders, we have started our journey variety of ideas, backgrounds and experiences will to persuade all our stakeholders to share this belief. deliver the most innovative solutions to clients Assessing our achievements in 2012 against the worldwide. Our initiatives focus on our role as a commitments we set ourselves, we have awarded company that employs diverse talent to ensure our ourselves a silver medal reflecting almost complete resourcing solutions and operations are aligned with the satisfaction. global markets in which we operate. In addition, as 31 Global Citizenship Report Diversity & Inclusion Highlights of our achievements in 2012 Team AMS What better way to illustrate our 2012 theme of team spirit than to talk about the success of Team AMS. In Here’s what our Team AMS athletes have said about our Autumn 2011, AMS teamed up with some of the most support for them during 2012: inspirational sportsmen and women to create Team AMS, a group of 3 parathletes from around the globe who represent our values of passion, authenticity and “I would like to thank AMS for distinctiveness. Our team mentor is Jody Cundy MBE, an the moral and financial established British athlete who has competed support you have been giving successfully at Olympic level in both swimming and me. Thank you AMS! You rock!” track cycling. The team also includes Tatyana McFadden, Adeline Dumapong a member of the US Paralympic Track and Field Team and Adeline Dumapong from the Philippines, an experienced athlete in the field of paralifting. In 2012, AMS continued to support the Team AMS “Thank you to everyone at members both financially and professionally through an Alexander Mann Solutions incredibly exciting year for their sports careers. All 3 of for selecting me to be one of our parathletes competed in London 2012 and some of your sponsored athletes. It is our people were lucky enough to be able to watch their indeed a privilege to be part success live. of a company that “builds Team AMS is not just about our support for our world class talent.” parathletes, it is also about helping to be part of the Tatyana McFadden creation of diversity champions beyond London 2012. It is about learning about the opportunities that “I’d like to take this diversity can offer and engaging with communities opportunity to thank where we, as an organisation operate. It is about Alexander Mann Solutions creating opportunities for individuals and teams to for inviting me to become celebrate diversity and success. Our people teamed up a mentor and ambassador in so many different ways to show their support for for Team AMS. It’s a great Team AMS. Just a few of those include the SportsFest honour and privilege to organised by our people at the GCSC Manila, the chance have been asked and to be for some of our people to watch Tatyana win her first involved in this programme.” gold medal and the creation of our global good luck Jody Cundy MBE souvenir message book for each of our athletes incorporating messages from every corner of our organisation. Many more of our Team AMS celebrations are shown on the picture board below. 32 Global Citizenship Report Diversity & Inclusion Photos from Team AMS events Good Luck Team AMS Souven ir Book Since 2011, our Team AMS athletes have been a constant inspiration to us all. Now it’s our turn to be an inspiration to them. We’re compiling a special souvenir book full of good luck messages created by you. The book Our goal for 2013 is to continue to support our parathletes in whichever direction they choose to take, is on a virtual relay around the world, giving our people the chance to come up with creative, fun messages for Jody, Adeline and Tatyana. Find out how you and your colleagues the inspiration on www.team-am can join in s.com. whether as professional sportspersons or on the path to new careers beyond sport. It’s a great opportunity for us all to play our part in what’s set to be an incredible year for Team AMS. 33 Global Citizenship Report Diversity & Inclusion ClearAssured everywoman In 2012, AMS enrolled with the Clear Company, an Matching with our belief in diverse viewpoints, we organisation committed to enabling best practice passionately believe that organisations can benefit from recruitment of disabled talent. We were introduced to the contribution made by female talent to grow and the Clear Company by one of our clients and sustain their business. immediately recognised shared beliefs with respect We have partnered with gender diversity specialists to diversity. everywoman, with the goal to ensure future generations Our enrolment with the Clear Company in May 2012 of businesswomen have every opportunity to fulfil their started our journey to become “Proud to be potential and reach the very top of their organisations. ClearAssured”, a self-assessment ensuring that AMS’s everywoman has been driving change for the recruitment processes, from sourcing candidates to advancement of women in business for the past 13 having the right candidate start work, are fully inclusive years. Thought leaders in women’s development and at both a policy and practice level. This aligns with our diversity, everywoman’s focus is on increasing the belief that creating teams of people with a diverse number and raising the status of women in business, range of viewpoints and solutions leads to success. working to support those organisations who want to The self-assessment journey will take us a year to attract, retain and develop great female talent. complete as we determine which measurements are in Together, we are everywoman@ams, experts in the full place and which are works in progress. In the meantime, lifecycle of Gender Talent Management, providing both we are thrilled to be able to describe ourselves as internal and external interventions for businesses across “Working towards ClearAssured”. all sectors. Our approach and programmes challenge Becoming “Proud to be ClearAssured”, is our goal for mind sets, create new visions and inspire real change to 2013 and is really only the start of another journey to deliver solutions. ensure that our commitment to being diversity In November 2012 we commissioned a report, “Focus champions both internally and externally continues. the Pipeline: Engaging the full potential of female middle managers” and are now proactively sharpening the focus of clients’ approach to gender diversity through diagnostics and case studies illustrating genuine success and tailor-made consultancy services. Commitments for 2013 Our focus on gender, disability and social mobility the development of the own diversity strategies within our inclusion and diversity programme has and journeys. successfully been launched in 2012. Our teams will • Social Mobility: supporting the mentoring develop the following horizons in 2013: programmes offered by the Mentoring and • Gender: to build on the success of Befriending Foundation and the Social Mobility everywoman@AMS and make the debate a reality Foundation by encouraging our people to volunteer by influencing our stakeholders. as mentors. • ClearAssured: achieve “Proud to be ClearAssured” • General: by ensuring our employees are continuously status, continue to support our employees on their offered opportunities to educate themselves continuing education and understanding of the through our internal training programme. importance of inclusion and support our clients in 34 Global Citizenship Report Diversity & Inclusion Future Aspirations Priorities for 2013 In support of our commitment to being a proactive and inspirational global citizen we will remain deeply involved with the programmes and initiatives we have highlighted in this year’s report. In addition, we will explore opportunities to broaden our involvement with the initiatives that support our 2013 theme of being the best you can be through “mentoring and networking”. In summary, our goals for 2013 are: Corporate Culture & Practices • To produce and globally distribute at least two editions of our internal magazine, The Point, and ensure that comments that have been provided through readership feedback surveys are acted upon – delivering a high-quality document, enhancing our readers’ experience, and demonstrating that feedback is heard and acted upon • To produce at least two CheckPoint videocasts featuring messages from the Leadership Team • To conduct quarterly Senior Management Business Updates, led by a member of the Leadership Team • To host a high-impact Senior Management Summit that meets or exceeds the expectations of senior attendees (based on key indicators set from feedback on the Senior Manager’s Summit in 2012) • To reinstate our focus on the delivery of AMS’s Leadership Academy to all senior managers across the business, extending the Academy to aspiring leaders within our management community as well as delivering structured follow up modules to the 2011/12 Academy participants • To produce the Global Citizenship Report, meeting UN Global Compact requirements on COP and formally submit the report by its May 2013 deadline 36 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Social & Economic Accountability • Continue our sponsorship of the 3 parathletes forming Team AMS • Remain a strong partner with Tomorrows People and support the Working It Out programme as it expands into new locations where AMS is also present • Continue to support our Charities of Choice in Poland, Singapore and the US • To select and work with a Charity of Choice in each of the Philippines and Australia • Look to develop our Schools and Colleges Training Programme by investigating expanding its reach beyond the UK • To continue to extend the opportunities for our people to volunteer their time with additional not-for-profit organisations to compliment the work undertaken with our Charities of Choice Environmental & Supply Chain Accountability • In the environmental arena we will continue using our Environment Management System and remain ISO14001 accredited in our offices in London and Krakow throughout 2013. We plan to expand the scope of our ISO14001 to our Bracknell office • Our Environmental Accountability Team is working on establishing a consistent method of measuring utilities consumption and waste generation across AMS offices worldwide. In addition, it will continue to consider the implementation of proposals from our environmental project team and adopting best practice from our clients • We plan to educate our employees of the World Wildlife Fund for Nature’s Earth Hour 2013 initiative and encourage them to personally support the event. We plan to continue to encourage support for this initiative each year moving forward • In the Supply Chain Accountability arena our main goal for 2013 is to continue to use the Echo sign e-process throughout our organisation and by sharing our success stories from a Supply Chain Management perspective within AMS and our partner suppliers, encourage an expansion of its use • In accordance with our on-going, annual commitments, we will (i) continue to monitor our supply chain to ensure compliance to the AMS Code for Responsible Procurement, (ii) review and re-design the 2012 CSR Survey to ensure fit for purpose for 2013, (iii) issue the revised Preferred Supplier List forming part of the AMS Partner Programme and (iv) support and adhere to the APSCo, RPO & MSP Code of Conduct 37 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Employee Wellbeing • Continue to ensure the Employee Assistance Programme is made known to all employees by advertising it internally using all forms of media • Continue to monitor employee satisfaction using PulsePoint and act on the employee engagement trends identified • Maintain the Inspiring Awards scheme • Develop both Homeworking and Temporary Working policies for a number of geographies to ensure that we are able to accommodate the demands of our clients whilst ensuring that employee productivity and work-life balance is maintained • Continue to ensure our technology can support the policies we develop and meet the requirements of our teams of employees wherever they are located • Continue to support local strategies to support employee wellbeing including the creation of sports and social clubs e.g. Bracknell GCSC and Manila GCSC’s SportsFest Diversity & Inclusion • Our focus on gender, disability and social mobility within our inclusion and diversity programme has successfully been launched in 2012. Our teams will develop the following initiatives in 2013: • Gender: to build on the success of everywoman@AMS and make the debate a reality by influencing our stakeholders • ClearAssured: achieve “Proud to be ClearAssured” status, continue to support our employees on their continuing education and understanding of the importance of inclusion and support our clients in the development of the own diversity strategies and journeys • Social Mobility: supporting the mentoring programmes offered by the Mentoring and Befriending Foundation and the Social Mobility Foundation by encouraging our people to volunteer as mentors • General: by ensuring our employees are continuously offered opportunities to educate themselves through our internal training programme 38 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations Future Aspirations Champions in 2012 inspire our global citizenship role in 2013 When I wrote the Future Aspirations section of the 2011 Global Citizenship report I was looking forward to reporting on the success of our three parathletes that form part of Team AMS. We refer to them now with pride as paralympians, having watched their dedication and hard training lead to inspirational performances at the London Paralympics in September 2012. It has been a real privilege to have had the chance to get to know Jody, Tatyana and Adeline and I am looking forward to following their progress over the next four years – and excited about the part that AMS will play on their journeys. Just as impressively, our teams around the world have transformed aspirations into successes through hard work, dedication and self-belief. Well done to every member of AMS that has contributed towards our role as a global citizen and strove to be the best they can be in 2012. Thank you for your continued commitment. Looking ahead to 2013, our teams continue to surprise me with their innovation and contributions. This year we want to make sure we are creating the most supportive and productive environment to allow all stakeholders to benefit from our role as a global citizen. Already in 2013, new ideas and initiatives are being proposed with significant uptake that reflect this goal and complement the projects where we are already active. In 2013 members of our team in Manila have given their free time to assist a charity that offers mobile classrooms to street children and in the UK, we are involved in a mentoring programme with the Social Mobility Foundation that will support aspiring youngsters to achieve their goal to go to university, despite their personal circumstances. This reinforces my long-term vision for Global Citizenship as we strive to be become global citizen champions who can drive change through action. David Heath Chief People Officer and Director of IT & Telco and Healthcare & Life Science Sector business units Alexander Mann Solutions 39 Global Citizenship Report Future Aspirations www.alexandermannsolutions.com
