The only Company in the world to be carbon, water and solid waste recycling positive More than 40% of energy consumption at ITC is from renewable sources SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ITC LIMITED ITC Hotels Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the world FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Creating over 5 million sustainable livelihoods G R I G 3 C O M P L I A N T A P P L I C AT I O N L E V E L A + Contents CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT: ITC’S VISION AND STRATEGY 04 KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES 08 ITC ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 16 CERTIFICATIONS, HONOURS AND AWARDS 26 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 32 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS 36 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 46 CREATING ENDURING INSTITUTIONS 56 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 58 CLIMATE CHANGE AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 60 WATER MANAGEMENT 70 RECYCLING AND WASTE MANAGEMENT 80 SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS 86 MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY IN ITC’S BUSINESSES 90 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 94 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK 96 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS MISSION SUNEHRA KAL 110 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 120 GRI INDEX 128 ALIGNMENT TO NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES 141 ANNEXURES MANAGEMENT APPROACH 145 POLICIES AND GUIDELINES 152 MEMBERSHIPS AND AFFILIATIONS 163 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS 165 SELF-DECLARATION ON APPLICATION LEVEL 171 TRIPLE BOTTOM LINE ITC: An Exemplar In Triple Bottom Line Performance ENVIRONMENT WATER POSITIVE: 11 YEARS IN A ROW CARBON POSITIVE: 8 CONSECUTIVE YEARS SOLID WASTE RECYCLING POSITIVE: FOR THE LAST 6 YEARS SOIL & MOISTURE CONSERVATION TO 1,16,000 HECTARES ITC’s Watershed Development initiative brings precious water to more than 1,16,000 hectares of moisture-stressed areas 40% RENEWABLE ENERGY More than 40% of ITC’s total energy consumption is from renewable sources GREENEST LUXURY HOTEL CHAIN All ITC’s premium luxury Hotels are LEED Platinum certified 1,42,000 HECTARES GREENED ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry initiative has greened over 1,42,000 hectares 02 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS SOCIAL CREATING 5 MILLION SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS CREATING COMMUNITY ASSETS Strengthening the agri production base of nearly 4 lakh farmers EDUCATING 3,00,000 CHILDREN ITC’s Primary Education initiative has educated over 3,00,000 children EMPOWERING 4 MILLION FARMERS ITC’s globally acknowledged e-Choupal initiative is the world’s largest rural digital infrastructure benefitting over 4 million farmers 40,000 SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS FOR RURAL WOMEN ITC’s Women’s Empowerment initiative has created nearly 40,000 sustainable livelihoods ECONOMIC ANIMAL HUSBANDRY SERVICES TO MARKET CAPITALISATION: 8,00,000 MILCH ANIMALS OVER $ 45 BILLION ITC’s Livestock Development initiative has provided animal husbandry services for over 8,00,000 milch animals TURNOVER: OVER $ 7 BILLION 26% COMPOUND ANNUAL GROWTH IN TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURNS OVER THE LAST 17 YEARS 30,000 EMPLOYEES ITC Group provides direct employment to more than 30,000 people POWERING GROWTH WITH MULTIPLE BUSINESS DRIVERS Diversified multi-business conglomerate spanning FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards & Packaging, Agri Business and Information Technology POWERED BY THE VITALITY OF WORLD-CLASS BRANDS 03 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT ITC’s Vision & Strategy Chairman’s Statement I have great pleasure in presenting ITC’s Sustainability ITC in enriching the country’s environmental capital while Report 2013, a transparent and voluntary disclosure generating significant sustainable livelihood opportunities. of the Company’s Triple Bottom Line performance. It These acknowledgements give us strength in pursuing a path encapsulates ITC’s abiding commitment and pro-active less travelled to create growing societal value. action in contributing meaningfully to India’s pursuit of sustainable and inclusive development. ITC’s multi-dimensional It also gives us humble pride that, as a company from a sustainability initiatives also support the global community’s developing nation, ITC has been able to achieve the unique efforts in building a secure future for the generations to come. global distinction of being the only company in the world of comparable dimensions to be Carbon Positive (for 8 successive This Report commemorates an important milestone as it is the years), Water Positive (for 11 consecutive years) and Solid 10th consecutive year of its publication. As in earlier years, this Waste Recycling Positive (for 6 years now). ITC’s businesses Report conforms to the stringent ‘G3’ guidelines of the Global and value chains support sustainable livelihoods for more than Reporting Initiative (GRI) at the highest ‘A+’ level. It has also 5 million people, many of whom represent the weakest sections been independently assured by M/s. Ernst & Young Pvt Ltd. of society. For the last 17 years under my watch as Chairman, total shareholder returns have grown at a CAGR of over 26 %. I am happy to once again reiterate the Company’s support to This triple bottom line performance is a manifestation of ITC’s the principles underlying the United Nations Global Compact. It abiding vision and commitment to create enduring value for its is a matter of great satisfaction that ITC’s unique and inclusive stakeholders. business models together with its focussed social investments contribute significantly to the Millennium Development Goals enunciated by the United Nations. GLOBAL CHALLENGES We have been deeply Five years after the outbreak of the global financial crisis, the In 2012, the Company encouraged by the world economy continues to remain fragile. The recurring dips accolades received, was honoured with in growth and employment are a cause for concern despite in India and abroad, the World Business for the Company’s all-out attempts to contain the Eurozone crisis and strengthen recovery in the United States. The cascading effect of the and Development exemplary performance economic slowdown in the richer nations have left deep scars Award at the historic in augmenting social across the globe. Though developing countries managed to Rio+20 United Nations and environmental drive more than half of the global growth in 2012, their growth wealth. For the second Summit for its largeconsecutive year, ITC rate also plunged to new lows. scale social and farm was ranked first in the The continuing economic slowdown can have serious forestry programme CSR category in the consequences on social stability including that arising out Nielsen Corporate Image of increasing unemployment, mainly amongst the youth. Monitor. In 2012, the Company was honoured with the World The “Global Employment Trends 2013” Report of the ILO Business and Development Award at the historic Rio+20 United released recently presents an ominous picture. The number Nations Summit for its large-scale Social and Farm Forestry of unemployed worldwide will rise to 202 million in 2013 with programme. This award is a tribute to the efforts of thousands nearly 10 million accumulating in the last 2 years alone. What of tribals and poor farmers in rural India, who have partnered is worse is that youth unemployment, estimated to reach over 04 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 75 million in 2014, is growing at a far higher rate. The crisis transformational change through innovative business models has dramatically diminished the labour market prospects for that deliver significant societal value even as they generate young people, as many experience long-term unemployment economic wealth. Shareholder value creation ought to be a right from the start of their labour market entry, a situation that reward for societal value creation. Responsible corporates was never observed during earlier cyclical downturns, the ILO create societal value by serving their consumers through Report says. This can turn out to be a colossal waste of human competitively superior value propositions, by preserving and resources with serious mismatch of education, skills and replenishing the environment and by innovating strategies that jobs; a generation losing out on valuable work experience and maximise sustainable livelihood creation. erosion of occupational skills while at the same time fuelling social unrest as disillusionment and frustrations rise. Austerity, Traditionally, companies have participated in the task of forced upon by economic circumstances, as well low incomes creating societal value through philanthropic activities. This and low demand will continue to put pressure on employment. approach, though well intentioned, has its limitations. Confined Therefore, it is now mission critical to find innovative solutions to philanthropy, corporates tend to limit their CSR to only for sustainable livelihood creation of a magnitude that can extending financial support to social projects. As a result, there arrest and avert a potential social disaster. is a disproportionate focus on outlays rather than on outcomes. In such an approach, the capacity to extend financial support far These global challenges are further aggravated by the continued outweighs the transformational capacity of business to create degradation of the world’s environment. Scientists recently larger societal value. Global research by renowned experts flagged yet another crisis alert when it was found that the such as Prof. Michael Porter and Mark Kramer of Harvard carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere had reached an average have however established that societal value creation delivered daily level higher than that measured for at least three million through a strategic business context is more meaningful and years. This can further accelerate global warming and changes scalable. Philanthropy, as noble as it is, is seen to be less in sea levels. The Arctic Region, the earth’s dazzling white cap, effective than CSR that is linked to the context of business. is turning green. In Asia, upto 88 per cent of bird species are at peril due to climate change and need special protection in vast stretches. Rapid industrialisation, deforestation and disproportionate growth of cities have caused severe water stress and food insecurity across the planet. Experts fear that the damage to the ecological balance of the earth may well be irreversible. A World Bank Report warns that the planet can be 4 degrees warmer by the turn of this century. SUSTAINABILITY AS A BUSINESS STRATEGY Societies across the globe can ignore these warning signals only at their own peril. Business, as critical organs of society, cannot succeed in societies that fail. Therefore, they have to be an integral part of the solution. I am of the firm belief that corporates possess enormous capacity to create 05 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT And that to my mind is the critical difference which can make marginal farmers, created a green cover of more than 1,40,000 business’ social contribution more meaningful, scalable and hectares and a competitive source of fibre for its Paper and sustainable. The focus of strategic CSR is on outcomes that Paperboards Business. Recently, an Agro-Forestry initiative enhance the business context and simultaneously add value has provided encouraging results through multiple cropping to the social dimension. A focus on outcomes spurs proactive of trees and other agricultural crops, demonstrating that such innovation to deliver meaningful social interventions optimising innovative practices can address the “food or fibre” conflict by resources and capacities at hand. enabling areas of co-existence. This innovation has been able to release upto 75 % of land for agricultural crops in the pilot areas without compromising wood pulp production. ITC’S SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Another unique example of livelihood creation through AND ACTION competitive value chains is the Agarbatti (Incense Stick) Business. ITC has trained rural women to roll agarbattis, which ITC’s vision to serve larger national priorities is realised by are then sourced by the Company for its Mangaldeep brand, this strategic approach of embedding sustainability in its core thereby empowering them with a stable source of livelihood. business models. Innovative strategies have been designed ITC’s Women Empowerment programmes support livelihoods and implemented to for over 40,000 rural women. create sustainable Innovative strategies value chains linked Recognising that water stress is a major crisis impacting have been designed and to its businesses that agricultural production and livelihood of farmers, ITC’s implemented to create encompass some of the Integrated Watershed Development programme has enabled sustainable value chains most disadvantaged soil and moisture conservation covering 1,16,000 hectares linked to its businesses sections of society, providing precious water resources. As a result, farmers are that encompass some of especially those able to get additional crops in areas that are mostly rainfed residing in rural India. the most disadvantaged The vitality of ITC’s enhancing their incomes substantially. Given the success of these programmes, several State Governments and the National sections of society, winning brands drive Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) have especially those residing the competitiveness of engaged with ITC on such watershed projects in a publicin rural India these value chains. At private-people partnership, multiplying livelihood opportunities the same time, these as well as enhancing agri-productivity and rural incomes. These linkages provide unique sources of competitive advantage to programmes together with the Social & Farm Forestry initiative the Company’s businesses. also add to eco-restoration through rainwater harvesting, top soil conservation and large scale carbon sequestration. Take for example, ITC’s atta (wheat flour) brand, Aashirvaad. The ITC e-Choupal system has co-created with farmers an In addition, ITC’s Livestock Development programme augments efficient agri-value chain that enables identity-preserved off-farm rural livelihoods and has provided animal husbandry procurement lending a unique source of competitive advantage services to over 8,00,000 animals, increasing milk yields to the Company’s Foods businesses. Farmers gain from ITC’s substantially. This has provided an impetus in supporting a agri-extension services that impart know-how for increased dairy value chain through a corporate social responsibility productivity, efficient market linkages as well as from the initiative adding significant value across the chain. growing market share of Aashirvaad. At the same time, ITC derives gains from an efficient supply of quality raw materials. The ITC Supplementary Education programme has reached The ITC e-Choupal has benefitted over 4 million farmers in out to over 3,00,000 rural children providing them additional 40,000 villages and significantly raised rural incomes. support to benefit from a better education and help build a better future. These programmes, in the catchment areas of Similarly, a wood-fibre value chain based on the Company’s the Company’s operations, are also supplemented with health R&D driven clonal propagation programme and implemented awareness camps and sanitation projects. Therefore, ITC’s through a Social & Farm Forestry initiative has provided 64 wide array of social sector interventions have multiplicity of million person days of employment till date to poor tribals and positive impact by not only creating market-linked opportunities 06 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS for poor rural households through enterprise development, is the world’s largest LEED Platinum rated hotel in the ‘New especially among women, but also by enhancing employability Construction’ category. The Company is also gaining green through education and skills training. It is a matter of great certification for its production units, several of which are LEED satisfaction that ITC has been able to substantially scale up such Platinum rated factories. programmes over the years transforming the rural communities into vibrant economic organisations and empowering them with enhanced incomes and livelihoods. This Report details some of these unique sustainability-embedded business models as well BEING FUTURE READY as other social development interventions. ITC believes that its Vision, Values and Vitality have created a sustainable organisation that is future-ready with a growing It is also a matter of immense satisfaction that ITC has adopted contribution to creating large scale societal value. ITC’s the “CII Code of Conduct for Affirmative Action” that enjoins the credo of “Let’s Put India First” underlines the philosophy of Company to focus on initiatives in the areas of Employability, the organisation to put “Country before Corporation” and the Entrepreneurship, Education and Employment. Whilst ITC “Institution before the Individual”. This vision to create larger is committed to employing youth from the disadvantaged societal capital is inspired by the Company’s strong values of communities, it is the Company’s belief that a more vital mission Trusteeship, Transparency, Empowerment, Accountability and is to significantly enhance the talent pool of youth from these Ethical Corporate Citizenship, which are the cornerstones of its communities by equipping them with the necessary skills or Corporate Governance philosophy. qualifications to make them more employable in the formal sectors of the economy. We recognise that the Company’s capacity to create societal value will crucially depend on the continued robust growth of our Reaffirming ITC’s support to the National Action Plan on businesses. ITC’s aspiration to be a strong engine of growth for Climate Change, as well as its strategic endeavour of pursuing the Indian economy is manifest in the strategy to create multiple a low carbon growth path, the Company has taken proactive drivers of growth that will make a substantial and ever growing steps to move beyond statutory compliance in environmental contribution to its stakeholders and the nation. By investing in performance of all its units. Each unit is mandated to implement the creation of world-class brands, supported by extensive measures to continuously improve energy, water, emissions R & D shaped at the ITC Life Sciences and Technology Centre and effluent management. Best practices at units also include and by leveraging all its enterprise strengths, the Company will maximisation of rainwater harvesting, solid waste recycling continue to offer competitive and superior value propositions and the use of external waste as raw material. The Company is to its customers. ITC’s world-class brands will ensure that steadily expanding its renewable energy portfolio. Today over larger value is created, captured and retained in the country for 40% of its total energy consumption is from renewable sources, national development and growth. an important achievement considering the large manufacturing base of the company. ITC has been at the forefront of the green This Sustainability Report with its continuing theme “For All building movement in India. The ITC Green Centre in Gurgaon our Tomorrows” embraces within its covers our inspiration was re-certified in and endeavours to create enduring value for a better, more ITC believes that 2012 as the highest sustainable and secure future. It is with this commitment that its Vision, Values rated green building in we move into the future to create new horizons of shared the world with LEED and Vitality have Platinum certification. progress and prosperity. created a sustainable All ITC’s premium organisation that is luxury hotels are today future-ready with a LEED Platinum rated growing contribution making it the greenest luxury hotel chain in Y C Deveshwar to creating large scale the world. ITC Grand Chairman, ITC Limited societal value Chola in Chennai May, 2013 07 KEY IMPACTS Key Impacts, Risks And Opportunities: Sustainability Challenges TAXATION AND REGULATION HIGH RATES OF TAXATION ON CIGARETTES The construct of the tobacco industry in India is unique and is largely dominated by non-cigarette products which are not only cheaper but also revenue inefficient. With over 17% of the world population, India has a miniscule share of only 1.8% of global cigarette consumption. In fact, India’s annual per capita consumption of cigarettes is amongst the lowest in the world. While cigarettes account for less than 15% of the overall tobacco consumption (by weight) in the country, they contribute about 75% of the total tax revenue from the tobacco sector accruing to the exchequer. On the contrary, other forms of tobacco are lightly taxed in India, and in some cases are even tax exempt, leading to a high degree of potential tax loss. The domestic cigarette industry is confronted with the challenges of discriminatory and punitive taxation coupled with a growing incidence of smuggling and illegal manufacture. These challenges were further compounded during the year by the steep increase of 22% in cigarette Excise Duty rates announced in the Union Budget 2012 and the arbitrary increases in Value Added Tax (VAT) on cigarettes by some States. The sharp increase in Excise Duty on cigarettes in the Union Budget 2013 will further exacerbate the problem of discrimanatory and high taxation on cigarettes. Such arbitrary and exorbitant increases not only undermine the legal domestic cigarette industry and sub-optimise revenue potential from this sector but also fail to achieve the objective of tobacco control in the country. The policy of high and discriminatory central and state taxation on cigarettes has also led to the rapid growth of the illegal cigarettes segment. This segment has grown exponentially from 11 billion sticks in 2004 to 22 billion sticks in 2012, of which, 2 billion sticks have been added in the last year alone. The imposition of discriminatory and punitive VAT rates by some States provides an attractive tax arbitrage opportunity resulting in illegal interState diversion of stocks by criminal elements, thus depriving the State Governments of their legitimate revenue share. Various reports have highlighted the link between cigarette smuggling and organised criminal syndicates as well as terrorist organisations, which utilise the funds for anti-social and unlawful activities. If not reined in quickly, illegal cigarette trade has the potential of destroying the country’s social fabric. 08 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations for a balanced regulatory and fiscal framework for tobacco, equitable and harmonious VAT rates across States and implementation of a uniform GST rate. It has been ITC’s strategic intent to create multiple drivers of growth by building a portfolio of world-class businesses, leveraging enterprise strengths such as consumer insights, innovative product development, brand building, state-of-the-art manufacturing, efficient supply chain and distribution infrastructure and sustained investments in R&D. IMPACT ON LIVELIHOODS OF FARMERS Tobacco continues to be a viable and remunerative crop for farmers in the regions where this crop is grown, given the prevailing agro-climatic nature and soil conditions of these regions. It gives farmers an assured income and good institutional support is also available for this crop. The disproportionately high taxation on cigarettes fuels transborder smuggling, leading to a reduction in domestic demand and impacts the market price for the farm produce. This adversely impacts the livelihood of famers in general and the dependent community in particular. Tobacco farmers are important constituents of the tobacco industry. Nearly two hundred thousand farmers depend on the tobacco crop. Given the high degree of dual consumption of tobacco in the country, a large differential in tax incidence between cigarettes and other tobacco products has rendered the demand for cigarettes highly price elastic and are driving consumers to shift to cheaper and revenue inefficient forms of tobacco leading to suboptimisation of revenue collections. To cite an example, due to the steep increase in excise duty (by 360%) on non-filter cigarettes during the Union Budget of 2008-09, non-filter cigarettes which accounted for nearly 30% of the cigarette industry, were virtually wiped out of the markets. This had an adverse impact on the demand for domestic tobacco. As a result of this steep hike in tax rates, tobacco that was being used in the manufacture of non-filter cigarettes witnessed a fall in prices (over 20%) during the 2010 market season, thereby hugely affecting the income of tobacco farmers. Increasing volumes of smuggled foreign cigarettes also result in the decline in demand for Indian tobacco since these cigarettes do not use tobacco grown by Indian farmers. On the other hand, illegal cigarettes produced in India use tobacco of dubious and inferior quality. Consequently, the proliferation of dutyevaded cigarettes leads to a drop in demand for high-quality Indian tobacco, thereby adversely impacting the income of farmers engaged in the cultivation of tobacco in the country. 09 KEY IMPACTS CHALLENGES IMPACTING AGRICULTURE & AGRI BUSINESS Agriculture is the main source of livelihood in rural India, which is home to 75% of the nation’s poor. Though it provides livelihoods to more than half of India’s workforce, the sector contributes to less than one-fifth of the country’s GDP. The per capita income of farmers is a fraction of the national average. Such low incomes are a result of a deteriorating natural resource base, disconnected value chains, fragmented landholdings, weak infrastructure, inadequate knowledge and multiple intermediaries. A majority of the farmers are trapped in a vicious cycle of low productivity and low investments. Though technological solutions can be found to address the challenges of low productivity, the critical problem lies in making the farmer capable of implementing them. Transfer of technology, including know how and information, customisation and capacity building are crucial in empowering the farmer to raise productivity and adopt sustainable agricultural practices. Given the complexity of geographical spread, diversity of crops and the large number of farmers involved in agriculture, innovative models of engagement are essential to ensure robust sustainable agricultural practices as well as avenues for livelihood creation. Such innovation need to address some of the inherent conflicts in the agricultural sector. Some of the conflicts that need to be resolved are as follows: • Food vs fuel/fibre/fodder: Competing land usage • Today’s vs tomorrow’s income: Building capacity to enhance risk appetite to invest for long-term benefits • Consumer vs farmer: Producing what the consumer demands vs consuming what the farmer produces • Market vs government: Well-meaning government interventions that may lead to market distortions In the modern context, the private sector can play a vital and complementary role in ensuring an increase in agricultural productivity. Investments by large agri businesses can ensure coordination of the availability of inputs, facilitation of finance for crops and capital investments and augmentation of resources. This will enable the delivery of customised extension services to improve productivity through technology, regenerate and enrich land fertility, enable better usage of scarce water resources and adopt best practices in crop management. Apart from the lack of fiscal incentives, sizeable investments are today unviable for large agri businesses due to constraints like non-implementation of the ‘Model APMC’ Act recommended by the Centre. The Act facilitates a direct interface between farmers and agri businesses and helps in reducing transaction costs. There is also a lack of cohesiveness in licenses required for agri 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CHALLENGES IMPACTING AGRICULTURE & AGRI BUSINESS input sales. For instance, each input like seeds, nutrients, and crop protection chemicals is governed by a separate Act, making it cumbersome especially for companies working across geographies. In addition, the Essential Commodities Act imposes an undue burden as it restricts volumes that agri businesses can buy or stock, besides transportation and exports, further affecting the viability of agri businesses. Similar limitations are also imposed by the Forward Contracts (Regulation) Act. While it is acknowledged that strong regulation is necessary to curb excessive speculation, the Act doesn’t allow sufficient flexibility for genuine players and deprives them of critical risk management tools, such as options. ITC operates across the agri value chain of 13 crops and is present in 17 states with substantial investments in resource intensive models that entail heavy capital infrastructure. These agri value chains that have empowered over 4 million farmers have been severely constrained by such restrictive regulations that do not distinguish between genuine agri businesses and unscrupulous hoarders. Policy reforms in the agriculture sector need to cognise for several conflicting needs mentioned above that impact the value chain from the farmer to consumer. There is also need for an enabling policy framework that boosts the provision of rural infrastructure so that wastage can be eliminated and farmers can receive better returns. ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC has empowered farmers and forged strong relationships with rural communities to enable sustainable sourcing solutions for over several decades. Recognising that poverty in rural India is primarily a result of the poor capacity of farmers in terms of lack of access to knowledge, information, price discovery, quality agricultural inputs and markets, the Company has devised unique business models for agri sourcing that not only support sustainable agriculture but also contribute to substantial livelihood creation for inclusive development. In addition, ITC’s Social Investments Programmes, including integrated watershed development, support the adoption of sustainable agricultural practices. ITC’s e-Choupal network, which leverages information technology to empower farmers, is a rich repertoire of agri-based interventions and not only addresses the core needs of farmers in terms of infrastructure, connectivity, price discovery and market access, but also provides a significant boost to farm productivity through extension services and research-based agri-inputs. Initiatives like the ‘Choupal Pradarshan Khet’ bring suitable agricultural best practices to farmers and have demonstrated significant productivity gains. These interventions have helped transform village communities into vibrant economic organisations by enhancing incomes and co-creating markets. ITC’s e-Choupals serve 40,000 villages and 4 million farmers, making it the world’s largest rural digital infrastructure. ITC will continue to engage with policy makers through industry associations, organisations and other appropriate forums for enabling a balanced and pragmatic policy framework that not only removes restrictive conditions on the efficient functioning of agri businesses but also facilitates the establishment of market-based institutions that can raise agricultural productivity and optimise transaction costs across the value chain. 11 KEY IMPACTS CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION The race for unbridled economic growth has left a planet seriously depleted of environmental resources. The world’s ecological footprint suggests that consumption of natural resources every year will be far more than the earth’s capacity to regenerate. With increasing population, people will have access to limited resources which will be far less than what was available in 1950. India mirrors these environmental challenges. With over 17% of the world’s population, India accounts for only 2.4% of the global land mass, 4% of the world’s freshwater resources and 1% of the global forest resources. The impact of climate change is manifest in the changed weather patterns and increasing frequency of extreme weather conditions. This affects agricultural production and severely impacts the livelihoods of farmers. Given that several of ITC’s businesses are dependent on agricultural inputs, climate change and global warming have important ramifications for the Company and some of its major stakeholders – the farmers and communities in rural India. The conservation and management of India’s depleting water and other natural resources are very important as they directly impact the livelihood of over 75% of its population and 58% of its workforce, who are dependent on agriculture and related activities for their livelihood. India is on the edge of a serious water crisis with more than one-third of the districts reeling under severe water-stress and 99 districts officially deemed drought-prone. Largely consisting of resource-strapped small/marginal farmers, agricultural communities are almost invariably engaged in rain-fed agriculture and, therefore, most vulnerable to the adverse impacts of seasonality and environmental degradation India is also confronted with the challenge of waste management. A large amount of resources get dumped as garbage every year and end up in landfills. This not only leads to wastage of precious natural resources but also affects public health and hygiene. Energy security is today one of the biggest developmental challenges with 400 million people lacking reliable access to energy in India. Lack of investments as well as uncertainty of fossil fuel availability and pricing are other critical issues. The world over, mounting public pressure from civil society and other stakeholders will compel the implementation of stringent regulations on carbon emissions. It is clearly evident that the future competitiveness of companies will depend on their ability to adopt strategies for low carbon growth. Given the economic growth in the country, there has been a significant increase in the consumption of natural resources and an imperative need to ensure resource efficiency. 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC has adopted the following strategies for climate change mitigation: 1. Identify and evaluate climate change risks for each business. 2. Reduce the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and work towards creating a positive environmental footprint. Adopt a low-carbon growth path through reduction in specific energy consumption and enhancing use of renewable energy sources. Enlarge our carbon positive footprint through increased carbon sequestration by expanding forestry projects in wastelands. Reduce specific water consumption and augment rainwater harvesting activities both on site and off site at watershed catchments areas. Work towards minimising waste generation, maximising reuse & recycling and using external post-consumer waste as raw material in our units. Create sustainable livelihoods and promote sustainable agricultural practices. Life Cycle Assessment studies have been carried out for different products to understand the impact across the value chain. Resource efficiency is integrated into product and process design and is addressed in the creation of physical infrastructure, the operations phase, logistics and waste management. The adoption of these strategies has led to the following interventions: 1. ITC has expanded its renewable energy portfolio with more than 41% of its energy consumption being met from renewable sources. 2. As part of its low-carbon and green growth strategy, ITC has spearheaded the establishment of green buildings, which have set benchmarks in energy efficiency, water conservation and solid waste recycling. All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels are LEED Platinum certified. The ITC Green Centre has been identified as the highest rated Platinum rated Green Building in the world by the US Green Building Council during its recertification in 2012. ITC’s iconic property in Chennai, ITC Grand Chola, is now the largest LEED Platinum rated green hotel in the world. 3. ITC’s afforestation programme has greened over 1,42,000 hectares, which has led to large-scale carbon sequestration besides creating over 64 million person days of employment. 4. ITC’s watershed development programme provides soil and moisture conservation to over 1,16,000 hectares. This has enabled the Company retain its water positive status for 11 years in a row. 5. ITC’s Wealth Out of Waste programme promotes recycling and source segregation and creates awareness among all stakeholders on the benefits of the Reduce-Reuse-Recycle Approach. This initiative has enabled ITC’s paperboards business to source and recycle post-consumer waste, thereby contributing to ITC’s solid waste recycling status. 13 KEY IMPACTS POVERTY AND SOCIAL INEQUITIES Nearly 700 million people living in rural India, with low adaptive capacities, have a direct and symbiotic dependence on climatesensitive sectors (agriculture, forest and fisheries) and natural resources (water, bio-diversity, mangroves, coastal zones and grasslands) for their subsistence and livelihood. The limited options of alternative off-farm employment, combined with endemic poverty, continue to imperil the livelihood of millions of small and marginal farmers, mainly in the rain-fed agriculture regions. The production regime in rain-fed agriculture is inherently fragile and getting more so due to a number of factors: 1. An estimated 147 million hectares suffer from various forms of land degradation due to water and erosion, stemming mainly from unstable use and inappropriate land management practices. Erosion rates are reported to be in the range of 5 to 20 tonnes/hectares. 2. As many as 99 districts spread over 14 states were identified by the Central Water Commission as drought prone. Such areas are concentrated in the states of Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. 3. Of the total water available for agriculture, groundwater alone accounts for 39% of the water used in agriculture. Yet the Central Ground Water Board reported that 1,565 blocks (one-third of the total) ranged from semi-critical to over-exploited groundwater status. 4. Based on the current evidence, there is a compelling case to argue that these factors are likely to get exacerbated due to the changes wrought by climate change, leading to an increase in the frequency and intensity of droughts and floods. Climate change over the long-term will thus affect the rural economy in a number of ways – the majority of which would threaten food security for the most vulnerable people. ITC’S INITIATIVES Recognising that business enterprises are the economic organs of society and draw on societal resources, ITC believes that a company’s performance must be measured by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to building economic, societal and environmental capital. ITC is, therefore, committed to creating larger ‘stakeholder value’ by aligning its performance to such Triple Bottom Line objectives. As an Indian enterprise, the Company believes that this approach can unleash strong growth drivers to ensure inclusive and equitable development as well as long-term business sustainability and competitiveness. ITC has implemented an extensive social investments programme in geographies where it has strategic business interests and presence. To ensure long-term sustainability of these investments and to enable replication and scalability, these programmes have been aligned and integrated with the business value chains of the Company. The programmes strive to empower stakeholder communities to conserve and manage their natural resources, create sustainable on and off-farm livelihood sources and improve social infrastructure in order to support creation of sustainable livelihoods on a significant scale backed by an empowered stakeholder community. The scale and impact of these initiatives are reflected in the following: • ITC’s e-Choupal network has empowered over 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages. • ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Programme has created over 64 million person days of employment for poor tribals and marginal farmers. • ITC’s Watershed Development Programme covers over 1,16,000 hectares of moisture-stressed areas. • ITC’s Livestock Development Programme has reached out to over 8,00,000 milch animals. • ITC’s Women’s Empowerment Programme has benefitted over 40,000 rural women. • ITC’s Supplementary Education Programme has covered over 3,00,000 children. 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The engagement with our supply chain has expanded given the growth of our new consumer goods businesses and it will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach amongst the supply chain to ensure long-term competitiveness by adopting a balanced approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of these Units. Our supply chain comprises a large number of small-scale partners. Many of them operate under limiting circumstances in terms of their ability to invest in efficient technologies and their necessity to rely on labour intensive practices. It will be important to integrate the Triple Bottom Line approach amongst the supply chain for long-term competitiveness by adopting a balanced approach towards creation of livelihoods and economic viability of the small scale units. ITC’S INITIATIVES The Company’s engagement with the supply chain is being extended in a structured and phased manner. ITC encourages its supply chain to comply with certifications, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, to strengthen their quality, environmental and occupational health & safety systems. ITC is developing its approach to address these aspects and we intend to cover our entire value chain with our sustainability initiatives in the next few years. ADDRESSING ISSUES RELATED TO EMPLOYEE SAFETY Given India’s favourable demographic dividend, it is evident that a large pool of India’s youth is joining the workforce every year. It is critically important for an organisation to ensure the total safety of this valuable resource. While we are progressing steadily towards our target of zero accidents within our premises, we cognise that accidents outside the workplace are on the rise in India, given issues such as the steady proliferation of 2 wheelers on the roads, which are rendered unsafe due to poor conditions and inadequate infrastructure. ITC’S INITIATIVES ITC has made significant investments over the years to ensure that all its business units provide a safe, hygienic and humane environment to its employees. To further strengthen efforts in this area, Safety Culture programmes are being institutionalised and behavioural architecture inputs are being used to rework and recalibrate EHS communication and training methodologies. Training on EHS is provided to all employees (including service providers’ employees) and covers basic induction, job specific and refresher training. It has been observed over the years that the majority of road accidents have involved two wheelers and employees in the age group of 26-30 years. Accordingly a user interactive 2-wheeler road safety programme was developed and rolled out last year. Businesses were advised to ensure that all 2 wheeler using employees are trained and that there is a constant reinforcement of the message for exercising extreme care, while on the road. These efforts have resulted in a sharp reduction in road accidents. It will be ensured that coverage is completed across businesses and a similar programme on 4 wheeler safety is planned to be rolled out in 2013-14. 15 Organisational Profile Powering Growth with Multiple Business Drivers Creating World-Class Brands Certification, Honours and Awards ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE I TC is one of India’s leading private sector times the amount of carbon it emits; watercompanies with a market capitalisation positive (11 consecutive years), creating 2 of US$ 45 billion and a turnover of over times more rainwater harvesting potential US$ 7 billion. With a diversified presence in than it consumes; and solid waste recycling Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG), Hotels, positive (for the last 6 years). Over 40% of Paperboards and Packaging, Agri Business the total energy requirement of the Company and Information Technology businesses, ITC is met from renewable sources, a testimony is widely acknowledged as one of India’s most valuable business corporations. Inspired by a vision to sub-serve larger national goals, ITC has crafted unique business models that integrate the creation of long-term shareholder value with the enhancement of societal and environmental capital. Over the last 17 years, ITC has aggressively pursued a policy of diversification, focusing on creating an array of vibrant world-class Indian brands across business segments that have demonstrated immense vitality in the global Indian marketplace. This has enabled ITC to unleash multiple drivers of growth for the Indian economy. ITC aims at delivering societal development in the context of its businesses. It works in partnership with farmers and communities to its commitment to adopting a low carbon ITC is a global to implement large-scale social investments growth path. All ITC’s premium luxury hotels programmes that have enhanced incomes and exemplar in improved the quality of life through the creation have the unique distinction of being LEED sustainability. Its of sustainable livelihood opportunities. Through Platinum certified, making it the world’s business-linked its businesses, ITC has helped generate more greenest luxury hotel chain. sustainability than 5 million livelihoods across value chains, touching the lives of many living at the margins ITC’s achievements have been recognised initiatives and worldwide. It has been rated among the in rural India. social investments World’s Best Big Companies, Asia’s ‘Fab 50’ programmes, like ITC measures its performance by its triple and one of India’s Most Valuable Companies the celebrated bottom line contribution to building economic, by Business Today. It has been ranked as the world’s 6th largest ‘sustainable value e-Choupal, Social social and environmental capital. Today, ITC creator’ among consumer goods companies is a global exemplar in sustainability. Its & Farm Forestry business-linked sustainability initiatives and globally, according to a report by the Boston initiatives, Watershed social investments programmes, like the Consulting Group (BCG). ITC Chairman Development, celebrated e-Choupal, Social & Farm Forestry Mr Y C Deveshwar has been ranked the 7th Animal Husbandry initiatives, Watershed Development, Animal Best Performing CEO in the world by the Husbandry and Women’s Empowerment, Harvard Business Review in its Januaryand Women’s February edition 2013. Mr Deveshwar has have transformed rural India. It is the only Empowerment, have enterprise in the world of comparable also been conferred the Padma Bhushan, transformed rural dimensions to be carbon-positive (8 years one of the country’s highest civilian honours, India in a row), sequestering one and a half for his leadership in transforming ITC into 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS an organisation with a deep commitment to national priorities of sustainable and BRANDED PACKAGED inclusive growth. FOODS FAST MOVING ITC’s Branded Packaged Foods Business is one CONSUMER GOODS of the fastest growing foods businesses in India. Backed by significant investments in product Keeping pace with the rapid growth of the development, innovation and manufacturing FMCG industry in India, ITC has significantly technology, ITC’s Foods portfolio includes scaled up its presence in the FMCG sector, staples, spices, biscuits, snack foods, instant particularly its newer businesses. Its noodles, confectionery and ready-to-eat meals. impressive bouquet of offerings includes The success of this business is driven by the Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care popularity of its seven brands Aashirvaad, Products, Cigarettes, Lifestyle Retailing, Sunfeast, Bingo!, Kitchens of India, mint-o, Education and Stationery products, Candyman and Yippee! and Safety Matches and Incense Sticks (Agarbatti). Within a relatively short span Last year, several new and innovative products of time, ITC has established several strong were added to the existing assortment of food consumer brands in the Indian FMCG market. products. New variants were introduced under the Sunfeast Dream Cream and Dark Fantasy ITC leverages its institutional strengths including Choco Fills range. In the snack food segment, ITC focus on quality and innovation and differentiation, introduced an innovative offering called Tangles backed by deep consumer insights, world class and Mad Angles Masti Chaat. ITC also introduced R&D and an efficient and responsive supply mint-o Ultra mintz in the confectionary category. chain, to consolidate its position as a leader in the FMCG industry in India. 19 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PERSONAL CARE CIGARETTES PRODUCTS ITC is the market leader for cigarettes in India, a position it has maintained over decades ITC’s youngest player in FMCG, the Personal through its unwavering focus on innovation, Care Products Business continued to grow quality, technology and sustainability. at an impressive pace. Its range of products under the Fiama Di Wills, Vivel and Superia brands includes bodycare, haircare, skincare and fragrances. Essenza Di Wills, the premium LIFESTYLE RETAILING range of fragrances and bath and body care items, is available exclusively at ITC’s chain ITC’s Lifestyle Retailing Business has of Lifestyle Retailing stores, Wills Lifestyle. established a nationwide retailing presence During the year,the Personal Care Products through its Wills Lifestyle chain of exclusive business fortified its skincare segment with specialty stores. Aiming to provide the best the launch of Vivel Cell Renew, comprising in high fashion and international trends, of Body Lotion, Hand Crème and Moisturiser. Wills Lifestyle offers discerning customers a The Fiama Di Wills Aqua Pulse deodorant was tempting choice of Wills Classic work wear, also introduced in select markets. Wills Sport relaxed wear, Wills Clublife evening wear and Wills Signature designer ITC’s Personal Care Products offer unique wear. and superior value propositions to discerning consumers. This, along with sustained ITC’s has also established John Players investment in R&D, world-class manufacturing as a brand that offers a complete fashion processes and technology, has enabled the wardrobe to the male youth of today. business to capture a significant share of the market in a short span of time, despite facing Wills Lifestyle is available in 90 exclusive a high degree of competition, especially from stores in 40 cities and across more than established players. 500 ‘shop-in-shops’ in leading departmental stores and multi-brand outlets. The presence 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS of ‘John Players’ was expanded to 350 flagship stores and 1,400 multi brand outlets and departmental stores. In non-paper categories too, the Business has registered a strong growth driven by the popularity of ‘Classmate’ pens, pencils, mathematical instruments, erasers & sharpeners as well as art stationery. INCENSE STICKS (AGARBATTIS) EDUCATION AND ITC’s agarbatti brand, Mangaldeep, is the second largest national brand in the industry. STATIONERY PRODUCTS Over the years, the Business has witnessed growing consumer franchise with the ITC is the leading and fastest growing player introduction of several innovative offerings. in the Indian stationery market. Powered by the success of the ‘Classmate’ brand, the The Agarbatti Business continued to provide business recorded robust sales growth during livelihood opportunities to over 14,000 rural the year. ‘Classmate’, India’s leading student people through small and notebook brand available at over 75,000 medium scale entrepreneurs stationery retail outlets across the country, is and NGOs and Self Help Groups sourced from small-scale manufacturers, who across India, contributing to the have continuously improved their delivery and Company’s commitment to the quality capabilities. Paper and recycled board Triple Bottom Line. are sourced from ITC’s Units, which use pulp sourced from renewable forestry. The Business has established Paperkraft SAFETY MATCHES Premium Business Paper, as an environment-friendly multi-purpose paper. ITC’s Safety Matches Business Its green credentials are supported, among retained its leadership position in other factors, by ITC’s membership of the the market, driven by the popularity prestigious Global Forest & Trade Network. of its brands across market segments. 21 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE HOTELS Inspired by its credo of Responsible Luxury, ITC Hotels integrates world-class green practices with contemporary design elements to deliver the best of luxury in the greenest possible manner. ITC Hotels has pioneered several first–of-its-kind offerings, creating new benchmarks with the introduction of value based accommodation brands, branded cuisines and the ‘eco-easy’ model of hoteliering. Today, ITC Hotels is the “greenest luxury hotel chain in the world” with all its 10 premium luxury hotels being LEED Platinum certified. This year, the Business launched its new iconic property, the 600 key ITC Grand Chola in Chennai which is the world’s largest LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) Platinum-rated hotel in the ‘New Construction’ category. ITC’s Hotels Business maintained its position as one of the fastest growing hospitality ‘WelcomHotel’ in the ‘five star segment’, chains in India, with more than 90 properties ‘Fortune’ in the ‘mid-market to upscale in over 70 locations. It operates under four segment’ and ‘WelcomHeritage’ in the distinct brands – ‘ITC Hotels’ for ‘luxury’, ‘heritage leisure segment.’ 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC’s Paperboards and Paper Business is PAPERBOARDS, an icon of environmental stewardship. The SPECIALTY PAPERS Company established the country’s first AND PACKAGING Elemental Chlorine Free fibre line and Ozone Bleaching technology. It is also the first company in the country to gain membership PAPERBOARDS AND of the Global Forest & Trade Network (GFTN) SPECIALTY PAPERS of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Committed BUSINESS to developing a sustainable raw material base, ITC’s pulpwood is largely sourced from ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers renewable plantations under its Social and Business, India’s largest, technologically Farm Forestry Programme, which provides advanced and most eco-friendly Paper tribals and farmers livelihood opportunities and Paperboards Business, caters to a by helping them convert wastelands into wide spectrum of packaging, graphic, commercial plantations. communication, writing, printing and specialty paper requirements through its 4 world-class ITC’s initiative, ‘Wealth Out of Waste’ (WOW), manufacturing units, which are today FSC promotes and facilitates waste paper recycling Chain of Custody certified. ITC is the first to help conserve scarce natural resources. paper company in India to obtain the Forest Stewardship Council-Forest Management (FSC-FM) certification. 23 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE PACKAGING AND PRINTING BUSINESS ITC is the largest value-added converter of paperboard packaging in India. It provides a variety of value-added packaging solutions for the food & beverage, personal care products, consumer goods industries and so on. The Business has 3 packaging factories at Tiruvottiyur near Chennai, Munger in Bihar, and Haridwar. ITC offers a comprehensive product range in packaging backed by its packaging expertise over decades and cutting edge technology making it truly a ‘one stop shop for Packaging’. AGRI BUSINESS ITC’s Agri Business bears testimony to the Company’s commitment to putting country 24 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS before corporation. Through its value chains, ITC has forged strong partnerships with farmers. Its pioneering initiatives in the agricultural sector have led to enhancement of farm productivity and empowerment of farmers. Today, ITC is one of India’s leading corporates in the agricultural sector. It owes its success to the unique rural digital infrastructure network it has set up and its deep understanding of agricultural practices. ITC’s celebrated e-Choupal initiative is a perfect example of how private sector initiatives can complement state interventions to create significant value for the farmer. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ITC Infotech, the Company’s wholly owned subsidiary, is one of the fastest growing midtier IT companies. It provides IT services and solutions to leading global customers across 140 countries in 5 continents. ITC Infotech is focused on servicing the BFSI (Banking, Financial Services & Insurance), CPG&R (Consumer Packaged Goods & Retail), Life Sciences, Manufacturing & Engineering Services, THT (Travel, Hospitality and Transportation) and Media & Entertainment industries. 25 CERTIFICATIONS, HONOURS AND AWARDS Certifications, Honours And Awards ITC: MAJOR AWARDS OVER companies in the first of its kind Standard & Poor Environmental, Social and THE YEARS Corporate Governance ratings (2008). Chairman Y C Deveshwar was conferred the ITC ranked 2nd among top companies in Padma Bhushan by the Government of India (2011). India and 7th in Asia in the first of its kind Asian Sustainability Rating released by Chairman Y C Deveshwar was conferred CSR Asia (2010). the Global Leadership Award by the US India Business Council of the US Chamber ITC became the first Indian Company to of Commerce (2010). gain Membership with WWF-GFTN for Responsible Forestry (2010). The FICCI Outstanding Vision Corporate Triple Impact Award, presented by the Prime ITC was ranked the world’s 6th largest Minister, Dr Manmohan Singh (2008). sustainable value creator among consumer goods companies according to a Report by The FICCI Award for Outstanding Boston Consulting Group (2010). Achievement in Rural and Community Development, presented by the then Finance ITC won the top UNIDO Award at the Minister, Shri Pranab Mukherjee (2010). International Conference on Sharing Innovative Agri Business Solutions at Cairo (2008). Chairman Y C Deveshwar received the Business Person of the Year Award from ITC was conferred the Corporate Social UK Trade & Investment (2006). Responsibility Crown Award for Water Practices ITC conferred from UNESCO and Water Digest (2008). the prestigious Chairman Y C Deveshwar was awarded ‘World Business the SAM/SPG Sustainability Leadership The Asian CSR Award for Environmental and Development Award in Zurich (2007). Excellence, given by the Asian Institute of Award 2012’ at the Management (2007). The National Award for Excellence in Rio+20 UN Summit Corporate Governance from the Institute ITC was the 1st Indian Company and 2nd for its Social and of Company Secretaries of India (2007). in the world to win the Development Farm Forestry Gateway Award for its trail-blazing Initiatives ITC was ranked 2nd among top Indian e-Choupal initiative (2005). 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Inaugural World Business Award by UNDP ITC won the World Business and for ITC’s e-Choupal initiative (2004). Development Award at the historic Rio+20 UN Summit for its Social and ITC e-Choupal won the Stockholm Farm Forestry initiative. Challenge Award (2006). ITC has been presented the AIM Asian ITC was rated amongst Asia-Pacific’s 50 CSR Award by the Asian Forum on biggest listed companies in ‘Asia Fab 50’ Corporate Social Responsibility (AFCSR), by Forbes in 2010. in recognition of its contribution to the creation of sustainable livelihoods and All ITC’s super premium luxury hotels fostering economic growth in rural accorded LEED Platinum status making communities in India. ITC Hotels the ‘Greenest Luxury Hotel Chain in the World’. ITC has won the prestigious 12th Businessworld FICCI CSR Award in the ITC’s Paperboards Units at Bhadrachalam, Large Enterprise category. The award Bollaram, Kovai and Tribeni are FSC Chain recognises the most socially responsible of Custody certified. Indian corporates in CSR. ITC’s Unit in Bhadrachalam has been ITC bagged the Best Overall Corporate awarded the Forest Stewardship Council Social Responsibility Performance Award Forest Management certification by the Smart at the Institute of Public Enterprise Wood Programme of the Rainforest Alliance. (IPE) & Subir Raha Centre for Corporate Governance CSR Awards 2012. ITC: SELECT MAJOR ITC was conferred Business Leader AWARDS-2012-13 In FMCG at the NDTV Profit Business Leadership Awards 2012. ITC Chairman Mr Y C Deveshwar was conferred ITC’s Agri Business Division has won two the Business Leader of the Year Award by the awards at the fourth edition of the Rural All India Management Association (AIMA). Marketing Association of India Corporate Awards 2012. Mr S Sivakumar, Chief Executive of the Agri Business Division, Harvard Business was conferred the Special Inaugural Award Review ranked for Leadership Role in Rural Marketing. ITC Chairman Y C Deveshwar as the ITC’s Hotels Division was recognised as a 7th Best Performing ‘Standout Winner’ in Sustainability at the Global Vision Awards, Travel + Leisure, U.S. CEO in the World among “100 Best ITC’s Corporate Communications Performing CEOs in the Department received the ABCI World” published by (Association of Business Communication of India) Awards in 3 categories. the Harvard Business Review (HBR) in its ITC’s Corporate Communications January-February 2013 Department was the winner of the highest edition number of prizes at the 34th National Public Relations Society of India Awards with five first prizes in various categories. 27 CERTIFICATIONS, HONOURS AND AWARDS ITC’s factories at Munger, Bengaluru, Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune have received the prestigious Five Star rating from the British Safety Council for implementing and demonstrating benchmarked International standards on Occupational Health and Safety. ITC’s Foods Unit at Haridwar received a Commendation Certificate from the Confederation of Indian Industry, in the Category ‘Large Food Businesses Manufacturing’ for the year 2012. ITC’s WOW Wealth Out of Waste Initiative won the CII Best Environmental Practices ITC’s super premium luxury hotel ITC Awards 2012 in the categories of ‘Most Grand Chola in Chennai secured a 5 Useful Environmental Project 2012’ and Star GRIHA, the highest national rating ‘Innovative Environmental Project’. for Green Buildings. The award was presented by the Hon’ble President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee. ITC’s Paperboards Unit at Bollaram has won the Silver at the FICCI Safety Excellence Award in the Medium size The National Tourism Awards recognised industry category. ITC Maurya for ‘Best Facilities for Differently Abled Guests’ and ITC Gardenia for being the ‘Best Eco Friendly Hotel’. ITC’s Munger Unit has been recognised as an “Energy Efficient Unit” at the 13th CII National Awards for Excellence in Energy ITC has bagged the Corporate Excellence Management, 2012. Award, 2012, conferred by the Indian Institute of Material Management (IIMM), for its contribution to society and the The Packaging Factory and Warehouse Indian economy through excellence in Project, Haridwar has won the British Safety Supply Chain Management (SCM). Council International Safety Award – 2012. ITC was presented the CII Water Excellence ITC won the CIO Advisory’s Top Green IT Award 2012. The Packaging & Printing Enterprise Award and the Nasscom Best Factory, at Tiruvottiyur, Paperboards IT User Award in 2012. Units at Kovai and Bhadrachalam were presented the CII award for being the ITC’s Classmate brand won the Gold “Best Water Efficient Units”. ITC’s Award at EEMAX 2012 for use of Digital Watershed Development Programme Marketing in Event and Activation for ITC received the award for “Excellent Water Classmate’s Man of the Match campaign. Management Initiative”. ITC Grand Chola has won the Development ITC’s Units at Bengaluru, Saharanpur, of the Year Award in the Luxury and Kidderpore (Kolkata) and Pune have been Upscale category, conferred by the Hotel conferred the coveted British Safety Investment Forum India (HIFI) in 2013. Council Sword of Honour Award. ITC Sonar, Kolkata, won the “Best in Resource Efficiency” award at Wild Asia’s 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Responsible Tourism Awards, Singapore, SA 8000: Social Accountability 2012. Leaf processing plants at Chirala and Anaparti, Cigarette factory at Kolkata, Surya ITC Mughal’s Kaya Kalp –The Royal Spa Nepal’s Simra Unit, Packaging & Printing received the Favourite Hotel Spa Award Unit at Tiruvottiyur and ITC Infotech for the year 2012 at the Conde Nast Bengaluru Unit have this certification. Readers’ Travel Award ceremony. Food Safety: ISO 22000/HACCP Food ITC’s branded cuisine restaurants Safety Management System: Bukhara & Dum Pukht, were the only Indian restaurants that were among the ITC Maurya, ITC Mughal, ITC Maratha, ITC Miele Top 20 Asia’s Best Restaurant Grand Central, ITC Sonar, IT Windsor, ITC Awards, Singapore. Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana and WelcomHotel Sheraton New Delhi and My Fortune ITC’s restaurant Dum Pukht was Chennai have this certification. recognised amongst ‘Classic Restaurant of Foods Unit in Haridwar and Pune have the World’ by Conde Nast Traveller, U.K. also received this certification. ITC’s signature cuisine restaurant LEED Platinum Rating by US Green Building Bukhara awarded ‘Restaurant of the Year’ Council – Existing Building category at the NDTV Lifestyle Awards in 2013. ITC Maurya, ITC Windsor, ITC Maratha, ITC Grand Central, ITC Mughal, ITC Sonar, Bukhara, Dum Pukht, Kebabs & Kurries, ITC Kakatiya and ITC Rajputana have this Dakshin, Pan Asian, West View, EDO, certification. Ottimo, Dublin awarded ‘Best in category’ at the Times Food Awards held LEED Platinum Rating by Indian Green across the country in 2012. Building Council – New Construction category Fortune Hotels won the award for the “Best ITC Gardenia and ITC Grand Chola First Class Business Hotel Chain” at the Today’s Traveller Awards Ceremony in 2012. 5 Star GRIHA (Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment) by Association for Development and Research of CERTIFICATIONS & Sustainable Habitat (ADaRSH) AWARDS ITC Grand Chola Platinum rating by Indian Green Building ISO 14001: Environment Management Council (IGBC) Green Factory Building Systems Cigarette Units at Saharanpur and All manufacturing Units of ITC, all major Bengaluru hotels and the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Bengaluru hold this certification. OHSAS 18001: Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems All manufacturing units of ITC have this certification. 29 CERTIFICATIONS, HONOURS AND AWARDS AWARDS Green Tech Gold Award for Safety 201112 by Green Tech Foundation The following awards received during 2012-13 Welcomhotel Sheraton, New Delhi bear testimony to the highest EHS standards maintained in the various units of the Company First Pulp & Paper Unit to be certified and significant achievements made. as “GreenCo” by CII – Godrej Green Building Centre 5 star rating in Health and Safety Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit Management by British Safety Council at Bhadrachalam Cigarette factory at Munger, Bengaluru, Saharanpur, Pune and Kolkata ‘Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar’ (Silver trophy & certificate) by National Safety Safety Innovation Award 2012 by Council of India Institution of Engineers (India) Cigarette Unit at Munger Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru ‘Shreshtha Suraksha Puraskar’ (Bronze Excellent Energy Efficient Unit for the trophy & certificate) by National Safety year 2012 by CII Council of India Paperboards and Specialty Paper Unit at Packaging and Printing Unit at Munger Bhadrachalam ‘Prashansa Patra’ by National Safety Energy Efficient Unit Award by CII National Council of India Energy Management Campaign 2012 Cigarette Unit at Kolkata Cigarette factory at Munger Greentech Silver Award in FMCG sector Certified for Forest Stewardship Council by Greentech Foundation Chain of Custody (cardboard packaging, Personal Care Unit at Haridwar corrugated paper packaging, adhesive labels) by Rainforest Alliance ‘Silver’ FICCI Safety System Excellence Packaging and Printing – 2012 by FICCI Unit at Tiruvottiyur ITC’s GHG inventory Paperboards and Specialty Paper Unit was assured to highest Green Tech Safety at Bollaram ‘Reasonable level’ by Llyod’s Award by Green Tech Greentech Environment Silver Award Register Quality Assurance Foundation 2012 by Greentech Foundation, New Delhi Limited in line with ISO 14064 Personal care Unit at Foods Unit at Haridwar Standard, during the year Haridwar ITC Rajputana Green Tech Silver Award in FMCG Sector Personal Care Products Unit at Haridwar by Green Tech Foundation Packaging and Printing Unit at Munger Foods Unit at Haridwar 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Sword of Honour Award by British Best Water Efficient Unit by CII Safety Council Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit at Kovai Cigarette factory at Bengaluru, Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune IPMA Environmental Award for Cleaner Technologies for the year 2012 by IPMA Second position in FICCI Water Award in Industrial Water Efficiency Category Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit at Bhadrachalam Cigarette factory at Bengaluru British Safety Council International Safety Special Commendation for The Golden Award 2013 by British Safety Council Peacock Occupational Health & Safety Award 2012 by Golden Peacock Awards Secretariat Packaging and Printing unit at Munger Cigarette factory at Saharanpur CII (ER) Energy Conservation Award (Third Position) by Confederation of CII National Award for Water Management Indian Industry 2012 (Within the Fence category) by CII Cigarette factory at Munger Packaging and Printing unit at Tiruvottiyur CII SHE (Safety, Health & Environment) National Award for Excellence in Water Award 2012-13 in the category of large scale Management 2012 by CII companies in Eastern Region (First Position) Paperboards and Specialty Papers Unit Cigarette factory at Kolkata at Bhadrachalam 31 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Report Profile, Scope and Boundary FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS T his 10th Sustainability Report covers the Triple Bottom Line dimensions of building sustainability performance for the period economic, social and environmental capital. from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013. We continue our efforts to influence We report our performance on an annual sustainability practices along the value chain basis and the last Sustainability Report was and we intend to extend them significantly in published in January 2013. the years to come, to cover all our suppliers. In the current year, we have incorporated the ITC is headquartered at Virginia House, 37JL main outsourced manufacturers from our Nehru Road, Kolkata, 700 071 (India). The Education and Stationery Products Business contact point for any clarifications on the in the reporting. report or for requesting additional copies of this report is the Corporate Communications The economic performance reported here Department at the above address or e-mail: is from the Company’s Report & Accounts enduringvalue@itc.in. (R&A) 2013. The R&A 2013 was prepared in accordance with the Companies Act, 1956 This Report covers performance of all the and has been audited by independent External Businesses and Units directly under ITC Auditors M/s Deloitte Haskins & Sells. Limited and the 4 subsidiary companies where we have operational control. This The data in environment & social sections is covers all our significant operations in India based on actual performance of the various and the one subsidiary company based in businesses, factories, hotels and large Nepal as detailed in Reporting Boundary. offices of the Company and the Subsidiaries. Authenticity of these data and systems have The reporting principles and methodology been verified by M/s Ernst & Young as per continue to remain in accordance with the the assurance statement provided, which 2006 version of GRI G3 guidelines. The forms a part of this Report. relevant indicator and technical protocols have been followed for reporting on various indicators and there has been no significant change in the reporting scope or boundary limits over last year. This Report reflects material issues, which have significant economic, environmental and social impacts that can substantially influence assessments or decisions of our stakeholders. Our Businesses/Units continue to proactively engage with key stakeholders, who either have a major interest or are significantly affected by our operations, products or services. The details on stakeholder engagement are covered elsewhere in the Report. Sustainability and sustainable development are integral to ITC’s ethos and find expression in our commitment to enhancing the 33 REPORT PROFILE, SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Reporting Boundary T his Report covers the following Businesses and their corresponding Units: FMCG Cigarette Units at Kolkata (West Bengal), Bengaluru (Karnataka), Munger (Bihar), Saharanpur (Uttar Pradesh) & Pune (Maharashtra) FMCG OTHERS Foods Units at Haridwar (Uttarakhand) & Pune (Maharashtra), Personal Care Products Units at Haridwar (Uttarakhand) & Manpura (Himachal Pradesh) Education and Stationery Products – Outsourced Manufacturing Units of Note Books HOTELS ITC Hotels Maurya (New Delhi), Maratha (Mumbai), Grand Central (Mumbai), Sonar (Kolkata), Mughal (Agra), Windsor (Bengaluru), Gardenia (Bengaluru), Rajputana (Jaipur), My Fortune (Chennai), Sheraton New Delhi (New Delhi) 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Centre, Bengaluru (Karnataka), ITC Green Centre, AGRI BUSINESS Gurgaon (Haryana), ITC Head Office, Kolkata (West Bengal) Units at Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh), Chirala (Andhra Pradesh), Research Centre, Rajahmundry (Andhra Pradesh) SUBSIDIARIES ITC Infotech India Limited PAPERBOARDS, PAPER & Units at Bengaluru (Karnataka) and Kolkata (West PACKAGING Bengal) Units at Munger (Bihar), Tiruvottiyur (Tamil Nadu), Surya Nepal Private Limited Haridwar (Uttarakhand), Tribeni (West Bengal), Cigarette Manufacturing Unit at Simra (Nepal) Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh), Bollaram (Andhra Pradesh), Kovai (Tamil Nadu) Srinivasa Resorts Limited ITC Kakatiya, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh) LIFESTYLE RETAILING & Bay Islands Hotels Limited OTHERS Fortune Resort Bay Island hotel, Port Blair (Andaman & Nicobar) Units at Design & Tech. Centre, Manesar (Haryana), ITC Life Science & Technology 35 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS Governance, Commitments And Engagements Effective management of multiple businesses through a three-tiered FOR ALL OUR governance structure TOMORROWS Clearly defined roles and responsibilities Robust and comprehensive framework of strategic planning and performance management Building an institution of tomorrow 36 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT O ur Corporate Governance processes are designed to support effective management of multiple businesses while retaining focus on each one of them. The practice of Corporate Governance at ITC takes place at three interlinked levels: Strategic by the Board of Directors supervision (Board) Strategic by the Corporate Management management Committee (CMC) Executive by the Divisional/Strategic management Business Unit (SBU) Chief Executive assisted by the respective Divisional/SBU Management Committee (DMC) The role, powers and composition of the Board, Board Committees, CMC and DMC are available on the Company’s corporate website. 37 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS Governance Structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT COMPENSATION NOMINATIONS INVESTOR COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE SERVICES COMMITTEE CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE DIVISIONAL/SBU CORPORATE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES FUNCTIONS Divisional/SBU Corporate Functions, each headed by a Head of Management Committees, each headed by a Department Divisional/SBU Chief Executive Corporate Functions include: Businesses include: Planning & Treasury, Accounting, Taxation, FMCG, Hotels, Paperboards, Specialty Risk Management, Legal, Secretarial, Papers & Packaging, Agri Business and Internal Audit, EHS, Human Resources, Corporate Information Technology Communications, Corporate Affairs, Research & Development, Central Projects Organisation and IT Support Services 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CHAIR OF THE HIGHEST SELECTION OF DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE BODY ITC’s Governance Policy requires that the Non-Executive Directors, including The Chairman is the Chief Executive of the Independent Directors, be drawn from Company. He is the Chairman of the Board amongst eminent professionals with and the CMC. His primary role is to provide leadership to the Board and the CMC for experience in business/finance/law/public Our Corporate realising the Company goals in accordance enterprises. The selection of Executive Governance Directors is done by the Nominations with the charter approved by the Board. Committee, which comprises the Chairman processes are of the Company and 10 Non-Executive designed to ITC has a diversified business portfolio, which demands that the senior leadership has an Directors, nine of whom are Independent support effective in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Directors. management of functioning of the Company, so as to enhance the multiple businesses value-generating capacity of the organisation PERFORMANCE OF THE while retaining and contribute significantly to stakeholders aspirations and societal expectations. The HIGHEST GOVERNANCE focus on each one Chairman of the Company is therefore chosen BODY of them from the Executive Management. The Board evaluates Directors collectively to reinforce the principle of collective responsibility. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The ITC Board is a balanced Board, comprising 4 Executive and 14 Non-Executive Directors (including 11 Independent Directors). 39 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS Directors are also entitled to sitting fees for attending meetings of the Board and Committees thereof, the quantum of which is determined by the Board, within the limit approved by the shareholders. AVOIDANCE OF CONFLICTS OF INTEREST In terms of the ITC Code of Conduct, Directors, senior management and employees must avoid situations in which their personal interests could conflict with the interests As a diversified COMPENSATION FOR enterprise, the Company has always MEMBERS OF THE had a system-based HIGHEST GOVERNANCE approach to business BODY risk management, Remuneration of the Chairman and other of the Company. This is an area in which backed by strong Executive Directors is determined by it is impossible to provide comprehensive internal control the Board, on the recommendation of the guidance but the guiding principle is that processes Compensation Committee comprising only conflicts, if any, or potential conflicts, must Non-Executive Directors; remuneration of be disclosed to higher management for the Directors is subject to the approval of guidance and action as appropriate. the shareholders. Such remuneration is linked to the performance of the Company Contracts in which Directors are interested, inasmuch as the performance bonus is if any, are required to be placed before based on various qualitative and quantitative the Board for approval. Further, senior performance criteria. management is also required to confirm on an annual basis that no material transaction Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors has been entered into by them which could is by way of commission for each financial have potential conflict with the interests of year; such commission is determined by the Company at large; such confirmations the Board within the limit approved by the are placed before the Board. shareholders. Their remuneration is based, inter alia, on Company performance and The Company has a code of conduct for regulatory provisions and is payable on a prevention of insider trading in the securities uniform basis to reinforce the principle of of the Company. The ITC Code of Conduct collective responsibility. Non-Executive for Prevention of Insider Trading, inter alia, 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Appropriate structures have been put in prohibits purchase/sale of securities of the place to proactively monitor and manage the Company by Directors and employees while inherent risks in Businesses with unique/ A robust and in possession of unpublished price sensitive relatively high risk profiles. information in relation to the Company. comprehensive A strong and independent Internal Audit framework of function at the Corporate level carries out strategic planning SHAREHOLDER risk-focussed audits across all Businesses, and performance MECHANISMS enabling identification of areas where management risk management processes may need to be improved. The Audit Committee of the ensures Detailed in the Shareholders’ section of ‘Stakeholder Engagement’. Board reviews Internal Audit findings and realisation provides strategic guidance on internal of business controls. The Audit Compliance and Review objectives, based Committee closely monitors the internal PRECAUTIONARY control environment within the Company and on effective APPROACH ensures that Internal Audit recommendations strategy are effectively implemented. implementation As a diversified enterprise, the Company has always had a system-based approach At the business level, Divisional Auditors to business risk management. Backed by continuously verify compliance with laid strong internal control systems, the current down policies and procedures and help risk management framework of the Company plug control gaps by assisting the operating consists of the following elements: management in the formulation of control procedures for new areas of operation. The Corporate Governance Policy clearly lays down the roles and responsibilities A robust and comprehensive framework of the various entities in relation to risk of strategic planning and performance management. A range of responsibilities, management ensures realisation of from the strategic to the operational, is business objectives, based on effective specified in the Governance Policy. These strategy implementation. The annual role definitions, inter alia, are aimed at planning exercise requires all Businesses ensuring the formulation of appropriate risk to clearly identify their top risks and set management policies and procedures, their out a mitigation plan with agreed timelines effective implementation and independent and accountability. Businesses have monitoring and reporting by Internal Audit. confirmed that all relevant business risks have been identified, assessed, evaluated and appropriate mitigation systems have The Corporate Risk Management Cell been implemented. works with the Businesses to establish and monitor the specific profiles including both strategic and operational risks. The The combination of policies and process includes the prioritisation of risks, processes, as outlined above, adequately selection of appropriate mitigation strategies addresses the various risks associated and periodic reviews of the progress on the with the Company’s businesses. The senior management of risks. management of the Company also periodically reviews the risk management framework to maintain its contemporariness so as to A combination of centrally issued policies effectively address the emerging challenges and divisionally evolved procedures brings in a dynamic business environment. robustness to the process of ensuring that business risks are effectively addressed. 41 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS made to the CMC to ensure performance in OVERSIGHT, accordance with specified targets. IMPLEMENTATION AND All management systems and standards AUDIT OF ECONOMIC, in ITC conform to relevant national and ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL international standards and benefit from internationally accepted best practices. AND RELATED POLICIES Quality Management Systems in various businesses are certified in accordance with The CMC approves the relevant Financial, ISO 9001, International Quality Rating System Environmental, Occupational Health & Safety (IQRS), Hazard Analysis and Critical Control and Social Development policies of ITC. The Point (HACCP), TQM/TPM, Six Sigma and Corporate Internal Audit Function audits the other internationally renowned standards, as implementation of all systems and policies applicable to the respective businesses. in all Company Businesses and Corporate Headquarters. The Head of the Corporate Environment Management Systems in all ITC EHS Department is responsible for laying manufacturing Units and major hotels are down ITC’s EHS standards, preparing certified in accordance with ISO 14001. The EHS Guidelines and ensuring effective Occupational Health & Safety Management implementation. The EHS performance Systems in all manufacturing Units are of all Units/Factories/Hotels is audited at certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001. least once annually to ensure conformity The Investor Service Centre (ISC) of the with statutory requirements, Corporate EHS Company is certified in accordance with ISO Guidelines and Standards. 9001:2008 and rated ‘Level 5’ (highest level). This stands testimony to the excellence The Corporate Human Resources (CHR) achieved by ISC in providing quality investor Department similarly coordinates all services. activities relating to the Company’s Social performance. Reports relating to Economic, Internal Audit Services relating to Systems EHS and Social performance are provided and Controls in all areas of operation in the to the CMC on a monthly basis. In addition Company are certified under ISO 9001:2008 to the above, periodic presentations are and rated ‘Level 5’ (highest level). The Investor Service Centre of the Company is certified in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 and rated ‘Level 5’ (highest level) by a third-party certifying agency 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Stakeholder Engagement I TC has adopted a multi-pronged, multi‘Shareholder Value’ which serves to inform stakeholder strategy for an inclusive and service shareholders. An exclusive approach to building partnerships in e-mail id: isc@itc.in has also been provided to sustainable business practices. It has the shareholders for direct interaction. also put in place institutional mechanisms to facilitate strong partnerships with communities in its programmes such as CUSTOMERS Watershed Development, Social Forestry, Animal Husbandry Services and Women’s Enduring and long-term customer Empowerment. These initiatives augment the relationships form the bedrock of ITC’s natural resource base and create sustainable businesses. Significant efforts are made rural livelihoods. to gain insights into customers’ needs and aspirations and to seek consumer delight through ITC’s high-quality and costITC has systems and procedures to identify, competitive products and services. prioritise and address the needs and concerns of all its key stakeholders across businesses Most of ITC’s Businesses have various and units. Its core stakeholders comprise: mechanisms to capture the needs and As trustees of expectations of the customer, such as shareholders, we SHAREHOLDERS market surveys, personal contacts/visits, events, customer satisfaction surveys, joint believe that it is our development and improvement projects, key responsibility to ITC believes that protection and enhancement of shareholder wealth is one account management, multi-level interfaces protect and enhance at dealer-customer-end user, personalised their wealth of the Company’s key responsibilities. The lifestyle privilege programme, etc. primary expectations of shareholders remain centred around continued profitability and Robust Quality Assurance systems, growth, effective communications and supported by process innovations, adoption investor servicing. of green technology, lean management, six sigma and TPM, help to achieve benchmarks The Chairman addresses and provides in the quality of products and services that clarifications to shareholders at least once can sustain and enhance customer delight. a year at the Annual General Meeting in the ITC also continues to invest significantly in presence of the Board. The Board encourages R&D to develop newer products/variants. open dialogue with all shareholders, including individuals, corporates and investors. EMPLOYEES Our corporate website www.itcportal.com provides comprehensive information ITC recognises that the creation of a highand contains an exclusive section on quality human resource team to drive the 43 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENTS businesses of tomorrow requires focus on information and knowhow on agricultural best providing personal development and growth, practices, transmission of market signals, a work culture that ensures high levels of transparent discovery of prices, timely and performance, provides world-class learning relevant weather information, access to experiences and a caring & empowering quality inputs, and most importantly, efficient work environment. market access. The ITC e-Choupals, managed by trained farmers (sanchalaks), helped Our unique employee value proposition is the agricultural community access ready backed by strong corporate equity enabled information in their local language. In addition, sustained engagement in challenging ITC worked closely with farmers to enhance times. Each business focuses on engaging agri productivity through demonstration employees through communication meetings, farms and customised extension services, mentoring, suggestion schemes, engagement apart from creating physical infrastructure surveys and talent recognition programmes. in the form of integrated rural services hubs. The ITC e-Choupal initiative has empowered ITC’s remuneration philosophy recognises over 4 million farmers in 40,000 villages, performance and meritocracy, whilst raising rural productivity and incomes. remaining competitive and sustainable. The Company fosters a culture that Similarly, ITC works closely with farmers rewards performance, continuous learning, in its Social and Farm Forestry programme collaboration and capacity development to provide a wide spectrum of extension Each Business across the organisation to be future-ready services that impart knowledge and knowhow focusses on and meet head-on the challenges posed by to farmers through dedicated farmer training ever changing market realities. programmes. In addition, farmers have been engaging with benefitted by the extensive R&D programme employees on a To address employee concerns, ITC units for clonal propagation which gives them high regular basis as well have a structured grievance redressal yielding quality saplings which are disease resistant, can grow in shorter time spans and as based on specific mechanism to enable all grievances to be in difficult terrains such as wastelands. This resolved in a just and amicable manner. A requirements through grievance redressal committee, comprising initiative has created over 64 million personcommunication representatives of both unionised employees days of employment for farmers in the state meetings, workplace and managers, has been instituted to address of Andhra Pradesh. interactions, their concerns. ITC’s unswerving belief in the mentoring and mutuality of interests of key stakeholders, binds all employees to a shared vision and SUPPLIERS suggestion schemes, purpose. ITC’s units engage with employee The Company’s supplier (both national and employee/manager representatives and unions, thereby international) engagements are supported strengthening the collaborative spirit across surveys and all sections of employees. by policies, processes and best practices talent recognition that ensure that procurement activity is programmes conducted in an open, transparent and nonFARMERS discriminatory manner. Strong processes are in place to identify/develop and qualify Farmers are an important value chain partner vendors on the basis of supply assurance, for ITC and we continue to engage with them innovation quotient, product quality and value through a large gamut of interventions. A for money considerations. primary cause of rural poverty is the vicious cycle of low productivity, low income and low Formal competitive processes are capacity to invest that continues to plague established and documented discussions, Indian farmers. Addressing the root cause recommendations and decisions underlay of these challenges, ITC co-created the all procurement activity. Sole sourcing e-Choupal initiative with farmers to provide (to the extent possible) and retroactive 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS contracting are avoided. Contracts are tested their natural resources, create sustainable onfor regulatory compliance and supplier and off-farm livelihoods and improve social deliverables cognise for environmental, infrastructure, especially in areas where it To improve the health and safety legislation. impacts women and children. ITC has put in quality and place village-level institutional mechanisms effectiveness of All businesses of the Company have which help transform rural communities into modern facilities and use state of the vibrant economic organisations and empower the interventions, art technologies to ensure benchmarked stakeholders with enhanced incomes and we bring in quality and value. Accordingly, the Company livelihoods. professional/ sources specialised production machinery technical agencies from reputed international as well as Indian A good example is ITC’s Watershed manufacturers – across large, medium and Development programme which promotes to introduce small scale sectors. Utility machinery such local management of water resources by appropriate as boilers, generator sets, air-conditioning facilitating community-based participation in technologies and refrigeration machinery and electrical & planning and executing watershed projects. electronic systems are sourced largely from Adopting a bottom-up participatory approach that complement Indian or India based suppliers. Competent with disadvantaged sections as the primary traditional methods Indian contractors carry out construction and target, ITC works with communities to of farming, renovation of new manufacturing facilities, mobilise them and form Water User Groups. conserving water, hotels, warehouses & offices. Nearly 90% These Groups are trained to carry out the of raw materials and 70% of spare parts entire spectrum of activities from planning soil and nutrients and components have been locally procured to execution and maintenance of water during the year. harvesting structures. Groups are also trained to formulate regulations and fix water The Company actively encourages user charges, which go towards creating a competency development among local vendors fund used to maintain existing structures, and its vendor base includes numerous build new ones and tap government schemes. medium and small scale enterprises that are close to its manufacturing locations. Where appropriate, vendors are provided technical GOVERNMENT support and managerial inputs to enable them to move in tandem with the Company’s ITC interacts through industry bodies and business plans. The Company also supports various other forums with Government/ several vocational training initiatives in Regulatory Authorities on aspects relating to areas close to its operations. These have public policy frameworks. ITC, in partnership been effective in empowering youth with with CII, has supported the creation of a unique requisite skills and increased opportunities institution — The CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for entrepreneurial development. In addition, for Sustainable Development — to promote the Company has continued to set up thought leadership, recognise sustainability sourcing centres in rural India for several champions and build awareness as well as of its product categories, both directly and capacity on issues related to sustainable in collaboration with various State agencies development and inclusive growth. and NGOs to assist in the creation of sustainable livelihoods. COMMUNITY ITC’s agri-businesses have forged a long and enduring partnership with rural communities. Their initiatives contribute to empowering these communities to conserve and manage 45 Economic Performance Progressive investments in multiple drivers of growth Sustaining high quality top line and earnings growth 26% compound annual growth in total shareholder returns over the last 17 years 47 fold increase in market capitalisation from 1996 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE I TC posted another year of strong performance premised on its corporate strategy of creating multiple drivers of growth. This performance is even more encouraging when viewed against the backdrop of the extremely challenging business context in which it was achieved, namely, the continued economic slowdown, steep increase in taxes/duties on cigarettes, gestation costs relating to the new FMCG businesses and recent investments in the Paper, Paperboards and Packaging and Hotels businesses. Gross Revenue for the year grew by 19.9% to ` 41,810 crores. Net Revenue at ` 29,606 crores grew by 19.4% primarily driven by a The Company is presently the leading FMCG marketer in India, a 20.4% trailblazer in ‘green hoteliering’ and Growth in Net Profits the second largest Hotel chain in India, the clear market leader in the Indian Paperboard and Packaging industry and the country’s 19.9% foremost Agri business player Growth in Gross Revenue 26.4% growth in the non-cigarette FMCG marketer in India, a trailblazer in ‘green businesses, as well as in Agri Business hoteliering’ and the second largest Hotel together with 13.4% growth in the Cigarettes chain in India, the clear market leader in the Business. Profit Before Tax increased by Indian Paperboard and Packaging industry 20.1% to ` 10,684 crores while Net profits at and the country’s foremost Agri business ` 7,418 crores registered a growth of 20.4%. player. ITC’s wholly owned subsidiary, ITC Infotech India Limited, is one of India’s fast ` 2,60,000 Crores Earnings Per Share for the year stood at growing Information Technology companies Market Capitalisation ` 9.45 (previous year ` 7.93), while Cash in the mid-tier segment. flows from Operations aggregated ` 9,596 crores compared to ` 8,334 crores in the ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable previous year. corporations with a market capitalisation of over ` 2,60,000 crores and has consistently ` 9.45 Continuing with its chosen strategy of featured amongst the top 10 private sector creating multiple drivers of growth, the companies in terms of market capitalisation Earnings per Share Company is presently the leading FMCG and profits over the last seventeen years. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS the year with the Harvard Business Review acknowledging the Company’s Chairman, Mr Y.C. Deveshwar – under whose stewardship this was achieved – as the 7th best performing CEO in the world. For the year ended 31st March, 2013, ITC declared a Dividend of ` 5.25 per share (previous year ` 4.50 per share). DIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACT ` Crores KEY ECONOMIC INDICATORS* 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 CAGR Gross Revenue 23,059 26,200 30,528 34,872 41,810 16% Net Revenue 15,612 18,153 21,168 24,798 29,606 17% Exports 1,762 2,239 2,464 2,315 3,474 18% Contribution to Government/ Exchequer 11,142 13,573 15,843 17,936 22,012 19% Cost of Bought out Goods and 9,907 10,685 13,133 14,215 17,214 15% Services Employee Benefits Expense 891 1,003 1,140 1,258 1,387 12% Payments to Providers of Capital Interest and Dividend 1,425 3,891 3,512 3,596 4,235 31% Retained Profits 1,634 -391 986 2,073 2,565 12% *Detailed Financial Performance available at www.itcportal.com REVENUE AND PROFIT BEFORE DEPRECIATION, INTEREST AND TAX (PBDIT) Additionally, during such period, the ` Crores Company’s Gross Revenues and Net Profits recorded an impressive compound growth YEAR 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 CAGR of 13.2% and 21.8% per annum respectively. Gross Revenue 23,059 26,200 30,528 34,872 41,810 16% Return on Capital Employed improved PBDIT 5,393 6,689 7,993 9,674 11,566 21% substantially from 28.4% to 45.7% while Total Shareholder Returns, measured in terms of increase in market capitalisation and dividends, grew at a compound annual growth rate of over 26%, placing the Company amongst the foremost in the country in terms of efficiency of servicing financial capital. Such an impressive performance track record, delivered consistently over a long period of time, won global recognition during 49 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS OF VALUE FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE ADDED FROM GOVERNMENT There is no significant financial assistance Distribution of Value Added which the Company receives from the ` Crores Government. In the states of Andhra Pradesh 35,000 and Tamil Nadu, the State Government 30,000 offers incentives such as deferment of sales tax for setting up new units or for 22% 25,000 modernisation/expansion/diversification 23% 5% of existing Units. In the current year, our 20,000 21% Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division 19% 5% 5% (PSPD) has received such assistance for 15,000 73% 20% 6% the Bhadrachalam Unit in Andhra Pradesh 6% 10,000 (2013` 0.3 Crore, 2012` 1.8 Crores) 74% 72% 74% 75% 5,000 0 DIVIDEND PAYOUT 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Exchequer Employees Providers of capital ITC is one of India’s most admired and valuable corporations and has consistently featured, over the last seventeen years, CONTRIBUTION TO THE amongst the top 10 private sector companies in terms of market capitalisation and profits NATIONAL EXCHEQUER and is amongst the most influential stocks in the Indian equity market. For the current year, The Company’s contribution accounts for it has declared a dividend of ` 5.25 per share about 7.1% of the total excise revenue of the of ` 1 each. Government of India. In the area of income tax, the Company is the highest tax payer in eastern India and among the top tax payers nationally. Contribution to Exchequer ` Crores 24,000 21,500 19,000 22,012 16,500 17,936 14,000 15,843 11,500 13,573 9,000 11,142 6,500 4,000 1,500 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Exchequer 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS While the Balance Sheet size of the Company has Dividend Payout (Incl Dividend Distribution Tax) expanded at a ` Crores compound rate 5,000 of 15% over the 4,000 previous five years 2449 to reach ` 34,017 1484 3,000 4089 4853 crores as at 31st 2,000 1634 March 2013, returns 2518 2004 on assets deployed 1,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 have increased Ordinary Dividend 2010 Special Centenary Dividend from about 25% to 2011 Special Dividend on 100th AGM about 32% during the same period ASSETS DEPLOYED AND RETURNS ` Crores Return On Assets Deployed Returns (%) Assets Deployed (` Crores) Despite the extremely challenging business 33% 36,000 environment during the year under review, 32% 34,000 ITC continued to make significant investments 31% 32,000 in the Indian economy across its business 30,000 domains, even as it has been successful in 30% 28,000 generating progressively higher returns on 29% 26,000 the assets deployed. Thus, while the Balance 28% 24,000 Sheet size of the Company has expanded at 27% 22,000 a compound rate of 15% over the previous 26% 20,000 five years to reach ` 34,017 crores as at 31st 25% 18,000 March 2013, returns on assets deployed have 24% 16,000 increased from about 25% to about 32% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 during the same period. Assets Deployed Returns LOCALLY BASED processes are established and documented discussions, recommendations and decisions SUPPLIERS underlay procurement activity. The Company’s suppliers, both local and All businesses of the Company have international, constitute one of its important modern facilities and use state-of-the-art stakeholder groups. Supplier engagements technologies to ensure benchmarked are founded on a positive procurement culture quality and value. Accordingly, the Company supported by policies, processes and best sources specialised production machinery practices to ensure that procurement activity from reputed international and Indian ITC Businesses have is conducted in an open, transparent and nonmanufacturers – across large, medium and discriminatory manner. Strong processes small scale sectors. Utility machinery such modern facilities and are in place to identify/develop and qualify as boilers, generator sets, air-conditioning use state-of-the-art vendors on the basis of supply assurance, and refrigeration machinery and electrical & technologies to ensure innovation quotient, product quality and value electronic systems are sourced largely from benchmarked quality for money considerations. Formal competitive Indian or India-based suppliers. Competent and value 51 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Indian contractors carry out construction and renovation of new manufacturing facilities, hotels, warehouses & offices. Nearly 88% of raw materials and 70% of stores and spares have been locally procured during the year. The Company actively encourages competency development among local vendors and its vendor base includes numerous medium and small scale enterprises that are proximate to its manufacturing locations. Where appropriate, vendors are provided technical support and managerial inputs to enable them to move in tandem with the Company’s business plans. The Company also supports several vocational training initiatives in areas proximate to its operations. These have been effective in empowering youth with requisite skills and increased opportunities for entrepreneurial development. Further, the Company has continued to set up sourcing centres in rural India for several of its product categories, both directly and in collaboration with various State agencies and NGOs to assist in the creation of sustainable livelihoods. ENGAGING TALENT, LOCAL Raw Material Consumed HIRING AND SENIOR ` Crores 6033 6661 7865 MANAGEMENT 5241 4334 ITC’s human resource management systems and processes are designed to enhance 939 999 1072 employee engagement, organisational 667 714 capability and vitality so as to ensure that each of the businesses is world class, positioned 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 for competitive superiority and capable of achieving the ambitious growth plan of the Imported Indigenous Indigenous sourcing: 88% Company. The Company has fostered a culture that Stores and Spares Consumed rewards continuous learning, collaboration ` Crores and capability development across the 151 165 153 organisation to be future-ready and meet the 140 138 challenges posed by ever-changing market 62 68 66 49 58 realities. It creates and nurtures workplace challenges 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 that keep employees engaged, motivated and innovative. This talent has, through strong Imported Indigenous Indigenous sourcing: 70% alignment with ITC’s vision, successfully built 52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Employee Benefits ` Crores 891 1003 1140 1258 1387 902 1024 1112 783 128 148 720 127 117 102 106 121 100 118 71 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Contribution to Provident Workmen and Salaries and Other Funds Staff Welfare Express and Wages and sustained its standing as one of India’s Employees’ Retirement Benefit Schemes most admired and valuable corporations include employee pension, provident fund and despite unrelenting competitive pressures. gratuity, which are administered through duly constituted and approved independent trusts. Unswerving belief in the mutuality of interests of key stakeholders binds all employees to a Provident Fund and Family Pension shared vision and purpose, thus providing it contributions in respect of unionised staff, as with the vital force for winning in the market required by applicable statutes are deposited place. with the Government in a timely manner. The Company encourages local employment The pension plans and other applicable in the workforce in manufacturing and hotels, employee benefits obligations are determined depending on the availability of requisite skills. and funded in accordance with independent Unswerving belief in the mutuality of interests of key stakeholders binds all employees to a shared vision and purpose, thus providing it with the vital force for winning in the marketplace 53 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE actuarial valuation. Expected rate of return on plan assets is based on the current portfolio CORPORATE SOCIAL of assets, investment strategy and market scenario. RESPONSIBILITY In order to protect the capital and optimise CITIZEN FIRST returns within acceptable risk parameters, the plan assets are well diversified. The funds ITC’s overarching aspiration to create large are consistently sustained to meet requisite scale societal value while simultaneously superannuation commitments. deliver shareholder value is manifest in the Company’s strategy to enhance the competitiveness of its value chains which encompass the disadvantaged sections of society. Contribution to Provident and Other Funds In pursuance of the Company’s policy on ` Crores Corporate Social Responsibility (ITC’s CSR Policy detailed in the Policies & Guidelines 118 121 127 section of this Report), ITC has crafted 106 71 51 innovative business models that create larger 38 19 77 20 and enduring value by not only generating new sources of competitive advantage 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 for its businesses, but also in the process augmenting natural capital and sustainable Contribution to Provident & Other Funds Contribution to Pension Funds livelihoods for the nation. 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ` Crores ITC has crafted innovative business 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 models that Corporate Social Responsibility spends* 45 62 82 create larger and enduring value by Average Profit After Taxes for three immediately preceding Financial Years (FYs) 3,482 4,104 5,070 not only generating CSR spends as a % of Average Profit After new sources 1.29% 1.51% 1.62% Taxes for three immediately preceding FYs of competitive *The definition of CSR has been aligned with the activities specified in Schedule VII of the Companies Bill 2012. Previous years’ figures have also been realigned to correspond with the current year’s disclosures. advantage for its businesses, but also in the process VARIOUS CSR ACTIVITIES augmenting natural capital Various CSR activities in which the Company and sustainable has been engaged during the current year are livelihoods for the listed below: nation AREA ACTIVITIES/INITIATIVES/PROGRAMMES Crop productivity improvement Eradication of hunger and poverty Livestock/Dairy development Creation of sustainable livelihoods for the poor Promotion of Education Promotion of Education Promoting Gender Equality & Empowering Promotion of women-based micro enterprises Women Reducing child mortality & improving maternal Basic hygiene and sanitation improvement health initiatives Combating diseases Health centres and camps Social and Farm Forestry Soil and Moisture Conservation Ensuring Environmental Sustainability Solid Waste Management Promotion of sustainable business practices Employment enhancing vocational skills Vocational/skills development Farmer Knowledge empowerment through Social Business Initiatives IT-enablement Others Promotion of Art and Culture 55 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Creating Enduring Institutions CII-ITC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The ‘CII-ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Development’, set up by ITC jointly with the apex national chamber, Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) in 2006, continues its endeavours to promote sustainability amongst corporates across the country. During the year, the Centre trained and raised awareness of over 2,000 business managers on various sustainability issues. It has expanded its gamut of activities to meet the core objectives of creating awareness, promoting thought leadership and building capacity amongst Indian enterprises in their quest for sustainable growth and business solutions. The 7th Sustainability Summit continued its legacy of bringing thought provoking leaders together to share the challenges, long term strategies and best practices for sustainable and inclusive development. It featured senior politicians, bureaucrats, best brains of Indian industry and MNCs around the globe. The Summit and Exhibition were attended by over 300 participants. The ‘CII-ITC Sustainability 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC-SRA is the world’s first and only professionally managed modern Gurukul, blending modern day research methods with the purity of the age old Guru-Shishya tradition Awards’, instituted to recognise excellence in sustainability performance, have honoured ITC SANGEET RESEARCH a large number of leading Indian companies ACADEMY and provided encouragement to many others. The winners of the Awards 2012 The ITC Sangeet Research Academy were announced at an imposing function in (ITC-SRA) is a true embodiment of sustained Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on January 14, corporate commitment to a priceless national 2013, in front of an audience of 1,500 people. heritage. It is a unique institution recognised The occasion was graced by the Hon’ble for being the finest repository of Hindustani President of India, Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Classical Music. With a commitment that as the Chief Guest. has remained consistent for over 36 years, ITC-SRA is the world’s first and only The Centre is today playing a major role in professionally managed modern engaging with policy makers to create an Gurukul, blending modern day research environment that encourages the adoption methods with the purity of the age old of sustainable business practices. It has Guru-Shishya tradition. ITC-SRA has a been engaged with various stakeholders for mission of preservation and propagation of advocacy on Clause 135 of the new Companies Hindustani Classical Music. The Academy is Bill 2012, which refers to the CSR activities currently engaged in carrying the message of a company. The Centre is a consulting of Hindustani Classical Music across our partner in several policy interventions such country from the metros to rural India. as Green Guidelines for Public Procurement, Recent forays into neighbouring Bangladesh Low Carbon Expert Group of the Planning have brought home another dimension of the Commission, National Innovation Council, shared sub-continental heritage. Ministry of Corporate Affairs on CSR Policy, National Awards for Prevention of Pollution, Rajiv Gandhi Environment Awards for Clean OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE Technology and Technology and Finance Committee under the Montreal Protocol. It is INITIATIVES also represented on the Board of the Central Pollution Control Board and other bodies. Information on e-Choupals (rural digital network), watershed development etc. is detailed elsewhere in the Report. 57 Environmental Performance Climate Change and Sustainable Development Water Management Recycling and Waste Management Significant Air Emissions Material Sustainability in ITC’s Businesses ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Climate Change And Sustainable Development FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Alignment with the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) Holistic Triple Bottom Line approach Reduction of specific energy consumption Reduction of specific freshwater intake Enhanced use of renewable energy Natural Resource Augmentation through afforestation and soil & moisture conservation programmes Establishment of green buildings Carbon Positive for the 8th year in a row 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT E conomic progress and long-term Adopting a low carbon growth path business sustainability are today through reduction in specific energy threatened by the real and adverse consumption and enhanced use of renewable consequences of global warming and energy sources. accelerated climate change. ITC has Enlarging our carbon positive footprint responded to the challenges emerging from through increased carbon sequestration by the threat of global warming by aligning its expanding forestry projects in wastelands. corporate strategy with national priorities. Accordingly, in line with the National Action Reducing specific freshwater intake and Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC), we have augmenting rainwater harvesting activities adopted strategies to address climate both on-site and off-site at watershed change-related impacts and developed catchment areas. appropriate mitigation and adaptation plans. Working towards minimising waste Our unique approach has been to integrate generation, maximising its reuse and these plans with our business strategies and recycling and using external post-consumer not as separate activities. waste as raw material in our Units. 3. Creating sustainable livelihoods and promoting sustainable agricultural practices. OUR STRATEGIES INCLUDE 1. Identifying and evaluating climate change risks for each business. 2. Reducing the environmental impact of our processes, products and services and working towards creating a positive environmental footprint. In line with the National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC), we have adopted strategies to address climate change-related impacts and developed mitigation and adaptation plans 61 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Climate Change Risks Our water conservation, watershed I development and TC has carried out comprehensive rainwater harvesting studies to identify and evaluate projects not the climate change risks for all its only improve the businesses. Based on its assessment, the Company has worked out individual sustainability strategies for mitigation and adaptation. of our agrirelated businesses, AGRICULTURE but also create Since ITC is largely dependent on agricultural sustainable inputs, possible disruption in agricultural patterns & yields is a significant potential livelihoods risk. Apart from the direct impact of climate for a large change, water availability is the single number of largest risk that we foresee. A decline in marginal agricultural output due to changed weather patterns and higher temperatures not only farmers impacts ITC’s businesses but also threatens specialists, in collaboration with expert to push millions of marginal farmers over study groups, are consistently evaluating the brink, thus increasing the vulnerability of agricultural productivity/adaptation issues those who are dependent on agriculture for related to climate change and support is their livelihoods. ITC continues to pursue a being provided to farmers through in-house Triple Bottom Line approach that contributes extension services. to the creation of economic, environmental and social capital. Our water conservation, watershed development and rainwater harvesting projects not only improve the sustainability of our agri-related businesses, but also create sustainable livelihoods for a large number of marginal farmers. Our R&D 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Green Centre at Gurgaon, which, in 2004, BUILT ENVIRONMENT was the largest LEED platinum-rated office space in the world. ITC’s Hotels Business Our Businesses and Units are also exposed reaffirmed this commitment by formally to the physical risks associated with adopting the ‘Responsible Luxury’ credo the impact of climate change. We have which is exemplified by the ITC Grand Chola, reinforced protection of our assets in coastal the 600-key luxury hotel in Chennai, rated as areas in anticipation of increased severity 5 Star GRIHA, the highest national rating of storms and cyclones, which are likely to for Green Buildings and as the World’s occur. All new buildings are constructed Largest LEED Platinum Certified Hotel in the with the requisite factors of safety and the ‘New Construction’ category. existing buildings and infrastructure have been reinforced, wherever required. This initiative, which had been taken up in a phased manner, has since been completed. ITC has been a pioneer in the green buildings movement that commenced with the construction of the ITC Grand Chola ITC Green Centre at in Chennai is Gurgaon, which has the World’s been recertified in Largest LEED 2012 as the highest Platinum rated rated green building in Green Hotel the world Disruption of road and rail traffic, caused by such extreme events, may also affect the output of individual Units. This has been addressed by appropriate contingency and insurance plans. Higher surface temperature (increased air conditioning costs) and disruption of water supply are other foreseen risks. Establishment of green buildings is one of the relevant responses to these environmental challenges. ITC has been a pioneer in the green buildings movement that commenced with the construction of the ITC 63 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Minimising Carbon Intensity And Adopting A Low Carbon Growth Path This is directly attributable to the energy conservation projects implemented across the ITC Units and better capacity utilisation. Revisions in the computational methodology of energy consumption by using actual calorific values of fuels consumed (instead of default calorific values from IPCC*) together with increasing usage of renewable energy has resulted in reduction in the total primary energy computed. The computational changes were carried out as a process of standardisation for aligning with the ISO 14064:2006, the latest international standard specifying principles and requirements at the organisational level for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals, according to which ITC’s GHG inventory has been assured to a TC continues to enlarge its positive ‘reasonable level’ by Llyod’s Register Quality carbon footprint through enhanced Assurance Limited. energy conservation, use of renewable * Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change energy sources and the expansion of carbon sequestration through large-scale Sources Of Energy In ITC (2012-13) Social and Farm Forestry Programmes. 11,895 TJ Energy directly (55.7%) from fossil fuels CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY In 2012-13, ITC Units consumed 21,347 Terra 8,802 TJ Energy from Joules (TJ) of energy. Despite significant (41.2%) renewable sources growth in almost all businesses, there has been only a slight increase of 1.0% in the total energy consumption as compared 650 TJ Energy purchased from state utilities to previous year (21,130 TJ in 2011-12). (3.1%) (Electrical Energy) 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Renewable Energy Utilisation In ITC 10000 41.2 45 38.5 40 8000 30.9 35.3 8802 35 30.6 8133 7957 30 6000 26.3 24.1 6622 25 Total renewable 5909 20 energy(TJ) 4000 15 3437 3571 2000 10 05 Percentage of total energy 0 00 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 In 2012-13, 8,802 TJ of the total energy consumed was from renewable sources, which is an increase of 8.2% over the previous year (8,133 TJ in 2011-12). Improved utilisation of carbon neutral biofuels in the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business and the generation from wind power Improved utilisation of projects in Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu carbon neutral biofuels (commissioned in 2011-12) for the full year, in the Paperboards contributed to this increase in the share of renewable energy in ITC’s total energy and Specialty Papers consumption. Business and the full year operations of wind power projects in RENEWABLE ENERGY Maharashtra and Tamil SOURCES IN ITC Nadu contributed to COMPRISE THE increased utilisation of renewable energy FOLLOWING Black liquor waste from pulping process and waste wood biomass from chipping operations in the Bhadrachalam Unit of our 8.2% Increase of Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business. renewable energy Locally sourced chip/sawdust and deutilisation over the oiled bran as boiler fuel in the Kovai Unit. previous year Wind Energy farms for Packaging & Printing, Cigarettes, Hotels and Paperboards & Specialty Papers Businesses. 41.2% Energy consumed from renewable sources 65 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE accounted for 90.1% of the total energy ENERGY CONSUMPTION consumption in ITC. ITC’s Paperboards and WITHIN ITC ACROSS Specialty Papers Business has been rated the most energy efficient in the Indian Paper BUSINESSES (2012-13) and Paperboards sector, according to the Centre for Science and Environment, New 19232.0TJ 298.3TJ Specific Energy Consumption (GJ/Tonnes): (90.1%) (1.4%) Bhadrachalam Paper & Leaf Tobacco Paperboards 38.4 (2004-05) 34.5 (2005-06) 530.4TJ 281.3TJ (2.5%) (1.3%) 30.2 (2006-07) Hotels Packaging 32.1 (2007-08) 478.9TJ 124.4TJ 38.3 (2008-09) (2.2%) (0.6%) 37.4 (2009-10) Cigarettes Others 37.7 (2010-11) 401.4TJ TJ Terra Joules (1.9%) * Others include Eduction & Stationery Products Business, ITC Infotech, 33.2 (2011-12) ITC Life Sciences & Technology Foods & Centre and large offices Personal Care 33.8 (2012-13) ** Total Energy 21,347TJ Products Delhi, (Challenge of the New Balance, CSE, PROGRESS IN REDUCTION 2010). OF SPECIFIC ENERGY In 2012-13, the specific energy consumption CONSUMPTION IN ITC’S (energy used per tonne of product) in the Unit BUSINESSES at Bhadrachalam, which alone accounts for 76% of total energy consumption in ITC, has A focused approach on energy conservation increased by 1.7% over the past year primarily through rigorous third party audits and due to the commissioning and stabilisation of implementation of the recommendations a new Paper Machine. The Kovai Unit, which and better capacity utilisation resulted in has increased the utilisation of electricity substantial reduction in specific energy from its wind power plant, reduced the consumption. use of electricity generated from its coal, lignite & biomass based captive power plant In the Paperboards and Specialty Papers and recorded a 18.4% reduction in primary Business, the four factories, Bhadrachalam, energy consumption which together with Tribeni, Bollaram and Kovai, together energy conservation measures implemented 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS by the Unit resulted in a 21.0% reduction in Other Units, which performed well in ITC’s Paperboards specific energy consumption as compared to improving specific energy consumption over and Specialty Papers the previous year. The Tribeni Unit has also the previous year, are: recorded a reduction of 33.2% in specific Business has been energy consumption which is primarily due rated as the most to the change in methodology of computing ITC Maurya Hotel at New Delhi 10.7% energy efficient in primary energy consumption by using the Indian Paper and measured calorific values of coal consumed (different grades), instead of default calorific Snacks Unit at Pune 9.5% Paperboards Business sector, according to ITC Gardenia Hotel at Bengaluru 8.9% the Centre for Science and Environment, New Cast coating Unit at Bollaram 7.1% Delhi in 2010 Packaging & printing Unit at Munger 6.9% Cigarette Unit at Bengaluru 6.4% Additional data on energy conservation measures implemented by ITC units are Reduction in available at www.itcportal.com under Report Specific Energy and Accounts 2013. Paperboards & Specialty ITC has registered several Clean Development Papers Business Mechanism (CDM) projects with UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Convention on 21.0% & Climate Change) under the Kyoto Protocol. 33.2% In addition, ITC is well positioned to Reduction By leverage other opportunities arising out of Paperboards Unit at India-specific schemes such as Perform, Kovai & Specialty value from IPCC as adopted during the previous Achieve and Trade (PAT) or Renewable Papers Unit at years, together with energy conservation Energy Certificates (RECs) promoted by the Tribeni measures implemented by the Unit. Government of India. There has been a substantial improvement in Personal Care Products the specific energy consumption at the Soap and Shampoo Units of the Personal Care 45% & 36.3% Products Business at Manpura (as illustrated below) which is primarily due to improvement Reduction by Units in in capacity utilisation and implementation of Manpura energy conservation measures by the Unit. BUSINESS UNIT PRODUCT 2011-12 2012-13 PERCENTAGE (GJ/Tonnes) (GJ/Tonnes) IMPROVEMENT Personal Care Manpura Shampoo 115.18* 63.37* 45.0* Personal Care Manpura Soap 1.30 0.83 36.3 *GJ/KL 67 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENLARGING ITC’S CARBON POSITIVE FOOTPRINT ITC has computed its GHG inventory, including Scope 1, 2 & 3 GHG emissions, biogenic emissions and GHG removals, in accordance with ISO 14064:2006, the latest international standard for quantification and reporting of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and removals at the organisational level, with reasonable assurance by Llyod’s Register Quality Assurance Limited. This is a unique achievement considering the size, diversification and spread of the organisation. In 2012-13, ITC’s operations (manufacturing & freight) generated total GHG emissions (scope 1, 2 & 3) of 1,474,558 tonnes of CO2 equivalent (1,563,526 tonnes in 2011-12). The reduction in GHG emissions is primarily a reflection of the energy efficiency measures taken, increased contribution of energy from renewable sources and revisions in the computation methodology by using actual calorific values of fuels consumed, (instead of default values from IPCC) which ITC has adopted as a process of standardisation in line with the ISO 14064:2006 standard. Change in the methodology of estimating GHG emissions from freight, based on emission factors derived for Indian conditions as per the report by the World Bank on road transport service efficiency study (India) – 2005, has also contributed to this reduction. For 2012-13, CO2 emissions from combustion of biomass were also computed and reported separately under the GHG inventory to meet ISO 14064:2006 and Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) requirements. Thus, the total ITC A ‘CARBON POSITIVE COMPANY’ 8th YEAR IN A ROW 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GHG emission (scope 1, 2 & 3) including Direct GHG Emissions (Scope 1) 1,150,203 biomass combustion stand at 2,313,527 tonnes of CO2 e. CO2 Emissions from combustion of biomass 838,969 ITC’s GHG inventory for the year 2012-13 is Energy Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 2) 172,121 given alongside. Other Indirect GHG Emissions (Scope 3) 152,234 GHG Removals from Social and Farm Forestry 3,689,853 Units in Tonnes #Increase in CO2 emissions Co2 Emissions in 2012-13 is primarily (Manufacturing & Freight) Co2 Sequestered due to the revision in In Kilotonnes In Kilotonnes methodology of computing the CO2 emissions in order to comply with ISO 14064:2006 requirements.1 3690*(2012-13) # 2314 (2012-13) 1352 (2007-08) 2638 (2007-08) *Dip in CO2 sequestration in 1564 (2011-12) 1143 (2006-07) 4380 (2011-12) 2025 (2006-07) 2012-13 is primarily due to 4011**(2010-11) the revision in methodology 2046 (2010-11) 1202 (2005-06) 1244 (2005-06) of computing the CO2 1709 (2009-10) 1058 (2004-05) 4785 (2009-10) 906 (2004-05) sequestration as indicated below1 in order to comply 1572 (2008-09) 1013 (2003-04) 3695 (2008-09) 311 (2003-04) with ISO 14064:2006 requirements. **Dip in CO2 sequestration in 2010-11 caused by reduced productivity of Eucalyptus Above figures rounded off to the nearest digit plantations due to infestation in some areas and lesser 1 This includes all the 6 GHG emissions under the Kyoto Protocol namely carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous incremental addition of oxide (N2O), hydrofluoro carbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and referred as CO2e. plantation area. ITC’s Social and Farm Forestry Initiatives computing CO2 sequestration by taking into have added more than 17,000 hectares of account the following factors: plantations during 2012-13. Total plantations, as on March 31, 2013, stand at over 1,42,000 1. Moisture content in the wood measured hectares. The Social and Farm Forestry from standing crop instead of harvested Initiatives have not only contributed to a wood at factory premise as done earlier. sustainable source of raw material for the Total plantations, Paperboards Business, but has also helped 2. Computation of plantation area by as on March 31, sequester 3690 Kilotonnes of CO2 in this considering the actual spacing between year, thus consolidating ITC’s status as 2013, stand at over planted rows in sample plots against a a ‘Carbon Positive Company’ for the 8th standardised spacing model adopted earlier. 142,000 hectares year in a row. Though the area under the Social and Farm Forestry Programme has The Social and Farm Forestry Programmes increased, there has been a reduction in CO2 have also created 64.04 million person days sequestration as compared to the previous of employment to date for small and marginal year due to the revision in methodology of farmers. 69 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Water Management FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Ensuring lower specific freshwater intake through water conservation measures Sustained efforts to ensure zero effluent discharge by treating and recycling waste water Integrated Watershed Management Programmes and on-site rain water harvesting Water Positive for 11 years in a row 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT W ater remains a serious concern 1. WATER CONSERVATION across the world. With climate ITC’s Watershed change aggravating the problem of Conducting water audits, benchmarking water availability, India is confronted with a and implementation of best practices Projects, covering difficult and turbulent future arising out of to achieve the lowest possible specific over 116,000 severe water stress. freshwater intake (water per unit of hectares of land, product/service). support the Water Today, India’s snow-fed rivers, such as the Positive status of Ganga and Brahmaputra, are facing serious 2. ZERO EFFLUENT the Company for the supply threats as a result of the glacial melt. Added to this, is the direct threat of reduced DISCHARGE 11th year in a row agricultural output due to disruption in Treating and progressing towards monsoon patterns. Agriculture accounts for achieving recycling of all wastewater around 90% of the total water consumption in within premises. India. The challenges posed by water scarcity are aggravated by the huge inequalities in 3. WATER POSITIVE geographical distribution as well as by the short duration of the monsoons — wherein FOOTPRINT the entire rainfall happens over a brief period Enhancing our water positive footprint of around 12 weeks in a year. through rainwater harvesting, both within our own Units and across different Given these challenges, ITC is committed watershed areas. to conserve and manage this precious natural resource. ITC’s approach to Water Management is as follows: 71 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Water Conservation Focused efforts of all Units to reduce intake by conducting I n 2012-13, ITC Units withdrew 32.15 water audits, million Kilolitres (KL) of freshwater, an WATER SOURCES benchmarking increase of 10.76% over the previous and adopting year (29.02 million KL in 2011-12). The Of the 32.15 million KL of fresh water withdrawn, leading practices increase in total freshwater intake is 79.1% of water was sourced from rivers, 18.6% primarily due to the inclusion of the total from ground water sources and only 2.3% from facilitated water withdrawn for supply to the ITC owned municipal and other water sources. the reduction integrated townships in Bhadrachalam, of specific Tribeni, Anaparti and Chirala, as well as During the year, the Paperboards & Specialty freshwater intake significant growth in almost all businesses. Papers Units at Bhadrachalam, Kovai & Focused efforts of all Units to reduce intake (water required by conducting water audits, benchmarking Tribeni together accounted for 92.2% of the total fresh water withdrawal by ITC. per unit of and adopting leading practices facilitated production) the reduction of specific freshwater intake (water required per unit of production) as illustrated in the following sections. 79.1% Sources Of Water In ITC (2012-13) Surface Water 18.6% Ground Water 2.3% Municipal & Others 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS In 2012-13, the Bhadrachalam In 2012-13, the Bhadrachalam Unit’s freshwater Unit’s freshwater PAPERBOARDS UNIT AT intake was 46.4 Kilolitre per tonne of product, intake was BHADRACHALAM a significant reduction of 3.8% over last year’s 46.4 KL/tonne 48.2 KL/tonne as a result of various water India’s largest integrated paper and conservation initiatives undertaken by the of product, paperboards mill accounted for 74.3% of Unit. It is worth mentioning that this surpasses a significant the proposed standard of 63 KL/tonne by the total fresh water intake in ITC. While the reduction of 3.8% production volumes have increased by more the National Productivity Council (NPC), for large-scale integrated pulp and paper mills. over last year’s than three times between 1998-99 and 201213, the fresh water intake of the mill has (Reference: Final Report on Development of 48.2 KL/tonne increased by only 15% during the same period. Guidelines for Water Conservation in Pulp and Paper Sector by NPC, New Delhi, March 2006). Normalised Production Versus Fresh Water Intake Comparison Of Bhadrachalam Unit 350 329 300 310 300 290 253 250 201 212 200 188 160 150 145 147 149 148 130 135 119 115 113 115 106 105 107 102 102 109 100 100 98 99 100 94 50 0 1998199920002001200220032004200520062007200820092010201120121999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total production Total fresh water intake Base year values for 1998-99, taken as 100 73 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE SPECIALTY PAPERS UNIT AT TRIBENI 58.3% Reduction The Tribeni Unit manufactures specialty paper, in specific fresh which entails a very water intensive process. The water intake over Unit has implemented various water conservation 1998-99 in measures, resulting in 58.3% reduction of specific freshwater intake per tonne of product during the the Specialty reporting period, in comparison to 1998-99 which Papers Unit at is a very positive trend. Tribeni Specific Fresh Water Intake In Tribeni Mill (Kl/Tonne) 300 250 259 233 226 200 213 178 150 128 120 124 100 107 106 117 116 108 105 99 50 0 1998199920002001200220032004200520062007200820092010201120121999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 PAPERBOARDS UNIT AT KOVAI The specific freshwater intake (KL/Tonne) in the Kovai Unit was 24.1% lower than the Specific Fresh Water specific fresh water intake during 2006-07. The Intake In Kovai (Kl/Tonne) reduction in specific fresh water intake from 16.65 KL/Tonne in 2011-12 to 15.94 KL/Tonne 25 in 2012-13 has been achieved through various 21.01 water conservation measures undertaken by 20 the Unit during 2012-13. 17.31 16.65 15.31 15.94 15 13.97 13.1 10 05 0 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS This specific freshwater intake of 15.94 KL/ over last year, as a result of various water Tonne surpasses the proposed standard conservation initiatives undertaken during of 19 KL/Tonne set by NPC in New Delhi in 2012-13 as well as increased capacity The specific 2006 for this category of paper mills. The utilisation, are illustrated below: freshwater intake other Units which have achieved significant reduction in their specific fresh water intake of 15.94 KL/Tonne for the Kovai Unit BUSINESS UNIT UNIT OF PRODUCT MEASUREMENT 2011-12 2012-13 IMPROVEMENT % surpasses the proposed standard Paperboards and Cast Specialty Papers Bollaram Coating Litre/Kg 0.67 0.47 30.1 of 19 KL/Tonne Foods Pune Snacks Litre/Kg 6.76 5.07 24.9 set by NPC in New Surya Nepal Delhi in 2006 for KL/Million Tobacco Private Limited Unit Cigarettes Cigarettes 12.30 9.44 23.3 this category of Equivalent at Simra, Nepal paper mills Personal Care Manpura Shampoo Litre/Litre 117.80 92.25 21.7 Products KL/Million Tobacco Munger Cigarettes Cigarettes 5.36 4.39 18.0 Equivalent Foods Haridwar Snacks Litre/Kg 4.37 3.60 17.6 KL/Million Tobacco Kolkata Cigarettes Cigarettes 2.31 1.92 16.8 Equivalent ITC’s Paperboards & Specialty Papers Unit at Bollaram and Foods Unit at Pune have achieved substantial savings in specific freshwater intake 75 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Effluent Discharge Paperboards and Specialty Papers I TC is committed to achieving zero In 2012-13, of the total treated effluent Business Units at effluent discharge through treating discharged (22.89 million KL), 71.87% was Kovai and Bollaram, and recycling of all wastewater and utilised by nearby communities for irrigation Packaging & harvesting of rainwater on its properties. purposes. 26.98% was discharged into rivers Printing Unit This not only reduces fresh water intake and the balance was discharged to dedicated but also maximises groundwater recharge, municipal outlets. at Tiruvottiyur, reduces run off etc. Personal Care In 2012-13, the two Paperboards & Specialty Products Business Many ITC Units have already achieved the goal Papers Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Unit at Manpura, of zero effluent discharge. These include: accounted for 98.29% of total wastewater Cigarette Factories Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business discharged outside the Unit premises in ITC. Units at Kovai and Bollaram, Packaging & The quality of the treated effluent from the at Bengaluru, Printing Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Personal Care Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units is Saharanpur Products Business Unit at Manpura, Cigarette far better than the stipulated standards, as & Pune, Leaf Factories at Bengaluru, Saharanpur & Pune, depicted in the graph below. Processing Units at Leaf Processing Units at Anaparti & Chirala, ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre at Treated Effluent Quality: Annual Average (2012Anaparti & Chirala, 2013) ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Units Bengaluru & Research Centre at Rajahmundry, ITC Life Sciences & and ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon. Technology Centre 300 250 at Bengaluru & Across different ITC businesses, appropriate 250 Research Centre at effluent treatment technologies are employed 200 depending on the nature of effluent. These 167 Rajahmundry, and include technologies such as MBBR (Moving 150 124131 ITC Green Centre Bed Biofilm Reactor), MBR (Membrane 100 100 at Gurgaon have Bioreactor), etc. In addition, DEWATS 50 30 59 40 achieved the goal (Decentralised Waste Water Treatment 22 7 8 17 System) has also been used in some of our of zero effluent 0 manufacturing units and residential colonies. discharge BOD COD TSS Apart from meeting the effluent norms set Bhadrachalam Tribeni by the regulatory bodies, all our Units are in Kovai National Standard Limits compliance with defined internal norms, more BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand stringent than the statutory limits to maximise COD Chemical Oxygen Demand TSS Total Suspended Solids reuse and recycling. All units in mg/l and figures rounded off to nearest digit 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS The Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Units are also well within the norms of 100 KL/Tonne of product, prescribed by the Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP), a voluntary charter by the Ministry of Environment & Forests and Central Pollution Control Board for Specific Treated Effluent Discharge: large pulp and paper manufacturing units with In ITC Paperboards & Specialty Papers Units (KL/Tonne) 100* respect to specific treated effluent discharge. *As per 90 CREP norms The National Productivity Council (NPC)’s 80 74.4 72.5 71.1 Report on ‘Proposed Standard for Pulp and 68.5 70 63.9 63.0 63.7 Paper Industries in India’ recommends a 59.1 59.6 59.8 60 benchmark standard of 50 KL/Tonne of specific 48.0 50 44.9 45.0 43.4 treated effluent discharge for the integrated pulp and paper industry, which is applicable to our 40 Unit at Bhadrachalam. The current level of 43.4 30 KL/Tonne at Bhadrachalam is again better than 20 the proposed NPC benchmark. 10 0 Similarly, the NPC Report suggests a Bhadrachalam Tribeni benchmark standard of 15 m3/Tonne for wastepaper-based pulp and paper mills. 2006-2007 2007-2008 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2012-2013 ITC’s Unit at Kovai, which falls under the wastepaper-based pulp and paper mills category achieved zero discharge of treated effluent this year, fully meeting the intent of this standard. ITC’s Units at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni are already well within norms (100 KL/Tonne) of specific treated effluent discharge, as defined by Corporate Responsibility for Environmental Protection (CREP), a voluntary charter by the Ministry of Environment & Forests and Central Pollution Control Board 77 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE In the current year, the Absorbable Organic of product, which is well within national and Halides (AOX), level (applicable only to the international benchmark figures as depicted Unit at Bhadrachalam) was 0.0087 Kg/Tonne below: Specific AOX Levels In Bhadrachalam Unit (Kg/Tonne) National and international benchmark standards for specific AOX Levels in Kg/Tonne 0.012 0.0110 Units in Kg/Tonne 0.01 Indian Paper/Paperboard mills* 0.46-0.8 0.0087## 0.0083 European Paper Industries# 0.029 0.008 0.0074 World Bank Standard** 0.25 0.006 0.0051 * Average as per Comprehensive Industry Document for Large Scale Paper Mills, study conducted by Central Pulp and Paper Research 0.004 Institute, 2007 0.0024 # CEPI (Confederation of European Paper 0.002 Industries), Sustainability Report 2011 0.0006 ** World Bank Guideline for New Paper Mills (2007) 0 2006200720082009201020112012##Increased bleached pulp production (which 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 is the main source for AOX in the process) in 2012-13 as compared to that in 2011-12 together with a reduction in pulp-mill water consumption has resulted in increased concentration of AOX In the current year, in the effluent. the Absorbable Organic Halides (AOX), level (applicable only to the Bhadrachalam Unit) was a mere 0.0087 Kg/ tonne of product, which is well within national and international benchmarks ITCWATER POSITIVE FOR 11 CONSECUTIVE YEARS 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Enlarging A Water Positive Footprint T he continued focus on rainwater 116,000 hectares of land, support the Water harvesting both in the Company Positive status of the Company for the 11th premises and in the catchment areas year in a row. The total rainwater harvesting of the Company’s Agri-Business operations potential created by the Company so far is has enlarged our water positive footprint. over two times the net water consumption by our operations. As on March 31, 2013, ITC’s Watershed Development Projects, covering over WATER BALANCE 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 AT ITC -03 -04 -05 -06 -07 -08 -09 -10 -11 -12 -13 Fresh water intake 24.10 22.48 24.98 25.58 25.79 27.46 32.72 29.96 29.36 29.02 32.15 Treated effluents 14.64 14.04 19.55 20.96 19.58 18.92 24.52 23.41 22.21 22.80 22.89 discharged Percentage of treated effluent utilised for irrigation by ** ** 86.90 86.80 80.50 79.40 72.30 84.80 60.70 68.50 71.87 nearby community Net water consumption 9.49 8.44 5.43 4.62 6.21 8.54 8.20 6.55 7.15 6.22 9.26 RWH potential created 0.24 0.39 0.34 0.61 0.47 0.42 0.50 0.42 0.92 0.67 0.67 within ITC units RWH potential created through watershed projects 12.50 15.67 16.52 18.99 23.12 25.42 19.43 20.18 18.97 20.38 20.8 (cumulative for that year) Total RWH potential created 12.74 16.06 16.86 19.60 23.59 25.84 19.93* 20.60* 19.89* 21.05* 21.47* (for the year) * ‘RWH potential’ figures account for silt deposits in various watershed structures. The adjustments are based on actual sample measurements & the extent of silt deposit depends on the age & location of a structure ** Not available All figures in Million KL, except percentage 79 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Recycling And Waste Management FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Resource conservation 100% recycling Use of post-consumer waste as raw material 80 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In alignment with ITC’s commitment to reduce its environmental impact and create a positive environmental footprint, we have implemented several measures in waste management T 2. SEGREGATION AT SOURCE he issue of waste management has assumed critical importance for the country today, given its All ITC Units are required to ensure ever-increasing population, higher that wastes are segregated at source consumption levels and inadequate in accordance with Company-defined infrastructure. guidelines. This ensures maximum reuse/recycling of waste. For example, Often considered to be only an urban it is ensured that paper waste is not phenomenon, inadequate waste management contaminated with wet waste, which seriously threatens the quality of life would render it unrecoverable. throughout the country. Across the country, heaps of unattended 3. TOWARDS 100% RECYCLING waste, foraged by cattle and rag-pickers alike, have become an integral part of today’s Each category of waste is individually life. This is responsible for a number of addressed and tracked to ensure that serious public health concerns, in addition it can be reused, if possible, and if not, to crucial issues like land and groundwater recycled. This ensures that almost no contamination. waste from our businesses lands up in municipal or private landfills. In alignment with ITC’s commitment to reduce its environmental impact and create a positive environmental footprint, we have 4. CREATING A POSITIVE implemented the following measures in ENVIRONMENTAL waste management: FOOTPRINT Increase consumption of externally generated 1. RESOURCE CONSERVATION wastepaper as a source of fibre instead of Reduce waste generation through virgin fibre. Apart from the direct environmental constant monitoring of specific waste benefits of reduced consumption of power, generation data at all ITC Units. water and chemicals, this also brings about the additional public benefit of encouraging better waste management. 81 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Resource Conservation I Specific waste n 2012-13, ITC Units, generated 6,82,405 has been achieved due to the improved generation reduction tonnes of waste. This 2.8% increase over capacity utilisation and initiatives on yield over the previous year at Personal Care Units last year in the total waste generated improvement in the Units. Other Units, is due to higher production volumes in with significant reduction in specific waste almost all businesses. However, most of the generation in 2012-13, are as listed below: 45.4% business Units have achieved reduction in at Manpura specific waste generation (waste generated 24.6% (Shampoo) Unit per unit of production). Paperboards & Specialty Paper Unit at Kovai 34.7% Most of the waste was generated by our at Manpura (Soap) Unit Paperboards & Specialty Papers Division (90.8%). The Bhadrachalam Unit, which 23.6% accounts for 77.7% of total waste generated in WelcomHotel 27.8% ITC, has reduced specific waste generation to Sheraton New Delhi at Haridwar (Soap) Unit 1,111 kg per tonne of paper/paperboard in 201213 from 1,127 kg/tonne in 2011-12. According 19.9% There has been to the Centre for Science and Environment Packaging and Printing a substantial Report, ‘All About Paper’ (2004), similar mills generated around 1,200 kg of solid waste per Business at Haridwar reduction in the tonne of paper produced. specific waste 19.4% generation at the There has been a substantial reduction in ITC Maurya Personal Care specific waste generation at the Soap Units Products Business of the Personal Care Products Business Units at Manpura & Haridwar and Snacks 14.9% Units at Manpura Units of the Foods Business at Haridwar & ITC Kakatiya and Haridwar Pune (as illustrated in the table below), which The significant reduction in specific waste BUSINESS UNIT PRODUCT 2011-12 2012-13 % IMPROVEMENT generation in the Kovai Unit is due to the (Kg/tonne) (Kg/tonne) OVER LAST YEAR reduction of flyash generation brought Personal Manpura Shampoo 168.9* 92.1* 45.4 about by replacing lignite with biomass Care residues as fuel and increased utilisation Personal Manpura Soap 32.0 20.9 34.7 Care of wind power, while the above mentioned Personal Haridwar Soap 52.4 37.8 27.8 Hotels and the Packaging and Printing Unit Care at Haridwar have achieved this reduction Food Haridwar Snacks 141.2 101.2 28.3 by implementing process improvements. Food Pune Snacks 150.8 131.3 12.9 * Unit is Kg/kl 82 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Business-wise breakup of wastes generated in ITC (2012-13) 90.8% 3.4% 2.1% 1.4% Paperboards & Specialty Papers 1.2% Packaging & Printing Leaf Tobacco In 2012-13, 99% of 0.7% Foods & Personal Care Products hazardous waste Cigarettes was recycled and the balance 1% Hotels 0.4% disposed/stored in Others (Offices, ITC Infotech, accordance with Education & Stationery applicable statutes Products, Lifestyle Retailing etc) SEGREGATION OF WASTE Of the total waste generated, only 2.9% by weight is hazardous waste as per the relevant Indian statutes. In 2012-13, 99% of this hazardous waste was recycled as detailed below and the balance 1% disposed/stored in accordance with applicable statutes. All Units have established systems/ procedures to verify the authorisation/ licenses of the hazardous waste recyclers in order to ensure that they are in compliance with legal regulations and norms. Corporate EHS verifies compliance in each of the units, at an interval not exceeding 18 months. HAZARDOUS WASTE ITEM QUANTITY (TONNES) DISPOSAL Sludge from effluent treatment plant of 18,814 To authorised agencies Paperboards and Specialty Papers factories 35 Authorised Landfill 392 Decontaminated and returned to original suppliers Empty containers of hazardous chemicals 5 In-house storage Used oil/waste contaminated with oil/ 90 To authorised recyclers oil soaked cotton waste 8 Incinerated/In-house storage 5 In-house storage Used batteries 108 Returned to original suppliers Spent solvents/ink/ink sludge/ 87 Recycled adhesives/Process waste/ Chemical Incinerated or sent to authorised sludge/ Sludge from fuel tanks 179 landfills/stored within the Unit Biomedical waste 2 Incinerated/Autoclaved 50 Recycled E Waste 7 In-house storage 83 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Towards 99.80% 100% Recycling of waste was recycled in 2012-13 S Total waste and its ince generation of waste cannot integrated Paper & Paperboards mill, destination (2012-13) be completely eliminated due to recycled 99.9% of its waste in 2012-13. limitations in processes or technology, In 2012-13, ITC generated 2,87,950 tonnes of all ITC Businesses/Units are mandated fly ash, (42% of total waste in ITC), 100% of to ensure recycling of entire (100%) waste which has been utilised for brick making and generated. This not only conserves precious cement manufacturing. natural resources and energy but also 6,82,405 prevents waste from reaching landfills, with all its attendant problems like health hazards, In line with our commitment to consolidate our Total Waste waste recycling positive status, many of our increase in GHG emissions, soil and ground Units, have already achieved total recycling water contamination, etc. of waste generated out of their operations. The following Units reused/recycled the In addition, Recycling also creates entire waste (more than 99%) generated from significant employment opportunities for the 102 marginalised sections of society. their operations: On Site Cigarette factories at Munger, Bengaluru, Storage WASTE DESTINATION Saharanpur, Kolkata and Pune, Paperboards & Specialty Papers Units at Bhadrachalam We have ensured recycling of 99.8% of the total and Tribeni, Personal Care Business Units at waste generated in all the ITC Business Units. Haridwar, Foods Business Units at Haridwar (Snacks) and Pune, Packaging & Printing It is noteworthy that ITC’s Unit at Business Unit at Tiruvottiyur, Leaf Threshing Bhadrachalam, which is India’s largest 1,174 Business Unit at Anaparti, Research Centre at Incineration Progress On Waste Recycling and Landfill 700 99.8 99.8 99.9 99.8 100 98.9 98.8 663 682 90 600 93.1 579 638 80 500 80.7 78.7 490 70 400 60 353 315 304 50 6,81,129 300 200 281 40 30 Reused/Recycled 20 100 10 0 0 Reuse/Recycle includes 20042005200620072008200920102011201210,224 tonnes of wastes 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 composted. All above Units are in Tonnes. Percentage Recycling Wastes generated in Kilotonnes 84 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Rajamundry, ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, Surya Nepal’s Cigarette factory at Simra, 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 and ITC Hotels ITC Maurya, ITC Maratha, Total waste ITC Grand Central, ITC Windsor, ITC Mughal, generated (tonnes) 3,52,970 4,90,180 5,78,865 6,38,405 6,63,796 6,82,405 ITC Gardenia, ITC Kakatiya, ITC Sonar, My Fortune Chennai, ITC Rajputana and Sheraton Waste recycled 3,49,264 4,84,287 5,77,766 6,37,452 6,62,978 6,81,129 (tonnes) New Delhi. % Recycled 98.90% 98.80% 99.80% 99.80% 99.90% 99.80% WASTE USED AS RAW Un-recycled waste (tonnes) 3,706 5,893 1,099 953 818 1,276 MATERIALS External wastes used as raw 1,63,245 1,25,337 1,25,931 1,19,002 1,15,414 1,18,462 materials (tonnes) As depicted above, the high degree of Waste recycling recycling achieved across ITC’s Units together footprint (%)* 145 124 122 119 117 117 with the use of post consumer waste by the Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units at * Waste Recycling footprint (%): (Waste recycled + external waste used as raw material) X 100 / Total waste generated in ITC Kovai and Bhadrachalam create yet another positive environmental footprint. health and hygiene but also CREATING WEALTH generates cost-effective raw materials for the paper, plastics, OUT OF WASTE metal and glass industries. ( WOW ) What started in a small way in households has now spread to schools, government offices, Corporates and other TC’s WOW initiative not institutions. The WOW initiative only creates awareness which commenced in 2007 with among the people about the an average monthly collection of advantages of the “Reduce100 tonnes, has spread across Reuse-Recycle” process to South India and 26,731 tonnes protect the environment, and of waste was collected through improve civic amenities, public this initiative in 2012-13. ITC SOLID WASTE RECYCLING POSITIVE FOR 6 YEARS IN A ROW 85 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Significant Air Emissions FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Cleaner fuels Monitoring combustion efficiencies to achieve lower specific emissions Investments in state-of-the-art pollution control equipment 86 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I TC continued to invest in reducing air emission levels through adoption of cleaner technologies/fuels, monitoring of combustion efficiencies and investment in state-of-the-art pollution control equipment, such as plasma filters and electrostatic precipitators. All our Units monitor significant air emission parameters, such as Particulate Matter (PM), Nitrogen Oxides (NOX) and Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) on a regular basis to ensure compliance with internal norms that are more stringent than regulatory requirements. In 2012-13, the total significant air emissions included 690 tonnes of PM, 649 tonnes of NOX and 790 tonnes of SO2 emission (in 201112, PM: 701, NOX: 732 and SO2: 841 tonnes). The decrease in the total emissions over last year is due to the reduced use of internally generated energy from fossil fuels in ITC and increased energy utilisation from ITC owned wind farms. In 2012-13, PM emission from Bhadrachalam was 0.96 kg per BDMT (Bone-Dry Metric Tonne) of production, an improvement of 4.1% over the previous year (1.00 kg/BDMT in 2011-12). As per the report by the Centre for Science & Environment, large-scale Indian mills typically emit 3.8 kg/BDMT (Source: ‘All About Paper – The life cycle of Indian Pulp and Paper Industry’, Green Rating project, stipulated in European countries, as 2004). illustrated below: In 2012-13, the specific NOX emission in Bhadrachalam was better than the standards NOx (Kg/tonne) Bhadrachalam 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 All our Units monitor 0.43 0.69 0.60 0.58 0.46 0.35 significant air Standards emission parameters Sweden 1.2-2.4 such as Particulate EU 1.0-1.8 Matter (PM), Nitrogen EU-BAT* 1.0-1.5 Oxides (NOX) and Reported Values Sulphur Dioxide (SO2) CEPI** 0.85 Sources – on a regular basis 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Pulp & Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT:EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European paper Industries, Sustainability Report 2011 87 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The Bhadrachalam Unit is also progressing towards achieving international standards on specific SO2 emission levels, as given below: SO2 (Kg/tonne) Bhadrachalam 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 0.5 0.84 0.79 0.74 0.61 0.53 Standards Sweden 0.5-1.4 EU 0.1-0.5 EU-BAT* 0.2-0.4 Reported Values CEPI** 0.24 Sources – 1. Comprehensive Industry Document for Large-Scale Pulp & Paper Mills, study done by CPPRI, published by CPCB, 2007 *EU-BAT:EU Norm Best Available technology 2. ** CEPI – Confederation of European paper Industries, Sustainability Report 2011 In addition to the above parameters, our Paperboards Unit at Bhadrachalam also OZONE DEPLETING monitors Hydrogen Sulphide. The average measured value for the year 2012-13 was SUBSTANCES (ODS) 2.34 mg/Nm3, which was much lower than the regulatory norm of 10mg/Nm3. ITC had developed and implemented an ODS phase out plan in accordance with the Government of India’s ODS Rules, 2000, All other Units are also making concerted formulated to comply with the Montreal efforts to reduce specific emission levels. Protocol, 1987, which regulates/bans Significant reduction in specific emission the use of ozone depleting substances levels in some of the Units in ITC along with internationally. the improvement over the previous year as depicted below has been achieved primarily through use of better quality fuels as well as The salient features of ITC’s Plan on ODS increased utilisation of wind energy. phase-out are: All newly purchased equipment to be free of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC), Halons and Methyl Chloroform (MCF). All Units to monitor and reduce consumption of ODS. BUSINESS UNIT LOCATION % IMPROVEMENT IN SPECIFIC EMISSION OF PM NOx SO2 Replace all the existing equipment using ODS well before the phase out stipulation. Leaf Threshing Anarpati 13.5 28.8 30.9 Recover all the ODS from the equipment Cigarettes Bengaluru 10.9 51.6 46.6 being replaced for recycling or safe disposal. Personal Care-Soap Unit Haridwar 39.7 40.7 42.7 In 2012-13, the total consumption of ODS by all our Units was 200.5 kg of CFC-11 Paperboards and Tribeni 42.5 16.4 17.3 equivalent. Specialty Papers 88 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT OF CHEMICALS, OILS AND FUELS All our Units manage chemicals, oils and fuels as per defined ITC norms, which take into account all statutory requirements and international best practices. These norms are taken into consideration right from the design stage and include measures for leakage/ spillage prevention, containment provisions, impervious flooring, leak detection system as well as all requirements as per Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) for hazardous chemicals. Safe work practices on handling and storage, procedures for leak detection and spill control and preventive maintenance have been instituted to avoid any incidence of uncontrolled spills or leakage. The effectiveness of these measures is checked on a regular basis. BEYOND COMPLIANCE We also continuously evaluate the feasibility of substituting hazardous chemicals with State-of-the-art processes and technologies less or non-hazardous materials. implemented in all our Units ensure benchmarked performance across ITC. In 2012-13, In 2012-13, there was no significant spill of any chemical, oil, fuel or hazardous waste in Environment, Occupational Health & Safety there was no any of our Units. management systems in our Units conform significant spill to the best international standards, such as of any chemical, ISO 14001/OHSAS 18001/HACCP etc and are oil, fuel or certified by accredited third party agencies. BIODIVERSITY hazardous Apart from third party audits, Corporate waste in any of Our Units/operations do not have any EHS experts audit every unit at periodic our Units significant impact on biodiversity. intervals not exceeding 18 months to ensure compliance to statutory norms and Corporate All new/expansion projects have been EHS requirements. undertaken after due Environmental Impact Assessments (EIA) and stakeholder There were no fines or monetary sanctions consultations, as applicable. Environmental for non-compliance with environmental Management Plans, where required as per laws/regulations in any ITC Unit during the EIA studies, are implemented along with 2012-13. projects. 89 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Material Sustainability In ITC’s Businesses A In 2012-13, ITC ll ITC Units continue to pursue 2. INDUSTRIAL SUPPLIES AND consumed over efficient use of raw materials through extensive R&D and waste EXPORTS 24,00,000 tonnes of elimination/reduction through Paper; Paperboards; Packaging; Leaf externally sourced process management. In addition, all Tobacco; etc raw materials, out Businesses are focused on sustainable of which close sourcing of raw materials to ensure their 3. SERVICES long-term availability at fair market prices. to 97% of raw Hotels and ITC Infotech materials are agri A large proportion of raw materials used in based products ITC businesses are agricultural produce. Our Since ITC is vertically integrated to a large extent, grown on long Social and Farm Forestry models, watershed it provides opportunities for successive value management programmes, empowering addition, within the system for several categories standing farm land of products such as paperboards for packaging. the marginal farmers through e-Choupals or low productivity (described elsewhere in this report), etc This integration provides the Company unique wastelands have helped us progress towards raw opportunities to establish synergy thereby material sustainability in ITC Businesses. minimising environmental impact through In 2012-13, ITC consumed over 24,00,000 optimum utilisation of raw materials, recycling/ tonnes of externally sourced raw materials, reuse of wastes and optimum logistics and out of which close to 97% are agri based transportation. This synergy, significantly, products grown on long standing farm land reduces the environmental footprint of ITC or low productivity wastelands. products and services. We have completed studies on life cycle assessment of different products. Based on the ENVIRONMENTAL learnings that have emanated, we plan to carry FOOTPRINT OF OUR out more such studies of products/services PRODUCTS to evaluate the environmental impacts at the various life cycle stages and thereby identify opportunities for improving their environmental ITC products can be broadly classified into attributes. the following categories: 1. FMCG (B TO C) PRODUCTS Cigarettes, Foods, Personal Care Products 90 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS at Kovai and Bhadrachalam and the of the leaf litter from multi-species RESPONSIBLE balance 27% is imported pulp used at Bhadrachalam and Tribeni Units. plantations and the promotion of leguminous intercrops, depleted SOURCING OF 100% of virgin fibre manufactured in soils are constantly enriched. These Bhadrachalam is from wood sourced efforts are supported by internal R&D WOOD FIBRE from our Social and Farm Forestry (which has produced high yielding, initiatives whereas the fibre used site specific, disease resistant at the Kovai Unit is from recycled eucalyptus and subabul clones) fibre ensuring that 100% of wood together with extensive knowledge Wood is a major source of fibre for and recycled fibre used by ITC’s of plantation management practices. the paper and paperboards industry. Paperboards and Specialty Papers ITC distributed around 110 million Availability of wood remains a Business are of known and legal high quality saplings to farmers and critical challenge and is a serious origin. increased the area covered by Social sustainability concern, especially in a and Farm Foresty to over 17,000 Apart from the obvious benefits of country with limited natural resources hectares during the year. increasing the green cover, plantation and acute income inequities. on degradable wastelands under Approximately 52% of the total fibre the Social Forestry programme requirements of ITC’s Paperboards also directly contributes to in-situ and Specialty Papers Division is met moisture conservation, ground water by the Organisation’s Social and recharge and significant reduction in Farm Forestry projects, another 21% topsoil losses caused by wind and comes from recycled fibre, processed water erosion. In addition, as a result 91 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The Agro-forestry ITC’S NEW INITIATIVE for agriculture crop. This programme was kicked off in the month of April, 2010 and so programme was ON SUSTAINABLE AGROfar 2,427 hectares of land has been covered kicked off in the FORESTRY FOR WOOD AND under the Agro-forestry model. month of April, 2010 and so far FOOD SECURITY 2427 hectares of A new concept named as “Agro-forestry Model” FOREST STEWARDSHIP land has has been evolved after a series of experimental COUNCIL been covered trials with different planting geometries. Under under this model this model, pulpwood trees are planted in rows CERTIFICATIONS leaving a wide gap of 8 m between rows to allow maximum sunlight for growing food Further consolidating ITC’s Triple Bottom crops. The primary advantage of this model Line performance, the four units of ITC’s is that every year, the farmer can cultivate Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division food crops and also harvest the trees after i.e Bhadrachalam, Bollaram, Kovai and 4 years interval. The food crop facilitates an Tribeni, received the prestigious ‘FSC Chain additional annual income for the farmers and of Custody’ Certification from 2009 onwards in case of the food crop loss due to drought, and have been maintaining it. flood, pest, diseases, etc the income from the tree harvest would hedge the risk for The FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) is the farmers. It is noteworthy that the land an independent, non-governmental; not-forallocation to forestry in such models is only profit organisation established to promote 25% and the remaining 75% land is available the responsible management of the world’s 92 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS forests and is recognised as the gold standard sustainable business practices and to the in wood certification for ethical and legal building of an inclusive and secure future for sourcing. The FSC is represented in more both its stake holders and the larger society. than 107 countries around the world, and is the most widely accepted and respected In continuation of its commitment to expand amongst forest product certification its scope, the organisation also got about schemes. 8,028 hectares of plantations owned by more than 9,000 small and marginal farmers FSC endorsement implies that an certified for FSC – Forest Management organisation complies with its principles with ITC as Group Manager. This ensures and criteria in the different areas of its more supply of FSC certified wood to its functioning. ITC’s Paperboards & Specialty operations thereby giving options of reaching Papers Division can now supply FSC certified more certified material to the market. This paper/paperboards from all its four Units certification brings better environmental with the FSC certification of ‘FSC Mixed’ or practices and improves social benefits to the ‘FSC Recycled’. The FSC logo on products community around the Khammam district of enables customers to buy our products Andhra Pradesh where the farm plots are with confidence knowing that the products/ located. ITC is planning to bring in more packaging are from legal, sustainable and areas under the above group certification in well managed sources. the future. The FSC certification for ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units exemplifies the organisation’s continued commitment to 93 Social Performance Labour Practices and Decent Work Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal Product Responsibility SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Labour Practices And Decent Work FOR ALL OUR Supporting livelihoods for over TOMORROWS 5 million people Building a future-ready talent bank Strong focus on occupational health and safety Progressing towards zero accidents 96 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT performance and an enabling professional STAKEHOLDER work environment. ENGAGEMENT ITC’s robust strategy of organisation and empowering work culture constitute the EMPLOYEES framework for enhanced corporate vitality. ITC has made significant investments in ITC’s strategic agenda of enhancing developing talent across the organisational competitiveness and creating engines spectrum – from frontline managers to for profitable and sustainable growth has business leaders, all geared to galvanise been powered by developing and nurturing the Company to enhance its capability and quality talent and blending proven skills agility, manage change proactively, stay and capabilities drawn from each of its ahead of competition and win in the market. businesses. Each business focuses on Organisational vitality and competitiveness engaging employees through communication have been enhanced through various meetings, mentoring, suggestion schemes, initiatives aimed at: engagement surveys and talent recognition programmes. Creating an environment where employees are inspired, engaged and aligned with the Company’s Vision, Mission and Core Values. ITC has succeeded in attracting and retaining quality talent through various initiatives that Fostering a climate of innovation and focus on enhancing personal development continuous learning. and growth, an empowering work culture Developing leaders from a diverse pool of that facilitates high levels of engagement and talented and passionate individuals. Our Talent Management strategy is focused on building a ‘futureready’ talent bank in the organisation to ensure a pipeline of high quality managerial talent, specialists and business leadership 97 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE learning and development; a culture of ENGAGING TALENT empowerment, care and concern supported by systems and processes that encourage Our Talent Management strategy is focused engagement and involvement. on building a ‘future-ready’ talent bank in the organisation to ensure a pipeline of Creating a responsive, stakeholder-centric high quality managerial talent, specialists and market-focused culture that enhances and business leaders. This is premised on organisational capability and vitality. attracting, developing and retaining highquality talent. ITC’s talent brand “Building winning businesses. Building business BUILDING BUSINESS leaders. Creating value for India.”, reflects its commitment to nurture world-class talent LEADERS whilst providing them the opportunity to We recruit quality talent from premier develop as leaders and make a contribution campuses across the country through an to a larger purpose. Our talent engagement objective and robust selection process. New approach is focussed on: entrants are assigned to various businesses Attracting and nurturing quality talent of the Company and are deployed across the supported by significant investments in country. Our strategy of organisation is based 98 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS on the principle of distributed leadership in focused culture that enhances organisational order to unleash the entrepreneurial energies capability and vitality. of our human resources. The strategy of organisation and its on-going emphasis During 2012-13, our full-time direct on developing and supporting distributed employees numbered over 31,000 of which leadership have ensured that each of our 2,202 employees were engaged on a Company’s businesses are managed by a seasonal basis (in the Leaf Tobacco business team of competent, passionate and inspiring due to the very nature of this business). leaders. Of the total number of employees 3,043 were women. SUPPORTING Gender-Wise Employee Break up COMMUNITIES: 30000 GENERATING 25000 Employee Numbers EMPLOYMENT, 20000 ENHANCING 15000 EMPLOYABILITY 10000 We encourage local employment in our 5000 manufacturing Units and hotels, depending on the availability of requisite skills. In 0 some of our Units, we also partner with Male Female local Industrial Training Institutes to provide vital inputs to the management of these The various service providers engaged by institutions. A large number of youth are also the Company during the period employed provided apprentice training opportunities in approximately 15,000 persons. our manufacturing Units. The different value chains related to our businesses provide indirect employment to Age-Wise Employee Break up over 5 million people, whose livelihoods are substantially linked to their association with the Company. Our supply and distribution and 16000 14634 The harmonious agri-sourcing network as well as initiatives under Social and Farm Forestry, e-Choupals, 14000 relations at all Women’s Empowerment and micro12000 operating Units 11531 enterprises and Livestock Development are a reflection 10000 provide indirect employment to millions. of the Company’s Employee Numbers 8000 approach to employee HUMAN RESOURCES 6000 5058 engagement AT ITC 4000 focusing on a 2000 collaborative Our human resource management systems and processes aim at creating a responsive, 0 approach and empowering, customer-centric and market <30 30-50 50< mutuality of interests 99 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Over 13,000 of our direct employees are members of various unions. Employees are LEARNING AND involved in the implementation of best in DEVELOPMENT class technology and process improvements aimed at enhancing productivity, quality and ITC’s Learning and Development initiatives delivery effectiveness. are geared to ‘Build ITC’s talent and leadership pipeline to power our engines of growth The harmonious relations at all operating and enhance organisational capability to Units are a reflection of the Company’s compete, win in the market place and create approach to employee engagement focusing enduring value for our stakeholders.’ The on a collaborative approach and mutuality of Capability Development Agenda flows from interests. There were no industrial disputes ITC’s Mission, ITC’s Strategic Agenda, the in ITC Units, nor did the Company lose any 3-Horizon Growth Strategy and ITC’s Vision. working days on account of the same during 2012-13. Learning and Development initiatives offered during 2012-13 were aligned with this agenda. The on-going core programmes were ATTRITION revitalised to reflect the emerging capability requirements. In addition to core programmes, ITC’s unique employee value proposition and customised programmes were also offered to the integrated approach to managing human address the needs expressed by businesses, resources enabled attraction, retention and aimed at building specific capabilities at motivation of employees. The overall attrition various levels of the organisation. across management and non-management employees for 2012-13 was 12%. 100 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Planning for initiatives in this area begins Learning & Development (Average per employee for each employee category) much before the commencement of the year and flows from the various Business 12.0 Plans and capability requirements emerging 10.3 thereof. Business HR teams work closely 10.0 Person Days with the Corporate HR team in implementing 8.0 the initiatives for Learning and Development. 6.5 Employee training at the factory level is 6.0 5.4 undertaken after assessment of skill gaps or after evaluation of emergent technology or 4.0 3.0 2.9 skill needs. The process is proactive and well2.0 structured. 0.0 In 2012-13, more than 1,42,000 personUnskilled Semi skilled Clerical, Management Non days of formal training were organised for skilled and Management highly skilled (below Level 7) employees at various levels. In addition, onthe-job learning opportunities were provided Employee Category to a cross-section of employees supported by inputs from peers and superiors. 101 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Occupational Health And Safety I TC gives special emphasis to the A comprehensive incident/accident Occupational Health & Safety interests reporting system has been established in all of its employees (including that of Units. These incidents/accidents undergo service providers) and all visitors to a thorough investigation for identifying its establishments. This is ensured through root causes and accordingly, corrective/ adherence to Corporate Environment, Health preventive measures are initiated. The & Safety Guidelines, which incorporates findings and recommendations are also best international standards and practices. discussed in the Safety Committee meetings Corporate resources and expert third party to ensure complete management and agencies audit all ITC establishments on a employee buy in. In order to disseminate periodic basis in order to verify compliance. The the learnings from accidents, details of EHS performence of all ITC Units is reviewed serious accidents, along with the root cause periodically at the Corporate Management analysis and proposed corrective measures Committee level. are communicated across the Company. This enables Units to take proactive action in eliminating/controlling similar situations. TOWARDS ZERO ACCIDENT Based on the root-cause analyses of All our factories, hotels and large offices accidents over the years, the approach to have established Environment, Health & safety has been redefined with the focus Safety (EHS) Management systems with now on fostering a culture of safety and designated roles and responsibilities, use of behavioural architecture techniques. competent EHS resources and safety This is being enabled by the creation of an infrastructure, which are continuously organisation wide culture of safety, involving upgraded to achieve compliance with best individual ownership and integrating with international standards. In addition, strong business processes which also support a employee involvement is encouraged “One Unit-One team” approach. Such a shared through participation in suggestion schemes, ownership not only ensures accountability celebration of EHS events etc. but also provides the opportunity for optimisation in safety hardware costs. The process of risk assessment has been institutionalised across Businesses The safety management system is being wherein risks are systematically identified tuned to ensure that training and other and mitigation plans implemented. All new communications are relevant and that local projects and major renovation jobs are socio-economic context are factored in reviewed and vetted at the design stage by to make the transition from “awareness Corporate EHS experts and engineering developed” to “changed behaviour”. This control measures are implemented at the approach which combines empowerment project stage itself. Pre commissioning audits and ownership with targeted interventions are also conducted to ensure compliance and strict accountability should help us in with all EHS requirements. achieving our goal of “Zero Accidents”. 102 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ON-SITE SAFETY PERFORMANCE In ITC, Lost Time Accident (LTA) is defined as an accident where the injured is not able to come back to work for the next scheduled shift. This definition is more stringent than the ‘Reportable Accident’ as per the Factories Act, 1948, which is defined as an accident where an injured person is unable to resume duty within 48 hours after the accident. Lost Time Accidents (LTA) 40 37 35 35 33 30 27 27 25 23 20 20 16 15 16 15 14 12 10 7 5 00-01 01-02 02-03 03-04 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 In 2012-13, the number of on-site Lost Injury rate, defined as the frequency of Time Accidents (LTA) of own employees injuries in relation to total time worked, in was 16 (against 7 in 2011-2012), as 2012-13 was 0.06 as compared to 0.02 in detailed above. Detailed investigation and 2011-12, primarily because of the challenges analyses of accidents helped us better being faced by the new businesses. understand the challenges being faced by our new business units presently under the process of stabilisation. As mentioned earlier, besides the strong engineering ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Business Unit approach, safety culture programmes are at Bhadrachalam, the country’s largest integrated pulp being institutionalised and behavioural and paper mill, faces specific challenges due to scale architecture inputs are being used to rework and growth of business. Despite this fact, the on-site and recalibrate our approach. injury rate (own employees) for Bhadrachalam has come down from 0.07 in 2011-12 to 0.04 in 2012-13. In Lost day rate, defined as the number of days lost due to accidents for every 2,00,000 addition to the effective implementation of engineering person hours, for the year 2012-13 was 1.88 controls, the recently initiated behaviour safety (25.3 in 2011-12), owing to having had no programme has significantly contributed in achieving fatal accident on-site. this performance 103 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Injury Rate (IR) OFF-SITE ACCIDENTS OF 0.25 OWN EMPLOYEES 0.22 0.21 0.2 In line with our goal to achieve “zero 0.20 0.17 accidents” across our operations, we have 0.15 started putting in place adequate systems to ensure safety of our own employees working 0.10 off-site. In ITC, off-site is defined as places 0.09 0.09 0.09 0.08 other than on-site while on official duty, 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 including commuting to and from residence 0.02 to the place of work. In order to identify suitable management interventions, detailed 0 01-02 02-03 03-04 04-05 05-06 06-07 07-08 08-09 09-10 10-11 11-12 12-13 investigation of all off-site accidents over the years has been carried out. These analyses reveal that the majority of road accidents have involved two wheelers and employees in the ZERO ACCIDENT UNITS age group of 26-30 years. Accordingly, a user interactive 2-wheeler road safety programme The following Units at ITC attained the goal of was developed and rolled out in 2011-12. ‘zero accidents’ (on-site for own employees) Businesses were advised to ensure that all in 2012-13 through effective implementation 2 wheeler using employees are trained and of safety management systems and adoption that there is a constant reinforcement of the message for exercising extreme care, while of state-of-the-art technologies: on the road. These efforts have resulted in a Cigarette factories at Kolkata and Pune sharp reduction in road accidents. Leaf Threshing Units at Anaparti & Chirala It will be ensured that coverage across Packaging & Printing Units at Haridwar & all businesses is completed and a similar Munger programme on the 4 wheeler safety is being Paperboards and Specialty Papers Units planned in 2013-14. at Bollaram & Kovai There was one very unfortunate off-site Foods Unit at Haridwar fatal accident in which a manager died in a Personal Care Products Units at Haridwar 4 wheeler road accident while he was on an & Manpura official tour during the year 2012-13. Research Centre at Rajahmundry 2 Wheeler Rider Safety Training (Cumulative) Vs Road Accidents Trend ITC Infotech’s Bengaluru office complex 12000 30 ITC Green Centre, Gurgaon 25 10000 9849 25 Number of persons trained ITC Headquarters, Kolkata Number of Road Accidents 8000 20 ITC Maurya, ITC Grand Central, ITC 17 Kakatiya, ITC Rajputana, ITC Maratha, 6000 15 6011 ITC Mughal, ITC Sonar, ITC Windsor & ITC Gardenia 4000 10 3392 10 My Fortune & WelcomHotel Sheraton New 2000 5 Delhi Fortune Resort Bay Island Hotel, Port 0 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Blair Number of persons trained Surya Nepal’s Unit at Simra Number of road accidents 104 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS All Units are provided with occupational EMPLOYEES OF SERVICE health centres with adequate medical staff PROVIDERS to monitor occupational health and provide immediate relief, when required. In addition, All vendors and service providers within ITC at least 2% of total employees in each Unit premises are required to follow procedures are trained to provide first aid. detailed under ITC’s Corporate EHS Guidelines. All new resources of service Identified medical examinations are done providers, undergo adequate general as well for various categories of employees as job-specific training. Regular briefing based on age-groups as well as exposure and tool box talk has been made an integral to occupational hazards. These medical part of ITC’s safety management system to examinations take place annually/ once in 3 continuously update all employees of service or 5 years as applicable. providers on safe work procedures. Accordingly in 2012-13, 10,112 employees This year onwards we have started reporting underwent preventive medical examinations on the safety performance of our service and there were no occupation related providers within ITC premises. Total onsite illnesses reported from Units. lost time accidents for service providers’ employees for the year was 16. This is HIV/AIDS inclusive of an unfortunate fatal accident reported from the Paperboards and Specialty We remained committed to do our best in Papers Unit at Bhadrachalam wherein a response to the serious threat posed by HIV/ transport service provider’s employee was AIDS. During 2012-13, we conducted 146 hit by a truck. awareness programmes for the employees and communities around our Units. The interventions covered a total of 10,282 people OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH of which 6,017 were our employees while the remaining were members of the local A healthy workforce is an important community. In addition we also organised contributor to our competitiveness and counselling sessions at various locations sustainability. All Units maintain a conducive covering a total of 4,727 people, of which work environment, meeting Indian/ 3,552 were our employees. International standards on hygiene, lighting, ventilation and effective controls on noise and dust. 105 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Human Rights Significant Investments All large contracts in ITC for the construction of D hotels, factories, uring 2012-13, nearly ` 1,361 Crores included environment, health, safety and and significant of our total capex cash flow of human rights clauses covering decent place of upgrades included ` 2,141 crores was incurred on work and beyond compliance labour practices. machinery and technology, sourced environment, from reputed global suppliers/vendors who All these were managed and supervised health, safety follow internationally accepted norms and by ITC managers, who also ensured proper and human rights standards on Human Rights. Approximately implementation of Human Rights compliance. clauses covering ` 654 Crores were invested on new factories, hotels and modernisations. Systems have been established to ensure decent place of compliance of our Policies and Standards, work and beyond All large contracts in ITC, for the construction through rigorous audits by Corporate Internal compliance labour of hotels, factories, and significant upgrades, Audit and Corporate EHS. practices 106 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS labour practices. Government officials also routinely inspect these Units to ensure compliance with relevant labour and factory regulations, which, inter alia, provide for the necessary EHS and labour practices standards. The execution of ITC’s human rights policies is obligatory for all service providers operating within our establishments. During 2012-13, the total number of service providers was 6,981 of which 1,426 operated within the Company’s premises and 5,555 worked off-site. 87% of contracts on-site and 87% of contracts off-site, included important clauses on Human Rights, environment, health and safety. No contracts were cancelled during the year as a result of non-compliance with ITC’s human rights clauses. PREVENTION OF DISCRIMINATION AT THE WORK PLACE HUMAN RIGHTS: During 2012-13, no incident of discrimination SUPPLY CHAIN in any of the ITC units was reported either to the concerned units or statutory authorities. As a large and multi-product enterprise whose products are benchmarked nationally and internationally, we recognise our FREEDOM OF responsibility to proactively encourage high levels of ‘Human Rights’ standards in our ASSOCIATION supply chain. During 2012-13, no incidents of violation of freedom of association were reported either Our approach to managing human rights in the to the concerned units or statutory authorities. following distinct categories is described below: Within ITC’s operations, there are no areas Our major businesses are vertically where the right to exercise freedom of As a large and multiintegrated across several Divisions that association and collective bargaining is at risk. product enterprise follow ITC policies. whose products are We procure inputs for the Company’s agribenchmarked nationally based businesses entirely from state controlled PROHIBITING and internationally, trading platforms and the open market. CHILD LABOUR AND we recognise our We position our managers at all significant PREVENTING FORCED responsibility to ‘outsourced’ manufacturing facilities LABOUR AT WORK PLACE proactively encourage (Cigarettes, Personal Care, Branded Apparels and Packaged Foods) to ensure During 2012-13, no incidents of child or high levels of ‘Human high standards of product quality and forced labour were reported either to the Rights’ standards in our adherence to ITC’s guidelines on EHS and concerned units or statutory authorities. supply chain 107 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Our consists of 4 Executive Directors (including compensation DIVERSITY AND EQUAL the Chairman) and 14 Non-Executive philosophy OPPORTUNITY Directors as on March 31, 2013. The NonExecutive Directors come from different does not We believe that every individual brings a fields, thereby ensuring multi-dimensional differentiate on different and unique set of perspectives and perspectives in setting the strategic agenda. gender, caste or capabilities to the team. A discriminationThe strategic management of the Company free workplace for employees provides the age. It is linked environment in which diverse talents can rests with the Corporate Management to responsibility bloom and be nurtured. Committee comprising full time Executive levels and Directors and 6 members drawn from senior management representing diverse functions. is based on performance GOVERNANCE BODIES The executive management of each business AND DIVERSITY is vested with the Divisional Management Committee (DMC), headed by the Chief Our approach to human resource is Executive. The DMC draws resources from premised on the fundamental belief of different functions. Each DMC is responsible fostering meritocracy in the organisation, for and focused on the management of its which promotes diversity and offers equality assigned business. of opportunity to all employees. We do not engage in or support direct or indirect discrimination in recruitment, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or EQUAL REMUNERATION retirement based on caste, religion, disability, Our compensation philosophy does not gender, age, race, colour, ancestry, marital differentiate on gender, caste or age. It is status or affiliation with a political, religious, linked to responsibility levels and is based union organisation or minority group. on performance. We also ensure compliance with the Equal Remuneration Act, which The Board of Directors at the apex, as mandates every employer to pay equal trustees of shareholders and responsible for remuneration to men and women employees the strategic supervision of the Company, for the same work or work of similar nature. 108 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Prevention Of Corruption At Workplace W e believe that corporations the Tobacco Institute of India and the All our Businesses/ like ours have a responsibility CII – ITC Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Divisions have to set exemplary standards of Development – to promote public debate and ethical behaviour, both within shape policies on important national and systems and the organisation as well as in our external industry issues. The Tobacco Institute of procedures to relationships. We believe that unethical India is a tobacco industry body, which helps identify and behaviour corrupts organisational culture support industry norms and Government comply with all and undermines shareholder value. policies and initiatives. relevant statutory A booklet on ITC’s Code of Conduct, which requirements. also contains the policies against corruption, COMPLIANCE We continued to is periodically circulated to employees. In comply with all addition, it is posted on the corporate intranet All our Businesses/Divisions have systems applicable statutes sites and the ITC Portal. The Audit Committee of the Board met nine times during the and procedures to identify and comply during 2012-13 with all relevant statutory requirements. year to review, interalia, the adequacy and We continued to comply with all applicable effectiveness of the internal controls and statutes during 2012-13. monitored implementations, including those relating to the strengthening of the company’s risk management policies and systems. Instances of fraud involving employees or business partners were cognised for and suitable action was taken. ITC has a zero tolerance approach to corruption, resulting in immediate termination of service. PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY Our senior managers participated in a large number of industry fora to help contribute to debates on public policy issues related to our businesses. ITC has provided assistance to establish industry institutions – namely 109 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal FOR ALL OUR Strengthening rural livelihoods through: TOMORROWS ITC e-Choupal Wasteland Development through Social Forestry Soil & Moisture Conservation Programmes Livestock Development Initiatives Building skills and social infrastructure through: Primary Education, Health & Sanitation Women’s Empowerment & Gender Equality 110 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT I n pursuit of the Company’s commitment The communities residing in close proximity to the Triple Bottom Line, ITC’s Social of our production units, who are constrained Investments Programme continues to from enjoying a better quality of life due to be driven by the needs and concerns of two poor social infrastructure especially in the important stakeholders: areas of education and health. The rural communities with whom ITC’s ITC is ideally positioned to respond to these Agri Businesses have forged a long and challenges, given its overarching aim of enduring partnership through its crop empowering its stakeholder communities by development and procurement activities. promoting sustainable livelihoods through These households operate in rain-fed the strategic integration of the social conditions in some of the most moistureinvestments programme with its business stressed regions of the country. value chains. Such a commitment calls for a response at two levels: STAKEHOLDERS STRATEGIC INTERVENTIONS DESIRED OUTCOME On Farm: Boosting agricultural production Increase biomass cover by empowering rural communities to 33% of the total Enhancing two of the most to conserve, augment and manage geographic area important productive assets their environmental capital through of rural communities – sustainable agricultural practices Progress to the land and livestock category of safe Boosting milk production through ground water zone dairy development to enable All arable land farmers address crop failure Develop Vibrant village under crop institutions cover in the risks and diversify rural income for two seasons portfolios project villages Dairy activity to contribute 50% of the village GDP Off Farm: Promoting a gender-centric Every Below Poverty economic empowerment Line (BPL) woman to The future of smallholders programme by supporting income have access to credit may not depend on generation interventions, based on and/or supplementary farming alone but rely on the Company’s value chains income measures that stimulate rural non-farm sectors and Ensuring a rapid and sustained Every child to have create more employment expansion of social opportunities access to school and opportunities by focusing on critical human learning development indices to enable our stakeholders seize opportunities No open defecation offered by functioning labour Every house to have markets access to potable drinking water Unemployed youth to be made employable 111 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The transparency benefitted over 4 million farmers in 40,000 and effectiveness ITC e-CHOUPAL villages. of the ITC e-Choupal Recognising the various challenges faced by system has led to the farmer and leveraging ITC’s consumer the enhancement of facing businesses, ITC e-Choupal was SOCIAL INVESTMENTS rural incomes, whilst designed to provide a 360-degree intervention PROGRAMME COVERAGE to trigger a virtuous cycle of higher farm ensuring sustainable productivity, higher income, enlarged The projects promoted under the Social agri-sourcing for capacity for farmer risk management, and Investments programme increased from 101 ITC’s businesses thereby larger investments to enable higher in 2011-12 to 107 during the reporting period. quality and productivity. In a pioneering move, These projects are spread across 10 states the power of Information Technology and covering 60 districts. The interventions the Internet was utilised to empower small reach out to more than 6 lakh households and marginal farmers by setting up Internet in more than 6,500 villages. Of the total kiosks, which made available a host of projects currently being implemented, services related to know how, best practices, 76% are targeted at the Company’s rural timely and relevant weather information, stakeholder households, while the balance transparent discovery of prices and others. 24% addresses stakeholders residing around The kiosks were managed by trained farmers our factories. The Social Investments (sanchalaks) who helped the agricultural programme is spread across the states of community access ready information in their Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Kerala, local language. The e-Choupal network also Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, provides customised extension services and Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. training through Choupal Pradarshan Khets (demonstration farms). Farmers have also been empowered with the establishment of integrated rural services hubs called ANIMAL HUSBANDRY AND Choupal Sagaars. The transparency and DAIRY DEVELOPMENT effectiveness of the ITC e-Choupal system has led to the enhancement of rural incomes, The programme for genetic improvement whilst ensuring sustainable agri-sourcing of cattle through artificial insemination to for ITC’s businesses. By providing know produce high-yielding crossbred progenies how and connecting farmers to markets, has been given special emphasis because the e-Choupal enabled a virtual integration it reaches out to the most impoverished of the supply chain and eliminated wasteful and has the potential to enable them live intermediation and multiple handling, which led to significant reduction in transaction with social and economic dignity. Ten new costs apart from expanding markets and Cattle Development Centres (CDCs) were enhancing rural incomes. This initiative has established during the year, taking the ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 CUM TO 2012-13 CDC Centres (No) 83 10 303 Breed Improvement No of Ais (lakhs) 2.32 2.75 10.82 No of Pregnancies (lakhs) 1.02 1.30 4.84 No of Calfing (lakhs) 0.67 0.89 3.08 Vaccination & Health (lakhs) 1.04 0.72 4.89 112 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS total to 303 centres covering nearly 5,000 experts. A call centre was set up to villages, that facilitated 2.75 lakh artificial enable farmers register their requests. inseminations during the year. The success of this pilot is evident from the rapid growth in all services that are Taking the next step in the development of being offered. a viable livestock economy, ITC focused Project Gomukh aims at creating centres on dairy development in Munger this year. of excellence in clusters of villages Some of the key highlights include: (hubs) by providing customised end-toend solutions for dairy farms and milch 1. PROJECT GOMUKH animals. The overarching objective of the project is to increase milk productivity A pilot project was launched in Munger to and improve the quality of milk, thereby cater to the need for veterinary services increasing farm incomes significantly. and provide comprehensive technoThese will be achieved through an management support to dairy farmers. integrated package of services that includes: Integrated Dairy Management Programme Best-in-class animal and calf Feed Management management practices Cow Comfort Practices Artificial Insemination Hygienic milking and milk handling ANIMAL Veterinary Services Efficient feeding process MANAGEMENT Disease Management Cow comfort practices Availability Of Feed Average Daily Procurement, And Fodder Veterinary and preventive health care 2012-13 (litres/day) services FARM Knowledge MANAGEMENT And Training Efficient green fodder and manure management Milk Producer Groups E-Testing Equipments 2. MILK PROCUREMENT COLLECTION And EPayments CENTRES A total of 87 MPGs with over 2,843 members were functional during the year for the promotion of improved yields and AprJulOctJanJun Sep Dec Mar Efficient Supply Chain higher procurement. The average daily 7,468 9,806 8,476 13,699 CHILLING procurement in Munger was 9,862 kg per CENTRES day with a peak of over 17,000 kg. DAIRY PLANT 3. OTHER LOCATIONS Average Number Of Farmers/Day The implementation of this project started Dairy development in Saharanpur in August 2012 with the establishment commenced during the year. Two hubs of a Pashudhan Sewa Kendra (PSK) to have been set up for initiating activities. A provide integrated animal husbandry call centre was established in December services. PSK delivers a comprehensive for providing artificial insemination and package of extension services, such extension services. Comprehensive milk as veterinary care, breeding, supply of mapping studies have been completed at balanced concentrate of cattle feed and two other locations to enable planning for feed supplements, fodder propagation the expansion of dairy-led CSR. AprJulOctJanJun Sep Dec Mar and training to dairy farmers through 1,425 1,784 1,550 2,582 113 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE WASTELAND ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 DEVELOPMENTArea (Ha) 945 756 Farmers (No) 988 813 SOCIAL FORESTRY 28,451 28,137 Volume Supplied To PSPD (Ton) ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 CUM TO 2012-13 Total Income (` Lakh) 625 772.89 Coverage Repayment To 7 5.60 No of new vilages 776 396 1,717 Committee/NGO No of new beneficiaries 5,319 10,102 39,843 Earnings/Household 63,242 95,067 Plantation Area Earnings/Hectare 66,147 102,247 Pulpwood (Ha) 3,847 8,554 31,956 Energy (Ha) 528 699 1,493 The total area harvested by the end of the Saplings Planted (Lakhs) 317 821 2,049 year was 756 hectares, yielding 28,137 tonnes of raw material, all of which was supplied Agro-forestry Area (Ha) 330 493 822 to ITC’s Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division (PSPD). The earnings per hectare and per household saw dramatic increases The Social Forestry The Social Forestry Programme to promote during the year as a result of a steep hike pulpwood plantations in Andhra Pradesh and Programme to energy security in Karnataka cumulatively in the price of raw material and an increase promote pulpwood in productivity per hectare, a rising trend, covers a total of 33,448 hectares in 1,717 which was noted in the last financial year. plantations in Andhra villages, impacting nearly 40,000 poor Pradesh and energy households. These initiatives not only increase the biomass cover, but also have security in Karnataka a salutary effect on agricultural production cumulatively covers by preventing soil erosion, and recharging a total of 33,448 groundwater. They also meet the energy hectares in 1,717 and fodder needs of households and become villages, impacting a sustainable base of raw material for our paper business. Energy plantations were nearly 40,000 poor promoted in four districts of Karnataka — households Chamrajnagar, Mysore, Hassan and Mandya. Considering that this is a new project area, it was encouraging to note a 32% increase over the previous year to 699 hectares in 2012-13. Agro-forestry, which had been introduced last year, has witnessed a nearly 50% increase in area, both in the case of pulpwood and in energy – from 330 hectares to 493 hectares. Bio-diversity conservation has been 50% incorporated as an integral part of the Social Forestry Programme, which aims at in situ increase in area under conservation of the local flora by protecting Agro-forestry and improving production conditions in selected plots. 114 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS were constructed during 2012-13. The SOIL AND MOISTURE total area covered under the watershed CONSERVATION programme cumulatively crossed the 1,00,000 mark to reach 1,16,127 hectares. The Soil and Moisture Conservation Most of the watershed programmes are now programme, designed to assist farmers being implemented in partnership with either in identified moisture-stressed districts, NABARD or various state governments. The increased by another 26,637 hectares. highlights of the partnership programmes are: Altogether 470 water harvesting structures ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 CUM TO 2012-13 Water Harvesting Minor Structures (No) 224 236 2,443 Major Structures (No) 218 234 1,698 Total Structures 442 470 4,141 Watershed Area 1,16,127 Area Treated (Ha) 18,231 21,261 78,661 hectares Critical Irrigation Area (Ha) 6,761 5,375 37,466 covered under Total Watershed Area 24,992 26,637 116,127 the Watershed Direct Beneficiaries (No) 23,433 19,271 107,968 Development Empl Mandays (Lakhs) 7.67 9.21 35.24 Programme 115 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Proportionate PPP & An MoU was signed between the NABARD share (%) Government of Rajasthan, ITC Limited, and the Project Implementing Agencies (NGOs) in August, 2012, for the joint implementation of the Integrated Watershed Management Programme. The MoU covers 12,974 hectares in the districts of Bundi, Jhalawar and Pratapgarh in the e-Choupal catchment areas. With this, the total area to be brought under soil and moisture conservation through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) projects has increased to over 1.44 lakh hectares. IWDP/IWMP 23% NABARD 30% Work on the PPP projects with the state MGNREGA 47% governments has been progressing well. By the close of the financial year, the PPP projects cumulatively covered over 25,174 hectares (25% of the 5-year target) in the three states, where government programmes are being implemented. PROGRAMME PERFORMANCE (Hectares) TARGET ACTUALS ACHIEVEMENT % NABARD 43,450 20,328 47% MGNREGA/IWMP/IWDP Madhya Pradesh 15,039 1,606 11% Maharashtra 42,971 15,081 35% Rajasthan 43,117 8,488 20% Total 144,577 45,502 31% Under the NABARD partnership projects, more than 20,000 hectares have been IMPROVED The total area to covered todate, contributing 47% of the total AGRICULTURAL be brought under target. PRACTICES soil and moisture In line with the focus on building the conservation capacities of the Panchayati Raj Institutions In line with our objective to give a major thrust to creating a sustainable agricultural through Public(PRI), training programmes were organised base, the year saw a significant increase in Private Partnership for Gram Panchayat members, Gramsevaks all the major interventions compared to the and VDC members in the PPP project (PPP) projects has districts in areas such as MGNREGS, PRIs previous year: the number of Farmer Field increased to over 1.44 and the roles and responsibilities of the Schools (FFS) increased from 37 to 162, the number of farmers covered (5,129) and the lakh hectares different stakeholders. demonstration plots (4,733) grew almost 116 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 CUM TO 2012-13 Minor Irrigation Group Irrigation (No) 42 497 Sprinklers (No) 121 34 804 Wel Recharge 61 12 73 Sustainable Agriculture IPNM/Varietal Demo (No of plots) 1,668 4,733 11,648 IPNM/Varietal Demo (Area-Ha) 834 1,417 2,932 Compost Units (No) 139 503 14,446 Farmer Field Schools (No) 37 125 162 Farmer Field Students (No) 918 4,211 5,129 Agri Business Centres No of ABCs (No) 6 18 51 Farmers Serviced (No) 3,833 3,211 11,211 Value of Inputs (` Lakhs) 31 86 154 three-fold and the compost units (503) to provide extension services to farmers. nearly tripled during the year. Eighteen These centres provided agri inputs worth new Agri Business Centres (ABC) were set ` 85.61 lakh to nearly 3,211 farmers. up during the year, taking the total to 51, 162 Farmer Field Schools (FFS) increased from 37 18 New Agri Business Centres (ABC) were formed during the year 4,733 Demonstration plots grew almost threefolds and the compost units (503) nearly tripled during the year 117 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Building Skills And Social Infrastructure Around Our Factories F or the households around our units, the challenge is to provide the necessary WOMEN’S EMPOWERMENT social infrastructure to enable a decent quality of life. Thus, these projects The Women’s Empowerment Programme aim at creating sustainable livelihoods covered over 18,700 women through 1,557 through community development for our self-help groups (SHG) with a total savings of second group of stakeholders communities ` 340 lakh. Cumulatively, more than 40,000 in the command areas of our factories. women were gainfully employed either through micro-enterprises or assisted with loans to pursue income-generating activities. 118 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS AGARBATTI PRODUCTION & SALES 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Raw Agarbatti Production Agarbatti production was given a fillip during the (Tonnes) 195 336 834 year with the introduction of pedal machines, which helped in increasing production and, Sales 81 177 355 (` Lakhs) therefore, incomes for women. Production of raw agarbatti was 834 tonnes during Employment 2299 3292 (No) the year. Altogether 1,326 pedal machines were operational in the states of Bihar, Scenting Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Over 40,000 new Despatch Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and (Million Sticks) 235 294 367 students were Maharashtra to create livelihoods for women Sales covered through 213 314 445 in the rural areas. The women-owned and (` Lakhs) the Supplementary managed scenting unit dispatched a total of 367 million sticks with a turnover of Employment 42 48 Learning Centres (No) ` 4.45 crore. and Anganwadis ACTIVITY 2011-12 2012-13 CUM TO 2012-13 PRIMARY EDUCATION AND Primary Education HEALTH AND SANITATION Govt. Schools Infra Support (No) 177 46 964 Children Covered (Lakhs) 0.19 0.40 3.06 Vocational Training A strong foundation in primary education and skill building for the children of the community No. Of Students (New) 919 627 3,872 is a step towards ensuring improvement in Placements (No of students) 209 681 918 the HDI indices for the community as a whole. Health & Sanitation Our primary education initiative with its focus Sanitary Toilets (No) 275 352 3,847 on minimising drop-outs and ensuring that Health Camps (No) 334 20 358 every child is in school and learning well aims at enriching the process of learning. It also enhances the learning environment by providing infrastructural support to government schools. Over 40,000 new students were covered through the Supplementary Learning Centres and Anganwadis. Of these, 264 children were mainstreamed into formal schools. This year, 627 youth were covered by the skill development initiative. To improve the health and sanitation conditions in villages around the Bhadrachalam, Kovai and Chirala Units, 352 toilets were constructed. These toilets are constructed in a radius of 10 km of the factory. These activities were undertaken on a cost sharing basis. 119 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Product Responsibility FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS 120 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Customer Safety: Our Primary Concern I TC’s steadfast commitment to providing systems to deliver on the organisation’s world-class products and services to commitment to provide world-class products its customers is rooted in its concern and services to its customers, the following for the safety of its customers. examples provide a flavour of how it is achieved by the different businesses under Most of our products use internationally the ITC umbrella. recognised safe ingredients and are subjected to the highest standards of safety Education & Stationery Products Business and performance. The manufacturing uses only approved non-hazardous materials, facilities adopt stringent hygiene standards, like ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) paper, ink, benchmarked manufacturing practices and dyes etc. Since the primary consumers of these robust quality assurance systems, which products are children, stringent processes and are supported by EHS management systems quality control measures are in place to ensure that are in turn aligned with International that their safety is not compromised. Standards like ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 Personal Care Products Business has a team and are third-party certified. of highly skilled professionals that have created With each business having its established quality products following extensive research 121 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE at its state-of-the-art R&D centre as well as consumer engagement at the newly established Consumer Interaction Centre, both located in Bengaluru. The formulations use internationally recognised safe ingredients and meet the highest standards of safety and performance and the manufacturing facilities adopt stringent hygiene standards, benchmarked manufacturing practices and robust quality assurance systems. Agarbatti Business uses chemicals approved by IFRA (International Fragrance Resource Association, Geneva) to prepare fragrances which are required in the manufacture of Mangaldeep agarbattis with manufacturing processes designed to ensure product safety and consistency. All products conform to the Bureau of Indian Standards IS 2653. Lifestyle Retailing Business has introduced rigorous process measures through certifications and audits across the entire manufacturing chain. All raw materials and garment styles are tested at the in-house lab for post usage experience All products in and conformance to quality standards. The our Education quality standards and product specifications & Stationery are periodically validated by international Products Business testing agencies. Product quality is monitored through an internal rating system (PQRS) along use approved with the external Acceptable Quality Level non-hazardous (AQL) norm that is followed internationally in materials, like ECF apparel businesses. (Elemental Chlorine Foods Business operates predominantly on a Free) paper, ink, model of outsourced manufacturing and the dyes, etc quality performance of each manufacturer is monitored on a daily basis. A total of 47 contract manufacturing units for the Foods Business are HACCP certified and the remaining 9 Units are progressing towards achieving this certification. ITC is working closely with its supply chain partners not only to ensure better EHS performance but to also extend its sustainability practices to them. Product Shelf-life declared on the products are determined after careful and independently validated studies in a multitude of environments to align with the Indian market context. Cigarettes Business meets its committment to provide world-class products that satisfy 122 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS its consumers consistently by having state14001 and SA 8000 certified with the new of-the-art manufacturing facilities, cuttingGLT plant in Mysore also in an advanced edge technology and international quality stage of obtaining certification for its management systems, which are constantly Quality, Environment, Occupational reviewed and upgraded. The Business uses Health & Safety and Social Accountability proprietary software to regularly monitor management systems. and review stringent product specifications Paperboards & Specialty Papers Business of all raw materials. New product creation is the pioneering manufacturer of Elemental in the Business involves consideration of Chlorine Free (ECF) pulp in India, which global developments and is supported by ensures the levels of dioxins and furans in the comprehensive research and testing facilities pulp to be less than 1 PPT (Parts Per Trillion). at the ITC Life Sciences & Technology Centre, The global migration test is conducted where laboratories conform to ISO/IEC periodically on all food-grade paper and 17025 standards and are certified by NABL. paperboards for compliance with the US Leaf Tobacco Business makes use of agri FDA standards and to adhere to prescribed extension services that have have been limits for presence of heavy metals. All designed to ensure seed integrity, pesticide manufacturing ingredients are procured from residue levels monitor and eliminate Non reputed suppliers and conform to US FDA Tobacco Related Matter (NTRM) to meet and equivalent standards. We ensure that the product hygiene standards. ITC’s Green components of food allergens listed in the EC Leaf Threshing (GLT) plants at Anaparti and directive 2003/89/ EC and the US FDA Act Chirala are ISO 9001, OHSAS 18001, ISO are not used in any of the virgin grade boards 123 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE and papers. The Bollaram Unit, manufacturing framework and certified to ISO 90012000 food grade board for direct food contact, IT guidelines. Effective access control and is ‘third party’ certified in accordance with asset management mechanisms are certified BRC/IoP (British Retail Consortium/Institute under ISO 27001 frameworks. of Packaging) standards. Smithers Pira, a renowned testing and consultancy firm, now certifies our ‘Indobarr’ and ‘Cyber Propac’ brands to be compliant with German BFR PRODUCT INFORMATION standards for Food Packaging. AND LABELLING Packaging & Printing Business uses only safe/ As an organisation that upholds and makes approved materials/films and paperboards extraordinary efforts to ensure transparency from either our own Paperboards & Specialty and good governance, ITC’s business Papers Business or other approved suppliers. operations are committed to complying The Tiruvottiyur unit is the first in India to achieve IQRS (International Quality Rating with every relevant law of the nation. The System) Level 8 (Certified by DNV), followed Company has established stringent quality by the unit in Munger. standards and systems to respond to queries and concerns and have made these known to ITC’s Hotels Business has put in place all stakeholders. policies to ensure the highest standards of customer health, security and safety. Our Consumer Goods Businesses, including Effective measures are taken to ensure branded packaged foods, personal care that these policies are implemented and products, lifestyle retailing, safety matches standards continually improved upon. and others, comply fully with the Legal In our Information Technology Business, Metrology Act. For products marketed by our quality of the software is assured through businesses, we have made transparent and well-defined QMS following SEI – CMMi honest disclosures to enable the customer to 124 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS exercise his freedom to consume them in a In the Leaf Tobacco Business, all products responsible manner. are labelled in accordance with customer specifications. Every package has a unique ITC’s Foods Business, Personal Care identity (label with a bar code) right from Products Business, Lifestyle Retailing and the time of purchase of raw material (from others are fully compliant with the Legal farmers) till it is packed and shipped out. Metrology Act and all Regulations made and notified thereunder. The Leaf Tobacco Business and the Foods Business ensure ‘Product Traceability’ in the ITC’s Cigarettes Business is fully compliant supply chain from farm to the customer. with all applicable laws and regulations concerning Product Labeling. All cigarette The Foods Business is also fully compliant packs carry the statutory health warnings as with the Food Safety and Standards Act, mandated by law. Legal Metrology Act and all Regulations made and notified thereunder. The Business Our Branded Packaged Foods Business is has established systems to ensure that fully compliant with the Food Safety and product development, trials, introduction, Standards Act modification and extension take place within the statutory ambit. These systems are Apart from the Legal Metrology Act, the continuously reviewed. Personal Care Products Business also complies fully with the rules of the Drugs & Our Paperboards & Specialty Papers Cosmetics Act. Business and Packaging and Printing Business comply with all product labelling In the Agri Business Division, all products requirements and follow internal quality are primarily sold on a B2B basis and are procedures as per agreed customer labelled to meet customer requirements on specifications. quality, shipping marks or importing country labelling requirements. If required, ITC The Education & Stationery Products also provides phytosanitary certificates, Business complies with all statutes on surveyor quality and quantity reports, labelling and product information. For the Chamber of Commerce certificates, etc. products marketed by our business, we have The Company complies with all statutory disclosed all necessary information. requirements for exports. 125 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS ITC has established standard operating procedures to ensure that all marketing and advertising communication is responsible, done in accordance with the voluntary and legal codes of conduct adopted by each Business and complies with all applicable statutes. In addition, several of our businesses including consumer goods businesses such as Branded Packaged Foods, Personal Care Products, Lifestyle Retailing, Education and Stationery Products, Cigarettes, Agarbattis and Safety Matches have established a dedicated consumer response cell in order to respond to queries on products. All marketing communication for our businesses is subject to stringent internal checks by the legal department and the internal audit department. All product related external marketing communication is vetted by the legal department while all non-product related advertisements are approved by the Divisional Management Committees of the relevant businesses. The Consumer Goods businesses adhere to voluntary and legal codes of conduct and voluntarily follow the ASCI (Advertising Standards Council of India) Code for all marketing communications. We ensure that all advertisements and promotions are fair and transparent, not misleading in terms of claims and representations and not offensive to the generally accepted standards of public decency. Each product/campaign is vetted for compliance. All claims made are substantiated by ITC’s internal Quality Assurance team. 126 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Marketing communication for the leaf tobacco business is limited to interfaces with the COMPLIANCE customers and not the final consumers and is CONCERNING PROVISION largely in the form of crop and market reports given that unmanufactured leaf tobacco is an AND USE OF PRODUCTS intermediate product. In the Leaf Tobacco AND SERVICES Business, the customers are large domestic, multi-national manufacturers, small to All our businesses/divisions have well medium sized regional manufacturers and established systems, procedures and review tobacco merchants. Unmanufactured leaf mechanisms to identify and comply with tobacco is sourced, processed and delivered the laws and regulations concerning our as per the specifications of the customers. products and services. The Business has in place systems to ensure adherence to customer specifications. We continued to comply with all applicable These systems are reviewed periodically for statutes during 2012-13. continuous improvement. The Business addresses customer concerns through a robust redressal mechanism and all queries/concerns are supported by a Corrective and Preventive action (CAPA) report, which are also shared with the customer. The Agri Business organises regular engagements with customers across the organisational hierarchy. It also has in place systems to address specific customer complaints/grievances. Marketing communication for the Hotels Business is self regulated and also governed by all applicable laws, regulations and norms, including ASCI rules and guidelines. The Hotels Business also has a comprehensive policy for customer complaints and redressal that includes prompt response to the guest, detailed investigation and resolution of guest complaints. The policy covers customer feedback received from all sources, including Electronic Guest Comment cards, letters and social media. 127 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI Indicators Index GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP# PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Statement from the most Statement of Continuing Support 04 senior decision-maker of the organisation: relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, Statement of Continuing Support 08 risks and opportunities ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE * 2.1 Name of the organisation 18 2.2 Primary brands, products and 18 services 2.3 Operational structure of the 18 organisation 2.4 Location of organisation’s 33 headquarters 2.5 Number of countries where the 33 organisation operates 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 18 2.7 Markets served 18 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation 18-25, 48, 99 Quantities of products/services are not reported in line with regulatory requirements in India 2.9 Significant changes during the 33 reporting period regarding the size, structure and ownership * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 128 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT # United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION 2.10 Awards received in the 26 reporting period REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting Period 33 3.2 Date of most recent previous Report 33 3.3 Reporting Cycle 33 3.4 Contact Point for questions 33 regarding the Report or its contents REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining Report content 33, 43-45 3.6 Boundary of the Report 34 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope 33 or boundary of the Report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 33 subsidiaries, leased/outsourced operations and other entities 3.9 Data measurement techniques and 33 bases of calculations including assumptions and techniques 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any 33 re-instatement of information provided in the earlier Reports 3.11 Significant changes from 33 previous reporting period 3.12 GRI Content index 128 3.13 Assurance 164 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 129 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT PRINCIPLES 1-10 4.1 Governance structure of the Action taken to implement 37 organisation principles 1-10 4.2 The Chair of the highest Action taken to implement 39 Governance body principles 1-10 4.3 Independent and/or nonAction taken to implement 39 executive members principles 1-10 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders Action taken to implement 41 and employees to provide principles 1-10 recommendations 4.5 Linkage between compensation Action taken to implement 40 for members of highest principles 1-10 governance body and the organisation’s performance 4.6 Process for the highest Action taken to implement 40 governance body to ensure principles 1-10 conflicts of interest are avoided 4.7 Qualifications and expertise Action taken to implement 39 of the members of the highest principles 1-10 governance body 4.8 Statements of mission or values, Action taken to implement 151 codes of conduct and principles principles 1-10 4.9 Procedures of the highest Action taken to implement 42 governance body for overseeing principles 1-10 the management of economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Action taken to implement 39 highest governance body’s own principles 1-10 performance * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 130 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 The precautionary approach or Action taken to implement 41 principle principle 7 4.12 Externally developed economic, Action taken to implement 04 environmental, and social principles 1-10 charters, principles 4.13 Memberships in associations Action taken to implement 162 principles 1-10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Sharing the COP with the 43 Company’s Stakeholders 4.15 Basis for identification and Sharing the COP with the 43 selection of Stakeholders Company’s Stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder Sharing the COP with the 43 engagement, including Company’s Stakeholders frequency of engagement 4.17 Key topics and concerns and how Sharing the COP with the 43-45 the organisation has responded to Company’s Stakeholders those key topics and concerns ECONOMIC DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT 144 PRINCIPLES 1,4,6 & 7 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated * 48 and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other Action taken to implement 62 risks and opportunities for the principle 7 organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s * 53 defined benefit plan obligations * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 131 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION EC4 Significant financial assistance * 50 received from government MARKET PRESENCE EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of * 51 spending on locally based suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedure for local hiring and Action taken and Outcomes 52 proportion of senior management from Implementing Principle 6 hired from the local community at locations of significant operation INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EC8 Development and impact of * 56 infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT 144-146 PRINCIPLES 7,8 & 9 Transport is not identified as a separate aspect. The emissions are covered under Scope 3 which is progressively expanded. Traffic management forms part of the local management plan of each Business Unit. Where necessary third-party expert studies are carried out to arrive at acceptable solutions MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Outcomes from Implementing 90 Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used Outcomes from Implementing 90 that are recycled input materials Principles 8 & 9 ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by Outcomes from Implementing 64 primary energy source Principle 8 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 132 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION EN4 Indirect energy consumption by Outcomes from implementing 64 primary source principle 8 EN5 Energy saved due to Outcomes from implementing 66 conservation and efficiency principles 8 & 9 improvement EN6 Initiative to provide energyActions taken to implement 66 efficiant or renewable energyprinciples 8 & 9 based products and services, and reduction in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiative to reduce indirect Actions taken to implement 66 energy consumption and principles 8 & 9 reductions achieved WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Outcomes from implementing 72 principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Outcomes from implementing 76 recycled and reused principles 8 & 9 BIODIVERSITY EN11 Location and size of land Outcomes from implementing 89 owned, leased, managed in or principle 8 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant Outcomes from implementing 89 impacts of activities, products, principle 8 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse Outcomes from implementing 68 gas emissions by weight principle 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse Outcomes from implementing 68 gas emissions by weight principle 8 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 133 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Actions taken and outcomes 68 gas emissions and reductions from implementing principles achieved 7, 8 & 9 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting Outcomes from implementing 88 substances by weight principle 8 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant Outcomes from implementing 87 air emissions by type and weight principle 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality Outcomes from implementing 76 and destination principle 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type Outcomes from implementing 82 and disposal method principle 8 EN23 Total number and volume of Outcomes from implementing 89 significant spills principle 8 PRODUCT & SERVICES EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental Actions taken to implement 90 impacts of products and services, principles 7, 8 and 9 and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold Outcomes from implementing 90 and their packaging materials principles 8 and 9 We are making efforts to address this that are reclaimed by category issue and we will be in a situation to report on this aspect by 2015 COMPLIANCE EN28 Monetary value of significant Outcomes from implementing 89 fines and total number of nonprinciple 8 monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations SOCIAL LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT 146-147 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PRINCIPLES 1,3 & 6 EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, * 99 employment contract and region LA2 Total number and rate of * 100 employee turnover by age We have embarked on the group, gender and region improvement of data reporting systems/procedures which will enable us to report on this in the year 2014 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 134 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS LA4 Percentage of employees Outcomes from implementing 99 covered by collective principles 1 and 3 bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Outcomes from implementing 154 regarding operational changes, principle 3 including whether it is specified in collective agreements OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY LA7 Rates of injury, occupational Outcomes from implementing 102 diseases, lost days and principle 1 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities LA8 Education, training, counselling, Actions taken to implement 105 prevention and risk-control principle 1 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases TRAINING & EDUCATION LA10 Average hours of training per * 100 year per employee, by employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LA13 Composition of governance Outcomes from implementing 108 bodies and breakdown of principles 1 and 6 employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to Outcomes from implementing 108 women by employee category principles 1 and 6 * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 135 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION HUMAN RIGHTS DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTION TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT 147 PRINCIPLES 1,2,3,4,5 & 6 Security is part of a Unit’s management responsibility, which in turn is bound by Company policies, the compliance to which is internally audited INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES HR1 Percentage and total number of Outcomes from implementing 106 significant investment agreements principles 1,2,3,4,5 and 6 that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant Actions taken and outcomes 107 suppliers and contractors that from implementing principles have undergone screening on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 human rights and actions taken NON-DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of incidents of Outcomes from implementing 107 discrimination and actions taken principles 1,2, and 6 FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING HR5 Operations identified in which Actions taken to implement 107 the right to exercise freedom principles 1, 2 and 3 of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights CHILD LABOUR HR6 Operations identified as having Actions taken to implement 107 significant risk for incidents principles 1, 2 and 5 of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 136 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR HR7 Operations identified as having Actions taken to implement 107 significant risk for incidents of principles 1, 2 and 4 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour SOCIETY DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTIONS TAKEN TO 148 IMPLEMENT PRINCIPLE 10 We comply with all applicable statutes, which cover all aspects of anti-competitive behaviour. These are audited by internal audit teams for compliance COMMUNITY SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness * 111 of any programmes and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating and exiting CORRUPTION SO2 Percentage and total number of Outcomes from implementing 109 business units analysed for risks principle 10 related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained 109 in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to Actions taken to implement 109 incidents of corruption principle 10 PUBLIC POLICY SO5 Public policy positions and Actions taken to implement 109 participation in public policy principles 1 10 development and lobbying * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 137 GRI INDICATORS INDEX GRI G3 GRI G3 INDICATOR UNGC COP PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING INDICATORS DESCRIPTION ELEMENT AND EXPLANATION COMPLIANCE SO8 Monetary value of significant fines * 109 and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH ACTIONS TAKEN TO IMPLEMENT 149 PRINCIPLES 1 AND 8 Systems and procedures are in place for the Businesses, where the aspect of customer privacy is material such as ITC Infotech and ITC Hotels. Compliance to written policies on this aspect is audited regularly CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Actions taken and outcomes 90, 121 and safety impacts of products from implementing principle 1 We have initiated life cycle and services are assessed for assessment studies for certain improvement, and percentage of product categories to enable us significant products and services to report in 2015 categories subject to such procedures PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LABELLING PR3 Type of product and service Actions taken and outcomes 124 information required by from implementing principle 8 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programmes for adherence to * 126 laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 138 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS COMPLIANCE PR9 Monetary value of significant * 127 fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services GRI-G3: FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (FPSS) GRI G3 FPSS GRI G3 FPSS INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGE/LEVEL OF REPORTING AND EXPLANATION INDICATORS SOURCING DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH 152, 156 As per our current policy, we do not use Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs) FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from We are implementing an integrated suppliers compliant with Company’s sustainability data management system sourcing policy to collate such data all across the business and should be able to report on this aspect by 2014 FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which 156 is verified as being in accordance with We are implementing an integrated sustainability credible, internationally recognised data management system to collate such data all responsible production standards, broken across the business and should be able to report on down by standard this aspect by 2014 LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial 100 disputes, strikes and/or lock-outs, by country FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any 156 programmes and practices (in-kind Foods Business is undertaking initiatives to contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge introduce new products with additional nutrients/ transfer, partnerships and product fortify existing products. The Biscuits category development) that promote healthy lifestyles; will introduce fortified Glucose Biscuits by the the prevention of chronic disease; access to early months of 2014 healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 139 GRI INDICATORS INDEX PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance Attributes of products and services that with regulatory and voluntary codes can have health and safety impacts over concerning health and safety impacts of its life cycle are addressed by technical/ products and services during their life cycle, quality standards, which are manifested in by type of outcomes procurement, manufacturing and service protocols. While customer complaints received are logged across product/ service categories, we are not aware of any methodology that can correlate quality issues to non-compliance with regulatory/ voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts FP5 Percentage of production volume 122 manufactured in sites certified by an independent third-party according to internationally recognised food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of 157 consumer products, by product category, Eliminate transfats in all packaged food products that are lowered in saturated fat, transfats, by 2016. Snacks products with lowered sodium sodium and sugars content are in the final stages of testing and are expected to be launched in 2013-14 FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer 157 products, by product category sold, that Biscuits category to come out with contain increased fibre, vitamins, minerals, fortified glucose biscuits by January 2014 phytochemicals or functional food additives FP8 Policies and practices on communication to 157, 158 consumers about ingredients and nutritional We are developing an approach in this information beyond legal requirements regard and should be able to report on this aspect by 2015 ANIMAL WELFARE Not applicable as none of our businesses are involved in activities related to animal welfare * There is no COP requirement Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported 140 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental & Economic Responsibilities of Business NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES ON COVERAGE IN SECTION OF PAGE PRINCIPLE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NUMBER RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS 1 Businesses should conduct and govern Governance, Commitments and 37 themselves with Ethics, Transparency and Engagements Accountability 2 Businesses should provide goods and services ‘Sustainable Sourcing and that are safe and contribute to sustainability Replenishment of Resources covered in throughout their life cycle the following sub-sections: Material Sustainability in ITC’s 90 Businesses Wasteland Development Social 110 Forestry; Soil and Moisture Conservation under “Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal” Sustainable Manufacturing of Products covered in the following sub-sections: Minimising Carbon Intensity And 60 Adopting A Low Carbon Growth Path under “Climate Change and Sustainable Development” Water Conservation under Water 70 Management Resource Conservation; Towards 80 100% Recycling under “Recycling and Waste Management” 141 NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES ON COVERAGE IN SECTION OF PAGE PRINCIPLE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NUMBER RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS Sustainable Products covered in the following sub-section: Product Responsibility 120 Sustainable Use of Service covered in the following sub-section: Built Environment under 60 “Climate Change and Sustainable Development” 3 Businesses should promote the wellbeing of Labour Practices and Decent Work 96 all employees 4 Businesses should respect the interests of, ‘Mechanism of engaging and consulting and be responsive towards all stakeholders, with the stakeholders covered in the especially those who are disadvantaged, following section: vulnerable and marginalized Stakeholder Engagement under 43 “Governance, Commitments and Engagements” Responsiveness to all stakeholders including those who are marginalized, covered in the following section: “Labour Practices and Decent Work” 96 “Social Investments Mission 110 Sunehra Kal” “Building Skills And Social 118 Infrastructure Around Our Factories” 5 Businesses should respect and promote Human Rights: Significant Investments 106 human rights 142 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES ON COVERAGE IN SECTION OF PAGE PRINCIPLE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NUMBER RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS 6 Business should respect, protect, and make ‘Sustainable Consumption of Resources efforts to restore the environment in Manufacturing of Products covered in the following sub-sections: Minimising Carbon Intensity And 64 Adopting A Low Carbon Growth Path; Built Environment under “Climate Change and Sustainable Development” Water Conservation under Water 70 Management Resource Conservation; Towards 80 100% Recycling under “Recycling and Waste Management” Efforts to restore environment covered in the following sub-sections: Wasteland Development Social 110 Forestry; Soil and Moisture Conservation under “Social Investments Mission Sunehra Kal” 7 Businesses, when engaged in influencing ‘Responsible engagement in influencing public and regulatory policy, should do so in public and regulatory policy covered in a responsible manner the following section: Creating Enduring Institutions: 56 CII-ITC CENTRE OF EXCELLENCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT under “Economic Performance” PUBLIC POLICY ADVOCACY under 109 “Prevention Of Corruption At Workplace” Platforms for engagement in influencing public and regulatory policy covered in the following section: “Memberships and Affiliations” 162 143 NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES NATIONAL VOLUNTARY GUIDELINES ON COVERAGE IN SECTION OF PAGE PRINCIPLE SOCIAL, ENVIRONMENTAL AND ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 NUMBER RESPONSIBILITIES OF BUSINESS 8 Businesses should support inclusive growth ‘Philosophy and expenditure towards and equitable development social responsibility covered in the following section: Corporate Social Responsibility 54 under “Economic Performance” Details of social responsibility initiatives covered in the following section: “Social Investments Mission 110 Sunehra Kal” “Building Skills And Social 118 Infrastructure Around Our Factories” 9 Businesses should engage with and provide ‘Mechanism of engagement with value to their customers and consumers in a stakeholders covered in the following responsible manner section: Stakeholder Engagement under 43 “Governance, Commitments and Engagements” Responsible value provision to customers and consumers covered in the following section: Customer Safety: Our Prime 120 Concern under “Product Responsibility” 144 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Annexures Management Approach S  ustaining ITC’s position as one of India’s ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE most valuable corporations. POLICY  chieving leadership in each of the A The Company’s commitment in the area of business segments within a reasonable economic performance is encapsulated in time frame. its Vision statement, which is to ‘Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most Achieving a Return on Capital Employed valuable corporations through world-class (ROCE) in excess of the Company’s cost performance, creating growing value for of capital, at all times. the Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders’. ITC’s Mission is ‘to enhance Please refer to the ‘Report of the Directors the wealth generating capability of the and Management Discussion and Analysis’ enterprise in a globalising environment section of the Report and Accounts 2013 delivering superior and sustainable (available on www.itcportal.com) for a stakeholder value’. detailed discussion on the Company’s market standing in each of the business segments, The Company’s strategy is to ensure that as well as the business environment, each of its businesses is world-class and opportunities, key challenges, etc. pertaining internationally competitive in the Indian to each of the Company’s businesses global market in the first instance and (available on www.itcportal.com). progressively in the offshore global markets. ITC, as a premier ‘Indian’ enterprise, ENVIRONMENTAL consciously exercises the strategic choice of contributing to and securing the PERFORMANCE competitiveness of the entire value chain of which it is a part. This philosophy has ITC strives to maximise natural resources shaped the Company’s approach to business usage efficiencies across its operations into ‘a commitment beyond the market’. and also endeavours to create positive environmental externalities. This is achieved by appropriate mechanisms such as framing GOALS AND PERFORMANCE requisite policies, systems that verify At the enterprise level, the Company’s goals compliance and a work environment that include fosters innovation. 145 ANNEXURES FOCUS AREAS AWARDS The Company focuses on the following The large number of awards and certifications aspects in its drive to continuously improve listed in this Report are a testimony to ITC’s environmental performance. commitment and progress towards creating positive environmental externalities. Moving beyond Statutory compliance – with respect to emissions, effluents and CONTEXT waste. ITC businesses have internalised good A low carbon growth path – reduce specific environmental practices and no instances energy consumption, increase contribution of statutory infringements have been from renewable energy sources and recorded across all businesses. Progress increase carbon sequestration. has also been recorded on key aspects such as reduction in net carbon intensity (increase in turnover and profits with further Maximise water usage efficiencies and increase in renewable energy contribution rainwater harvesting and sequestration of emissions), increase in rainwater harvesting potential, reduced Minimise waste generation, achieve 100% specific water consumption created and waste recycling and use external waste improved waste recycling. as raw material, where possible. ITC will endeavour to extend these learnings RESPONSIBILITY down the supply chain where we believe It is the overall responsibility of the that significant opportunity to influence and Divisional/Strategic Business Unit (SBU) change, exists. Chief Executives, through the members of their Divisional Management Committees, ITC understands that it is exposed to risks General Managers and Unit Heads, to ensure related to climate change. Protection of our implementation of Policies and Corporate assets in coastal areas has been reinforced Standards on Environmental Performance, in anticipation of increased severity of including institution of various committees storms and cyclones, which may occur. and designating specific responsibilities. Disruption in road and rail traffic by such extreme events may also affect individual The Corporate EHS Department is unit’s output, which has been taken care of by responsible for reviewing and updating appropriate contingency and insurance plans. Corporate Standards on Environmental Higher surface temperatures (increased issues, verifying compliance and providing air conditioning costs) and disruption in guidance and support as required. water supplies are other anticipated risks. ITC has started a conscious movement towards green buildings by construction of MANAGEMENT the ITC Green Centre at Gurgaon, which in Quantified targets and objectives are 2004 was the largest platinum rated LEED defined for each business unit to ensure certified building in the world. All premium progress on all applicable environmental luxury hotels of ITC are LEED Platinum aspects, progress against which is reviewed certified, making it the greenest hotel chain through annual corporate and third party in the world. All new construction by ITC audits. Performance of each business unit now incorporates validated green attributes is reviewed at the Central Management and efforts are underway to have existing Committee level, which is the apex buildings and factories also meet validated management body for the organisation. green norms. 146 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Our Agri-Businesses accounts for a Functions, to ensure that employment and significant part of our turnover and these EHS practices in all units are in accordance can be affected by disruptions in rainfall with the policy outlined above and to ensure patterns as are anticipated due to climate total compliance with all statutory provisions change. The impact will be felt not only by governing labour practices and decent work. the agri commodity business but several Specific responsibilities are assigned to other businesses like Cigarettes, Foods, different individuals based on the roles being Paperboards, which are critically dependent performed by them. on agri-supply chains for raw material. Accordingly, the impact will be across a The Corporate Human Resources and EHS significant part of the supply chain. functions are responsible for reviewing and updating standards and guidelines on labour and Of all the approaches that address the EHS policies, employment practices, and for complex inter-relationships between natural providing guidance and support to all concerned. resources and their impact on agricultural productivity, the integrated watershed MANAGEMENT development approach has emerged as the The Company leadership ‘walking the talk’ most successful strategy. ITC has adopted and a relentless focus on implementing the this approach as the basis of its own model. policy underline the Company’s approach to Reflecting its commitment to the Triple employment practices and creating a decent Bottom Line, ITC’s model converges its social work environment. and environmental goals with the demands of its supply chains. The Human Resources and EHS functions of each business are the primary custodians of ITC’s labour and EHS policies and LABOUR PRACTICES employment practices, the implementation of which is reviewed periodically at the AND DECENT WORK unit and the divisional levels. The Corporate ENVIRONMENT Human Resources and EHS functions provide specialist services to assist in the implementation and monitoring of the same. POLICY The multi-layered and multi-dimensional ITC is committed to employee engagement audit framework of the Company also helps that upholds individual dignity and in monitoring compliance with laid down respects human rights. ITC’s employment policies and statutory regulations. practices are premised on attracting and retaining talent based only on merit. Its TRAINING & AWARENESS capability development agenda ensures the deepening and enhancement of skills of all The policy is shared with employees and its employees through customised training potential employees through training and development inputs. All ITC employees programmes, communication sessions, the operate in a work environment that is Company portal, intranet sites and prebenchmarked internationally for the quality placement presentations. Managers from of its safety and health standards. HR, EHS and Engineering departments are provided regular training for effective implementation of these policies. RESPONSIBILITY It is the overall responsibility of the MONITORING & FOLLOW-UP Divisional Chief Executives, through the members of their Divisional Management The HR and EHS resources of the Divisions Committees, Human Resources and EHS regularly monitor progress to ensure proper 147 ANNEXURES implementation of these policies, while the Unit Heads and the Divisional Management HUMAN RIGHTS Committees follow-up periodically to ensure full compliance. The Corporate EHS Department POLICY undertakes regular audits of the units. ITC is committed to conducting business in a manner that reflects its high ethical OBJECTIVES standards. It expects its employees and The primary objective is to nurture a business partners to subscribe and adhere to culture of meritocracy amongst a committed this philosophy, which honours all local laws and enthusiastic workforce from diverse and upholds the spirit of human rights as backgrounds. In the pursuit of this objective, enshrined in existing international standards the following goals have been set for the next such as the Universal Declaration and the five years Fundamental Human Rights Conventions of the ILO. The Corporate Management Committee of the Company has approved All ITC’s units, which are already ‘beyond policies covering crucial human rights areas. compliance’ in all areas related to labour ITC’s Human Rights policies extend to all its practices, will continue to be so. operating sites. Ensure that the Company’s record of attraction and retention of talent is superior RESPONSIBILITY to other companies in the comparative It is the overall responsibility of the Divisional sample. Chief Executives, through the members of their Divisional Management Committees, Enable employees to perform to their fullest General Managers and Unit Heads, to ensure potential to add value to the enterprise, implementation of these policies on human nation and themselves. rights, including designating individuals for specific responsibilities with respect to Enhance the Company’s employee value their Division. proposition so that ITC retains its position as Corporate Human Resources is responsible an employer of choice. for reviewing and updating standards on social policies, and for providing guidance Endeavour to eliminate accidents and injuries and support to all concerned. both on-site and off-site. MANAGEMENT AWARDS The Human Rights policies approved by the A number of awards for excellence in Human CMC provide guidelines for the implementation Resources and EHS management and of these policies and their periodic review. practices bear testimony to ITC’s commitment Corporate HR provides specialist services to to Human Resource Development and EHS assist in implementation and monitoring. and to best-in-class employment practices. TRAINING & AWARENESS CONTEXT Employees are provided with training on High standards of employment and EHS the Company’s Human Rights policies at practices enhance the Company’s performance, Induction Programmes. The policies are help in the attraction and retention of quality available on the Company’s website and talent, and enhance the equity of the Company intranet portals. as a responsible employer. 148 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS MONITORING & FOLLOW-UP areas in which it operates, thereby helping to transform the lives of a large number of The HR resources of the Divisions ensure people and communities. ITC’s objective of periodic follow-up to ensure implementation. The making a positive contribution to the society Internal Audit function of the Company is charged where it operates is served by aligning its own with the responsibility of ensuring compliance. operations with interventions and initiatives aimed at creating sustainable livelihoods OBJECTIVE through farm and non-farm based activities. The Company’s primary objectives in the area Striding a wider canvas in the interest of of Human Rights performance and the goals the nation, ITC is committed to ensuring for the next five years are to ensure that the preservation of India’s unique cultural heritage through various initiatives to promote, encourage and keep cultural All ITC’s operational units are and will remain traditions alive. fully compliant with the Company’s Human Rights policies, premised on a zero tolerance guiding principle towards such violations. With such a diverse and critical social agenda, all ITC employees have the obligation to display high levels of integrity and ethical behavior. All investment decisions will integrate Human Rights considerations into the decision-making process. All ITC’s business RESPONSIBILITY partners will follow and adhere to the Human It is the overall responsibility of the Rights policies that the Company upholds. Corporate Management Committee to ensure that its investments in the social CONTEXT sector are an integral part of the Company’s corporate strategy. Division-level initiatives High standards on Human Rights enhance respond to local needs and are monitored the Company’s reputation and build its by the Divisional Management Committees brand equity, thus helping it achieve the and implemented through their local units goal of operational excellence. It gives in conjunction with the Corporate Human ITC’s business partners, customers and Resources Department. other strategic stakeholders the confidence of dealing with a value-driven Company. The Corporate Management Committee and It is a crucial value proposition that is the Divisional Management Committees offered to potential employees to attract and are responsible for reviewing and updating retain talent and motivate employees to give Corporate Standards on social and cultural their best. development, and updating standards and guidelines for work in these areas as well as for providing guidance and support to all concerned. SOCIETY MANAGEMENT POLICY The Corporate Management Committee is the As a large Indian enterprise, ITC is uniquely primary custodian of ITC’s social initiatives. positioned to contribute to public policy, Implementation is reviewed periodically at the which it does through active participation Unit, Divisional and the CMC levels. A dedicated in a number of fora. Its size also enables team in the Corporate Human Resources it to influence the process of development Department provides specialist services to assist and contribute to sustainable growth in the in implementation and monitoring of projects. 149 ANNEXURES The Units are responsible for responding to Provide supplementary education support specific needs spelt out by local communities and services to atleast 5,00,000 children. implementation is monitored by the Divisional Management Committees. In discharging social In its endeavour to preserve India’s cultural responsibility projects, all applicable rules and and artistic heritage, ITC will also continue regulations are complied with. to ensure that its initiatives in the areas of preservation and promotion of Indian music, art and theatre are strengthened. TRAINING & AWARENESS Employees engaged in social development CONTEXT initiatives are given regular training both to enhance their domain knowledge and A high level of community involvement improve management skills. Society is made creates long term enduring partnerships that aware of these projects and programmes contribute to creating a stable environment through the circulation of a brochure called for its operations. ITC’s commitment that ‘Transforming Lives and Landscapes’. extends beyond the market enhances the Company’s credibility in the minds of stakeholders and policy makers. ITC’s focus MONITORING & FOLLOW-UP on Social Development and on preserving Regular monitoring and followup is India’s heritage is also a key element of its undertaken by Corporate Human Resources. employee value proposition which helps in External accounting firms undertake the attraction and retention of quality talent. quarterly financial audits. External audit firms and the Internal Audit function of the Company carry out system audits regularly. RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRODUCTS AND OBJECTIVE SERVICES The primary focus of ITC’s Social Development Initiatives is to create sustainable sources of MANAGEMENT APPROACH farm and off-farm livelihoods and to improve ITC ensures that all products and services the social infrastructure especially in areas offered to the consumer are in full compliance where it impacts women and children. with all applicable national standards and aspires to achieve best in class international In pursuit of these objectives, the following standards on environmental impacts, health goals have been set for the next five years and safety. Measures such as migration from solvent based inks to water based  Bring at least 2,50,000 hectares under inks in the Packaging and Printing Business soil and moisture conservation practices. and replacing chlorine bleaching process Transform at least 2,00,000 hectares of with ozone bleaching in the Paperboards wastelands into productive and revenue& Specialty Papers Business allows us, generating assets for the poor. for example, to offer complete food grade packaging solutions, while having hotels, Create at least 50,000 women factories and offices comply with Green entrepreneurs with a sustainable source Building Standards and the International of supplementary incomes. Safety Standards allows us to offer a green and safe environment for all our customers Improve the genetic stock of at least and employees. ITC continues its efforts 12,00,000 cattle through artificial on these aspects to achieve continual insemination practices. improvements in standards. 150 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS PRODUCT AND SERVICE GOALS & PERFORMANCE LABELING ITC continuously endeavours to provide All ITC products and services are in its consumers products and services that complete compliance with relevant statutory are benchmarked to international quality requirements addressing these issues. An standards. Individual business performance elaborate system of checks and measures are on ‘Product Responsibility’ is described in place to ensure that no violations occur. elsewhere in the Report. COMPLIANCE CONTEXT All ITC businesses have well-established All ITC products and services aspire to be systems and procedures to ensure compliance best in class for their respective categories. with statutory and internal requirements, These aspirations are backed by extensive concerning issues such as Customer Health & R&D efforts spearheaded by the in-house Safety, Product & Service labeling, marketing R&D resources. Aspects influencing Health & communications and Customer privacy. Safety are factored in at the product / service International Quality Rating System (IQRS) design stage. ITC anticipates that social for Business Excellence, which rates key pressures towards responsible use of tobacco processes against international benchmarks, will increase and ITC remains fully committed has already been introduced in a number of to support this concern. The growing trend businesses. In addition, various other quality towards voluntary disclosures points to an improvement tools such as ‘Six Sigma’ era of increasingly well informed consumers, initiatives have been integrated with the Quality which we think will create additional Management Systems, to further strengthen opportunities for products & services with compliance. In addition, there is a rigorous authenticated sustainability attributes. system of internal audits to ensure compliance. 151 ANNEXURES Policies And Guidelines Vision, Mission And Core Values ITC’S VISION RESPECT FOR PEOPLE We are result oriented, setting high Sustain ITC’s position as one of India’s most performance standards for ourselves valuable corporations through world-class as individuals and teams. We will performance, creating growing value for the simultaneously respect and value people Indian economy and the Company’s stakeholders. and uphold humanness and human dignity. We acknowledge that every individual brings different perspectives and capabilities to the ITC’S MISSION team and that a strong team is founded on a variety of perspectives. To enhance the wealth generating capability of the enterprise in a globalising environment, We want individuals to dream, value delivering superior and sustainable differences, create and experiment in pursuit stakeholder value. of opportunities and achieve leadership through teamwork. ITC’S CORE VALUES EXCELLENCE ITC’s Core Values are aimed at developing a We do what is right, do it well and win. We customer-focussed, high-performance organisation will strive for excellence in whatever we do. which creates values for all its stakeholders. INNOVATION TRUSTEESHIP We will constantly pursue newer and As professional managers, we are conscious better processes, products, services and that ITC has been given to us in ‘trust’ management practices. by all our stakeholders. We will actualise stakeholder value and interest on a longNATION ORIENTATION term sustainable basis. We are aware of our responsibility to generate economic value for the Nation. CUSTOMER FOCUS In pursuit of our goals, we will make no We are always customer-focussed and will compromise in complying with applicable deliver what the customer needs in terms of laws and regulations at all levels. value, quality and satisfaction. 152 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE structure, policies and practices of governance is available on the Company’s POLICY corporate website www.itcportal.com under ITC defines Corporate Governance as a the section ‘Our Values’. systemic process by which companies are directed and controlled to enhance their wealthgenerating capacity. Since large corporations ITC CODE OF CONDUCT employ a vast quantum of societal resources, ITC believes that the governance process The ITC Code of Conduct, as adopted by the should ensure that these resources are Board of Directors, is applicable to Directors, utilised in a manner that meets stakeholders’ senior management and employees of the aspirations and societal expectations. This Company. This Code is derived from three belief is reflected in the Company’s deep interlinked fundamental principles, viz. commitment to contribute to the ‘Triple Bottom good corporate governance, good corporate Line’, namely, the development, nurture and citizenship and exemplary personal conduct. regeneration of the nation’s economic, social The Code covers ITC’s commitment to and environmental capital. sustainable development, concern for occupational health, safety and environment, ITC’s Corporate Governance structure, a gender friendly workplace, transparency systems and processes are based on two and auditability, legal compliance, and the core principles philosophy of leading by personal example. Any instance of non-adherence to the Code Management must have the executive or any other observed unethical behaviour on freedom to drive the enterprise forward the part of those covered under the Code is to without undue restraints; and be brought to the attention of the immediate reporting authority, who in turn, should report This freedom of management should be exercised the same to the Head of Corporate Human within a framework of effective accountability. Resources. The Code is available on the Company’s corporate website. ITC believes that any meaningful policy on Corporate Governance must empower the executive management of the Company. At ITC’S EHS POLICY the same time, Governance must create a mechanism of checks and balances to ensure ITC’s Mission is to sustain and enhance the that the decision-making powers vested in wealth-generating capacity of its portfolio the executive management are used with of businesses in a progressively globalising care and responsibility to meet stakeholders’ environment. As one of India’s premier aspirations and societal expectations. corporations employing a vast quantum of societal resources, ITC seeks to fulfil a larger From this definition and core principles role by enlarging its contribution to the society of Corporate Governance emerge the of which it is a part. The trusteeship role cornerstones of ITC’s governance philosophy, related to social and environmental resources, namely, trusteeship, transparency, aligned to the pursuit of economic objectives, empowerment & accountability, control and is the cornerstone of ITC’s Environment, Health ethical corporate citizenship. ITC believes and Safety philosophy. ITC’s EHS philosophy that the practice of each of these creates the cognises for the twin needs of conservation right corporate culture that fulfills the true and creation of productive resources. purpose of Corporate Governance. In the multi-business context of ITC, Corporate The Policy Document that sets out the Strategies are designed to create enduring 153 ANNEXURES value for the nation and the shareholder, through To ensure safe handling, storage, use and leadership in each business and the attainment disposal of all substances and materials of world-class competitive capabilities across that are classified as hazardous to health the value chain. The objective of leadership and environment. extends to all facets of business operations To reduce waste, conserve energy, and promote including Environment, Health and Safety. recycling of materials wherever possible. ITC is, therefore, committed to conducting its To institute and implement a system operations with due regard for the environment, of regular EHS audit in order to and providing a safe and healthy workplace assure compliance with laid down for each employee. Various international and policy, benchmarked standards, and national awards and accreditations stand requirements of laws, regulations and testimony to ITC’s commitment to EHS. Such applicable codes of practice. external recognition further reinforces the To proactively share information with need to direct the collective endeavour of the business partners towards inculcating Company’s employees at all levels towards world-class EHS standards across the sustaining and continuously improving value chain of which ITC is a part. standards of Environment, Health and Safety in a bid to attain and exceed benchmarked All employees of ITC are expected to adhere standards, whether regulatory or otherwise. to and comply with the EHS Policy and Corporate Standards on EHS. IN PARTICULAR, IT IS ITC’S EHS POLICY ITC’s EHS Policy extends to all sites of the Company. It will be the overall responsibility of To contribute to sustainable development the Divisional/SBU Chief Executives, through through the establishment and the members of their Divisional Management implementation of environment standards Committees, General Managers and Unit that are scientifically tested and meet the Heads, to ensure implementation of this Policy requirement of relevant laws, regulations and Corporate Standards on EHS, including and codes of practice. formation of various committees and designating individuals for specific responsibilities in To take account of environment, respect of their Division/SBU. occupational health and safety in planning and decision-making. The Corporate EHS Department is responsible To provide appropriate training and for reviewing and updating Corporate disseminate information to enable Standards on EHS, and for providing guidance all employees to accept individual and support to all concerned. responsibility for Environment, Health and Safety, implement best practices, and work in partnership to create a culture of SIGNIFICANT CHANGES continuous improvement. To instil a sense of duty in every employee POLICY towards personal safety, as well as that All major changes in operations, involving of others who may be affected by the work processes, manning norms and other employee’s actions. productivity linked issues are implemented To provide and maintain facilities, equipment, after discussions with the employees and operations and working conditions which are the recognised unions at each location. safe for employees, visitors and contractors at the Company’s premises. 154 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS IMPLEMENTATION of society, especially those residing in rural India, through economic empowerment Business plans are shared with employees at based on grass-roots capacity building. all units through a series of communication meetings, and through the intranet portals. Recognising that business enterprises are Unionised employees at the concerned units economic organs of society and draw on are informed of all major changes well in societal resources, it is ITC’s belief that a advance through their representatives. company’s performance must be measured by its Triple Bottom Line contribution to The responsibility for the implementation of the building economic, social and environmental policy rests with the Unit’s Human Resources capital. ITC is therefore committed to creating Department in the case of unionised employees larger ‘stakeholder value’ by aligning its and with the concerned Divisional Management performance to these Triple Bottom Line Committees for other employees. objectives. As an Indian enterprise, ITC believes that this approach can unleash The employees are given enough time to strong drivers of growth to make it more consider the implications of change and an inclusive and equitable for even the most opportunity to discuss their apprehensions, marginalised sections of society, through if any, with the management. The Policy is the creation of sustainable livelihoods, and actualised through consultative meetings to ensure long-term business sustainability with representatives of employees, and competitiveness. culminating in joint minutes/agreements. PREAMBLE MONITORING & AUDITING It is the Company’s intent to make a positive Compliance with the Policy is regularly difference to society. It recognises that it monitored by the Unit Head. cannot do it all; so that if there are choices to be made, bias will be towards doing fewer projects with greater impact and focusing POLICY ON SOCIAL initiatives on communities in which the INVESTMENTS/ Company lives and operates. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) POLICY It is ITC’s policy: PHILOSOPHY To pursue a corporate strategy that enables realisation of the twin goals of Inspired by a vision to serve a larger national shareholder value enhancement and purpose and abide with the strong value societal value creation in a mutually of Trusteeship, ITC has crafted innovative reinforcing and synergistic manner. business models to create larger societal capital while simultaneously delivering long To align and integrate Social Investments/ term shareholder value. This overarching CSR programmes with the business value aspiration to create meaningful societal value chains of the Company and make them is manifest in ITC’s strategy to enhance the outcome oriented. To support creation competitiveness of value chains of which it of onand off-farm sustainable livelihood is a part. It is therefore a conscious strategy sources thereby empowering stakeholder to design and implement Social Investments/ communities to conserve and manage CSR programmes in the context of ITC’s their resources. businesses, by enriching value chains that To implement Social Investments/CSR encompass the most disadvantaged sections programmes primarily in the economic 155 ANNEXURES vicinity of the Company’s operations IMPLEMENTATION with a view to ensuring the long term sustainability of such interventions. The plans will be formulated in line with the strategic direction provided by the To contribute to sustainable development Board Committee on Sustainability. in areas of strategic interest through initiatives designed in a manner that The programmes will, where appropriate, addresses the challenges faced by the be developed in consultation with direct Indian society especially in rural India. stakeholders in order to ensure a bottomup planning approach. ITC will also To collaborate with communities and endeavour to create multi-stakeholder institutions to contribute to the national partnerships with NGOs, governments mission of eradicating poverty and etc. for a larger development impact. hunger, especially in rural areas, through agricultural research and knowledge The Corporate Management Committee sharing, superior farm and agri-extension (CMC) and Divisional Chief Executives practices, soil and moisture conservation may, from time to time, suggest additional and watershed management, conservation areas of social intervention in line with and development of forest resources, the overall objectives of the Company and empowering women economically, its Divisions. supplementing primary education and The programmes may be implemented participating in rural capacity building directly by the Company under the programmes and such other initiatives. supervision of the Management Committee To align the Company’s operations with for Social Investments/Divisional the national objective of inclusive growth Management Committees (DMCs), or and employment generation by leveraging through Trusts, Foundations etc. the Company’s diversified portfolio, The Strategy of Organisation for manufacturing bases, supply chains addressing the various dimensions of and distribution channels, to infuse an CSR will be reviewed from time to time appropriate mix of capital and technology and cleared with the CMC. to further social business initiatives such as e-choupal, animal husbandry, agarbatti MONITORING & AUDITING rolling etc. and support organisations/ institutions engaged in building linkages The Board, through its Committee on with local, regional and urban communities Sustainability and the CMC, is the primary and markets. custodian of ITC’s Social Investments/CSR programme. The CMC is responsible for To sustain and continuously improve its overall implementation, monitoring and standards of Environment, Health and review. Regular performance reviews are Safety through the collective endeavour undertaken by the Management Committee of the Company and its employees at for Social Investments/DMCs together with all levels towards attaining world class the Social Investments team of Corporate standards and support other programmes Human Resources (CHR) and other and initiatives, internal or external, for stakeholder functions. the prevention of illness and combating of diseases as may be considered Measures to monitor and assess progress appropriate from time to time. include the following: To encourage the development of human To pursue a corporate strategy that capital of the Nation by expanding human enables realisation of the twin goals of capabilities through skills development, shareholder value enhancement and vocational training etc. and promote societal value creation in a mutually excellence in identified cultural fields. reinforcing and synergistic manner. 156 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Monthly report-backs of expenditure follow a strict code for making product against budgets and review thereof functional claims, (including where applicable progress follow the highest standards in nutrition review against milestones) in accordance labelling and reporting, with applicable processes under Corporate Governance, in instances of follow responsible marketing and one time expenditure and in respect of consumer communications practices, activities executed by the Company and create and sustain R&D focus in its Divisions. development of new products and Quarterly and annual reports on impact processes, indicators provided by the project follow the highest standards of hygiene implementing partners supplemented by: and manufacturing practices in all Quarterly and annual audits by accounting delivery formats, firms appointed by the Company to collaborate with experts and institutions monitor financial performance and a systems audit to ensure that laid down ensure widespread accessibility to healthy procedures are followed. Financial and products through appropriate pricing and systems audits of selected projects by wide distribution. ITC’s Internal Audit. Impact analysis of mature projects (more POLICY FRAMEWORK AND than 3 years old) by third parties. STRATEGIES As with all laws, ITC’s Food products ITC FOOD PRODUCTS POLICY will adhere to all legal and regulatory requirements as prescribed from time to It is ITC’s policy that its food products time. should provide nutritious, tasty, hygienic and To offer new products that meet the convenient options to the consuming public. aspiration of the changing consumer. ITC will offer food products across multiple As the aspiration of the consumer categories, price points, delivery formats changes, new products will be developed and segments as dictated by the needs of the and launched to meet the taste, nutrition consumer. and convenience expectations of future ITC’s portfolio of food products will be consumers. continuously improved and modified to To offer products with affordable and offer new products that meet the appropriate nutrition. aspiration of the changing consumer, Recommendations of the National Institute offer food products with affordable and of Nutrition (NIN), India, will be referred appropriate nutrition, to, to assess nutritional appropriateness of ITC’s food products. Efforts will be offer food products with micronutrient made to offer products with appropriate fortification, nutrient density for mass consumption, drive reduction of sodium, sugar and fat including catering to the needs of in Products, those sections of the society who are economically disadvantaged. offer trans-fat free products, To offer products with micro-nutrient offer functional food products with focus fortification. on India specific metabolic disorders, 157 ANNEXURES ITC’s food products will be suitably of its functional foods. Experts’ opinion fortified with micro-nutrients (iron, will be taken to design the clinical studies calcium, zinc, iodine, folic acid, other and suitable statistical methods will be vitamins and minerals) wherever feasible. employed to interpret the clinical study ITC’s R&D will continue to carry out data. Indian Council of Medical Research suitable research programmes to make (ICMR) guidelines will be referred to and fortified nutrients more biologically followed in all clinical studies. Functional available and functional. claims will be made only after statistical significance is observed. To drive reduction of sodium, sugar and fat in products To follow the highest standards in nutrition labelling and reporting ITC’s R&D will endeavour to find solutions aimed at reducing fat, sugar and sodium ITC’s packaged food products’ labelling (“FSS”) in food products, without will be comprehensive with good clarity impacting the taste profile of the product. on the contents of all macro and microIn addition to scientific solutions, ITC will nutrients. The nutrient content will be also adopt the Adaptation Methodology compared with the NIN recommended to reduce these ingredients in a gradual Daily Value (DV) and the percentage in the manner. Guidelines will be made and product will be reported. tangible targets will be set for the new To follow responsible marketing and product development teams to reduce the consumer communication practices above ingredients in the new products. ITC will endeavour to introduce such Apart from complying with all local laws Reduced FSS products in the market by and regulations, advertisements of ITC’s year 2013. food products will also adhere to the ASCI Code. All product communication to the To offer Trans Fat Free Products consumer will appropriately represent To disclose added trans-fats, if any, in all the products. Internal audits will be done food products. To work towards not using on marketing practices and, if needed, any hydrogenated oil in all food products corrective action will be taken. Efforts by the year 2015. will be made to promote nutritious foods and educate the rural consumer in food To offer functional food products with hygiene. focus on India-specific metabolic disorders To create and sustain R&D focus in development of new products and ITC, with well-researched functional processes ingredients, will endeavour to make ITC’s R&D organisation is structured to functional food products suitable for research exploratory subjects and applied consumption by Indians who suffer from research subjects. ITC’s R&D infrastructure metabolic disorders. ITC will release such is of international standards, and has been functional products to the consumer, only certified with ISO 14001-2004 for EHS and after fully understanding the mechanism ISO 17025 NABL for analytical processes. of action of the functional ingredients at There are more than 100 scientists the molecular level. Integrative biology conducting R&D on several food related approaches will be employed to study platforms. ITC will continuously strive to these ingredients’ efficacy. contemporise its R&D infrastructure to meet To follow a strict code for making product changing nutrition needs. functional claims To follow the highest standards of ITC will conduct clinical trials in India by hygiene and manufacturing practices in using Indian subjects to study the efficacy all delivery formats 158 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ITC Hotels R&D endeavours to practice about risk reduction strategies in their GHP & GMP (Good Hygiene Practices personal lives, with the objective of reducing & Good Manufacturing Practices) along the stigma of HIV/AIDS, encouraging safe with ISO 22000 food safety management behaviour and improving understanding of system implementation with PAS 220 treatment. The Company is committed to relevant applications. ITC hotels will providing a safe and healthy workplace to all stringently follow all applicable regulatory its employees. It is the Company’s objective requirements, with particular focus on that employees will have access to health risk minimisation and elimination. services to prevent and manage HIV/AIDS. To collaborate with experts and The Company will not discriminate against institutions any employee infected by HIV/AIDS with ITC believes in collaborating with outside regard to promotions, training and other experts to upgrade the knowledge of privileges and benefits as applicable to its personnel with a view to guiding the all employees. All HIV positive employees food business in developing products will be allowed to continue to work in their with balanced nutrition and functional jobs unless (a) medical conditions interfere ingredients. ITC will continue to with the specific job being done, in which collaborate with national and international case reasonable alternative working institutions for scientific research and arrangements will be made; or (b) the specific projects. ITC believes in using an employee is incapacitated to perform his/her Open Innovation policy in developing its duties and is declared medically unfit by a R&D for food products. medical doctor, in which case the employee will be assisted to rehabilitate himself/ To ensure widespread accessibility of herself outside the Company. healthy products through pricing and distribution The Company will not make pre-employment ITC will ensure the widest accessibility HIV/AIDS screening mandatory as part of to its healthy food products through its fitness-to-work assessment. Screening ensuring national geographic distribution of this kind refers to direct methods (HIV across both urban and rural centres, using testing), indirect methods (assessment of risk its FMCG distribution infrastructure and behaviour), and questions about HIV tests its e-choupal related rural distribution already taken. HIV/AIDS test will not be part of reach. ITC will also ensure accessibility the annual health check-up unless specifically across demographics through adopting requested for by an employee. a portfolio approach across all relevant price segments. Voluntary testing for HIV/AIDS, when requested for by the employee, will be carried out by private or community health services POLICY ON HIV/AIDS and not at the workplace. There will be no obligation on the part of the employees to POLICY inform the Company about their clinical status in relation to HIV/AIDS. Information on clinical The Company’s policy on HIV/AIDS with diagnosis of an employees’ status in terms regard to its employees will, at a minimum, of his/her HIV/AIDS status, if advised to the comply with all relevant Central and State Company, will be kept strictly confidential. legislations and the Company will implement all policies and directives of the Government regarding HIV/AIDS whenever issued. IMPLEMENTATION This policy is publicly available throughout The Company will provide to all its employees the Company and clearly communicated to sensitive, accurate and the latest information all employees in a manner in which it can be 159 ANNEXURES understood through induction programmes, standards of human rights, safety, health, policy manuals and intranet portals. labour practices and environment in their operations as practiced by the Company. The responsibility for the implementation of the policy rests with the Unit Human IMPLEMENTATION Resources Departments. A report is provided The responsibility for implementation of this to the Divisional Head on such programmes. policy rests with the Divisional Chief Executive/ SBU Head of the concerned Business. MONITORING & AUDITING Compliance with the Policy is regularly MONITORING & AUDITING monitored by the Unit Head. The Internal Audit function of ITC conducts periodic audits to ensure that such clauses form part of the investment contracts signed HUMAN RIGHTS during the audit period. CONSIDERATION IN SIGNIFICANT PREVENTION OF INVESTMENTS DISCRIMINATION AT POLICY WORKPLACE ITC’s commitment to human rights extends POLICY to all its significant investment decisions ITC’s approach to its human resources in order to ensure integration of statutory is premised on the fundamental belief of compliance, environmental, occupational fostering meritocracy in the organisation, health and safety, human rights and which promotes diversity and offers equality progressive labour policies into business of opportunity to all employees. ITC does decision-making processes. not engage in or support direct or indirect discrimination in recruitment, compensation, IMPLEMENTATION access to training, promotion, termination or The custodian of this policy is the Divisional Chief retirement based on caste, religion, disability, Executive/SBU Head of the concerned Business. gender, age, race, colour, ancestry, marital status or affiliation with a political, religious, MONITORING & AUDITING or union organisation or a minority group. The Internal Audit function of ITC conducts IMPLEMENTATION periodic checks to ensure that such clauses form part of investment contracts signed The policy is communicated to all employees during the audit period. through induction programmes, policy manuals and intranet portals. The custodian of this policy is the Divisional Chief Executive HUMAN RIGHTS or the SBU Head of each Business. CONSIDERATION The speedy resolution of formal complaints ACROSS THE SUPPLY is premised on the freedom of employees CHAIN to approach higher officials in case the issue is not settled at the level of his/her immediate superior. The salient features POLICY of the issue and steps taken towards its ITC endeavours to ensure that all its resolution are minuted. For the unionised service providers/vendors incorporate high employees, compliance with the policy is 160 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS ensured through a robust grievance handling of freedom of association and collective procedure and the presence of a union that is bargaining. Divisional and Corporate HR expected to bring violations to the notice of regularly monitor compliance with the Policy. the Unit HR Head. Corporate HR compiles these on a halfyearly basis and reports to the Corporate MONITORING & AUDITING Management Committee. The accountability for the application of this policy rests with the Unit Head who reviews anti-discriminatory complaints annually or on a PROHIBITION OF CHILD case-by-case basis. The HR department of the AND FORCED LABOUR Division/SBU reports annually on incidents of discrimination, if any, to the SBU Head or the POLICY Divisional Chief Executive. Corporate Human ITC does not employ any person below the Resources conducts non-discrimination age of eighteen years at the workplace. ITC reviews annually on a sample basis with Unit prohibits the use of forced or compulsory Heads and through on-site assessments. labour at all its units. No employee is made to work against his/her will or work as bonded/forced labour, or subject to corporal FREEDOM OF punishment or coercion of any type related ASSOCIATION to work. POLICY IMPLEMENTATION ITC respects the employees’ right to organise This policy is publicly available throughout themselves into interest groups, independent the Company and clearly communicated to from supervision by the management. all employees in a manner in which it can be In keeping with the spirit of this policy, understood through induction programmes, employees are not discriminated against for policy manuals and intranet portals. The exercising this right. workers are informed of these rights by the trade unions active at each unit. IMPLEMENTATION The policy is communicated to all employees The implementation of the policy is the through induction programmes, policy responsibility of the Unit’s HR Department and manuals and intranet portals. The custodian the security staff who do not permit minors of this policy is the HR Head of each to enter the factory as workers. Employment operational unit who reports directly to the contracts and other records, documenting all Unit Head on such issues. The employees relevant details of the employees, including are informed of these rights by the unions age, are maintained at all units and are open who solicit their support to represent them to verification by any authorised personnel or formally before the management. relevant statutory body. MONITORING & AUDITING The unit provides an annual report on all reported, if any, incidents of child or forced Each ITC Unit has appropriate systems labour to the functional head. to ensure compliance with the Policy and statutory provisions, including means for filing of grievances, collective bargaining MONITORING & AUDITING agreements and minutes of worker meetings. Corporate Internal Audit and EHS departments The HR department of the concerned Unit undertake audit and assessment annually. submits annual reports to the functional head Corporate Human Resources undertakes in cases of identified incidents of violation random checks of records annually. 161 ANNEXURES PREVENTION OF MONITORING & AUDITING CORRUPTION AT The Company remains committed to ensuring an effective internal control WORKPLACE environment that provides assurance on potential risks. ITC’s well-established and POLICY robust internal audit processes continuously monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of All employees of ITC have the obligation to the internal control environment across the conduct themselves in an honest and ethical Company. Weaknesses or noncompliance, if manner and act in the best interest of the any, are identified during the audit process Company at all times. They are expected to for rectification, thereby providing crucial demonstrate exemplary personal conduct. inputs for continuous improvements in the All employees of ITC must avoid situations in systems and procedures. Significant issues, which their personal interest could conflict if any, are brought to the notice of the Audit with the interest of the Company. Conflict, Committee together with the progress made if any, must be disclosed to the higher for resolution. Confirmations given by the management for guidance and action. All businesses to the Board are independently employees must ensure that their actions in verified by Internal Audit as per the directions the conduct of business are totally transparent. of the Audit Committee. IMPLEMENTATION e-WASTE MANAGEMENT The strong corporate governance process of the Company creates the environment for OBJECTIVE the formulation of robust internal systems and procedures in a structured manner for ITC’s achievements across all three the conduct of the Company’s Business. An dimensions of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ effective policy for prevention of corruption economic, social and environmental is is actualised through appropriate policies, well known and recognised globally. Being systems and processes such as the delegated a pioneer in environmentally sustainable authority structure as per Corporate operations (e.g Carbon and Water positive , Governance policies, segregation of duties, Solid Waste Recycling positive), we need to tiered approval mechanisms, the involvement meet demanding standards of responsible of more than one manager in key decisions waste management in all aspects of our and maintenance of supporting records. operations. ITC’s approach on e-waste is to All ITC managers are provided with adequate comply fully with Government of training inputs to be aware of the systems India’s directives as enunciated in the and procedures and to ensure compliance. e-Waste (Management and Handling) The custodian of this policy is the Corporate Rules 2011. An internal audit process by Management Committee, the Divisional Corporate EHS ensures compliance. Chief Executives/SBU Heads and Heads of departments. A core responsibility of the DMCs is to put in place appropriate control and risk management mechanisms to ensure that businesses are conducted as per the Governance Policy and the Company’s Code of Professional Conduct. The Divisional Chief Executives/SBU Heads provide confirmation of compliance with the laid down systems and procedures. 162 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Memberships And Affiliations – 2013 Agricultural & Processed Foods Export Ecotourism Society of India Development Authority Employers’ Association of Northern India All India Food Processors Association Experience India Society All India Management Association Export Inspection Council of India Andhra Chamber of Commerce Federation of Andhra Pradesh Chambers Asian Packaging Federation of Commerce and Industry Associated Chambers of Commerce & Federation of Biscuits Manufacturers Industry Association of India Associated Chambers of Commerce and Federation of Hotels & Restaurants Industry of Uttar Pradesh Association of India Bangalore Chamber of Industry and Federation of Indian Export Organisations Commerce Federation of Indian Chambers of Bangalore Management Association Commerce and Industry Bihar Chamber of Commerce Federation of Industries and Commerce of North Eastern Region Bihar Industries Association Federation of Jharkhand Chambers of Bihar State Productivity Council Commerce & Industry Bombay Chamber of Commerce and Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Industry Commerce & Industry Bombay Management Association Federation of Madhya Pradesh Chambers Bureau of Indian Standards of Commerce & Industry Chhattisgarh Chamber of Commerce & Gujarat Chamber of Commerce & Industry Industries Guwahati Management Association Central Food Technology Research Hotel Association of India Institute International Market Assessment India Chemicals & Plastics Export Council of Limited India Indian Association of Tour Operators Coal Consumers Association Indian Beauty and Hygiene Association Cochin Chamber of Commerce & Industry Indian Chamber of Commerce Calcutta Coffee Board Indian Chamber of Commerce and Coffee Exporters Association Industry, Coimbatore Coimbatore Management Association Indian Coffee Trade Association Coimbatore Productivity Council Indian Confectionery Manufacturers Confederation of Indian Industry Association 163 MEMBERSHIPS & AFFILIATIONS India Convention Promotion Bureau Paper Film and Foil Converters Indian Green Building Council Association Indian Institute of Packaging PHD Chamber of Commerce and Industry Indian Merchants’ Chamber Protein Food and Nutrition Development Association of India Indian Oil & Produce Exporters Association Ranjangaon Industries Association Indian Paper Manufacturers Association Retailers Association of India Indian Printing Packaging and Allied Seafood Exporters Association of India Machinery Manufacturers Association Snack Foods Association Indian Pulp & Paper Technical Association Society for Urban Regeneration of Indian Tobacco Association Gurgaon Indian Wind Power Association Solvent Extractors Association of India Indo American Chamber of Commerce Soyabean Processors Association of India Indo Australian Chamber of Commerce Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers Indo German Chamber of Commerce Association Industrial Waste Management Association The All India Association of Industries Institute of Directors The Bengal Chamber of Commerce & International Chamber of Commerce Industry International Life Science Institute The Central Organisation for Oil Industry International Packaging Group and Trade Karnataka Planters Association The Clothing Manufacturers Association Of India Kerala Management Association The Energy and Research Institute Leatherhead Food International, UK The Food Safety and Standards Authority Madras Chamber of Commerce & Industry of India Madras Management Association The Indian Society of Advertisers Madras Printers and Lithographers The United Planters’ Association of Association Southern India Maharashtra Economic Development The Utkal Chamber of Commerce & Council Industry Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry The Visakhapatnam Chamber of & Agriculture Commerce & Industry Marine Products Export Development Travel Agents Association of India Authority US Food and Drug Administration Multi Commodity Exchange of India Limited Western UP Chamber of Commerce & Industry Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce World Travel & Tourism Council India National Council of Applied Economic Initiative Research World Wide Fund Global Forest and National Safety Council Trade Network Oil Technologists’ Association of India Pacific Asia Travel Association 164 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Independent Assurance Statements The Management and Board of Directors ITC Limited Virginia House Kolkata 700071 India INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Ernst & Young LLP (EY) was retained by ITC Limited (the “Company”) to provide an independent assurance on its Sustainability Report 2013 (the “Report”), limited to the social and environmental information therein. The Company’s management is responsible for the content of the report, and its presentation. EY’s responsibility is to provide assurance on the report content, as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management of the Company only, and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organisation. ASSURANCE STANDARD The assurance engagement was planned and performed in accordance with International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000). Our evidence-gathering procedures have been designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we base our conclusions. SCOPE OF ASSURANCE AND METHODOLOGY The scope of our work for this assurance was limited to review of information pertaining to environment and social performance for the period of 1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013, in 9 selected representative units from various businesses of the Company and Head office, Kolkata, which are material to the Company’s triple bottomline performance. These 9 selected units are: ITD ( Tobacco Division) Kolkata (West Bengal) & Pune (Maharashtra) FBD ( Foods Division ) Pune (Maharashtra) Hotels ITC Windsor, Bengaluru (Karnataka) PPB (Packaging and Printing Business) Tiruvottiyur, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) PSPD (Paperboards and Specialty Papers Division) Bhadrachalam (Andhra Pradesh) & Tribeni (West Bengal) 165 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS ILTD ( Leaf Tobacco Division) Anaparti (Andhra Pradesh) PCPB (Personal Care Products Business) Manpura, Himachal Pradesh EY’s multidisciplinary team of professionals visited the Company’s above manufacturing units and the head office in order to review and verify the data and information presented in the report, on core and additional G3 indicators listed below: EN 1: Materials used by weight or volume EN 3: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN 4: Indirect energy consumption by primary source EN 8: Total water withdrawal by source EN 16: Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN 19: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN 20: NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN 21: Total water discharge by quality and destination EN 22: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method LA 1: Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region LA 4: Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA 7: Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region LA 10: Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category HR 1: Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening SO 1: Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting The nature and scope of our work was based on our professional judgment and we have performed procedures deemed necessary to provide a basis for our conclusions. The approach to the assurance exercise included interaction with key personnel to identify the processes in place to capture sustainability performance data and information as per GRI 2006 (GRI-G3) Guidelines. The team conducted review and verification of data collection process, measurement methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion/omission of necessary information/data to: Review of consistency of data/information within the report as well as between the report and source; Verification of the transcription of data internally verified by the Company ; 166 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS Execution of audit trail of selected data streams and information to determine the level of accuracy in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; Review of the reliability of the information, assessing related controls and their operating effectiveness; Review of the Company’s plans, policies and practices, pertaining to their social, environmental and sustainable development. LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The assurance scope excludes: Aspects of the Report other than those mentioned above; Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1st April 2012 to 31st March 2013); The Company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention and national or global socio-economic and environmental aspects; Data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company. CONCLUSION On the basis of our procedures aimed at obtaining reasonable assurance, we conclude that in our opinion: The Company has presented, in a reasonably balanced, accurate, complete and transparent manner, the information on Environmental and Social parameters pertaining to the GRI indicators on material consumption, energy, water consumption and discharge, GHG emissions, wastes, safety performance and social programmes. OBSERVATIONS The Company continued to demonstrate its commitment to the key sustainability issues through its actions on carbon sequestration, waste recycling, creating rainwater harvesting potential, and creating sustainable livelihoods. The carbon positive status has been achieved through implementation of multiple energy efficiency improvement initiatives, increased share of renewables in the overall energy consumption mix and sequestration of CO2 through social and farm forestry projects. The water positive status is based on reduction of specific water consumption and rainwater harvesting potential from structures created. The solid waste recycling positive status of the Company is based on recycling of waste generated within its premises and recycling of waste recovered from external parties. During our review, we noted that the Company has a structured sustainability data capturing system, and, as an improvement measure, is taking up initiatives to further strengthen its robustness, reporting protocols and review mechanisms. Ernst & Young LLP Sudipta Das Partner 5th June, 2013 Kolkata 167 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS                                                                                                                                                                      •                                                          •              •              •   168 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOR ALL OUR TOMORROWS      •                                                                                                •                                         •                                                                     169 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENTS                                                                                                                   170 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Application Level A+ Standard Disclosure G3 Performance G3 Management Indicators & Sectors G3 Profile Disclosures Approach Disclosures Supplement Performance Indicators Output Output Output Reported on Management Approach Responded on each 1.1 1.2 disclosed for each core G3 indicator 2.1 2.10 Indicator category with due regard to 3.1 3.13 Materiality Principle by 4.1 4.17 either a) reporting on the indicator, or b) explaining the reason for its omission Report Externally Assured by Ernst & Young For any feedback/suggestions write to us at enduringvalue@itc.in Figures in this section are as on May 2013
