from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) 2012 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management CSR-report 2012 2 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil It is our mission to provide solutions that enable customers manufacture advanced, energy efficient power components. Topsil CSR-report 2012 2 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 3 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S hereby reconfirms its continued support of the UN Global Compact in the below statement: March 2013 United Nations Global Compact On behalf of Topsil Semiconductor Materials A/S I hereby Once again in 2012, we have especially strengthened our environreconfirm our company’s continued support of the Ten Principles of mental performance. Our new corporate headquarters includes the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, a vast number of state-of-the-art technical solutions that will Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We thus acknowledge also have a positive environmental impact, and our most recent our ongoing responsibility to balance the economic interests of consumption figures on key equipment speak for themselves. We our company with those of our stakeholders and the environment. have recently obtained an environment certification, ISO14001, We furthermore commit to share this information with our stake­ which will further aid us monitor and improve our environmental holders using our primary channels of communication. performance in the years to come. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our Also worth mentioning for 2012, we stepped up on our efforts actions taken in 2012 to improve our performance on CSR related concerning anti-corruption by formulating and communicating matters. We are still relatively new to introducing CSR to our detailed guidelines to our organisation. organisation, however, compared to when we took our first small steps in 2010, we believe to have made notable progress during the last couple of years. Kind regards, Kalle Hvidt Nielsen CEO ”” We are proud that Topsil’s ultrapure silicon wafers are an essential part of intelligent energy solutions. Kalle Hvidt Nielsen, CEO Topsil CSR-report 2012 3 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management CSR-report 2012 4 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil SIlicon in our modern world Wind turbines A wind turbine must be able to catch the wind and to rotate, generate electricity and connect to and disconnect from the power grid depending on the wind force. Intelligent electronics is required for operating wind turbines and transporting energy. Silicon plays a role in this context and is used in the electric components of the wind turbine nacelle. It is also used in the transformer system picking up the energy and Electric and hybrid distributing it to the power grid. Vehicles In future, more electric cars and hybrid vehicles on the road may be anticipated. However, they can only run if their batteries are charged beforehand, and it is only possible to shift to a higher or lower gear if the electricity supply is regulated. Silicon may be used for energy-efficient electricity supply and regulation. Silicon is used, for example, under the bonnet and in the charger for the car. Production machinery The industry needs electricity to manufacture products. Production machinery requires turning on and off, and speed needs to be adjusted up and down. Silicon is a highly efficient material with premium electrical properties. It contributes to optimum machinery control and lower energy consumption and is found in the machinery control mechanisms and the electric motors. Topsil CSR-report 2012 4 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 5 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Did you know that… • Topsil’s is a dedicated manufacturer of ultrapure silicon. • The mega drivers for Topsil’s main market, the power The silicon is so pure that only a handful of companies in market, are population growth and a global rise in per the world have sufficient knowledge and capabilities to capita income. More and more affluent people and soproduce it. cieties will lead to an increased demand for energy and energy infrastructure, transport investments and energy • Topsil provides silicon in the form of wafers. The wafers effectiveness. In order to exploit this market potential, are inserted in electrical components and end up in variTopsil has invested substantially in new facilities, techous end-user applications. nology and equipment 2010-2012. • Topsil was founded 1959 by the Dane Dr. Haldor Topsøe. • Topsil’s expected revenue in 2012 is DKK 260-280m. In It is publicly listed on the Nasdaq OMX Nordic stock 2012 the average number of employees was 358. exchange and is headquartered in Copenhagen Cleantech Park, Denmark. It has a subsidiary in Warsaw, Poland. Learn more: www.topsil.com • Topsil’s customers are primarily large multinational corporations in the semiconductor industry and for a minor part, research institutes and universities worldwide. Power grids Silicon contributes to energy-efficient transport of electricity. In the intelligent electricity distribution network of the future , “Smart Grids”, different energy sources are connected or disconnected according to need in order to balance consumption day and night. Silicon helps convert electricity from, for Electric trains example, alternating current to direct current, to connect to the grid, and to When electric trains race away at high speed, ensure a smooth transport of current, they pick up energy from overhead wires often across long distances. and rails. An energy-efficient electricity supply is required, and this is where silicon comes in. Silicon helps regulate train speed and pick up energy. It is, amoungst others, used in complex power flow systems installed above and underneath the trains. Topsil CSR-report 2012 5 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management CSR-report 2012 6 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Case: Society – Getting to know Topsil Case: Facility – Recycling grinding water Society Getting to know Topsil: Sustainability will aid drive our business forward ”” In recent years, Topsil has The new plant in Frederikssund, Denmark, officially opened on made substantial investments 1 October 2012. The visitor’s list included foreign customers and suppliers in addition to other business partners and a number of in its new, environmentally politicians of whom the most prominent was the keynote speaker, EU Climate Commissioner, Ms. Connie Hedegaard. She had taken friendly, state-of-the art the time to fit a visit to cut the ribbon into an otherwise tight silicon plant, supporting the Commissioner’s schedule. The opening also marked the relocation of the first enterprise in Copenhagen Cleantech Park. production of next-generation silicon wafers. The new plant “We chose to organise an event where, more than anything, we could celebrate the day with our customers by presenting a offers the possibility of using state-of-the-art silicon plant” explained CEO of Topsil, Kalle Hvidt surplus heat from production Nielsen. “At the same time, we took the opportunity to promote a somewhat broader agenda which is the connection between for heating offices and utility sustainability and business because ultra-pure silicon and intelwater. As a result of the total ligent power consumption are invariably interconnected.” investment programme, new and more environmentally friendly production equipment is underway. However, environmental improvements are not only made in-house; in fact, increased demand for energy efficiency is expected to drive growth in the semiconductor industry and consequently at Topsil in the years to come Kalle Hvidt Nielsen, CEO EU Commissioner for Climate Action, Ms. Connie Hedegaard, at the Grand Opening of Topsil’s new plant. Topsil CSR-report 2012 6 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 7 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Case: Society – Getting to know Topsil Case: Facility – Recycling grinding water The Climate Commissioner cuts the ribbon attended by Topsil EVP, Jørgen Bødker, at the Grand Opening in front of a Kalle Hvidt Nielsen and Frederikssund Mayor, Ole Find Jensen. hybrid plug-in showcase. It is therefore no coincidence that Topsil is now located in the solutions: Industrial machines that use the smallest amount of Copenhagen Cleantech Park, where an environmental profile is energy possible. Energy efficient long-distance public transport in a requirement, or that Topsil specifically wanted the Climate high-speed trains in countries such as China, and more elecCommissioner to give the opening speech, a speech focusing on tric cars and hybrid vehicles on the roads, developed by Japan, seizing the opportunities to convert climate consciousness into among others. But, then, where is the connection between the business. long-term trends and silicon? Nor is it a coincidence that, on the morning of the opening “In popular terms, silicon is involved everywhere where you can celebration, Topsil hosted a round table debate in which a number turn electricity up and down, where a switch is turned on and off of decision-makers and investors were given the opportunity to or where electricity is to be converted” Kalle Hvidt Nielsen discuss with the Climate Commissioner the relationship between explained. “Ultra-pure silicon which is the type of silicon we political vision and concrete action. There may be a need for this specialise in producing contributes to optimising energy in times when substantial global investments in e.g. sustainable consumption. It doesn’t contain interfering elements or transport and infrastructure solutions are a long time coming. impurities which may prevent electricity from passing smoothly However, Kalle Hvidt Nielsen is convinced that this will change from A to B. It allows for smooth transport of electricity from because the underlying trends remain the same. different energy sources and across large distances. In other words, silicon constitutes a core element of a large variety of “When more people become part of the global middle class, prestechnically demanding and energy-saving components”. sure on electricity will rise and along with it the demand for good, energy-friendly solutions”, he said. “Higher demand drives a need So when the industry at large and business research for establishing more, better and more finely meshed power grids agencies look ahead and forecast future trends, there is consenaround the world. The new systems need connection and perhaps sus that in spite of a lower propensity to invest in the short term, even the cutting in and out of several types of energy sources in the long-term trend is favourable. In recent years, several plants the day and night. This includes both renewables and conventiohave been extended in the semiconductor industry, and it was nal sources. At the same time, the energy transported must be precisely when applying that approach that Topsil chose to invest used in the best possible way, meaning without any energy loss and build a new plant back in 2010. and thereby wastage”. This is also precisely why the new plant has been designed in a The same trend can be seen in the industry and transport sectors. way that allows for easy extension in future. Here, the trend is also moving towards more energy-friendly Topsil CSR-report 2012 7 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management CSR-report 2012 8 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil CSR framework and management Topsil established a firm framework for its CSR related activities Since the initial steps, refining the original framework has been right from the initial management discussions on the subject in an ongoing procedure, in essence driven by appointed managers. 2010. This first step drove management to relate CSR to business strategy, to identify main business risks and risk likelihood in A stepwise approach terms of not least environmental and employee related matters, Due to our company size, CSR-maturity level and resources avaito calculate improvement potential and subsequently to decide lable it is Topsil’s philosophy to improve our efforts step by step and prioritise improvement efforts. by first and foremost putting our own organisation in order. Sphere of control Sphere of influence Stakeholders with whom Topsil does not do Business relations, business, however who Wider community, Employees facilities forward and backwards have a natural interest in e.g., national and and equipment in the supply chain us, e.g., local community EU legislation‑ This implies that we started out by mainly focussing and meaWithin our sphere of control, we continually monitor our perforsuring on our sphere of control (see figure above) and have now mance by setting corporate goals year-on-year. Hence, we have set expanded also to evaluate key suppliers on a number of parameup KPIs for environmental and safety performance. ters, including that of CSR performance. ”” It is our fundamental belief that sustainable business results can only be obtained when corporations understand and respect their social responsibility” Kalle Hvidt Nielsen, CEO Topsil CSR-report 2012 8 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 9 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports ALL Priciples concerning human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Policy on diversity Ongoing activities According to the Danish Companies Act, Topsil’s staff has a Operating globally, Topsil regards a diverse workforce as statutory right to elect a number of Board of Directors an asset. We hire on the basis of talent and personality representatives on the main board, corresponding to half the and offer the same possibilities to all employees, regarnumber of externally elected members. Hence, two Topsil dless of their background, religion, political conviction, employees are full members of the Board. gender or age. We encourage that everybody reach their full potential in accordance with personal ambitions and According to EU legislation, Topsils calls for works council goals. meetings on a regular basis, in which representatives from management and appointed employees have the possibility to We promote a work environment of respect and discuss the overall situation and working climate of Topsil. The inclusion and expect our employees to act politically minutes of these meetings are made available to all local staff. and religiously neutral, when acting on the behalf of the company. We acknowledge the right to organise and Topsil’s seniority, distribution of gender, age and ethnical compobargain collectively and do everything in our power to sition is publicly available here: www.topsil.com. avoid discrimination. Measurement of outcomes Figures on the composition of staff is made available to management. The results of the employee survey is presented to management for decisions and further actions. Goals for 2013 Topsil believes that transparent communication on the general company climate will contribute to maintaining a healthy company culture. In 2013, Topsil will continue to measure its overall company climate through individual appraisals and the biannual employee survey, next time planned for late 2013. The results of the employee survey will be communicated to management and staff alike. Topsil CSR-report 2012 9 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management 10 CSR-report 2012 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption LABOUR RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Topsil supports All principles concerning labour rights • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Policy on safety Goals for 2013 Topsil strives to obtain an ultimate goal of zero work related acciSafety must be top of mind when Topsil employees dents, defined as any work related injury, resulting in one or more go to work. It is our position that all accidents can days of absence. Topsil scrutinises each work related accident to and should be prevented and that all hazards must be prevent recurrence. minimised through ongoing, structured efforts. Literally speaking, we want our staff to go home from work as Ongoing activities healthy as they were when they arrived at their work The health and safety of any Topsil employee is guarded through place. our health and safety bodies on each company location. The safety organisation consists of management and staff represenIn order to obtain this goal, it is a continuing objective tatives and is overall responsible for Topsil’s health and safety to prevent accidents and work related ill-health through performance. The safety organisation oversees compliance effective management, administration, education and with applicable legislation and plans activities to continuously training. improve performance. Measurement of outcomes Management regularly follows up on Topsil’s safety performance. This is done by presenting corporate safety figures to management every three months at a management evaluation meeting. Topsil CSR-report 2012 10 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 11 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLES Topsil supports all principles concerning the environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Policy on the environment Goals for 2013 In 2013, Topsil has set up goals to minimise the consumption of Topsil continuously strives to reduce the environmental energy, water and chemicals for the current production sites. impact of our operations by integrating environmental consideration into any activity with an environmental Overall targets for the new plant will be set no later than 2014. impact. Ongoing activities We give priority to areas where we believe the effect will Topsil’s new production plant and headquarters officially opened be greatest, and commit to working methodically with in October 2012, however, the installation of more environmentalreducing our energy consumption and waste, year on ly friendly equipment is ongoing. Paper and waste is now recycled year. to the largest possible extent. Topsil became certified to the international environment standard ISO14001 in 2012. This has provided the organisation with a considerably improved framework for auditing and for measuring progress year-on-year. Measurement of outcomes Topsil monitors its environmental performance on a threemonthly basis at a management evaluation meeting. Topsil CSR-report 2012 11 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management 12 CSR-report 2012 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Case: Society – Getting to know Topsil Case: Facility – Recycling grinding water Facility Recycling grinding water: A lucrative business beneficial to the environment ”” Before Topsil invested in its new water treatment equipment, water consumption for its sawing and grinding machines was ten times the current level. Topsil uses roughly 40 cubic metres every 24 hours in the preparation of raw silicon for remelting into ultra-pure silicon. More than 80% of the water is now re-circulated using the water Tomas Bisgaard showcasing purifed water from the water treatment equipment, benefiting treatment equipment. the business as well as the environment. It takes quite some amount of water to prepare raw silicon for remelting, and nowadays the used water is returned to the conThomas Bisgaard, Project Manager tainer. In the container, it is filtered in a number of macaroni-like pipes and the grinding dust is collected in a vessel. The re-circulated water is now so pure that it can be used again in the sawing The new equipment has been in use for quite a while now, and and grinding machines. Just over 80% of the grinding water is the numbers don’t lie: Today, Topsil consumes significantly less recyclable this way. water now than before it started using the water treatment equipment in the production. The equipment was installed late In the regular follow-up on the water treatment system, the 2010. Since then, the equipment has re-circulated more than numbers don’t lie. Topsil has been able to record a marked water 20,000 cubic metres of water. Now, it is time to review. consumption reduction in the production. “We chose to invest in well-proven water treatment equipment “We have tried using several other types of water treatment tailored to suit our purpose”, Project Manager Tomas Bisgaard equipment in the past, but without getting even close to said. “Before buying the equipment, we tested it carefully. We these good results”, Tomas Bisgaard said. “The results are invested in reasonably priced equipment with a reasonable unmistakable, and that’s why we would like to bring this happy repayment period, benefiting Topsil in every way”. story to light”. The equipment consists of a number of tanks and filters in a clo“The water treatment equipment is even dimensioned to handle sed container. It purifies the water from the sawing and grinding increased silicon production. And in the future, we expect to be machines, to such a high degree that it can be recirculated. able to reduce our water consumption even further through various other measures,” he said. Topsil CSR-report 2012 12 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 13 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Human rights principles Labour rights principles Environment principles Anticorruption Anticorruption Topsil supports The Principle concerning anticorruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Guidelines on Goals for 2013 anti-corruption Topsil does not plan any further anti-corruption activities in 2013. It is Topsil’s fundamental principle that any business Ongoing activities activity and relation with customers, business partners The above-mentioned guidelines were adopted by the organisaand authorities must be honest, fair and transparent tion in 2012. and in compliance with applicable laws. We do explicitly not accept bribery or facilitation payment Measurement of outcomes in any form and we do not permit gratitude activities In 2012, Topsil did not receive any reporting concerning nonbetween private individuals. compliance with the anti-corruption guidelines. Topsil has set up an internally communicated set of guidelines concerning business related gratitude, i.e. how we handle gifts, entertainment and hospitality given or received by Topsil. Topsil CSR-report 2012 13 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management 14 CSR-report 2012 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Topsil Supplier assessment Topsil runs a supplier assessment system that ranks its suppliers When communicating its findings to the supplier, Topsil presents in relation to a vast number of parameters. The system, including its findings and suggests improvement actions, including those its main parameters, is showed in the below figure. In the figure, concerning CSR. corporate social responsibility forms part of the risk management assessment. Each supplier belongs to a certain supplier category, depending on its relative importance to Topsil, in terms of key A number of evaluation criteria have been set up in relation to the manufacturing processes. The most business critical suppliers various parameters. This enables a regular rating of new and are ranked as A and B suppliers, respectively. They are reviewed current suppliers. Topsil addresses each criteria when screening every 3rd and 5th years, respectively. and auditing its suppliers, and if a potential or current supplier fails to meet Topsil’s expectations on a certain matter, the supplier will receive lower aggregated ranking. Risk Management Quality Supplier Technology Performance Evaluation and Continuous improvement Purchasing Logistics Topsil CSR-report 2012 14 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management Topsil CSR-report 2012 15 UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information Additional information DISSEMINATION OF OUR COP REPORTING • Topsil’s COP for 2012 is published on Topsil’s website www.topsil.com • Topsil’s COP for 2012 is published on the UN Global Compact website www.unglobalcompact.org • Topsil’s COP for 2012 is published on Topsil’s intranet. • Topsil’s COP for 2012 will be communicated to our suppliers REPORTING PERIOD: This report focuses on the CSR activities for Topsil’s fiscal year 2012 (from 1 January 2012 through 31 December 2012). PUBLICATION: Topsil signed the UN Global Compact 8 March 2011. Current issue: March 2013 Next issue: Scheduled for March 2014, covering FY 2013 FURTHER INFORMATION: Further information on Topsil A/S to be found on www.topsil.com In case of inquiries, please contact Communications Manager Ms. Christina Fris Bjørling, phone +45 2152 1011 or e-mail: cfb@topsil.com Topsil CSR-report 2012 15 from the CEO Silicon in our modern world Cases CSR framework and management UN Global Compact Supplier assessment Additional information
