Happiness for the People corporate value Creating Value KNOC aims to not only fulfill its duty as a public corporation but also become one of global top 50 oil companies. to this end, we established new vision, slogan and management principles, and strive to achieve them. Beyond Energy Entrance into Shale Gas Business Vision g in ue 경제발전의 그 궁극적 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 at l re Va 원동력인 가치인 석유자원의 C 국민행복을 Economic Revival of Korea 영역을 도모하며, 확대함으로써 Discover Oil at the Hawler Block in Iraq Creating Value Beyond Energy 이를 위한 공사에서 Participate in Oil Development Projects in UAE 사업의 핵심 벗어나 방향을 En 글로벌 시장을 재설정·지속 Be er 무대로 성장하는 yo gy Shared Growth with Suppliers 추진함으로써 nd 기업으로 도약 World’s 95th Oil Producing Country Slogan Happiness for the People Explore Tomorrow Acquisition of Ankor E&P Holdings of the US Creating Value Beyond Energy Produce oil and gas of 12,000 barrels a day at Donghae-1 field Economical Gas Stations and Opinet for the Convenience of People Discover Oil at the Hawler Block in Iraq Shared Growth with Suppliers World’s 4 Core 95th Oil Producing Participate in Oil Development Projects in UAE Values Challenge Professionalism Respect Contribution Country Economic Revival of Korea Mutual Prosperity Integrity Happiness Acquisition for the People of Sumbe and Entrance into Acquisition of Dana Altius of Kazakhstan Shale Gas Business Petroleum of the UK Entrance into Mutual Prosperity Produce oil and Mutual Prosperity Shale Gas Business gas of 12,000 Economic Revival of Korea Integrity barrels a day at Donghae-1 field Integrity Sustainable Development Acquisition of Savia Peru Business Economical Gas apability & Happiness for the People Stations and Economic Revival of Korea Principles • Achieve individual growth and contribute to the growth of the company by developing a sense of ownership rganic Growth Opinet for the Convenience Creating Value beyond Energy Integrity • Accomplish tasks as a core public company in charge of national energy security nergy Security of People Entrance into Shale Gas Business • Grow into a company trusted by the people by fulfilling our social responsibilities ing Value beyond Energy duce oil and gas of 12,000 Economic Revival of Korea Produce oil and gas of • Stay faithful to KNOC’s main task of pursuing growth through successful exploration. s a day at Donghae-1 field Participate in Oil Development 12,000 barrels a day Capability & • Strengthen global competitiveness by securing core technology and business Iraq Sustainable Projects in UAE Integrity at Donghae-1 field management capabilities. Organic Growth Development Mutual Prosperity Mutual Prosperity • Become a value creating company with internal stability by enhancing company capabilities. te in Oil Development World’s 95th Oil Enhancing s in UAE Integrity Producing Country Energy d Growth with Suppliers Happiness for the People Security Sustainable • Proactively respond to the changes in business environment by securing competitiveness and tion of Sumbe and Creating Value beyond Energy Integrity focused capabilities. Acquisition of Development • Actively prepare for the future by expanding into non-conventional petroleum and gas development ius of Kazakhstan Enhancing Energy Security Dana Petroleum • Pursue the happiness of the Korean people, and become a global company with sustainable growth of the UK ngs of the US Capability & Organic Growth Acquisition of Savia cquisition of Dana Petroleum of the UK Peru oduce oil and gas of 12,000 barrels a day at Donghae-1 field Integrity Happiness for the Korean People Discover Oil at the Hawler Block in Iraq Communicating and growing together with the people Leading the national energy security, KNOC is committed to growing together with the people by not Development of unconventional energy resources only contributing to stable energy supply through proactive E&P and oil stockpiling businesses but also KNOC is opening a new horizon of energy future in Korea fulfilling its social responsibility and roles with a sense of duty as a public corporation. by accelerating the development of unconventional energy By securing oil resources stably, KNOC is committed to resources such as shale gas, regarded as the next-generation energy. promoting the happiness for the people and laying the foundation for sustainable growth on the global stage. Corporate profile Oil Developments at home and abroad to lead efforts to secure energy independence Sharing love through social contribution As a state-owned oil company established in 1979 for the purpose of ensuring stability in domestic oil demand and supply, Under the mission of “Provision of hope and comfort for With a strong sense of responsibility as a public Korea National Oil Corporation (KNOC) has pioneered the future of Korea’s energy industry by engaging in the exploration the people through stable oil supply,” KNOC strives to corporation, KNOC is carrying out company-wide, and production of domestic and overseas oil resources, oil stockpiling, improvement of oil distribution structure, and oil secure oil resources at home and abroad for the energy independence of Korea. systematic social contribution activities considering its information service. business features and social needs. Since the declaration of the strategic goal of GREAT KNOC in 2008, KNOC has succeeded in acquiring promising overseas oil companies including Ankor E&P Holdings of the US, Savia Peru of Peru, KNOC Caspian LLP. of Kazakhstan, Harvest Operations Corp. of Canada, Dana Petroleum plc. of the UK, and Altius Petroleum Int. B.V. of Kazakhstan. The efficient operation of the existing oil fields as well as such successful M&As increased our oil reserves and production volume considerably. Besides the quantitative growth, we are holding our own against global competitors through qualitative growth by focusing on the systematic development of technological capability, advanced management system, and development of human resources to evolve into a global player. Oil Stockpiling: the foundation of energy security By promoting the happiness for the people by securing stable oil resources and growing further on the global stage, KNOC has secured about 130 million barrels of oil in 9 Shared growth with suppliers KNOC will shape a better tomorrow with unquenchable thirst for challenge and ingenuity and serve as a reliable buttress stockpiling bases nationwide to stabilize oil supply and KNOC is implementing various policies for shared growth for the national economy. prices through the timely support of stockpiled oil and with suppliers, such as providing suppliers with more stockpiling facilities in case of emergencies in oil supply opportunity to participate in KNOC’s major projects, CONTENTS and demand in Korea. supporting technical know-how, and purchasing more SME products. INTRODUCTION REVIEW OF Operations 2012 Sustainable Growth 02_ Vision 18_ Exploration & Production 36_ Business Ethics 05_ Corporate Profile 22_ Domestic Continental Shelf 38_ Risk Management Exploration 06_ Message from the CEO 40_ Social Contribution 24_ Offshore Rig Operations 08_ Executive Officers 42_ Environmental Management Economical Gas Station to reduce fuel costs 26_ Oil Information Service 44_ Family-friendly Management Opinet to help people find low-priced gas stations 28_ Research & Development The Economical Gas Station is helping improve the lives of the Management Principle 45_ Shared Growth with Suppliers With about 120 thousand daily users and more than 1 million application people by providing high-quality petroleum products at relatively 30_ Oil Stockpile downloads, Opinet, the world’s first gas station information system, helps 10_ Integrity low prices. Through the expansion of Economical Gas Stations, people reduce fuel costs by providing the prices of gasoline, diesel, and 32_ Economical Gas Stations KNOC will take the lead in creating a fair competition environment 12_ Capability & Organic Growth FINANCIAL SECTION & OTHERS LPG of about 15,000 domestic gas and LPG stations in real time. in the domestic oil industry and stabilizing oil prices. 14_ Sustainable Development 47_ Management’s Discussion & Analysis 57_ Organization Chart 58_ Global Network 06 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 07 Message from the CEO “We promise to be a true global player that shares happiness with the people by creating value beyond energy.” Dear fellow stakeholder and partners, best possible way to maximize the benefits for the people. And also We deeply appreciate your trust and support for KNOC. we contribute to the local community and society by fulfilling our social responsibilities based on our code of ethics. As a result, KNOC Business performance in 2012 has ranked high in annual sustainability evaluation for last 6 years, in recognition of its transparent business culture and dedication to the In 2012, we continued to make progress in worldwide business social contribution. expansion and established the base for our sustainable and qualitative growth driver to the future. Social contribution has become one of the essential parts of our sustainable management, creating an atmosphere of trust and We produced 240 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2012, sharing in communities where KNOC operates. In HSE, our highly increased by 10% from 2011, with main contributions from Medway focused HSE management has led us to the accident-zero record fields of Dana Netherlands, and Su Tu Trang field in Vietnam. during last 12 years at our domestic oil stockpiling sites. In exploration, KNOC signed a contract to develop three undeveloped Global E&P company based on the substantial growth fields in Abu Dhabi with production expected in coming years. In December, development of Dana’s Western Isles project in the North KNOC continues to ensure substantial growth along with its growth in Sea was approved. The project will develop two discovered oil fields, business. Although the business environment will be still challenging and is expected to produce more than 40,000 barrels of oil equivalent in coming years, we will respond the external challenges by securing per day when it comes onstream in 2015. On our way to increase internal stability. We will continue to drive our growth by focusing on access to North American shale reserves and to build technical exploration, establishing well integrated global management system, capacity to implement shale projects, KNOC jointly acquired EP and building technical capability. Energy which has large positions in North American shales. Looking ahead to 2013, KNOC will strive for enriching the people’s In domestic market, KNOC, as a state owned company, has lives through completing its social roles and responsibilities, and will promoted price competition among local suppliers by providing create value beyond the energy. local gas stations with price competitive products in line with the government’s vision,“Happiness for the People.” Once again, I express my sincere gratitude and appreciation to our stakeholder and partners. During 2012, we gave more focus on enrichment of the substance than on enlargement of the size. We revised mid to long term financial management plan in accordance with the strategic priorities, sold non-core assets to generate cash flow for further investment in more prospective assets, and raised funds from Korea National President & CEO Pension Service to diversify financial resource thereby sharing our business performance with the people. Creating value beyond energy and Contributing to the happiness for the people. KNOC, as a socially responsible and ethical company, is growing together and in communication with the people. We strive to find the Executive Officers With a new vision and management principles, KNOC will be committed to enhancing the happiness for the people that is ultimate value of the company. Ryu Gap-Young Auditor Im Hong-Geun Senior Executive Vice President We will build a management infrastructure meeting KNOC will be a role model for national corporations that of global oil majors by improving transparency, that is beloved by all people through dedicatedly fairness, and rationality. contributing to the development of the corporation and national economy. Song Byung-Jin Synn Eu-Gene Jeong Chang-Seok Robert David Elliot Executive Vice President for Strategy Executive Vice President for Executive Vice President for Production HR Advisor/Head of KPA Center & Planning Group Exploration Group I will contribute to advancing the level of works We will lay the foundation for the 2nd Our global integration management system By focusing on strengthening takeoff by maximizing the value of by forming and vitalizing a matrix organization will root and detailed action plans for the exploration capability, we will development and production assets that that allows managerial resources to be efficient. Kim Joong-Hyun sophistication of our capability will be also succeed in discovering impact oils. we have. Executive Vice President for Administration Group Park Jae-Ik promoted. Based on cooperative labor-management relationship, Executive Vice President for Petroleum Stockpile Group we will reinforce our competitiveness and fulfill social We will devote ourselves to leading the business with the pride that we are the world’s responsibility as a national oil corporation. best and a sense of ownership. Integrity Management Principle Integrity With a sense of responsibility as a pivotal public corporation dedicated to leading national energy security, KNOC is committed to securing oil resources stably at home and abroad. In addition, we endeavor to grow as a reliable public corporation contributing to the convenience of people’s lives by providing Economical Gas Stations and oil information services to help people save on fuel costs. By completing its mission with a sense of ownership and sincerely fulfilling its social responsibilities, KNOC will grow into a global company pioneering the future of Korea’s energy industry. Capability & Organic Growth Capability & Organic Growth Based on remarkable growth achieved over the last 4 years, KNOC pursues balanced substantial growth both in size and quality to develop technologies and corporate management and enhance corporate value. Toward this end, we strive to develop systematic technology capabilities and increase the exploration success rate centered on large-scale exploration blocks to perform our duty as an oil specialist enterprise. Likewise, we are endeavoring to establish an advanced management system and develop human resources to reinforce our global competitiveness. Through these efforts, KNOC will become a national oil corporation that achieves substantial growth in quality and size. Sustainable Development Sustainable Development The most important things for KNOC’s development are to respond preemptively to the changes in the external environment and lay the foundation for sustainable growth. Toward this end, we are not only exerting efforts to maximize our capability in existing businesses but also actively preparing for the future by expanding to non-conventional energy sectors such as shale gas, oil sand, and shale oil. KNOC will take the initiative in the economic revival of Korea and promoting the happiness for the people by evolving into a global oil company. Eagle Ford in the U.S. Review Of Operations 2012 KNOC has pioneered the national energy security, helping Korea secure the 95th oil-producing country based on its proprietary technologies. Amidst the fierce competition to secure natural resources, KNOC will emerge as a leading oil company that creates value beyond energy by continuously securing future growth engines and pursuing solid corporate management. KNOC, a global energy pioneer that opens up the future through qualitative advancement In 2012, KNOC achieved remarkable feats such as expanding oil reserves through successful explorations and efficient operation of production blocks, expanding to nonconventional oil and gas development market, participating in oil development projects in the UAE, and securing the world’s best construction and operation capabilities of oil stockpiling bases.Thanks to such efforts, KNOC recorded sales of KRW 10.55 trillion (US$9.4 billion) and operating profit of KRW 788.4 billion (US$699.7 million) in 2012. 18 Exploration & Production 22 Domestic Continental Shelf Exploration 24 Offshore Rig Operations 26 Oil Information Service 28 Research & Development 30 Oil Stockpile 32 Economical Gas Stations 18 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 19 Exploration & Production Exploration & Production (As of February 2013) 226 projects in 24 countries operated. Actively engaging in the direct operation of blocks beyond merely holding stakes, we have been striving for the expansion of oil production through efficient operation and successful PMI of overseas subsidiaries. As a result, the total production volume Leading energy self-sufficiency in Korea Reserves (unit: billion barrels) increased from 72 million barrels in 2011 to 81 For stable oil supply in Korea, KNOC is actively million barrels in 2012, thanks to the successful 1.31 participating in 226 prospective overseas E&P development of 9 additional structures in Block 1.28 projects in 24 countries as of February 2013. 15-1 in Vietnam and Dana-owned blocks of the 1.14 In particular, we have expanded our business UK. scope by acquiring 6 overseas oil companies In particular, Dana Petroleum obtained approval (Ankor E&P Holdings of the US, Savia Peru S.A. of from the UK government for the development 2010 2011 2012 Peru, KNOC Caspian LLP. of Kazakhstan, Harvest of the Western Isles Block with more than 45 Operations Corp. of Canada, Dana Petroleum million barrels of reserves amounting to US$ 1.6 Daily Production Volume (unit: thousand barrels) plc. of the UK, and Altius Petroleum Int. B.V. of billion; this is expected to bring an additional 40 Kazakhstan) as well as 9 assets; thus improving thousand barrels a day to KNOC by 2015. our ranking from around 90th to 72nd place in Promoting non-conventional oil and gas the global oil industry. development In addition, KNOC consolidated the foundation 241 for future growth by participating in the To secure future growth engines, KNOC has 179 219 development of 3 blocks in the UAE, one of been proactively acquiring assets to develop 2010 2011 2012 the flourishing markets in oil development, in shale gas, recognized as the next-generation March 2012. This project is under exploration energy. The acquisition of the US’s EP Energy, and is expected to produce up to 43 thousand which specializes in shale gas development, barrels a day after commencing production in allowed us to acquire advanced technologies 2017. and operation techniques in this field easily as well as secure 180 million barrels of reserves Improving operational efficiency and succeeding and 27 thousand barrels in daily production. in developing additional structures This project, together with the Black Gold (oil KNOC holds the rights to develop and operate sand) and Eagle Ford (shale oil) projects, will Kurd Oil Field in Iraq 95 blocks in and outside Korea as of the end contribute to opening up a new era for Korea’s Dana Egypt of February 2013; 23 of these blocks are jointly future energy leadership. KNOC’s OVERSEAS E&P PROJECTS 226 Projects in 24 Countries (As of February 2013) E&P Projects P Production: 94 D Development: 9 E Exploration: 123 Operation: 95 Co-Operation: 23 28 projects including Jotun P :1 D :1 E : 26 :6 19 projects including DeRuyter Norway 3 projects including Namangan & Chust P : 15 E :4 :8 E :3 :2 :1 Canada UK Netherlands 1 project: Libya Elephant P :1 Kazakhstan Uzbekistan U.S.A. 13 projects including East Zeit 1 project: Tanger-Larache Korea P :5 D :1 E :7 :6 E :1 Iraq Morocco 3 projects including CPE-7 3 projects including KRG Bazian E :3 E :3 :2 Libya Egypt 3 projects: Block 1,2,7 UAE E :3 :2 Mauritania 2 projects including OPL 321 1 project: Onado E :2 :2 P :1 Yemen Vietnam Nigeria 4 projects including Marib LNG Venezuela Guinea P :1 D :1 E :2 :2 Cameroon Colombia 1 project: Bakassi West E :1 :1 Indonesia 1 project: SES Peru P :1 1 project: Offshore Block E :1 USA Canada Peru UK UAE Kazakhstan Vietnam Korea Ankor E&P Holdings, Anadarko, etc Harvest Operations Corp., etc Savia Peru S.A., etc Dana Petroleum plc., etc Oil Field Development Projects KNOC Caspian LLP., 15-1 Block, 11-2 Block, etc Donghae-1 Gas Field • Acquired Ankor E&P Holdings (Mar. • Secured a base to enter North • Jointly acquired Savia Peru S.A. with • Acquired Dana Petroleum plc. that • S igned a main contract to develop Altius Petroleum Int. B.V., etc •15-1 Block •D  omestic continental shelf 2008) America and oil sand business by Ecopetrol, state-run oil company in had development, production and 3 oil fields in Mar. 2012 and under • Acquired KNOC Caspian, a mid-sized · Discovered by KNOC’s independent exploration • Acquired equity of shale oil assets acquiring Harvest Operations Corp. Colombia, in Feb. 2009 exploration blocks in 9 countries in exploration oil company of Kazakhstan, in 2009 technologies •P  roduce 12 thousand BOE a day from Anadarko (23.7%) in Dec. 2009 • Operate 11 oil blocks representing 2010 •P  lan to commence the production •A  cquired Altius in Mar. 2011 · Commenced oil production in 2003, • Acquired core shale gas assets of • Produce about 60 thousand BOE a 75% of Peru’s offshore blocks • Produce 58.8 thousand BOE a day in 2017 and expect maximum 43 •P  roduce 13.0 thousand barrels a and produce 48 thousand BOE a day EP Energy day • Produce 13.5 thousand BOE a day thousand barrels a day day from 6 blocks including the •11-2 Block • Produce 65.4 thousand BOE a day ADA block · Commenced oil production in Dec. 2006 · Produce 37.8 thousand BOE a day P :5 D :1 E : 10 :2 :4 P : 27 D :1 : 28 P :2 E : 11 : 11 P : 27 D :2 E : 39 : 24 E :3 :3 P :4 D :2 E :3 :7 :2 P :2 :1 :1 P :1 E :1 :2 22 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 23 Domestic Continental Shelf Exploration Exploration & Production (As of February 2013) Natural Gas 50,000 thousand ft3 1,000 systematic, effective manner, KNOC established Crude Oil barrels the “Mediumand Long-term Plan for the Exploration of the Continental Shelf in Korea Pioneering oil and gas development (2008 ~ 2017).” Under the plan, we are not only performing explorations in potential To realize the goal of energy self-sufficiency, regions to hold oil and gas reserves but are also KNOC has been consistently striving to explore accelerating in the deep seas oil exploration and develop continental shelves in Korea since and gas hydrates development, which are its foundation. As a result, we developed the currently drawing global attention. Donghae-1 Gas Field with high-quality natural For the deep sea exploration of the Block 8, the Annual Production Volume of Donghae-1 Gas Field gas layer having 186.2 billion cubic feet of concession contract was awarded to KNOC and expected reserves in July 1998, catapulting Woodside, the Australia’s largest independent (unit: thousand barrels) Korea to the 95th spot in the list of the world’s oil and gas company in 2007. The Joint Venture oil-producing countries and serving as an have drilled a exploration well, Jujak-1 in a water opportunity to demonstrate our technological depth of about 1,800m in May 2012 and now prowess to the world. are under the post well evaluation to review the Currently, the average daily production in the additional prospectivity of this area. Donghae-1 Gas Field reaches 50 million ft³ In addition, we are now evaluating the of natural gas and 1,000 barrels of crude oil. hydrocarbon potential in the southern part of 27,893 Natural gas produced in the Donghae-1 Gas the Block 6-1 by interpreting 3D seismic data 1,621 Field boasts of heat high enough to be utilized which was acquired by joint exploration with without additional processing, and it is supplied Daewoo International Corporation. We are 2004 2012 nationwide after being treated through under the prospect evaluation. offshore and onshore facilities to satisfy the KNOC has been striving to create favorable standards in Korea. In addition, the Donghae-1 conditions for the resumption of exploration Gas Field produces ultra-light crude oil called on the Joint Development Zone between condensate. This colorless, transparent, clean Korea and Japan (JDZ) and the South Yellow fuel is expensive compared to other oil types, Sea Basin. KNOC held the 2012 annual meeting producing almost zero air pollutants. with Japanese private companies to strengthen cooperative relations in the JDZ. KNOC also Facilitating the Development of Domestic attended 2012 joint study meeting with CNOOC Continental Shelves (China National Offshore Oil Corporation) to Production Facilities of Donghae-1 Gas Field To carry out the exploration and development discuss technical issue in the South Yellow Sea Onshore Oil and Gas Treatment Facilities of Donghae-1 Gas Field of the domestic continental shelf in a Basin. 24 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 25 Offshore Rig Operations Drilling Performance (As of March 2013) A total of 110 wells Securing long-term contracts for operation In 2012, KNOC focused on the successful operation of Doo Sung in Myanmar, stable sales creation, and improvement of safety and performance. In particular, thanks to our customized strategies targeting the Far East and South East Asia markets, we won 2-year long-term contracts from 2013 to 2014 with Gazprom of Russia Enhancing the global competitiveness of Safety Accident Rate of Doosung and Shell of Malaysia for the first time in the “Doo Sung” operation of Doo Sung. This contract ensured (unit: cases) Built in 1984, Korea’s only semi-submersible rig, the full operation of Doo Sung for the next * IADC (International Association of Drilling Contractors) “Doo Sung,” has successfully drilled a total of two years and recordable sales volume of US$ 110 wells as of March 2013 not only in Korea 160 million for the same period. Considering 1.29 1.23 but also in Alaska, China, Vietnam, Malaysia, an average semi-submersible rig utilization Indonesia, and Russia. rate of 75% and an average rig utilization rate 0.91 Doo Sung has acquired ISM, ISO 9001 certifications of 50~60% in South-East Asia, which is the 0.55 0.56 in 1988 and ISPS certification in 2004 by core market for Doo sung, and the average rig establishing a safety management system dayrate in East Asia, this contract is equivalent to 0 that meets the global standards. Based on the operation volume for more than three years. 2010 2011 2012 this competitiveness, we have been actively Moreover, the life of Doo Sung was extended Average of IADC Doosung responding to increasing customers’ demands to up to 15 years through the maintenance of for safety and conducting HSEQ (Health, Safety, its body during idle time; gradual equipment Environment, and Quality) activities. As a result, maintenance was promoted to create Doo Sung recorded accident-free operation continual profits and enhance marketing for five consecutive years and less than 50% competitiveness. In addition, KNOC endeavored average international accident rate under to secure competitiveness on a par with that of the IADC (International Association of Drilling global major rig operators by establishing risk Contractors) standard in December 2012. management based safety system (HSE Case) Its capability for maintaining occupational to identify and prevent risk factors in each part Semi-submersible rig ‘Doosung’ safety and excellence in operation was widely of the rig in advance and tightening regular Drilling Worksite recognized again in the global rig market. safety training and hazard observation system. 26 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 27 Oil Information Service Number of Opinet Users in 2012 About 45,000,000 persons To satisfy such demands, KNOC provided customized, interactive oil information services that can be utilized anytime, anywhere through the Internet, smart phone, and GPS system; Providing rapid and accurate oil information thus resulting in a dramatic improvement in customer satisfaction. KNOC collects, analyzes, and evaluates a variety In particular, the Opinet service has been of oil information covering not only global oil upgraded by introducing new contents such Number of Daily Opinet Users market conditions but also domestic supply as the short-term oil price forecast, open price and demand ranging from crude oil import, of LPG, and improved map service. We also (unit: thousand persons) product manufacturing, and consumption to strove to vitalize the Opinet service through prices. Such database is compiled systematically the naming contest and PR activities. Thanks to and swiftly provided to all areas through the such efforts, the number of daily users of Opinet Internet and application-based oil information in 2012 increased by about 20% year on year to service network (Petronet, www.petronet.co.kr). 124 thousand, and the number of application In particular, Opinet, introduced in 2008, is downloads exceeded 1 million cases. We also the world’s first comprehensive gas station won the grand prize in the public service information system that collects and provides category of the “Mobile Brand Awards 2012” 105 124 the prices of gasoline, diesel, and LPG of more held by Maeil Business Newspaper. 56 than 15,000 gas stations nationwide in real Meanwhile, KNOC has exerted efforts to 2010 2011 2012 time. It is contributing to the improvement of cultivate experts in each sector to enhance the distribution structure and promotion of fair the capability to analyze the oil market and competition in the domestic oil market. core information services. We established a midto long-term development plan for the Advancing oil information service oil information service sector under the goal In 2012, the internal and external oil market of developing our oil information center into a conditions changed dramatically with a lot of global think-tank. Based on this plan, KNOC will uncertainties. In particular, demand for public not only respond efficiently to global oil market information increased sharply as stability and changes and uncertainties but also suggest the Opinet application for smart phone users transparency of the domestic oil market were direction of development of the domestic oil Opinet that allows users to find out low-priced gas stations sought. industry. 28 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 29 Research & Development Investments in R&D Activities (2013) KRW 30.3 billion 2012, a total of 114 experts of the headquarters were dispatched to overseas subsidiaries and advanced companies to seize an opportunity to Securing world-class oil development acquire state-of-the-art technologies. In addition, technologies specialized IT services started by building an As a critical factor in business competitiveness, integrated information management system. differentiated technology determines the future The Global Knowledge Management System of a company. Toward this end, KNOC has been (GCoP) was also established to share knowestablishing and implementing systematic how and technology information between and comprehensive measures to secure oil employees in the headquarters and those in development technologies at the global level. overseas subsidiaries. Profits from Technology Supports of GTRC In 2010, we scouted a foreign executive Focusing on proactively executing core member from a major oil company and (unit: thousand US$) tasks to secure new growth engines laid the foundation for securing world-class 2,241 technologies by dispatching our technical In 2012, KNOC executed core tasks for the experts to the “KNOC Global Technology & advancement of business capabilities and Research Center (GTRC)” in Calgary, Canada to development of independent technologies. cooperate with foreign technical specialists. We diagnosed the level of our technologies in 711 GTRC is also participating in technical reviews four areas related to the E&P project including on our large-scale projects in Kazakhstan, Peru, geological features and geophysics and and Iraq, etc. identified the items to be supplemented in the Also, we have continued to invest significantly six strategic technologies: in securing human resources and enhancing · basin analysis on promising area 2011 2012 infrastructure for E&P business. KNOC’s own · subsurface imaging research organization E&P Technology Institute · reservoir simulation is committed to creating synergy in the area · enhanced oil recovery of technology research as well as improving · unconventional energy development exploration success rate by conducting · drilling and well completion technical assessment on E&P projects that are As a result, KNOC has conducted 17 state-run promoted by the corporation. researches and 7 internal studies including Meanwhile, KNOC has focused on securing those related to the non-conventional oil and advanced E&P technologies by tapping the gas industry in 2012. In addition, we applied for Enhancing independent technological capabilities through continuous R&D capability of the technical specialists of overseas patents on 20 technologies and completed the R&D Activities Focused on 6 Strategic Technologies subsidiaries such as Dana, HOC, and Ankor. In registration of 6 technologies. 30 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 31 Oil Stockpile Oil Stockpile Amount (As of March 2013) 130 million barrels (oil stockpile rate: 90%) the unfavorable market conditions. Backed by such achievements, profit in the oil stockpiling business amounted to KRW 158.3 billion, up 8% compared to the previous year. In addition, KNOC contributed to the stabilization of oil supply and prices in 2012 by providing stockpiling facilities and 32 million barrels of Improving competitiveness in oil stockpiling stockpiled oil to the domestic market. Since its establishment in 1979, KNOC has Globalization of the stockpiling business been engaging in the oil stockpile business to promote the energy security of Korea. As In November 2012, KNOC concluded a contract of March 2013, we hold 130 million barrels for the strategic international joint stockpiling of oil stock including the amount from the business for 6 million barrels of crude oil with International Joint Stockpiling international joint-stockpile business in ADNOC, a national oil corporation of UAE, stockpiling facilities with total capacity of 146 in Abu Dhabi. This contract made Korea the (unit: million barrels) million barrels in nine regions including Ulsan, priority in purchasing the contracted volume in Geoje, and Yeosu. To balance domestic supply case of an oil crisis and sought to mitigate the and demand and reinforce the capability to financial burden for direct oil stockpiling. respond to oil shocks, we plan to execute the In addition, we concluded an MOU for 3rd Government Plan on Oil Stockpiling with cooperation in oil stockpiling with Petro the goal of reserving 141 million barrels by Vietnam, a national oil corporation of Vietnam, in 2013. March 2012. This contract included the transfer 42.0 Moreover, KNOC has enhanced its competitiveness of KNOC’s O&M technologies for Korean-type 39.9 34.8 in the oil stockpiling business by shifting oil stockpiling bases, which laid the foundation from static operation with promoting oil for exporting KNOC’s proprietary technology to 2008 2010 2012 security as the top priority in the past to the global market. dynamic stockpiling that focuses on both oil Meanwhile, KNOC has continuously promoted security and economic feasibility. Therefore, an oil hub project of Northeast Asia -wherein we currently manage stockpiled assets within commercial oil storage facilities are constructed the range that does not deviate from the in Yeosu and Ulsan -since 2008. As a result, original purpose of the business. The trading the tank terminal in Yeosu was completed as volume that utilizes stockpiled assets in 2012 scheduled, and it started commercial operation increased 172% year on year to 87.25 million in April 1, 2013. For Ulsan, KNOC is exerting barrels, with the international joint stockpiling efforts to create favorable internal and external Oil Stockpiling Facilities reaching a record-high of 42 million barrels conditions for success by attracting more Underground Oil Stockpiling Base thanks to proactive marketing activities despite investment and through deregulation. 32 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 33 Economical Gas Stations Plan to Expand the Number of Economical Gas Stations 1,300 gas stations by 2015 had been dominated by Korea’s major four refineries (SK Energy, GS Caltex, S-Oil, and Hyundai Oil Bank) for several decades. KNOC will continue to work to win people’s trust by expanding the Economical Gas Stations, building a transparent operation system, and strengthening quality control. Stabilizing oil prices and improving the oil distribution structure Contributing to improving the lives of The introduction of Economical Gas Stations people unleashed changes in the domestic oil The Economical Gas Station was introduced distribution channel by triggering fair Number of Economical Gas Stations (As of March 2013) to ease the financial burden of people in competition in the market which had been several ways to foster sound competition in dominated by four major oil refineries. the domestic distribution market and stabilize In particular, Economical Gas Stations are oil prices. By forming a team dedicated to supplied with affordable products secured petroleum distribution in October 2011, KNOC through the joint procurement of oil and accelerated the business by encouraging the remaining capacity of stockpiling facilities participation of Korean oil refiners, securing of KNOC. It also allows gas station operators infrastructure including storage facilities and to veer away from competition focusing on adopting support measures for participants additional services, thereby curbing the increase 896 including a rational pricing method. As a result, of oil prices in nearby gas stations. As a result, the first Economical Gas Station was opened in the Economical Gas Station has come up with gas stations December 2011. the new paradigm of cost-reducing gas stations To expand the Economical Gas Stations, KNOC equipped with price competitiveness that has proactively conducted the following provides guaranteed products and delivered promotion activities: holding seminars in five direct benefits to consumers. major cities of Korea in January 2012, issuing In addition, KNOC has led the paradigm shift associated credit cards, supporting funds for in the oil distribution market by adopting the participants, and promoting PR activities transparent oil price information systems such nationwide. as the registration of standard prices. Such Consequently, the number of Economical Gas efforts enabled Economical Gas Stations to cut Stations nationwide reached 896 as of March down oil prices by KRW 46 per liter compared Economical Gas Station 2013; it became the 5th pole gas station after to the national average and curtail the increase Associated Credit Cards to Promote Economical Gas Stations only a year of operation in the market, which of oil prices in nearby gas stations. Sustainable Growth To create value beyond energy, KNOC is committed to fulfilling its social responsibility and role by upholding business ethics and promoting social contribution as well as engaging in oil resource development. Through these efforts, the Corporation will promote the happiness for the Korean people and grow sustainably in the global stage. Realizing a transparent, affluent energy future As a state-owned oil company dedicated to national energy security, KNOC is implementing various activities for sustainable growth ranging from the introduction of an advanced ethical management system meeting the global standard to the fulfillment of corporate social responsibility through company-wide social contribution activities, shared growth with suppliers, environment-friendly management, and family-friendly management. The Corporation will continue to enhance competitiveness and serve as a global corporate citizen by promoting sustainability management; thus creating value beyond energy. 36 Business Ethics 38 Risk Management 40 Social Contribution 42 Environmental Management 44 Family-friendly Management 45 Shared Growth with Suppliers 36 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 37 Business Ethics KNOC strives to become a trustworthy Ethical management system To manage ethical risks in overseas offices, KNOC established counseling channels through SNS; it has been conducting ethics education company by entrenching ethical management KNOC has operated the Ethical Management Committee, which consistently for employees who will work at the overseas offices prior to deliberates on and resolves major issues on business ethics; each their dispatch and until their return to Korea. meeting the global standards. Based on the department and the overseas branches of the corporation nominate In particular, our auditor has visited all overseas offices to provide strong commitment of the CEO to ethical officers dedicated to business ethics. In addition, we have been improving special lectures on integrity and ethical management since 2011. ethics regulations and related systems to exercise ethical management The department dedicated to ethical management also visited the management, we are taking the initiative meeting the global standards. Kazakhstan and Vietnam offices to give training on local ethics-related Moreover, we introduced more systems for advanced business ethics in establishing a transparent, fair corporate such as the Great Way in 2009, a direct communication channel with regulations including the anti-bribery act. Thanks to these efforts, KNOC garnered the highest rating (AAA) in the culture and fulfilling social responsibilities. the CEO, expansion of compensation coverage for public report in 2010, Corporate Sustainability Management Evaluation -held by the Ministry transparency-oriented ombudsman system in 2011, and solicitation of Knowledge Economy (currently Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy) -declaration system in 2012. Meanwhile, ethics programs for executives for 6 consecutive years. include pledge of anti-corruption and transparency, compulsory education on integrity, and disclosure of the details of corporate card use through our website. Education on ethics and risk management KNOC has offered customized ethics education programs to target groups every year including cyber education for all employees, code of conduct education for new employees, education on integrity for the management level, and ethical management workshop for officers dedicated to the business ethics of each department. Pledge of anti-corruption and transparency Global ethical risk management Customized ethics education for target groups 38 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 39 Risk Management Strategic and operational risk management Through the Enterprise Risk Management Efforts to secure sound financial structure (ERM) system, KNOC monitors key risk factors in KNOC measures the value-at-risk and earning-at-risk depending on the In terms of strategic risk management, we frequently compare the fluctuation of market risk factors (exchange rate, interest rate, and oil performance of key indices such as oil production, oil reserves, revenue, terms of finance, strategy, and operation at all prices) and calculates the volatility of the equity level for monthly base. and operating profit with our target as well as estimate the annual times to respond to risks preemptively. The results are utilized in managing its financial soundness indices. performance result and risk-adjusted performance measurement. To cope with the increased borrowings after the ‘Great KNOC’ strategy, This is aimed at promptly establishing and implementing KNOC has established a comprehensive asset-debt management system countermeasures upon the detection of risk signals such as failure to for coordinating debt management with asset management. In addition, attain the annual target. it has set up a midto long-term plan to maintain financial stability In terms of operation risk management, we register key HSE-related and improve financial structures from a long-term perspective. We indices by incorporating key indices including fatal accidents, lost manage short-term liquidity by calculating the proper amount in hand time incident frequency rate, oil spill, fire, and residual oil to our risk stochastically using historical volatility. management system. These indices are monitored and managed regularly to prevent risks. Meeting for risk management activities Training to prevent marine pollution Monitoring to prevent risks 40 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 41 Social Contribution Social contribution strategies Promoting global social contribution activities KNOC is committed to leading the culture of sharing and coexistence. Toward this end, we Guided by the vision of “Creating Value beyond Energy,” KNOC is To facilitate our social contribution activities on the global stage, KNOC carrying out company-wide social contribution activities that reflect established an independent volunteering group, collaborating with have been carrying out various corporate social its characteristics and social needs. Our social contribution activities 13 overseas offices and local social contribution foundations including responsibility activities including support to are conducted based on 4 strategic tasks: enhancing support to the Savia Peru Association. Based on this strategy, we have conducted the underprivileged, increasing participation in local community a variety of social contribution activities tailored to the characteristics the underprivileged, contribution to the local development, promoting global social contribution, and cultivating of each region: construction of a library in a local school in Vietnam; experts specializing in the energy industry. KNOC will continue to build a construction of educational facilities for residents in 9 areas in Piura, community, and support to the academic and culture of sharing through the advancement of CSR activities. Peru; disaster rehabilitation in the Gulf of Mexico; education on resource cultural fields. Our global operations are also recycling in Egypt; support for youth sports in the UK; improvement of vulnerable facilities in Yemen and Vietnam; and aid to Koryo People (ethnic conducting systematic social contribution Koreans who have moved to Russia and independent states of Central activities worldwide. Major social contribution activities Asia and become local residents) in Kazakhstan, etc. In 2012, we improved heating and other living conditions for lowincome families and provided lunch money for starving children under the Sunshine project, forged sisterhood relations with the local children’s center under the Happy Together project, helped marriage immigrants visit their mother country or invite multicultural families under the KNOC Family project, and provided scholarships to schools and sponsored arts performances and events under the Hopeful Energy project. Delivering briquettes to the neighbors in need Awarding scholarships to teenagers Events for the multicultural families from Vietnam Kimchi-making event 42 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 43 Environmental Management Establishment of environmental management system Securing the foundation for green growth KNOC is committed to creating a pleasant, healthy workplace environment while pursuing To ensure a clean and safe workplace environment, KNOC has been KNOC has been developing the carbon capture and storage technology operating the quality and environmental management system (ISO 9001 (CCS) and the gas-to-liquid technology (GTL) as one of the R&D tasks environment-friendly business management. We and ISO 14001) established for all sites; it also acquired KOSHA 18001 for realizing the national vision of Korea and identifying new growth continuously improve the HSEQ management certification for the stockpiling sites. In addition, the offshore rig operation engines of the company. Through our strategic tasks such as green business has been managing the ISO 9001 and ISM/ ISPS Code for rig growth R&D projects and GHG emissions target management scheme on system; at the same time, all of our worksites safety and security. Based on such efforts and systematic, consistent the public sector, we are leading the way in building the foundation for HSEQ management, KNOC promotes safe, environment-friendly E&P and green growth. Specifically, we vitalize internal and external infrastructure at home and abroad strive to meet the stockpiling businesses which meet the level of global oil majors. In June for responding to climate change, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, environmental objectives. 2012, we held the “KNOC HSE Conference” participated in by HSE leaders improve energy efficiency, and develop photovoltaic power. of domestic and overseas worksites, through which all participants were able to understand further the corporate HSE management system and share the operational know-how of each business site. Operation of environment-friendly stockpiling bases We have consistently expanded our environment investment to improve major facilities and equipment and minimize pollutants. To operate the oil stockpile business in an environment-friendly way, we have minimized pollutant discharge by installing a stench control facility in the water treatment systems and promoted activities to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Moreover, KNOC has focused efforts on preventing environmental accidents and realized 12 consecutive accident-free years in 9 stockpiling bases in 2012. Worksite in Peru Oil stockpiling base 2012 KNOC HSE Conference 44 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 45 Family-friendly Shared Growth Management with Suppliers We strive to make KNOC a great place to work in by helping employees strike a KNOC pursues shared growth with suppliers by implementing fair transactions balance between work and family life. Toward this end, we promote family-friendly and supporting the improvement of SMEs’ competitiveness. management that contributes to boosting business performance and improving Vision and strategy for shared growth partnerships with private companies, and made strategic investments. the quality of life for all employees. Meanwhile, KNOC concluded a performance sharing contract with KNOC established a vision and a strategy for shared growth with suppliers eMainTec, a SME, during the facility management system sophistication to respond positively to the government’s policy and support SMEs as Efforts to establish family-friendly management Vitalization of family-friendly welfare system project for Doo Sung (our drilling rig) and transferred its technique and partners in its E&P and stockpiling businesses. Such includes 3 strategic information on the operation and maintenance of a drilling rig. KNOC is striving to establish an advanced corporate culture that places KNOC is creating a flexible working environment through the flexible directions (enhancement of suppliers’ competitiveness, expansion of importance on both workplace and family, cognizant of the fact that working hour system to give time for personal development, Early-Home fair transactions, and establishment of foundation to implement shared Purchasing SMEs’ products family-friendly management is essential for the development of a Day every Wednesday and Friday, and promotion of use of 2-week leave, etc. growth) and 7 strategic tasks (more support for technology development, company. Through the establishment and improvement of family-friendly Moreover, to reinforce maternal protection, the regulations on break and support for pioneering their sales routes at home and abroad, expansion To expand the purchase of products from small and medium enterprises, management, KNOC creates sustainable values while contributing to the leave of absence for pregnant women and mothers were revised in 2011, of performance sharing, procurement of SMEs’ products, enhancement KNOC included the purchase of SME products as a new indicator in the betterment of its employees. and an in-house childcare facility was installed in the headquarters to of subcontract management system, instillation of shared growth culture, internal performance evaluation list. To build and improve the family-friendly culture, we actively collect support childbirth and child-rearing among working mothers. In 2012, and consolidation of shared growth promotion system). Based on such Monthly purchase outcome is collected, with the quarterly purchase employee opinions through various channels such as labor-management a total of 14 female employees availed themselves of the maternity directions and tasks, we are implementing diverse activities to grow status in each department reviewed to reflect the outcome actively meetings and female discussion meetings and benchmark best practices leave. In addition, KNOC is practicing a comprehensive family-friendly together with suppliers. on the purchase performance evaluation. Moreover, product purchase of private and public corporations that are recognized for maintaining management through family invitation events as well as provision of from female-owned social enterprises is extensively promoted for the balance between work and family. additional welfare benefits for multi-child families. Providing more opportunities and support to SMEs realization of fair society and shared growth. Thanks to the steadfast practice of such programs, KNOC was certified as In 2012, a total of 56,973 jobs have been created as a result of our efforts a family-friendly corporation in December 2012 by the Ministry of Gender toward shared growth. KNOC has given extra points to SMEs participating Equality and Family. in the bid of its projects and started to place separate orders by business type to support SMEs. We have also expanded outsourcing, established Certification of a family-friendly corporation in 2012 Together with family Proclamation of the vision for shared growth with suppliers Conclusion of a contract to share performances with eMainTec 46 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 47 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Financial Overview diversifying the E&P business portfolio, and creating synergy in the global business. It also strives to fulfill its responsibility as a public Section KNOC was established in March 1979 not only to supply oil corporation by promoting the northeast oil hub project, advancing stably but also to contribute to the development of the national oil information services, and contributing to the stability of oil prices economy by efficiently carrying out businesses for the exploration through the operation of Economical Gas Stations. and production of oil resources, oil stockpiling, and improvement KNOC has 10 domestic and 12 overseas branches and offices as of of oil distribution structure. The entire equity is held by Korean the end of 2012. Participating in 226 promising overseas projects 47 Management’s Discussion & Analysis government. in 24 countries, KNOC produces 241 thousand b/d on the average As Korea’s only public oil company, KNOC has proactively 50 Independent Auditors’Report and secures reserves of 1.31 billion barrels of oil equivalent. participated in overseas oil exploration and production projects to 51 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position secure energy resources around the world and supply oil stably. In Financial Statement Standards and Important Accounting Policies particular, since the “Great KNOC 3020” strategy was mapped out in 53 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 2008, KNOC has conducted aggressive M&A activities around the KNOC has adopted K-IFRS in preparation for its consolidated 54 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity world. As a result, we succeeded in acquiring Ankor E&P Holdings financial statements for the period beginning January 1, 2011. of the US, Savia Peru S.A. of Peru, Harvest Operations Corp. of Therefore, financial figures in this report were prepared based on 55 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Canada, KNOC Caspian LLP. of Kazakhstan, Dana Petroleum plc. of the consolidated financial statements of KNOC and its subsidiaries. the UK, and shale oil equities of Anadarko and shale gas assets of The Corporation’s consolidated subsidiaries as of December 31, EP Energy of the US; thus upgrading our status on the global stage. 2012 and 2011 are as follows: KNOC is preparing for another leap forward with focus on securing more oil resources by enhancing the exploration success rate, Subsidiary Name Major Business Location Ownership (%) Harvest Operations Corporation and its subsidiaries 1) E&P Canada 100 Dana Petroleum plc. and its subsidiaries 2) E&P UK 100 KNOC Kaz B.V. Holding Company Netherlands 100 KNOC White Hill B.V. Holding Company Netherlands 85 KNOC Caspian LLP E&P Kazakhstan 85 KNOC Black Hill Ltd.3) Holding Company Canada 95 Altius Holdings Inc. 3) E&P Kazakhstan 95 ANKOR E&P Holdings Corporation E&P US 100 KNOC Eagle Ford Corporation 4) E&P US 100 KNOC Sumatra Ltd. E&P Indonesia 100 KNOC NEMONE E&P Indonesia 100 KNOC NEMTWO E&P Indonesia 100 KNOC Yemen Ltd. E&P Yemen 60 KNOC EP Corporation 5) E&P US 100 KNOC Exploracao e Producao de Petro do Brasil Ltda E&P Brazil 100 1) KNOC Canada Ltd., which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired 100% ownership interest in Harvest Energy Trust located in Canada in December 2009. On May 1, 2010, KNOC Canada and Harvest Energy Trust were merged into one entity named Harvest Operations Corp. 2) In October 2010, the Corporation acquired 100% ownership interest in Dana Petroleum plc (Dana) which has exploratory, developing and producing oil wells in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Norway, Egypt and other countries. 3) In March 2011, the Corporation acquired 95% of ownership interest in Altius Holdings Inc. located in Kazakhstan through KNOC Black Hill Ltd. 4) In March 2011, the Corporation established KNOC Eagle Ford Corporation (Eagle Ford) as a wholly-owned subsidiary, and Eagle Ford acquired some interests in upstream and midstream businesses of Anadarko E&P Company LP located in the United States. 5) KNOC EFE Co was founded in May 2012, and it acquired 15.5% shares of EPE Acquisition LLC who had acquired 100% ownership of US-based EP Energy LLC in May 2012. 48 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 49 Management’s Discussion & Analysis Results of Operations Sales of KNOC are broken down into E&P (exploration, Financial Status payables on Eagle Ford shares and SOC projects in Iraq. development, and selling of domestic and overseas oil resources), Capital stock rose 8.6% year on year to KRW 9.74 trillion, driven by Consolidated sales of KNOC in 2012 were pegged at KRW 10.55 As of the end of 2012, KNOC’s consolidated total assets stood at stockpiling (trading of crude oil and oil products, lease or selling of the Korean government’s additional investments in the oil stockpile trillion, up 17.9% or KRW 1.61 trillion compared to the previous year KRW 28.72 trillion, a 9.0% decrease compared to the previous stored assets, management of oil stockpiling facilities), financing and E&P projects. Total shareholders’ equity was KRW 10.73 trillion, driven by the reinforced E&P technological capabilities, improved year attributable mainly to impairment losses of KRW 608.4 billion (financing for corporations engaged in energy and resourcesand shareholders’ equity to total assets reached 37.4%. Debt to operational stability in production fields, active PMI (Post-Merger on downstream assets of Harvest Operations Corporation and related businesses), rig operation (drill ship chartering), and other equity at the end of 2012 was pegged at 167.5%. Integration) activities for acquired overseas assets, and efficient use depreciations of overseas exploration and production assets. businesses. The respective shares of consolidated sales by business of stockpile bases. Total liabilities at the end of 2012 stood at KRW 17.98 trillion, down in 2012 were 97.2% for E&P, 1.8% for oil stockpiling, 0.1% for rig Cost of sales increased 26.4% year on year to KRW 9.29 trillion due 13.5% year on year due to the decrease by KRW1.51 trillion in trade operation, and 0.9% for others. More details are as follows: to the rise in depreciation costs and inventories. Consequently, our account payables and other payables incurred by the settlement of Sales in oil exploration and production increased 22.3% to KRW gross profit decreased 21.0% to KRW 1.27 trillion in 2012 compared 10.26 trillion in 2012 compared to the previous year; this was to the previous year. Sales and administrative expenses also (KRW in millions) 2012 2011 attributable to the expansion of oil and gas sales volume from 61 rose 2.8% year on year, due mainly to the increases in personnel Current assets 2,465,153 3,610,186 million barrels to 63 million barrels driven by strong oil prices. expenditure and sales promotion costs for business expansion and Non-current assets 26,252,696 27,957,216 The oil stockpiling business recorded KRW 192.2 billion in sales, amortization on tangible assets. Total assets 28,717,849 31,567,402 a 52.9% decrease compared to the previous year caused by Our consolidated operating profit in 2012 was KRW 788.4 billion, Current liabilities 3,788,497 5,490,320 unfavorable global oil market conditions. Sales in rig operations also down 30.7% or KRW 349.0 billion compared to the previous year. Non-current liabilities 14,194,625 15,309,637 decreased 72.6% year on year to KRW 15.2 billion, due mainly to the Operating margin was 7.5%. We posted net loss of KRW 904.0 billion unilateral rescission of contracts by the Sakhalin project owner. Total liabilities 17,983,122 20,799,957 in 2012, due mainly to impairment losses on assets of Harvest Capital stock 9,736,915 8,965,196 Operations Corporation and failures in explorations. Retained earnings 201,543 1,106,034 Other components of equity 134,395 632,286 (KRW in millions) 2012 2011 Non-controlling interests 661,873 63,928 Sales 10,553,953 8,948,378 Total shareholders’ equity 10,734,726 10,767,444 Cost of sales 9,288,646 7,346,979 (Ratio of sales cost) 88.00% 82.10% Gross profit 1,265,306 1,601,399 (Gross profit margin) 12.00% 17.90% Operating profit 788,444 1,137,397 (Operating profit margin) 7.50% 12.70% Net profit -904,031 -152,752 (Net profit margin) -8.60% -1.70% (KRW in millions) 2012 2011 Exploration & Production 10,263,714 8,393,218 Oil Stockpile 192,503 408,340 Financing 3,441 4,059 Rig Operation 15,155 55,291 Others 79,140 87,470 Total Sales 10,553,953 8,948,378 50 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 51 Consolidated statements Independent auditors’ report of financial position As at December 31, 2012 and 2011 To the Board of Directors and Owner Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) Korea National Oil Corporation Korean won US dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Korea National Oil Corporation (the “Company”) and its Assets subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December Current assets: 31, 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in equity and Cash and cash equivalents 592,278 1,223,064 552,963 1,060,491 consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, all expressed in Korea won. These consolidated financial statements are the Current financial assets 354,055 147,539 330,552 127,928 responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based Trade and other receivables 1,003,867 1,501,090 937,230 1,301,561 on our audits. Inventories 235,076 543,120 219,471 470,927 Current income tax assets 21,609 148 20,175 128 We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea. Those standards require that Current non-financial assets 258,268 195,225 241,124 169,276 we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. 2,465,153 3,610,186 2,301,515 3,130,311 An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also Non-current assets: includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall Non-current financial assets 1,087,815 511,682 1,015,605 443,668 financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Long-term trade and other receivables 88,897 81,504 82,996 70,670 Property, plant and equipment 14,863,395 16,161,155 13,876,758 14,012,967 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above expressed in Korean won present fairly, in all material respects, the Goodwill 1,467,973 1,383,872 1,370,528 1,199,924 financial position of Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2012, and 2011, and the results of its financial Intangible assets other than goodwill 4,422,318 5,289,899 4,128,763 4,586,750 performance and cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korea International Financial Reporting Standards (KIFRS). Investments in associates and joint ventures 934,793 993,735 872,741 861,645 Deferred tax assets 236,537 208,386 220,836 180,686 As described in Note 2 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, United States dollar amounts presented as a comparison Non-current non-financial assets 3,150,968 3,326,984 2,941,806 2,884,751 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements expressed in Korean won are solely for the convenience of the reader and are the same as the amounts of the financial statements of the Group prepared in the Company’s functional currency. 26,252,696 27,957,216 24,510,033 24,241,061 Total assets 28,717,849 31,567,402 26,811,548 27,371,372 As mentioned in the preceding paragraph, we have conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the Republic of Korea which may vary among countries. In addition, the procedures and practices utilized in the Republic of Korea to audit such financial statements may differ from those generally accepted and applied in other countries. Accordingly, this report and the accompanying financial statements are for use by those who are knowledgeable about Korean auditing standards and their application in practice. February 28, 2013 This audit report is effective as of February 28, 2013, the independent auditors’ report date. Accordingly, certain material subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred during the period from the auditors’ report date to the time this report is used. Such events and circumstances could significantly affect the accompanying consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to this report. 52 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 53 Consolidated statements Consolidated statements of financial position of comprehensive income As at December 31, 2012 and 2011 For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) Korean won US dollars Korean won US dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Liabilities and equity Revenue 10,553,953 8,948,378 9,365,640 8,075,352 Current liabilities: Cost of sales (9,288,646) (7,346,979) (8,242,800) (6,630,189) Trade and other payables 1,704,067 2,930,568 1,590,950 2,541,029 Gross profit 1,265,306 1,601,399 1,122,840 1,445,163 Current financial liabilities 1,743,593 2,013,480 1,627,852 1,745,842 Current income tax liabilities 60,366 227,917 56,359 197,622 Selling and administrative expenses (476,862) (464,002) (423,170) (418,733) Current non-financial liabilities 113,055 75,121 105,550 65,136 Operating profit 788,444 1,137,397 699,670 1,026,430 Current provisions 167,417 243,234 156,304 210,902 3,788,498 5,490,320 3,537,015 4,760,531 Other income 176,028 191,511 156,208 172,827 Non-current liabilities Other expenses (153,312) (148,801) (136,050) (134,283) Long-term trade and other payables 167,459 657,389 156,343 570,007 Other income (loss), net (1,068,866) (195,062) (948,518) (176,031) Non-current financial liabilities 9,493,771 9,955,549 8,863,571 8,632,228 Finance income 180,239 257,921 159,945 232,758 Defined benefit liability 39,573 32,490 36,946 28,171 Finance costs (632,152) (711,312) (560,975) (641,914) Deferred tax liabilities 1,984,803 2,341,328 1,853,051 2,030,112 Gain (loss) on investments in associates and joint ventures, net 11,723 (31,890) 10,403 (28,779) Non-current provisions 2,509,019 2,322,882 2,342,470 2,014,117 Profit (loss) before income tax (697,895) 499,765 (619,317) 451,008 14,194,625 15,309,637 13,252,381 13,274,635 Total liabilities 17,983,122 20,799,957 16,789,396 18,035,166 Income tax expense (206,136) (652,517) (182,926) (588,857) Loss for the year (904,031) (152,752) (802,243) (137,849) Equity attributable to the owner of the parent: Issued capital 9,736,915 8,965,196 9,095,847 8,418,807 Attributable to: (920,989) (128,308) (817,291) (115,790) Retained earnings 201,543 1,106,034 118,102 945,271 The owner of the parent 16,958 (24,444) 15,048 (22,059) Other components of equity 134,395 632,286 190,265 (83,305) Non-controlling interests (904,031) (152,752) (802,243) (137,849) 10,072,853 10,703,516 9,404,214 9,280,773 Non-controlling interests 661,873 63,929 617,938 55,433 Other comprehensive income: Total equity 10,734,727 10,767,444 10,022,152 9,336,206 Net gain on available-for-sale financial investments 7,896 11,970 7,007 10,802 Net gain (loss) on cash flow hedge accounting (18,245) 6,612 (16,190) 5,966 Total liabilities and equity 28,717,849 31,567,402 26,811,548 27,371,372 Equity adjustments in equity method (7,892) (602) 17,515 (543) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (11,131) (13,322) (9,877) (12,023) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (518,573) (51,365) 262,584 (187,344) (547,944) (46,708) 261,039 (183,142) Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax (1,451,976) (199,460) (541,204) (320,991) Attributable to: The owner of the parent (1,430,010) (204,431) (553,599) (324,655) Non-controlling interests (21,965) 4,971 12,395 3,664 (1,451,976) (199,460) (541,204) (320,991) 54 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 55 Consolidated statements of Consolidated statements of changes in equity cash flows For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) Issued Retained Other Equity NonTotal Equity Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) capital earnings components attributable controlling Korean won US dollars of equity to the owner interests of the 2012 2011 2012 2011 parent Cash flows from operating activities: As at January 1, 2011 8,130,196 1,281,489 695,087 10,106,771 58,957 10,165,728 Loss for the year (904,031) (152,752) (802,243) (137,849) Loss for the year (128,308) (128,308) (24,444) (152,752) Non-cash adjustment to reconcile loss for the year to net cash flows Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (13,322) (13,322) (13,322) Income tax expense 206,136 652,517 182,926 588,856 Equity adjustments in equity method (602) (602) (602) Finance income (92,348) (95,594) (81,950) (86,267) Net gain on available-for-sale financial investments 11,970 11,970 11,970 Finance costs 506,891 352,984 449,818 318,546 Net gain on cash flow hedge accounting 6,612 6,612 6,612 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,259,976 1,952,114 2,005,516 1,761,661 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (80,780) (80,780) 29,415 (51,365) Amortization of intangible assets 119,371 69,614 105,930 62,822 Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (141,631) (62,801) (204,431) 4,971 Impairment loss on property, plant and equipment 659,628 16,145 585,358 14,570 Issue of share capital 835,000 835,000 835,000 Impairment loss on intangible assets other than goodwil 465,438 162,156 413,032 146,336 Dividends (33,824) (33,824) (33,824) Share of loss (profit) in associates and joint ventures, net (11,723) 31,890 (10,403) 28,779 As at December 31, 2011 8,965,196 1,106,034 632,286 10,703,516 63,929 10,767,444 Defined benefit liability 10,044 9,241 8,913 8,339 Other income (154,254) (91,522) (136,886) (82,593) US dollars 8,418,807 945,271 (83,305) 9,280,773 55,433 9,336,206 Other expenses 127,560 143,059 113,197 129,102 Others, net (41,041) 1,270 (36,420) 1,146 As at January 1, 2012 8,965,196 1,106,034 632,286 10,703,516 63,929 10,767,444 Total adjustments 4,055,677 3,203,874 3,599,031 2,891,297 Loss for the year (920,989) (920,989) 16,958 (904,031) Actuarial loss on defined benefit plans (11,131) (11,131) (11,131) Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Equity adjustments in equity method (7,892) (7,892) (7,892) Inventories 283,095 (381,896) 251,221 (344,637) Net gain on available-for-sale financial investments 7,896 7,896 7,896 Trade and other receivables 1,144,925 (545,901) 1,016,014 (492,641) Net loss on cash flow hedge accounting (18,245) (18,245) (18,245) Other receivables relating to operating activitie (136,301) (154,497) (120,954) (139,424) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (479,650) (479,650) (38,923) (518,573) Trade and other payables (444,970) 895,395 (394,869) 808,038 Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax (932,120) (497,890) (1,430,010) (21,965) (1,451,976) Other payables relating to operating activitie (440,910) 203,020 (391,266) 183,213 Retained earnings adjustments in equity method 27,629 27,629 27,629 Payment of defined benefit liabilit (11,709) (13,983) (10,390) (12,618) Issue of share capital 771,719 771,719 771,719 Provisions 182,113 238,533 161,608 215,261 Disposal of investments in subsidiaries 619,910 619,910 Dividend received 1,292 20 1,146 18 As at December 31, 2012 9,736,915 201,543 134,395 10,072,853 661,873 10,734,727 Interest paid (532,664) (407,403) (472,689) (367,656) Interest received 16,552 50,486 14,688 45,560 US dollars 9,095,847 118,102 190,265 9,404,214 617,938 10,022,152 Income tax paid (625,332) (513,194) (554,924) (463,126) Net cash flows from operating activities 2,587,738 2,421,703 2,296,373 2,185,436 56 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 57 Consolidated statements Organization Chart (as of March 2013) of cash flows For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 President & CEO Auditor Korea National Oil Corporation and its subsidiaries (Korean won in millions and US dollars in thousands) Office of the President Korean won US dollars 2012 2011 2012 2011 Director & Senior Executive Cash flows from investing activities: Vice President Acquisition of a subsidiary (570,208) (514,577) Proceeds from disposal of investments in associates and joint ventures 18 16 Strategy & Administration Exploration & Petroleum Acquisition of investments in associates and joint ventures (1) (90,946) (1) (82,073) Exploration Group Production Group Planning Group Group Production Technology Stockpile Group Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 123,472 50,266 109,569 45,362 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (2,074,020) (3,815,634) (1,840,498) (3,443,371) Planning & Exploration Production Research and Petroleum General Affairs Dept. E&P Planning Dept. Internal Auditing Dept. Proceeds from disposal of intangible asset other than goodwil 803 713 Coordination Dept. Business Dept. Management Dept. Development Dept. Stockpile Dept. Acquisition of intangible assets other than goodwil (1,014,806) (1,970,787) (900,545) (1,778,512) Proceeds from disposal of short-term trading financial assets 67,095 59,540 Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (508,494) (23,250) (451,241) (20,981) Finance HR Management Dept. New Ventures Dept. Exploration Dept. Production Strategic Petroleum Management Dept. Operation Dept. Resources Dept. Marketing Dept. Increase in long-term and short-term financial assets, net (338,968) (22,218) (300,803) (20,050) Decrease (increase) in loans, net (84,795) 67,711 (75,248) 61,105 Decrease in guarantee deposits, net 6,752 5,992 Oil Research & Offshore Rig Petroleum Oil Distribution Settlement of derivatives (17,113) (15,443) ICT Dept. Drilling & Subsea Dept. Information Center Operations Dept. Engineering Dept. Business Dept. Net cash flows used in investing activities (3,822,946) (6,392,178) (3,392,506) (5,768,540) Cash flows from financing activities: Stock Engineering & HSE Dept. Offshore Rig Area Office Production Facility Dept. Construction Dept. Proceeds from increase in issued capital 771,719,000 835,000,000 677,040 753,535 Repayment of short-term borrowings, net (1,220,707,816) (1,114,540,720) (1,083,263) (1,005,803) Repayment of current portion of long-term liabilities (696,932,637) (194,892,347) (618,462) (175,878) Emergency Ulsan Gas Proceeds from (repayment of ) long-term borrowings, net (76,150,234) 429,491,781 (67,576) 387,589 Planning Dept. Indonesia Office Production Office Ulsan Office Increase in bonds payables, net 1,266,100,254 3,701,633,705 1,123,545 3,340,493 Dividends paid (33,824,054) (30,524) Russia Office Vietnam Office Geoje Office Change in equity in subsidiaries without loss of control 619,909,617 550,111 Net cash flows from financing activities 663,938,184 3,622,868,365 581,395 3,269,412 Uzbekistan Office Kazakhstan Office Yeosu Office Decrease in cash and cash equivalents before net effect of foreign exchange difference (571,270,123) (347,606,555) (514,738) (313,692) Iraq Office USA Office Seosan Office Net effect of foreign exchange differences in cash and cash equivalents (59,515,777) 17,688,579 7,210 10,602 Abudhabi Office Canada Office Pyeongtaek Office Decrease in cash and cash equivalents (630,785,900) (329,917,976) (507,528) (303,090) Nigeria Office Peru Office Guri Office Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 1,223,064,068 1,552,982,044 1,060,491 1,363,581 United Kingdom Office Yongin Office Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 592,278,168 1,223,064,068 552,963 1,060,491 Gokseong Office Donghae Office 58 KNOC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Creating Value Beyond Energy 59 Global Network A Harvest Operations Corp. Russia Office I 2100, 330 5th Ave. SW Calgary, Alberta T2P 0L4, Canada Embassy of the Republic of Korea, 56 Plyushchikha st, Moscow 119121, Russia Tel. 070-7725-3765 Fax. 1-403-265-3490 Tel. 7-495-783-2791 Fax. 7-4242-450-5841 Uzbekistan Office J B North Atlantic Refining Limited 7th Fl., Block A, A4, International Business Center, 107B Amir Timur Street, PO Box 40, 1 Refinery Rd. Come By Chance, NL A0B 1N0, Canada Tashkent 100084, Uzbekistan Tel. 070-7734-0919 Fax. 1-709-463-8076 Tel. 998-71-120-4000 Fax. 998-71-120-0018 Kazakhstan Office K C Houston Office 5th fl., Block 3B, B/C “Nurly-Tau” Business Centre, 19/1, Al-Farabi Ave., 050013, 5555 San Felipe Road, Suite 1130, Houston, TX 77056, USA Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan Tel. 070-7734-0035 Fax. 1-713-552-1898 Tel. 7-727-311-1521 Fax. 7-727-311-1503 G I Abu Dhabi Office L D ANKOR E&P Holdings Corp. H 503, Complex B, ADNOC Abu Dhabi, UAE 1615 Poydras Street, Suite 1124, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA A Tel. 1-504-520-0428 Fax. 1-504-587-6510 B K J Iraq Office M 515, 5th Floor, 4A West Wing Building, Dubai Airport Free Zone, Dubai, UAE E SAVIA Peru Tel. 971-4-213-4001 Fax. 971-4-299-3937 D Av. Rivera, Navarrete 501, San Isidro, Lima 27, Peru C Tel. 51-9-9445-5446 Fax. 51-1-222-5947 ML Vietnam Office N 10th Floor, Diamond Plaza, 34 Le Duan St.,Dist. 1, Ho Chi Minh, N Socialist Rep. of Vietnam F Peru Office Q Tel. 84-8-3825-7709 Fax. 84-8-3825-7711 Calle Dionicio Derteano No.144 office 801B, San Isidro, Lima, Peru O Tel. 51-1-652-2685 Fax. 51-1-652-2689 Singapore Office O E,F P 79 Robinson Road, #11-03 CPF Building, Singapore 068897 Tel. 65-9672-0511 Fax. 65-6227-9516 G Dana Petroleum Plc (UK) Dana Petroleum Plc, King’s Close, 62 Huntly Street, Aberdeen, AB10 1RS, United Kingdom Indonesia Office P Tel. 44-788-135-0792 Fax. 44-208-399-9929 Gedung BRI II 17th Floor,Jl.Jend. Sudirman No.44-46 Jakarta 10210, Indonesia Tel. 070-7725-2612 Fax. 62-21-5793-2519 H United Kingdom Office Nigeria Office Q 10th Floor, New Zealand House, 80 Haymarket, London, SW1Y 4TE Plot 934, Idejo Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, Nigeria Tel. 44-207-747-3011 Fax. 44-208-399-9929 Tel. 070-7725-3491 Donghae Office Domestic OFFICES Ulsan Office Yeosu Office Pyeongtaek Office Yongin Office 147, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan-si, 450, Nakpodanji-gil, Nakpo-dong, Yeosu-si, 175-108, Namyangman-ro, Poseung-eup, 159, Ho-dong, Haesil-ro, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, 77, Gongdan 12-ro, Donghae-si, Gangwon-do, Korea Jeollanam-do, Korea Pyeongtaek-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea Gyeonggi-do, Korea Korea Tel. 82-52-270-4400 Tel. 82-61-688-8700 Tel. 82-31-680-1414 Tel. 82-31-329-4900 Tel. 82-33-520-7800 Geoje Office Seosan Office Guri Office Gokseong Office Ulsan Gas Production Office 97 Seoimal-gil, Irun-myeon, G eoje-si, 119, Pyeongsin 2-ro, Daesan-eup, Seosan-si, 67, Achasan-ro, Guri-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 1538, Goksun-ro, Gyeom-myeon, Gokseong147, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea Choongcheongnam-do, Korea Tel. 82-2-2204-7700 gun, Jeollanamdo,Korea Korea Tel. 82-55-680-1789 Tel. 82-41-660-4114 Tel. 82-61-360-2114 Tel. 82-52-240-4700 57, 212nd Street, Gwanpyeong-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea, 431-711 Tel. 82-31-380-2114 Fax. 82-31-387-9321 www.knoc.co.kr twitter.com/KNOC_PR facebook.com/KNOC.PR Link to KNOC’s website by scanning the QR Code
