UN Global Compact MOBILITAS Communication on Progress 2012 Contents Chairman’s Message .............................. 4 Overview .................................................5 Human Rights ..........................................7 Code of Ethics .......................................7 CSR .......................................................8 Labour ....................................................9 VIE program .........................................9 Training .................................................10 Environment ..........................................11 One move one tree ................................11 Environmental Posters ..........................1 4 Bilan Carbon ..........................................15 Anti-Corruption ......................................16 Anti corruption code of conduct ...........16 Supplier Code of Conduct ......................16 UN Global Compact 10 principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Chairman’s Message In this, MOBILITAS’ fourth Communication on Progress, I would like to strongly conﬁrm our commitment to the principles as outlined in the UN Global Compact. We renew our company’s ongoing commitment to this initiative and to further embedding these principles in the global activities of the group. For 2012 we strongly focused on environmental initiatives with expansion of our one international move equals one tree initiative and the successful completion of the Bilan Carbon Assessment at the operations hub of AGS Paris. Our 2012 activities include the initiatives of the diﬀerent aﬃliates “ globally both central and locally developed in line with the overarching values of Mobilitas. Alain TAÏEB MOBILITAS Chairman I would like to strongly confirm our commitment to “ MOBILITAS Values the principles as outlined in the UN Quality At Mobilitas we are devoted to ﬁnding a better way. We believe that quality begins by Global Compact. focussing on our clients’ needs and all else will follow. Performance Excellence is at the heart of Mobilitas. Our pulse is improvement. We aim to exceed expectations and demonstrate to our clients that our standards are the world’s best. Innovation Innovation is the keystone of our success and sustainability. We set trends in technology and methodology, measuring them by customer feedback. In this way, we aim to create ideas with the potential to change our industries and improve how our customers are served. Respect We believe both in listening and being worth listening to. We value others’ viewpoints and diversity of thought. We respect honesty and believe in the highest ethical standards, earning trust through commitment, consistency and principled actions. Solidarity We commit ourselves to working with our neighbours and communities of the world, recognising that although we may not be the same, we live on common ground. In standing together we believe we are always stronger, wiser and more aware. Communication on Progress 2012 | 4 Overview MOBILITAS is a medium size French company with a diverse range of From 2012, to ensure the initiative receives attention and focus subsidiaries across the globe. Bound together by the shared values of the particularly during the ﬁrst implementation stage, MOBILITAS has allocated company and a common commitment to quality, 2012 has been a year to an executive sponsor for each new initiative. This senior manager helps to systematically assess our initiatives in line with the Global Compact and to imbed the initiative within the business operations through clear further develop new initiatives. communication about the change, the objectives and MOBILITAS’ We use the methodology outlined in the Global Compact self assessment commitment to the changes. which sees 4 interrelated components per initiative: assess, deﬁne, implement and communicate. We will evaluate the ongoing and new initiatives according to this Assess methodology. The MOBILITAS Group is made up of 118 subsidiaries present in 78 countries worldwide. For most of the initiatives the assessment and deﬁnition takes place at a central level ensuring a consistent framework across the branches and clear calls to action for all the subsidiaries. The Deﬁne Implement implementation is done both on a centralized level (one international move, one tree) and decentralized (AGS Paris Bilan Carbon Assessment) level depending on what has been assessed to have the maximum impact for the business. Communicate Policy is always formulated centrally for the MOBILITAS Group followed by engagement with the management team allowing for feedback and analysis on the best way forward. After internal consensus building, the “ policy is actively rolled out to the applicable business units and results and measurements of the activities are centrally monitored. We then measure and assess our performance on these initiatives through the Global Executive sponsors “ Compact Update on Progress as well as emails and newsletters internally and externally. drive new initiatives throughout the global network. Communication on Progress 2012 | 5 UN Principles MOBILITAS Actions Stage Executive Sponsor Actions for 2012 Actions for 2013 Human Rights Ethics Charter 2nd Year Gilles Taieb External launch on Branding for the Business unitsCommunicate MOBILITAS website starting with AGS Communicate to employees Selected partners/suppliers to sign CSR activities >5 years Decentralized locally Communicate selected Decentralized model to continue Communicate for each action initiativesfor 2012 informed by the guidelines speciﬁc focus on contained in Ethics Charter and children Code of Conduct Labour VIE program >5 years No executive sponsor Continued active Continued active participation in allocated participation in the the program program Training initiatives >5 years No executive sponsor Extensive and measured Continued measurement and allocated training for employees monitoring Environment Planete Urgence 3rd year: No executive sponsor First year of activity in Commitment to further Communicate allocated Madagascar working with Planete Urgence Bilan Carbon 1st year: Sophie Lucas Carbon footprint of AGS Action to mitigate environmental Implement Paris operations impact of the AGS Paris operations assessed to be measured Expansion of the pilot project to another location (to be assessed) Environmental posters 2nd year: ﬁnalized Email and posters shared No further activity planned Communicate throughout the AGS for environmental posters locations Staﬀ engaged and committed for grassroots change in behavior Anti Corruption Code of Conduct 2nd year: Christophe Mordelet After policy deﬁned, Communication to staﬀ with Implement rolled out for AGS oﬃces concrete steps to live the values to the management team in the business. as clear statement of Rebrand Code for other intent for counter MOBILITAS aﬃliates signature. Copies kept and common language used. Share the Code of Conduct with suppliers Communication on Progress 2012 | 6 Human Rights Executive sponsor: Gilles Taïeb Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Executive Board Member: MOBILITAS internationally proclaimed human rights;and As the Executive Board Member for Operations and Sales, Gilles Taïeb will spearhead the external roll out of the Supplier Code of Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Conduct to actively engage with the diﬀerent stakeholders in our industry. Quote: “Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles is enshrined in the Code of Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct for the MOBILITAS Group. We would like this commitment to be shared with our valued business partners for our global operations. We understand that achieving the values and standards will present challenges for operations in the diﬀerent parts of the world, but we intend to work together toward these standards.” MOBILITAS commitment: MOBILITAS understands that operating in communities and countries is a *Translation of Code of Ethics into * Internal communication english privilege. We also recognize that the success of business is embedded in Branding of Code of Ethics for each subsidiary the progress of society. We therefore see our support of international human rights and investment in communities as designed for the * External Communication *External communication long-term success of both our society and our company. Upload onto MOBILITAS website: Supplier Code of Conduct In the communities we operate in, often in rapidly growing economies www.mobilitas.org/charte-ethique-mobilitas with signiﬁcant structural constraints to growth and signiﬁcant inequality, the commitment to support and protect human rights is essential to the 2012 2013 MOBILITAS Code of Ethics. The role of our subsidiaries, particularly in oﬀering a range of entry level positions, means we are committed to responsible policies and behaviors which support human rights. Distribution internally moved to 2013 to be included with branding of the Code of Ethics for each subsidiary. The rebranding will seek to ensure the Code of Ethics includes concrete actions and steps to keep Action: Code of Ethics the commitment alive and embedded in our business practices. At the end of 2011, MOBILITAS adopted its Code of Ethics which referenced the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Conventions of International Labor Organization (ILO) and the principles of the UN Global As part of this commitment for 2013, we will work closely with our suppliers and agent networks to distribute the Code of Ethics and work together on Compact. The Code of Ethics is both a declaration of the company’s values initiatives. This will be discussed in detail under the Anti-Corruption and a guide to our activities and relationships with suppliers, customers Initiative. and communities. Communication on Progress 2012 | 7 Action: CSR AGS Bucharest AGS Four Winds Hong Kong Directs % of salary to the Second Proud sponsor of “Picnic in the For this Communication on Progress we would like to share some of the Change Romania Foundation, which Park”, a charity event that helps ways the diﬀerent MOBILITAS subsidiaries have positively engaged with supports children in need in the raise funds for two children’s Berceni area of southern Bucharest. charities: Hong Chi Association and their communities. Guided by the framework of the Ethics Charter and Hong Kong Student Aid Society. the Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct, the subsidiaries partner up with organizations that positively impact the communities they operate in. In addition to ﬁnancial and logistics support, the employees also the have AGS Four Winds Thailand opportunity to directly get involved. Sponsorship of the Jesters Fairpart For 2012, we would like to present some of the subsidiaries and the of the Jester Care for Kids Charity Drive which cares for abandoned, activities which speciﬁcally focused on children. AGS Rhone-Alpes Lyon orphaned and disabled children in the community. Providing items and logistical RUSSIA support for the French association BELGIUM ALMNS who organized a UK POLAND GERMANY CZECH REPUBLIC SLOVAKIA UKRAINE clothing/toys collection for children FRANCE SWITZERLAND HUNGARY SERBIA CROATIA ROMANIA in the community. BOSNIA KOSOVO AGS Belgrade MONTENEGRO BULGARIA SPAIN PORTUGAL ALBANIA MACEDONIA BEIJING KOREA AGS Belgrade ran the face painting TUNISIA LIBYA stand at the British International MOROCCO CHENGDU SHANGHAI WUHAN School’s Spring Charity Bazaar EGYPT DUBAI NEW DELHI GUANGZHOU helping to raise funds for two local ALGERIA TAIWAN ABU DHABI SHENZEN orphanages, Dom Dragutin Filipovic MAURITANIA MUMBAI HONG KONG – Jusa and Dom Jovan Jovanovic – GUADELOUPE MALI NIGER CHAD HYDERABAD SENEGAL SUDAN THAILAND MANILA Zmaj. MARTINIQUE CAPE VERDE GAMBIA CHENNAI BURKINA CEBU GUINEA FASO TOGO NIGERIA BANGALORE IVORY SIERRA COAST BENIN N O CENTRAL AFRICAN LEONE O ER REPUBLIC LIBERIA M GHANA CA MALAYSIA EQUAT. UGANDA FRENCH GUIANA GUINEA CONGO KENYA SINGAPORE GABON DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC RWANDA OF CONGO BURUNDI TANZANIA INDONESIA Stuttaford Van Lines ANGOLA MALAWI Johannesburg MAYOTTE UE ZAMBIA BIQ ZA M AR Oﬀer logistics support and TAHITI ZIMBABWE M O ASC MAURITIUS NAMIBIA DAG sponsorship for the Nelson Mandela BOTSWANA MA REUNION NEW CALEDONIA Children’s Fund. Archiv System Madagascar AGS Frasers South Africa SOUTH SWAZILAND AFRICA LESOTHO Sponsorship of the Lycée français’s Managing Director of AGS Frasers rugby team in Antananarivo. South Africa, Gregory Masanet, climbs Mount Kilimanjaro to raise money for a children’s home in Cape Town, South Africa. Communication on Progress 2012 | 8 Labor MOBILITAS commitment: Labor As a growing company, MOBILITAS is keenly aware of the need for highly Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the trained and motivated employees who can continue to grow and develop eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the business. We commit to the 4 UN Global Compact principles on labor as necessary to the development of a skilled and diverse workforce to VIE candidates with MOBILITAS Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; “ Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and meet the needs of the diﬀerent economies in which we operate. 30 28 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and 27 occupation. A company that 25 “ doesn't invest in 20 17 youth, doesn't 15 15 embrace the future. 10 Action: VIE Program 5 MOBILITAS continues its commitment to the VIE program. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 The VIE (Volunteer for International Experience) program sets up a structured framework for French companies to send young graduates abroad for an assignment between 6-12 months. This helps to develop the talent pipeline by oﬀering a well-designed and implemented entry level program. MOBILITAS continues to be actively engaged in this program run by 1 UbiFrance, a French government agency. In 2012, Alain Taïeb, the 2012 Chairman of the MOBILITAS Group, continues in the second year of his 7 role in the Steering Committee of the VIE/VIA Africa Grand Prix. Europe For 2012 our VIE candidates were based mainly Africa, Europe and the Africa 19 Middle East allowing them to gain critical business experience in an Middle East international context. For MOBILITAS, we see value in energetic and dynamic additions to the team and also doing our part to nurture talent and oﬀer opportunities. One of our 27 VIE candidates shares his experience for 2012 on the next page. Communication on Progress 2012 | 9 Nicolas Martin AGS Frasers Guinea-Conakry each employee. This helped develop a common level of skills avoid any sense of discrimination. The business environment is challenging and integrity and professionalism are needed to address the destabilizing impact of Excerpt from report on his VIE experience: corruption present in everyday life. It was necessary to work as a Job experience team to address the pressures for corruption. The Anti Corruption “Before my dispatch to Guinea-Conakry I did not have much Code of Conduct assists with embodying the standards and knowledge of working in Africa and I had to quickly adapt to the appropriate behaviors so the team can act in unison. environment in order to succeed at work and get the maximum To ensure compliance with environmental standards of the group experience from this opportunity. and building greater responsibility for environmental awareness, I arrived in the middle of the peak season for the AGS Frasers branch training within the branch is vital. The focus is on fun and and I had to hit the ground running, taking on responsibilities while empowering approaches including video and posters. In addition learning and discovering the living and working culture. providing the tools and solutions for environmentallyfriendly behaviour helps to transform education in action in the branch. The advantages of working in a smaller subsidiary of the global group is to be involved in all the diﬀerent aspects of the businessto wear “multiple hats” I gained experience in accounting and ﬁnancial management, working and leading a team, sales and customer skills as well as developing operational and reporting abilities. Working with the Global Compact Building rapport and understanding of the AGS Frasers Guinea-Conakry team was one of the biggest learning opportunities to understand how to build employee motivation. I worked with the labor inspectorate in the team and the employees focused on building a climate of trust. The critical component was a well designed internal training plan which included aspects of language, conduct and health and safety developed according to the needs of Communication on Progress 2012 | 10 Action: Training Stuttaford Van Lines South Africa The diﬀerent subsidiaries in the MOBILITAS Group invest heavily in Present in over 14 locations in Southern Africa, the company specializes in removal activities both nationally and internationally. Establishing a strong tradition of training for staﬀ. The positive impact of this investment is particularly felt leadership through its people, the focus is on providing each employee with an opportunity to develop through a range of training initiatives which address both company-speciﬁc competencies for the diﬀerent roles (hard skills) as well as general competencies (life skills). in the subsidiaries which oﬀer a range of entry level positions. The training and investment in the local staﬀ has a positive impact on helping to create In line with this, each employee undergoes general induction and regular “on the job” training by one of the 3 regional trainers employed by Stuttaford Van Lines. For 2012 (April-April); Stuttaford Van Lines provided training for 430 employees including 82 new joins. This means over 65% of the employees received training in 2012 a skilled labor pool which has spillover eﬀects into the wider community. helping to develop and upskill our employees in Southern Africa. As a measurement of the actions, please ﬁnd detail on the training activities of two of the brands under the MOBILITAS Group: AGS Group Present in over 126 locations, the training for staﬀ at AGS relies on both local initiatives and central programs. All branches have a robust on-boarding program which includes operational instruction as well as careful supervision by an experienced supervisor. For 2012, central programs in commercial and ﬁnancial training continued their roll out. The primary focus was on training for the operational information system which gives worldwide visibility on the movement of shipments and allows both our staﬀ and customer to keep track of their goods. From 2009 more than 1,300 staﬀ have received training in the systemwith 366 employees being training in 2012 through both face-to-face and WebEx session. Adjusting for employee turnover, this means that in the last 4 years the AGS Group has provided functional training for over 62% of the staﬀ. Communication on Progress 2012 | 11 Environment MOBILITAS commitment: The MOBILITAS Group has partnered with the NGO Planète Urgence on Environment Preserving and caring for the environment is, for the MOBILITAS Group, this initiative from the kick oﬀ of the program in 2009. MOBILITAS, the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; both a moral imperative and part and parcel of sound business practices. subsidiaries and our customers have been excited to be part of a project Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Over the course of the last 4 years as part of committing to and which has planted over 65,500 trees in Mali, Indonesia and Madagascar. responsibility; and embedding the principles of the UN Global Compact, we have developed By the end of 2013, this ﬁgure is planned to increase to a total of 87,000 Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally and rolled out initiatives which minimize the environmental impact of our trees. friendly technologies. business and promote environmental awareness. This reforestation initiative is in line with MOBILITAS’ social and environmental commitments. With the planting of trees, the MOBILITAS Group is compensating for the environmental impact that is inherent to its Action: One move one tree business activity, which includes the production of packing materials and Our focus and commitment to caring for the environment can be most carbon dioxide emissions during transportation. The projects also support clearly seen in the MOBILITAS reforestation initiative. This is in place for local communities by providing opportunities for growing fruit, market both the AGS and Archiv System subsidiaries: gardens and fodder production which contribute to local economic development. One International Move with AGS = One Tree Planted Communication on Progress 2012 | 12 Our partnership with the NGO Planète Urgence was carefully selected for 35000 its aims of protecting biodiversity and promoting local socio-economic development in the local communities where these initiatives take place. 30000 Planète Urgence is a well-respected NGO with vast experience working with communitieswe focus on our core business, they focus on planting 25000 the trees and working directly with the communities. 20000 Madagascar The visibility of this project is in line with the Global Compact principle to promote environmental awareness. We wanted all our customers to know Indonesia 15000 the work we were doing and to feel a part of the process. A certiﬁcate was Mali designed to communicate that a tree had been planted on behalf of the 10000 customer. In addition, to heighten the awareness through further customer involvement, we were able to work with Planète Urgence in 5000 order to enable the customer to decide where the tree is planted. The “one move=one tree” message has been fully incorporated into the 0 2010 2011 2012 communications of our company. Logos were specially designed and added to all standard company materials and regular communications report on the project’s progress. Trees planted by Planète Urgence In addition, our staﬀ has fully embraced the initiative. It has been an 2007 2012 invaluable sales tool worldwide, and has been used at environmental 3,229,505 themed events in addition to our normal sales activities. “ 904,001 “ 89,869 From the start of the program MOBILITAS has Madagascar Indonesia planted 65,500 trees. Mali 7,950 35,150 22,400 Trees planted by Mobilitas Group: 2010-2012 Communication on Progress 2012 | 13 ge the Action: Environmental Posters Worldwide movers, Worldwide movers, you deserve the best you deserve the best tally friendly Worldwide movers, Déménagements & Garde-Meubles you deserve the best Déménagements & Garde-Meubles International Moving & Storage International Moving & Storage Déménagements & Garde-Meubles MOBILITAS is committed to environmental principles that aim at International Moving & Storage AGS participates in the United Nations Global Compact and supports its 10 principles. AGS participates in the United Nations Global Compact and supports its 10 principles. AGS participates in the United Nations Global Compact and supports its 10 principles. Principle 7: preserving the environment and ensuring sustainable development. Principle 9: ECONOMISING ENERGY Businesses should support Businesses should encourage the a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Environmental preservation is an integral part of the subsidiary quality development and diffusion of Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives environmentally friendly technologies. to promote greater environmental responsibility. management processes and in complying with the current laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. Beyond compliance and ENVIRONMENTAL best practice, we recognize that we have a role to play communicating POLICY good environmental practice to our staﬀ and externally. This PROTECT communication ensures we better embed the principles in daily practice and motivate our employees to take concrete steps in operations to YOUR ENVIRONMENT minimize the environmental impact of our activities. d by vehicles (trucks, cars e To this end, for the AGS brand we created and then disseminated a series Reduce Pollution: Minimise packing material wastage cartridges of environmental posters based on discussion with employees of best Decrease carbon emissions caused by vehicles After delivery: nd lights before leaving the (trucks, cars, forklifts) with regular maintenance • Recover all AGS boxes steps they can take to reduce the environmental footprint. Some of the Recycle packing materials and ink cartridges AT WORK: • Turn off lights when not in use and use low consumption bulbs • Recycle all AGS boxes • Recover all wooden boxes services initiatives are small scalebut all are concrete steps in each employee’s Switch off computers, screens and lights before leaving the office • Use heaters sparingly: 18°C is adequate for rooms not in use • Keep air conditioning 5°C – 6°C below the • Reuse all wooden boxes Use email instead of fax or postal services • Recycle all wooden boxes not in good condition ting temperature outdoors power to implement. Proofread documents before printing • Check that doors and windows are closed when using heaters • Recover all other waste • Recycle all paper/cardboard/wood waste by putting it into or air conditioning For more information: www.agsmovers.com/sustainable-development appropriate containers staff on these issues: These were shared with the branches that chose where to display them in For more information: www.agsmovers.com/sustainable-development For more information: www.agsmovers.com/sustainable-development tives the oﬃces to keep the messages alive. “ ion of the environment MOBILITAS cares for “ and protects the environment in our day to day work. AGS Four Winds Shanghai AGS London AGS Frasers Johannesburg Communication on Progress 2012 | 14 Executive sponsor: Sophie Lucas Vice President: Procedures and Methodology, Quality Process, Agent Relations for AGS Group Sophie Lucas has been engaged with the selection of the Bilan Carbone® method, assessment and now implementation of the AGS PARIS 796 Packing Material BILAN CARBON ASSESSMENT 200 carbon assessment at AGS Paris. In her role as executive sponsor she will drive the implementation of the assessment ﬁndings as Pap part of 2013 activities. er + Ca rto n 2 ASSETS s IN 300 Quote: PU 93 20 17 86 TS 35 89 “In conversations with our key customers, in discussion with industry aﬃliations and in my day to day implementation of robust business TRAVEL Pla s tic 8 9300 t CO2eq 89 process, environmental responsibility is part of the standard way we do business. Being involved in the Bilan Carbone® Assessment for 354 18 AGS PARIS EMITS NEARLY 3 9300T CO2EQ PER ANNUM AGS Paris activities has been an exciting opportunity to measure our impact, and I look forward to driving concrete improvements as well 1 490 18 as expanding the scope of this project in 2013.” 30 6 8 1 4 WASTE Me tal 2 40 701 84 Total CO2 per activity Action: Bilan Carbone® 8 kg CO2eq por t nsport POWER 0 ns Tra 57 W 6 448 ood Air Oce Tra REDUCE: an As part of the group’s deep commitment to sustainable business and RT Tertiary Services Actively promote use of NS PO 35 caring for the environment, the carbon assessment pilot was concluded in sea versus air transport TRA 93 67 AGS Paris in 2012. when suitable a A ss et he vy se Tracking and quantifying the emission of greenhouse gases is the ﬁrst 3 181 kg CO2eq 1 656 kg CO2eq 1 611 kg CO2eq rvi ce s 528 019 023 1 stage of developing and implementing innovative solutions that will ort 551 nsp 26 soften our environmental footprint, ﬁrst in AGS Paris and then globally. Tra A ss e tRoa por t nsp ort nsport d ns Tra Tra li g h ts e rv The ﬁndings from the carbon assessment have been ﬁnalized. REUSE: Air Tra Roa d Oce an ice s 3 Intra-European Fleet 91 Bilan Carbon Actions for 2013 coordination 18 S u p p li e s+ St The long term goal for AGS Paris is to decrease the carbon emission by atio n e ry 20% for 2020. As this will be the ﬁrst year to implement initiatives we have 1 523 5 089 78 933 967 + Cartons tonnes.km tonnes.km tonnes.km 945 not adopted ﬁrm measures but instead will work with the sales and er 786 356 Comp P ap ut er +O ff i c e operations teams to assess and share concrete numbers for the 2013 results. RECYCLE: Paper use in AGS Paris For 2013 we have chosen to focus on 3 priorities for AGS Paris to decrease the carbon footprint of our operations. Pap er + Ca rto n Communication on Progress 2012 | 15 s Anti-corruption Anti-corruption Executive sponsor: Christophe Mordelet General Secretary and HR Director for the MOBILITAS Group Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Christophe Mordelet has been involved with the implementation of anti-corruption measures for the MOBILITAS Group including the initial assessment and creation of the Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct. As executive sponsor, he will drive the actions for 2013 for the MOBILITAS Group. Quote: “Our commitment to the UN Global Compact Principles is enshrined in the Code of Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct for the MOBILITAS Group. We would like this commitment to be shared with our valued business partners for our global operations. We understand that achieving the values and standards will present challenges for operations in the diﬀerent parts of the world, but we intend to work together toward these standards.” MOBILITAS commitment: and return a copy. Rather than an exercise in compliance, this process for MOBILITAS operates in a multiple global locations which are subject to 2012 is part of the strategy to raise awareness around the issues of varying levels of governance and corruption. Our experience operating in corruption. these environments and in participating in business forums and industry AGS Code of Conduct Signed in 2012 100% aﬃliations is that absolute commitment to this principle needs to be supported by continued dialogue, feedback and support to the Action: Supplier Code of Conduct 80% operations managers. Building awareness and sound business practices Based on feedback and discussion with the branch managers and network around this complex issue is a process that we commit to both within the managers for the diﬀerent regions, we understand that it is diﬃcult for a 60% company and in our industry. company to change a corrupt environment by themselves and collective 95% 86% 96% 89% 100% % YES 40% action is an eﬀective strategy to increase fair and transparent business Action: Anti-corruption code of conduct practices. For this reason the executive sponsor, Gilles Taïeb, will be Using the MOBILITAS Ethics Charter as it base, we have rolled out the 20% engaged with the roll out of the Supplier Code of Conduct and positioning Anti-Corruption Code of Conduct for the AGS brand as reported in our MOBILITAS within the industry memberships and committees to “ previous COP as part of the assessment and deﬁnition stage of this collectively build integrity and reduce corruption. “ 0% Europe Asia France & French Africa Middle East initiative. Overseas The Supplier Code of Conduct will combine anticorruption principles along Terrirtories For 2012, the focus was on building internal engagement around this with the human rights principles. For 2013 the focus will be on the drafting policy through discussion and roll out to all the branch managers globally 100% compliance of the document for the diﬀerent brands and initial feedback from our most for the AGS brand. Each branch manager was asked to sign this charter targetted for 2013. important partners and suppliers. Communication on Progress 2012 | 16 In support of the United Nations Global Compact www.mobilitas.org
