4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report This document is an extract of the Sopra Groups' Registration Document 2012 You can download the Sopra Groups' Registration Document on the website: www.sopragroup.com Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer 56 1. Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen 57 2. Our responsibility to our employees 61 3. Our environmental responsibility commitments 69 4. Our responsibility to society 74 5. Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 81 Report of one of the Statutory Auditors expressing limited assurance on selected workforce-related, environmental and societal information published in the Group’s management report 85 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 55 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Message from the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Our vision of the world of information technology and related services is about empowering companies and organisations to achieve sustainable progress. We firmly believe that the technology innovations and organisational changes we all confront today represent significant opportunities. Beyond dominant trends and developments, our role is to guide our clients so that they can make the best and most informed choices possible and to assist them with their major transformation projects, at all times upholding the ethical principles and values embedded in our policies and practices. For nearly forty-five years, we have been building our Group’s reputation around solid and lasting fundamentals and a set of core values that we see as the Sopra Group DNA. These values are: ppclient-focused services; ppcommitment to quality and professional excellence; pprespect for others; pptaking positive and effective action at all times; ppGroup spirit. As an expression of these values, our Group is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, which serves as the founding framework for our approach to sustainable development. Through this commitment, Sopra Group promotes the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, protection of the environment and anti-corruption, which are fully in line with the fundamental precepts upon which our Group was founded. Sopra Group is committed to encouraging compliance with these principles within its sphere of influence, helping its clients and partners to adopt responsible business practices. Our commitment to the Global Compact and the publication of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report are part of our ongoing efforts to ensure transparency, fairness and loyalty in our dealings with all our stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, partners, suppliers and members of civil society. Since its founding, Sopra Group has been guided by a spirit of excellence, innovation and progress. It is in this same spirit that we have implemented our current Enterprise Project and that we will continue to build relationships with all of our stakeholders. Pierre Pasquier Pascal Leroy Chairman Chief Executive Officer 56 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen 4 1. Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen 1.1. Activities and operations Supported by the Group’s management and by all of the employees associated with it, Sopra Group’s approach to sustainable Sopra Group is a leading European provider of information development is a continuous improvement process communicated technology and business consulting services and is also one of each year to our stakeholders through the annual Corporate and Europe’s largest software companies. Sopra Group is a vital Social Responsibility Report (1) (CSR Report). This approach aims to business partner of large companies and organisations that seek reconcile economic efficiency, equal employment opportunities and the best uses of digital technologies in order to contribute to their respect for the environment. growth and competitiveness. This subject is discussed in Chapter 1, section 3 of the 2012 Registration Document. 1.3.1. Labour Sopra Group is a key employer based on the amount of recruiting carried out each year. The Company pays particular attention to the employability and development of our employees, as demonstrated 1.2. Governance by the number of training days offered and the percentage of total Under the impetus of Pierre Pasquier, Chairman of Sopra Group, and payroll allocated to employee development. Executive Management in order to firmly support the Group’s business strategy, the Board has the conviction that the Company’s men and women should of Directors’ tenures were renewed, and Sopra GMT (the founders’ be managed with a view to the long term and reaffirms that the holding company), Société Générale and the Group’s managers Human Resources dimension is one of the Group’s essential assets. entered into an addendum to the shareholders’ agreement. As a responsible employer, Sopra Group makes a priority of At the same time, in line with the Group’s independence project, recruiting young workers and giving them the opportunity for their the Company changed its corporate governance structure in first job and the possibility of developing their skills. For several 2012. As a result of this change, the roles of Chairman and Chief years, the Company has implemented a successful strategy of hiring Executive Officer are now separated. trainees and in 2013 seeks to create an even more aggressive policy with respect to offering work-training opportunities. This subject is discussed in Chapter 7, section 1 of the 2012 Registration Document. Sopra Group is committed with regard to all current employeerelated issues and has established a permanent structure to put into practice the signed agreements and action plans beyond the legal framework (seniors, gender equality, disabled workers, etc.). 1.3. Commitments Sopra Group also aims to be a major local player. The Group has been able to create ties with the main economic players of Our commitment to sustainability and our approach to corporate the labour pools where we operate and is committed on a daysocial responsibility constitute a natural extension of Sopra Group’s to-day basis in long-standing partnerships (schools, universities, values. The concern for rigorous management and respect for unemployment centres, etc.). these values guide the Group as we conduct our activities consistently with the three pillars of sustainable development: labour, environmental and societal concerns. 1.3.2. Environmental The key principles that guide Sopra Group’s action on a day-today basis are based on compliance with the laws and regulations The analysis of the environmental impacts of the Group’s activities in effect in the countries where the Group operates our activities has helped to define opportunities for progress in the areas most and adherence to our commitments to optimally operate our affected. Progress plans were therefore carried out in 2012 in businesses. order to limit the use of the most polluting forms of transportation for business travel, streamline information technology resources, Accordingly, Sopra Group’s commitments with regard to sustainable improve the energy efficiency of the premises Sopra Group development are based on principles that contribute to the Group’s manages, implement paperless processes, and develop selective economic development by being: sorting of waste. These plans will be continued in 2013. pptransparent and fair with our clients, partners and suppliers in Sopra Group is committed to a progress plan that involves the our relationships and operating methods; Group’s divisions and all of the employees who take part in this pprespectful of the people that we employ through dignified, noninitiative in their day-to-day operations. discriminatory working conditions that provide opportunities for An organisation is in place in France to boost the Group’s progress progress for everyone; in the environmental area. It is based on a network of participants ppmindful of respect for the environment, in compliance with the who are responsible for implementing the progress plans. national and international standards in effect. (1) For the sake of simplicity, the term “CSR Report” is used regularly in this Registration Document. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 57 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen Starting in 2013, the entities outside of France will gradually be ppApril 2012: Callataÿ & Wouters (Belgian company): banking integrated into the progress plans by taking into account the software; actions and plans already initiated in the companies concerned and ppJune 2012: Adeuza (French company): consulting and publishing by focusing on the regulations in effect in each country. for the mobility market. The Group also successfully created Sopra Banking Software in mid-2012, a Group subsidiary specialising in software publishing 1.3.3. Societal dedicated to the financial market and grouping together: Our other commitments with respect to society are mainly focused ppEvolan, Sopra Group’s traditional banking solutions; around the following areas: fairness and transparency with regard ppDelta-Bank and Thaler, the solutions from Delta Informatique and to our stakeholders, meeting our clients’ expectations, our action from Callataÿ & Wouters, companies acquired by Sopra Group in in favour of regional development through a sustained recruitment 2011 and 2012, respectively. policy, relationships based on proximity with local universities, engineering schools and business schools, high expectations with These solutions were combined within the range of Sopra Banking respect to business ethics, a responsible purchasing programme, Suite solutions and were essentially deployed in 2012 in France, and a corporate patronage policy focusing on solidarity, education the United Kingdom and Belgium. The Group’s ambition for this and the environment. business is to make it a European leader. 1.4.3. Sustainable development and CSR 1.4. Key events highlights (1) ppFebruary 2012: renewal of Sopra Group’s commitment with respect to the United Nations Global Compact. 1.4.1. 2012, a year of transition in continuity ppApril 2012: publication of Sopra Group’s Corporate and A new Enterprise Project was created in 2012, called “Sopra 2015,” Social Responsibility Report. built on the Group’s industrial fundamentals and on our values This is the first report based on the themes from Article 225 of in order to respond to developments in the market. This project the Grenelle Environment 2 Act. is consistent with the Group’s resolve to maintain strong and ppJune 2012: launch of the partnership with Green Cross sustainable independence. France & Territoires (GCFT). Based on our three main business lines – consulting, technology Sopra Group is committed to protecting the environment by services and software publishing – the “Sopra 2015” project providing financial support and expertise to GCFT, the French comprises four major dimensions: association of Green Cross International, an NGO created by ppexpanding the Group’s presence in Europe in a consistent Mikhail Gorbachev in 1993. Green Cross International’s objective manner around a strong Sopra Group culture; is to support programmes associated with protecting the environment. ppconsolidating the positioning of the software publishing business and, in particular, making Sopra Banking Software a European ppSeptember 2012: creation of a Social Responsibility unit leader in software publishing for the banking industry; in the Human Resources department. ppdeveloping leadership and added value in the management and This unit, which works in close collaboration with the Group’s transformation of the Information Systems areas; Sustainable Development department was created to strengthen the labour component of Sopra Group’s approach to sustainable ppaddressing the growth and competitiveness challenges of the Group’s clients. development. ppOctober 2012: Sopra Group ranked 3rd in the GAIA Index for CSR (2). 1.4.2. Current developments in 2012 with potential for the Group’s growth Sopra Group quickly deployed our strategy, completing a number of acquisitions that strengthened our positioning in Europe and in software publishing: ppMarch 2012: Business & Decision (UK subsidiary): consulting and integration; For the fourth consecutive year, Sopra Group was listed in the Gaïa ppMarch 2012: Tieto UK (UK subsidiary): banking software; Index in 2012. Out of a total of 230 participating companies, the Group ranked third, a substantial jump compared to 2011. Sopra Group achieved third place out of the 70 companies listed in the Index, all sectors combined. (1) CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility, including 3 components: Labour, Environmental and Societal. CSR is the Company’s contribution to the challenges of sustainable development. (2) With regard to the Gaia Index: launched in October 2009 by EthiFinance with the support of MiddleNext and the SFAF, the French association of financial analysts, the Gaia Index measures the commitment of French mid-cap companies to environmental, social and governance (ESG) criteria. 58 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen 4 The 2012 Gaïa Index panel is made up of 230 listed companies etc.) to work in full coordination to implement their respective operating in three representative sectors of the French economy: programmes. The Committee meets at least every two months and manufacturing, services and distribution. This panel of 230 interim meetings are scheduled depending on the requirements of companies represents €141 billion in revenue and close to one the action programmes. million employees. The questionnaire and rating system are headed up by an independent committee comprised of investors, listed Social Responsibility unit, Human Resources department companies and analysts. The rating methodology of the Gaïa The labour component of Sustainable Development is a major Index ranks these 230 companies and creates an additional index subject in the consulting and information technology services comprised of the 70 companies that score the highest. businesses. As such, in order to deal with the key issues of the labour component, a manager from the Group Human Resources Organisation of Sustainable Development department was appointed in 2012 to head up and coordinate Sopra Group’s Sustainable Development programme and initiatives the following issues: disabled workers, gender equality, seniors, are spearheaded at the highest level of the Company. They are diversity, work-training opportunities, etc. under the responsibility of a member of Executive Management, who oversees the Group’s strategy in this area. Environment unit Oversight of environmental issues is shared among the Purchasing Group Sustainable Development department department (responsible purchasing), the Logistics department A dedicated department, the Sustainable Development department, (management of business premises), the IT Resources and Security was created at the end of 2010 to roll out the Sopra Group department (management of IT purchases and energy efficiency of sustainable development policy and to coordinate the progress IT equipment) and the Human Resources department (in particular, plan with the departments concerned. carpooling). The role of Sopra Group’s Sustainable Development department is to lead and coordinate all of the Group’s actions in the three areas concerned: labour, environmental and societal. 1.5. CSR Reporting The Sustainable Development department spearheads matters across all areas of the Company, and in particular regulatory reporting, including the annual Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the assessment of greenhouse gas emissions completed 1.5.1. Sopra Group’s organisation every three years, corporate patronage and solidarity partnerships, (organisational chart of the Group’s the Corporate Social Responsibility assessment of suppliers and companies) service providers, and actions to raise employee awareness about This subject is discussed in Chapter 6, section 1 of the Registration sustainable development. Document. Until 2012, its role and its activities were focused in France in order to firmly structure and anchor Sopra Group in its approach to sustainable development over the long term. This approach will 1.5.2. The approach be rolled out gradually to all of the international entities starting in 2013. The Group’s approach will have to integrate the actions In 2011, Sopra Group initiated the preparation of its first CSR and programmes already launched by the international subsidiaries reporting protocol for the collection of the required information, and take into account the specific aspects associated with the in order to begin to integrate the regulations with respect to CSR regulations in the countries concerned and with the operating reporting. This protocol was deployed in France and helped to methods and management requirements of the international produce the 2011 CSR Report. entities. In the second half of 2012, this protocol was revised as a result of a preliminary verification of the CSR reporting by the firm Mazars, Sustainable Development Committee one of the Group’s Statutory Auditors. The preparation of the 2012 In early 2011, a specific body, the Sustainable Development report is based on Sopra Group’s CSR reporting protocol. Committee, was created in France to define areas for improvement This CSR report includes a significant amount of information with the managers concerned and to track the development of pertaining to Article 225 of the Grenelle Environment 2 Act, in the action plans associated with these areas. This Committee keeping with the general principles of the guidelines of the GRI brings together the managers of the key departments involved (Global Reporting Initiative) and complying as closely as possible in the Group’s approach (Sustainable Development, Human with the components of ISO 26000. In this regard, a crossResources, Purchasing, Logistics, IT Resources and Security, Legal, referencing table is provided as an appendix to the report. Quality, Corporate Communications, Financial Communications, Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 59 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sopra Group, a model corporate citizen Furthermore, in anticipation of the regulations, this year Sopra Group had a selection of the information communicated in its 2012 CSR Report audited by the accounting firm Mazars. The audited indicators, identified by the sign √ (1) in the remainder of this report, are listed below (underlined and in red): 1.5.3. List of audited indicators Labour-related Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Employment Total workforce and distribution of employees by gender, ppAverage age of employees on permanent contracts age and geographic area ppAverage length of service of employees on permanent contracts ppAverage workforce (FTE) ppTotal workforce ppTotal workforce by type of contract ppProportion of management-level employees in total workforce Hires and dismissals ppHires ppStaff turnover rate for permanent contracts Work organisation Absenteeism ppNumber of lost work days Health and safety Workplace accidents, in particular their frequency ppFrequency rate and severity as well as occupational illnesses ppSeverity rate Training Total number of training hours ppNumber of training days ppNumber of training hours ppAverage number of days of training per employee Equal opportunities Measures taken in support of the employment ppPercentage of disabled employees and professional integration of the disabled Environmental Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Pollution and waste Measures to prevent, recycle and eliminate wastes ppQuantities of WEEE management Sustainable use of Energy consumption and measures taken to improve ppNumber of physical and virtual machines installed resources energy efficiency and renewable energy use pp“Green” paper purchases Climate change Adaptation to the consequences of climate change ppNumber of videoconferencing systems in use Greenhouse gas emissions ppCO2 emissions from work-related travel Societal Grenelle 2 theme Grenelle 2 sub-theme Indicator Impact of the Group’s In terms of employment and regional development ppNumber of work-study contracts per region business activities on ppRegional distribution of recruitments economic, social and territorial disparities Stakeholder relations Partnership or sponsorship actions ppPartnership or sponsorship actions Subcontractors and Extent of subcontracting and communication of social ppSupplier assessment system suppliers and environmental responsibility commitments in the ppProportion of suppliers having completed CSR context of relations with suppliers and subcontractors assessment (1) √: information verified by an independent third party. 60 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees 4 1.5.4. Scope of reporting These sheets are also presented as an appendix to the reporting protocol; For the 2012 reporting, Sopra Group covered the companies in France, excluding the new acquisitions in 2012 (Adeuza, Callataÿ ppcollection sheets, which are provided for the contributors to & Wouters France) for certain indicators. Our exclusion of these supply the qualitative information and quantitative data; companies is specified for each item of quantitative data. ppthe CSR database, which is consolidated by the Sustainable Our reporting is partial for the companies located outside of Development department from the collection sheets provided by France. This is due to the need to stabilise the Sustainable the various contributors. Development-Corporate Social Responsibility approach for the The combination of the reporting protocol, Indicator sheets, and companies in France (which represent two-thirds of the businesses) the quantitative and qualitative data collection sheets provides the and our gradual implementation of the CSR regulatory reporting information necessary to give a clear understanding of the tasks reference framework. Furthermore, several companies (Tieto UK, and constitutes the guide for the contributor. Callataÿ & Wouters, Business & Decision UK) were acquired during Other information on the reporting protocol is available on request 2012 and had an impact on the organisation of a portion of the from the Sopra Group Sustainable Development department. Group’s companies abroad. Each year in early December, the Sustainable Development For the Societal component, the reporting covered the companies department schedules a meeting to prepare the plan for the CSR in France, except for the solidarity actions of the Group’s subsidiary Report with the managers of the various functions concerned and in India. This subsidiary’s solidarity actions have already been very the contributors. This meeting takes place during a Sustainable structured for the last two years and were covered in the 2011 Development Committee meeting. report. When data relate to the international companies, the information Specific calculations for certain indicators is mentioned in the report. In order to provide a clear understanding of the information The consolidated CSR reporting for the Group as a whole will communicated, the Sopra Group Sustainable Development gradually be more extensive starting in 2013. department endeavoured to specify, whenever necessary, the definitions or calculation methods for certain reported indicators. Furthermore, certain prior data have been adjusted. This relates to 1.5.5. Reporting data for which errors have been detected after the fact, or data that no longer relate to the scope or to the definition initially The three successive stages in the reporting process are as follows: established. We have identified these adjustments for the reader. ppidentifying the data and preparing to collect them; Exclusions ppcollecting and consolidating the data, controlling for consistency in order to produce the indicators; Sopra Group publishes qualitative and quantitative data in its report on all of the labour-related, environmental and societal ppusing the indicators for publication in Sopra Group’s CSR Report. subjects required by the governmental decree implementing The CSR reporting tools include the following: Article 225 of the Grenelle Environment 2 Act. However, a few ppthe reporting protocol, which contains all of the information indicators are not addressed in this report when they are deemed for collecting the indicators by all of the people contributing to not relevant to Sopra Group’s business. This information that is the reporting. It is primarily intended for internal communication not addressed relates in particular to subjects relating to consumer within Sopra Group, in particular to prepare the annual reporting; safety and those related to land use. These exclusions are specified ppindicator sheets, which specifically describe the characteristics in the cross-referencing table appended to the report. of the indicators communicated as part of the CSR report. 2. Our responsibility to our employees Sopra Group is a company that offers over 14,000 employees a the Company was created Sopra Group has always put an emphasis dynamic work environment and stimulating career prospects. We on retaining our employees, even during periods of profound are able to provide this vibrant work environment because the economic crises. Group’s activities are based on a broad diversity of professions, To support our development over the long term, Sopra Group’s regional and international locations and a strong corporate culture. strategic orientations are examined and refined in the context of In addition to our major actions with respect to recruitment, since an Enterprise Project. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 61 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees This Enterprise Project, updated every five years, provides the ❙❙ Sopra Group workforce and proportion Group’s strategic vision and is based on a system of shared values. of management-level employees These values are communicated on a day-to-day basis across all levels of Sopra Group’s organisation, guiding the Group’s 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 managers and contributing to our operational performance. France 9,386 8,920 8,223 7,742 7,612 International 4,917 3,690 3,426 3,094 3,186 2.1. Sopra Group’s Corporate Total 14,303 √ 12,610 11,649 10,836 10,798 Culture o/w Managementlevel* 13,572 √ 12,106 11,171 10,348 10,247 * The notion of management-level staff (cadres) is specific to France. The number 2.1.1. Sharing of fundamental precepts of management-level employees of the Group’s international operations is extrapolated on the basis of the figures for France. The Group’s system of values and fundamental precepts are shared by our entire workforce. A comprehensive training programme organised by Sopra Academy, the Group’s internal training ❙❙ Distribution of the workforce by type structure, and day-to-day support to the Company’s managers help of contract in France the Group’s employees grasp and adopt the Sopra Group culture and fundamental precepts. This knowledge is shared in particular during Integration, Management, Sales, Methods and Behaviour 2012 seminars. Number of fixed-term contracts in France 118 √ Number of permanent contracts in France 9,252 √ 2.1.2. Integration of new employees Number of internship contracts in France 16 √ The successful integration of new employees is essential to a Group Total 9,386 √ in which the workforce is constantly growing. Training programmes, comprised of training milestones, conversations with management, and discussions among peers, ❙❙ FTE workforce in France help to integrate each new employee into the Group. A three-day training and integration seminar is held for all new employees. The purpose of the seminar is to share the history, 2012* 2011 plans, values and offerings of the Group as well as our fundamental Average FTE France 8,932 √ 8,257 precepts with regard to Sopra Group’s focus on service and quality. * Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. Sopra Group is mindful of integrating our new employees and Calculation method: total FTE workforce at each month-end of the year divided by does so by bringing them together in special sessions after they 12 months. The number of full-time equivalent employees is calculated on the basis have worked for the Company for eighteen to twenty-four months. of their participation rate. For companies that are acquired, a dedicated integration plan supplements the training programme. Length of service, age and gender At 31 December 2012, the average length of service of all Sopra Group employees in France was 7.3 years √ and their average 2.2. Employment policy age was 35.4 years √. The average age for newly recruited staff is 27.1 years. Sopra Group’s growth is based on a policy of proactive talent At 31 December 2012, the average length of service in France for recruitment and skills development for our employees. Sopra Group’s productive employees was 6.9 years, thus increasing slightly compared to 2011. The average age of productive employees was 34.8 years at 31 December 2012, thus rising 2.2.1. Workforce and trends marginally compared to 2011. This increase is the result of a lower In 2012, 2,617 new employees √ joined the Group’s workforce, staff turnover rate and the acquisitions completed during the year. including 941 new employees outside of France. At the same In terms of the gender breakdown of employees, men represented time, transactions to expand the Group’s growth from outside 74% of the total workforce and women accounted for 26% at the company integrated over 1,000 new employees in France and 31 December 2012. abroad. At 31 December 2012, the Group had 14,303 employees, 4,917 of whom were outside France, i.e. 32% more than in 2008 (+23% in France). 2.2.2. Joiners and leavers The Group’s recruitment policy places a priority, in a deliberate manner, on the hiring of young people having completed at 62 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees 4 least five years of higher education, whether they are graduates ❙❙ Leavers of engineering schools, business schools or universities. The vast majority of newly recruited staff are offered permanent employment 2012 2011* contracts. The recruitment of experienced professionals is subject to prior analysis to ensure that the requirements in question may not No. of leavers in France 1,236 1,371 be covered using internal human resources, with skills and expertise * Excluding Delta Informatique. developed through practical workshops and training courses. To implement the recruitment policy defined by Executive Dismissals represent less than 5% of separations. Management, the following annual plans are established: Employee turnover trends ppthe recruitment plan defines staffing requirements by In France, employee turnover totalled 9.2% √ of headcount for all subsidiary, by level of experience and by operating entity. As employees under permanent employment contracts compared with part of the annual budget process, each entity evaluates its 12% in 2011. recruitment needs, in accordance with its objectives as assigned by the Group. In preparing the year’s recruitment plan, mediumFor the Group as a whole, France and International, this turnover term staffing requirements are categorised by business line. rate declined for productive employees from 12.5% in 2011 to Each entity’s recruitment plan is coordinated with its training 9.7% in 2012. programme and its planned practical workshops; ppthe communications plan includes all actions carried out to ensure CV sourcing capacities. This plan enables the selection of 2.2.3. Training policy the best applicants, proposing targeted applications to entities Sopra Academy, Sopra Group’s internal training corresponding to their needs. It also seeks to raise the profile organisation and increase the attractiveness of Sopra Group’s employer brand; One of Sopra Group’s major objectives in the area of human ppthe educational partnership plan, intended to promote the resources management is to continually enhance the expertise of its recruitment of graduates from preferred institutions and the employees and anticipate their professional development. selection of promising interns (mostly those able to pre-qualified for permanent positions with the Group) as well as work-study All Sopra employees must share and know the Group’s value personnel. For many years, Sopra Group has been nurturing system and fundamentals in order to promote a common culture partnerships with engineering schools, business schools and and Group cohesion. universities whose degree programmes correspond to the To meet its major challenges, the Group relies on its internal requirements of its business lines. This plan serves as a guide for training organisation, Sopra Academy, and on its Knowledge all operational units to mobilise local operational staff; Management system. ppthe internship and work-study plan, which sets quotas These mechanisms support Sopra Group’s advancement through for the number of interns and work-study personnel to be skills development and knowledge-sharing plans. The objectives of recruited, organises the listing of offers and their dissemination this approach are to: to educational institutions. This plan is directly tied to each ppserve the strategic vision for the development of the Group’s operating entity’s budget preparation process. It targets those business segments outlined in the Enterprise Project; schools, universities and training programmes where Sopra Group ppdisseminate fundamentals and encourage employees to capitalise is interested in recruiting interns and work-study personnel. on best practices through the Knowledge Management system; In order to serve the ambitions of growing and upscaling our ppfacilitate the integration of new hires and acquired companies; businesses, in 2013 Sopra Group will develop our name recognition initiatives and increase our attractiveness with respect to employer ppfoster the Group’s internationalisation; branding as well as our presence in professional social networks. ppmeet employee expectations in terms of personal development; In addition, through our recruitment policy, Sopra Group contributes ppenhance the talents of Sopra’s employees; to regional development with one-third of employees recruited for ppimplement regulatory provisions for professional training. our locations in the French provinces. This subject is discussed in Through its training programmes and knowledge sharing system, the social component of this report. Sopra Academy contributes to guaranteeing the level of excellence and adaptability of the Group’s employees. ❙❙ New hires Training offerings and Knowledge Management 2012* 2011** Through a broad network of over 460 trainers and speakers, Sopra Academy disseminates a comprehensive offering of No. of new hires in France 1,676 √ 1,814 training sessions: orientation and integration seminars, training in No. of new hires internationally management, the Group’s business areas and offerings, personal (outside of France) 941 √ development, training in methods and tools, technologies and * Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. solutions, among others. ** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 63 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees In addition, Knowledge Management supports and supplements Sopra Group’s dynamic Enterprise Project and the diversity of these training programmes. It covers the areas of the training plan, its business segments provides a motivating work environment facilitates sharing of the Group’s fundamentals and capitalising on conducive to the development of a variety of professional careers. best practices through its communities organised by business lines, All new staff members joining the Group do so with the intention offerings and expertise. With all of the divisions and Community of developing their skills and advancing in their chosen career. Managers, Sopra Academy coordinates the Group Knowledge Portal, a platform for knowledge sharing, available to all Group Core Competency Reference Guide employees. The Core Competency Reference Guide describes all of the Group’s business lines (Consulting, Technology Services, Software Publishing, Training programme and talent development Application Outsourcing, Management, Project Management, In an effort to support the development of employee talent, Sales, support functions). The Guide helps employees grasp the Sopra Academy offers training programmes by business line. In demands of their positions as well as the possible career paths 2012, Sopra Academy consequently offered new programmes to within the different business areas. managers and salespeople to help them acquire critical knowledge The Core Competency Reference Guide is an essential tool that when they take on their duties. In addition, programmes are helps managers guide the professional development of their offered to consultants to help them grasp and adopt the Group’s employees based on their aptitudes, their motivations and the internal methods and tools. Group’s priorities. It also provides necessary material to attract new New training modules have been created to meet the challenges talent in line with Sopra Group’s business strategy and to make it of upscaling with respect to technological innovation and new easier to integrate employees from acquired companies. practices. The Core Competency Reference Guide is a major tool used for Development of managerial skills employee skills assessment and development. The ability of Sopra’s managers to globally manage the business, In order to consistently add value in support of the development motivate and develop their teams and promote a strong of the Group’s services, the Core Competency Reference Guide is entrepreneurial spirit at every level is critical to Sopra Group’s updated on a regular basis to take into account changes in areas success. regardless of the business line. Regardless of their business area, manager training aims to develop A system of continuous assessment to support employee all of the necessary managerial skills (sales, production, human development resources management and finance). Employee assessment is the keystone of the human resources Within its programmes, in 2012 Sopra Academy conducted a development programme. residential seminar for all of the Group’s managers covering the Sopra Group uses an assessment and career tracking system that cultural fundamentals of Sopra Group with respect to management. enables the Group to know its staff and regularly monitor their development. This system is based on assignment reviews and ❙❙ Number of training hours and days in France annual appraisals. Employees actively participate in these assessments, which are 2012* 2011** shared in the Human Resources committee meetings led jointly by management and the Human Resources division and the Number of training hours Transformation and Performance division. provided during the financial year 231,784 √ 225,400 In response to the Group’s growth and internationalisation, the Number of training days (1) role of local managers is essential for monitoring the careers of provided during the financial year 33,112 √ 32,200 employees and reinforcing the advancement of their skills. For Average number of training days 2013, Sopra Group will maintain the training effort and active per person 3.8 √ 3.9 leadership of local managers. * Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. ** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. (1) One day of training = 7 hours. 2.2.5. Remuneration and trends In order to support the Group’s growth, Sopra seeks to attract, motivate and retain its employees by providing them with consistent 2.2.4. Talent development remuneration and equal treatment. Anticipating Group needs and adapting human resources are critical to the success of the Sopra Group Enterprise Project while maintaining employee motivation at a high level. 64 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees 4 Backed by the employee assessment system, the remuneration ❙❙ Absenteeism rate in France policy is individualised and is based on objective criteria. The process for adjusting remuneration is based on the one hand 2012 2011* on the assessment system described above and on the other hand on the HR cycles that are organised each year. % absenteeism 2.14% √ 2.08% Calculation method: ratio between the number of actual days of absence/number of ❙❙ Relationship between the lowest theoretical workdays required. This ratio was calculated on the basis of an average full-time salary and the highest salary in France equivalent, taking into account absences for illness, work accidents and travel accidents. (open‑ended employment contracts) * For 2011, the indicator was recalculated following the calculation rule applied in 2012. The absenteeism rate at Sopra Group increased slightly in 2012 2012 (2.14%) relative to 2011 (2.08%). This rate is nevertheless lower than the average for the sector. Ratio of highest to lowest gross annual base salaries 18.2 Ratio of highest to lowest annual base salaries plus variable compensation 28.2 Number of employees whose gross annual salary 2.4. Employee relations is less than or equal to €20,000* 5 Number of employees whose gross annual salary In France, the organisation of Sopra Group’s employee representative is less than or equal to €26,000, bodies is structured around a central works council in the context i.e. €2,000 x 13 months 88 of the existing employee representative body (1) with its former Average gross annual base salary in € 42,707** subsidiary Axway Software (in which Sopra Group has a 26.02% equity interest), a local works council, employee representatives at * The lowest gross annual salary amounted to €19,266 and concerned one person. ** Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. some twenty sites and eleven health, safety and working conditions committees. In 2012, the central works council met five times, the Sopra Group works council was convened for twelve ordinary meetings and eight 2.3. Work organisation extraordinary meetings. The health, safety and working conditions committees met four times in the year to discuss ordinary business All Sopra Group entities comply with applicable local laws as well as and occasionally for extraordinary discussions relating in particular business sector practices in the countries in question. to the layout of the work areas and questionnaires/surveys with regard to draft agreements on stress at work. In France, when permitted by the services or project concerned, Sopra Group approves employee requests for part-time work. Such Mandatory annual negotiations were held with the employee requests are generally authorised for renewable terms of between representative bodies. In this regard, agreements on profit sharing six and twelve months. Part-time employees accounted for 6% of and on the employee savings and incentive plan were renewed in Sopra’s workforce at 31 December 2012. 2012. Negotiations also led to an agreement in favour of hiring the disabled, an agreement on the allotment of shares in connection Specific work organisation mechanisms are put in place for with the award of bonus shares to all Group employees and a employees under contractual commitments entered into with number of agreements on employee representation in anticipation clients. These mechanisms relate to on-call duties and the 24-hour of the professional elections planned in March and April 2013. hotline. As part of a group-wide agreement, the trade unions have the option to send monthly and quarterly notices to all staff via the ❙❙ Percentage of Sopra’s staff working part-time Sopra Group intranet. Similarly, under a provision of the internal in France rules of the Sopra Group works council, the elected members of this committee may issue monthly information. 2012 2011 In 2013, Sopra Group will hold its professional elections in March and April. At the outcome of these elections, the Sopra Banking % part-time (open-ended Software subsidiary will have its own works council and employee employment contracts) 6% 6% representatives. Sopra Group will retain one works council and several employee representatives. (1) UES or Unité économique et sociale (economic and social unit). Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 65 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees ❙❙ Overview of collective bargaining agreements ppsupport to technical development: The Group continued its in France operational and financial support to the Tadeo (1) project and identified other projects for 2013 such as Aurevi. 2012 2011 Sopra’s employment rate of disabled people was 0.87% in France at 31 December 2012. The slight decline in this rate was attributable Number of agreements signed during to the growth in the Group’s workforce and acquisitions completed the year with union organisations during the year. Mission Handicap and its action programme and/or the works council 16 4 will help Sopra Group increase the employment rate of disabled Number of active major agreements 20 13 workers in 2013. ❙❙ Employment rate of disabled workers in France 2.5. Non-discrimination principles 2012* 2011** Sopra Group’s policy with regard to fighting discrimination is Percentage of disabled workers consistent with its proactive approach to promoting diversity. in the Company’s workforce 0.87% √ 0.94% To support these commitments, in September 2012 Sopra Group * Excluding Adeuza and Callataÿ & Wouters France. created a dedicated structure aimed at spearheading and guiding ** Excluding Delta Informatique, acquired in 2011. the agreements and action plans relating to corporate social The workforce numbers used are calculated according to the rules defined by AGEFIPH, responsibility. These initiatives include in particular the hiring of an organisation that promotes professional integration of the disabled. Not all people benefiting from the employment obligation are accounted for in this calculation. disabled employees, professional equality between women and men, the integration of young workers, and support to senior In 2013 Sopra Group will continue its policy of promoting the employees. Various guidelines, objectives and policies have been hiring of disabled people. Raising employee awareness of this issue defined for these areas and are specified in agreements or action is at the heart of its approach. Special training sessions will be plans. available to managers and HR officers and an e-learning module will be deployed. The progress objectives for 2013 are: Disabled employees ppaction on hiring: to reach 65% of the 2012-2014 plan objective; In 2012, Sopra Group signed an agreement to promote the employment of people with disabilities and created Mission ppjob retention: to double the number of recognitions; Handicap. In accordance with this agreement, Sopra Group pptraining: to train 100% of HR officers; structured its actions around five areas of priority: ppraising awareness: to cover 25% of management; pprecruitment: Sopra established an organisation to search for ppprotected workers sector: to double revenue; and track candidates and management tools for job applicants ppsupport to technical development: to develop a new partnership (CV libraries, multiposting, etc.). The Group signed essential in this area. partnership agreements (Adapt, Tremplin). In 2012, Sopra Group participated in 14 external events (exhibitions, forums, weekIn order to attain these progress objectives, several significant action long events dedicated to hiring the disabled); plans will be implemented, particularly through awareness-raising campaigns among students (operation “TousHanScène” organised ppemployment retention: Sopra implemented an intranet to by Tremplin), internal awareness initiatives and support to RQTH, promote the request process for RQTH, a system that recognises and the deployment of e-learning modules, among others. quality concerns for disabled workers, with the use of an anonymous information systems tool; pptraining and raising awareness: The Group implemented a Gender equality dedicated intranet site for employees to be used to communicate the actions of Mission Handicap. In addition, the first training With regard to professional equality between women and men, sessions were launched for HR officers in the last quarter of the Group seeks to reinforce two priority areas: attracting more 2012; female employees from engineering schools and being mindful of non-discrimination in women’s career paths. ppprotected workers sector: Sopra continued its development of recourse to the protected workers sector and its partnership with In 2012, Sopra Group continued its involvement in initiatives to UNEA, the national union for employers adapted to working raise awareness, such as sponsorship of the EDHEC business school with the disabled. In 2013, the Group will deploy a procurement all-female team sailing team competing in the Course Croisière process to make it easier to search for, identify and integrate EDHEC. adapted enterprises in requests for proposals from suppliers; In terms of training and career management, the proportion of women and men trained is consistent with the gender breakdown of the workforce. The same is true for promotions. (1) Tadeo is a remote, real-time instantaneous speech transcription and sign language video interpretation service. 66 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees 4 Sopra Group offers identical starting salaries to both male and ENSAM engineering school’s EcoSail association. This association female applicants with identical qualifications, degrees, skills and aims to introduce the engineering profession to young people from experience. In 2012, the differences in remuneration reported by disadvantaged neighbourhoods in the city of Lille. As a general rule, employee category between women and men remained within a Sopra Group also participates in various forums promoting diversity 3% range. and equal opportunity for access to employment, such as Paris These differences are analysed during salary assessment and job Emploi, JobinLive, Handi2day and others. review cycles. Furthermore, in accordance with the agreement in effect, Sopra Group ensures that people who have taken maternity or adoption 2.6. Promoting and complying with leave benefit from the same conditions for salary increases as all company employees. A parenting guide was distributed via the the fundamental conventions employee intranet to all staff members. of the International Labour In 2013, Sopra Group will continue to improve the systems in place Organisation (ILO) to monitor equal treatment between women and men during salary assessment cycles. For example, the kit sent to management Sopra Group adheres to the principles and fundamental rights of for salary reviews will be enhanced with comparative information. the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Group is committed to: Seniors ppcomplying with European Community and national labour laws The transfer of knowledge and skills is a major component and the collective bargaining agreements of each country where of our policy in favour of older employees for the success of Sopra Group operates; intergenerational management at Sopra Group. pprespecting the exercise of trade union rights in each of the At 31 December 2012, as part of the Senior France plan, over 360 countries in question. employees had benefited from an interview for the second half of Sopra Group applies a social policy with the aim of safeguarding their careers. the health and safety of each of its employees and treating In 2013, Sopra Group will be committed to rolling out the everyone in the workplace with dignity and respect. Generation Contract, which is aimed at promoting the hiring of The Group remains particularly attentive at all times to ensure young workers while retaining working seniors in jobs. compliance with principles of equality, diversity and nondiscrimination, as much in relation to its recruitment practices as in the development of its employees’ careers. ❙❙ Employment rate of seniors in France 2012 2011 2.6.1. Upholding the freedom of association As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact, Sopra Number of seniors (45 years and older) 1,590 1,445 Group is committed to upholding the freedom of association and Percentage of employed seniors recognising the right to collective bargaining. The Group reaffirmed (45 years and older) in relation to the workforce at 31 December 16.9% 16.6% this commitment in its Ethics Charter published in 2012. Number of seniors (55 years and older) 386 326 Sopra Group implements non-discrimination policies and Percentage of employed seniors procedures with regard to employee representatives. (55 years and older) in relation In countries that do not have an institutional framework governing to the workforce at 31 December 4.1% 3.8% the recognition of employee representatives, Sopra Group makes an effort to implement measures intended to improve professional relations between the company and our employees. Youth diversity and assisting young workers seeking employment 2.6.2. Repudiation of forced child labour Sopra Group pursued various initiatives in 2012, particularly through Sopra Group has formally committed to fight against child labour a variety of partnerships with associations. The Group collaborates and the exploitation of children, forced labour and all other forms with “Nos quartiers ont des talents” (“Our neighbourhoods of compulsory labour, particularly through its participation in the have talent”, an initiative for recruiting young workers from United Nations Global Compact. disadvantaged neighbourhoods) and financially supports the This commitment is reiterated in the Sopra Group Ethics Charter. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 67 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to our employees 2.7. Health and safety At the annual launch meeting, the year’s operational priorities and the Group’s medium-term strategy are communicated to managers. The information presented in this section relates to Sopra Group’s These aspects are then revisited during monthly meetings. In operations in France. addition, each entity holds two or three meetings a year bringing together all staff. Lastly, each team holds weekly meetings. In 2012, Sopra Group continued its rescue and first-aid training programme for all of its operating sites. Along the lines of this training programme, the Group has installed a number of defibrillators and organised training sessions on how 2.8.2. Dissemination of information to use them. Staff members access Group information through the use of In addition, the Group spearheaded an initiative to raise employee various tools: the Group portal, which disseminates Sopra awareness about preventing road accidents and rolled out a Group’s latest news and refers readers to the different existing platform for carpooling. intranets (Human Resources, Knowledge, Quality System, etc.); the bimonthly electronic newsletter e-mailed directly to staff; the Sopra Group pursued its policy with regard to providing quality Group’s knowledge base and forum (with communities managed layout of its work areas. directly by staff members). In collaboration with the health, safety and working conditions Locally pertinent information is also disseminated by entity committees, the Group disseminated questionnaires on workplace managers through newsletters. wellbeing at some of its operating sites in order to identify psychosocial risk factors and to initiate corrective actions. Furthermore, certain targeted populations (managers, assistants) receive specific information via a monthly newsletter to review business processes and reinforce best practices. ❙❙ Rates of frequency and severity of workplace accidents in France 2.8.3. Employee perception survey 2012 2011 In 2012, Sopra Group surveyed all of the Group’s employees in France and abroad to gain insight into their perceptions of the Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.64 √ 0.59 company. In total, 77% of the Group’s employees responded to this Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.007 √ 0.055 survey. This extremely high response rate demonstrates the strong level of engagement of Sopra employees and their commitment to the Group. The results indicated that a large portion of the employees Occupational illnesses in France highlighted the Group’s values, and in particular, team spirit, as an No occupational illnesses were reported in 2011 and 2012. asset that sets Sopra Group apart from the competition. The employees identified areas of progress particularly relating to knowledge sharing through the Enterprise Project and the adaptation of tools and resources for the Group’s strong 2.8. Internal communications development. Sopra Group has put in place a strong internal communications Executive Management has committed to communicating the plan to keep employees informed, keep them engaged and results in the first half of 2013 and will rely on the data from this promote exchanges within the Group. Actions are pursued at the survey to support its development strategy. entity or Group level, or targeted to specific employee positions. Sopra Group’s ambition is to use this survey as a regular focus of discussion to continue to achieve progress over the long term. 2.8.1. System of exchanges between staff members Sopra Group’s monitoring system provides for a series of meetings at the Group and entity levels on a yearly, monthly and weekly basis. 68 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 3. Our environmental responsibility commitments Sopra Group’s businesses involve travel to a considerable extent, ppone manager responsible for relationships with lessors and require significant infrastructure and IT equipment and produce service providers; many documents. Furthermore, Sopra Group operates some thirty ppa facilities manager responsible for new premises. sites in France, which necessitates the management of premises The site managers, in charge of managing the buildings under suited to the specific activities pursued at each site. The need to the authority of the head of each entity, are also involved in Sopra control our environmental impact has therefore become a key Group’s approach to environmental issues. factor in our management and production methods, and is covered by a continuous improvement programme involving the relevant IT Resources and Information Security functional divisions and their staff. The IT Resources and Services Department launched a widespread programme several years ago to improve the environmental footprint of its information technology systems and equipment and 3.1. Taking into consideration how to manage them. environmental impacts The main participants involved in the Group’s environmental programme are: In France, an eco-responsibility programme involving the active ppthe Director of IT Resources and Information Security; participation of each and every Sopra Group employee ensures ppa workstations services manager, who is responsible for: that all staff members understand the important role they play • the equipment policy (PCs, printers, photocopiers, among in reducing the environmental impact of our operations. At others), Sopra Group we encourage employee initiatives in the area of environmental protection and promote the avoidance of excess • management of the equipment inventory, consumption of non-renewable energy resources in our working • handling of WEEE (1); methods. A guide to eco-friendly behaviours was published and ppa manager in charge of relationships with Logistics and the distributed in early 2009 to raise awareness and help employees Group’s computer rooms; in their day-to-day activities. Staff are regularly reminded of the existence of this guide as well as the full set of complementary ppa manager responsible for the computer room servers for the entire Group. Group initiatives under way. Correspondents at all sites are tasked with ensuring the proper application of the relevant measures. Procurement The participants involved in the Group’s environmental programme are: 3.1.1. Organisation to take into ppthe director of the Procurement Department; consideration environmental issues ppa central purchasing manager, in charge of monitoring the Sopra As part of Sopra Group’s Sustainable Development programme Group Responsible Purchasing policy; in France, a number of functional departments have adopted the Group’s approach to environmental issues and, along with the ppa travel management officer; Sustainable Development Department and under the responsibility ppa purchasing manager for office supplies and computer of Executive Management, are defining the company’s general consumables. environmental policy. This policy is defined each year and summarised in a memorandum that covers all of the major areas of Sopra Group concerned. Each department involved in the environmental 3.1.2. Training and information policy spearheads its own actions. The environmental programme on protecting the environment offered as a whole is coordinated during meetings of the Sustainable to employees Development Committee. Sopra Group organises an awareness programme for all employees The following three departments are more particularly involved in in France on managing the Group’s environmental impact. the Group’s environmental policy and have coordinated to manage The Group’s employees take part in the company’s approach to their plans for on-going progress: eco-responsibility. A guide to eco-friendly behaviours was published Logistics and distributed to all employees in 2009 to raise awareness of the major environmental challenges in the Group’s various business The main participants directly involved in the Group’s environmental lines. Sopra Group uses all its internal communication tools (Group programme are: newsletter, intranet), on-site communications and a dedicated ppthe Director of the Logistics Department; email address to promote this awareness campaign. ppan environmental actions coordination manager for the Logistics A Sustainable Development series is routinely included in the department; annual seminars offered to the Group’s managers worldwide for pptwo coordination managers for the sites in the French provinces the start of each new year. and in the Paris region; (1) WEEE: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 69 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environmental responsibility commitments This series was also included in 2012 in an information seminar ❙❙ Quantities of WEEE in France offered to Sopra Group assistants on the company’s sustainable development activity. 2012 2011 In addition, all employees in France are further exposed to the Group’s environmental issues through a partnership initiated in Quantities of WEEE in kg (Paris region) 1,554 n.a. 2012 with the French organisation of Green Cross, an international association working for environmental sustainability. Quantities of WEEE in kg excluding re-use (outside Paris region) 2,956 n.a. Information on Sopra Group’s environmental programme is Total quantity of WEEE 4,510 √ n.a. disseminated in the orientation guide given to all new employees who join the Group in France. The main objectives for progress in 2013 relate to: ppaugmenting the information provided to employees by updating the guide to eco-friendly behaviours along with an information Paper waste management campaign; Sopra Group has implemented selective sorting of paper waste at most of its sites in France. The goal of this selective sorting pprolling out the environmental responsibility programme at Sopra’s international entities, including information on the policy is essentially to collect a major portion of the Group’s regulatory environment in each country and the management paper waste for recycling. Management of the selective sorting requirements of the entities concerned. operations is centralised for Sopra Group’s Île-de-France sites by our service provider Tricycle. For the sites in France’s provinces, the municipalities or service providers hired by Sopra Group directly coordinate the selective sorting of the Group’s paper waste. 3.2. Waste management In 2012, in order to increase the volume of paper waste collected, selective sorting was implemented in every office at a number of Various types of waste are sorted and processed by specialised sites. Sopra Group will continue this policy of selective sorting by companies: waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), office at new sites in France in 2013. paper, consumable supplies (used ink cartridges and batteries) and beverage cans. Waste management of consumables Management of WEEE Selective sorting of consumable waste is organised in the same manner as paper waste management. In 2012, Sopra Group worked with two companies to handle the Group’s waste electrical and electronic equipment: ATF Gaia for the Group’s sites in the French provinces and Tricycle for its sites in ❙❙ Quantities of non-WEEE waste (Paris region) the Paris region. ATF Gaia organises the collection of a major portion of the waste 2012 2011 electrical and electronic equipment from Annecy, where the Group stores its computer equipment. IT-related waste from Sopra’s sites Quantity of paper waste (in kg) 19,920 18,090 in Île-de-France is managed by Tricycle, a company that specialises Quantity of battery waste (in kg) 181 15 in waste management and selective sorting, particularly for waste electrical and electronic equipment. This WEEE management Quantity of waste from used ink organisation in two regions enables the Group to limit the cartridges (in kg) 4,403 4,089 transport of inoperable or obsolete equipment. ATF Gaia, the main service provider for WEEE management, provides a high degree of traceability for IT-related waste and offers several types of recycling: ppcomplete recycling of equipment; pprecycling of spare parts; pprecycling of computer components. In addition, ATF Gaia securely destroys data disks and magnetic cartridges. For 2013, the Group’s main objective is to continue its IT-related waste management programme with the service providers ATF Gaia and Tricycle and to increase the amount of waste collected. 70 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 3.3. Sustainable use of resources Management of the installed base of IT equipment Sopra Group manages its installed base of IT equipment in application of very precise guidelines with a view to controlling costs and protecting the environment. 3.3.1. Management of IT resources All IT equipment used by Sopra Group is listed in a database IT resources are managed centrally by the IT Resources and Services managed using HP’s AssetCenter product. Technical, financial and Department. This ensures that hardware is standardised and usage information is continually updated over the equipment’s life shared, leading to energy savings. cycle, allowing the Group both to optimise equipment life spans and By virtue of its activity of developing software and managing IT to ensure proper recycling when equipment reaches its end of life. projects on behalf of its clients, Sopra Group has a large number The quality of information collected ensures effective management of servers. These servers account for a large proportion of the of Sopra Group’s installed base of equipment. The only pieces of company’s environmental footprint (in terms of materials, energy equipment subject to replacement are those that become obsolete consumption and air-conditioning requirements). With the aim of or whose use no longer corresponds to Sopra Group’s business controlling economic and ecological costs, Sopra Group has for a standards. long time tightly managed its stock of servers by pooling hardware Even once an item of equipment has been removed and recycled, and implementing solutions for reducing the amount of energy Sopra Group maintains information relating to its final destination consumed by workstations. in its database. In order to ensure that electrical and electronic Management of energy consumption equipment reaching the end of its useful life is managed in an ecologically friendly manner, Sopra Group sells most of its In early 2009, Sopra Group decided to implement an improved equipment to a certified organisation. In addition, 15% of PCs energy management model, and embarked on harmonising coming to the end of their useful lives are donated to educational standards applied to all equipment across the Group, in particular institutions or charitable associations. by ensuring that all workstation screens enter sleep mode after fifteen minutes and by extending the use of standby mode. This Life span of IT equipment programme has been renewed by the Group and deployed to all Sopra Group used the opportunity presented by Dell’s overhaul of subsidiaries. It limits Sopra’s energy consumption when employees its product line to take into account new environmental criteria are not using their computers for extended periods during the day. in the selection of the equipment used by its employees. Desktop The Group also raises awareness on a regular basis via the intranet and laptop computers in this range offer improved performance to encourage employees to shut down their computers or activate and consume less energy. Since 2009, Sopra Group has therefore sleep mode when not using their computers for long periods. replaced a major portion of its business computer equipment in With regard to photocopiers and printers, Sopra Group has favour of more energy-efficient models. At the same time, one of developed a process to streamline the number of devices and the key principles implemented over the last several years has been promote sensible use of consumable supplies. In this regard, to extend the life of the equipment. networking is considered as a way of reducing the number Consequently, replacing the IT equipment with more energy-efficient of devices, since photocopiers can function as both printers computers and a policy of extending the life of this equipment help and scanners (scan to email). As of 2010, 80% of the Group’s to significantly reduce the Group’s environmental impact. photocopiers were networked. Furthermore, virtually all the Group’s IT equipment is inventoried on a regular basis both physically by the photocopiers support double-sided printing. Group’s technical teams and remotely by data collection from the Virtualisation of IT infrastructure network, ensuring the company’s ability to track the equipment. One of the ways in which Sopra Group reduces its carbon footprint is by opting for the virtualisation of its IT infrastructure. This ❙❙ Life span of IT equipment technology allows for IT centres to pool and optimise the use of their equipment resources. 2012 2011 The aims of this approach are reflected in: ppan increase in processing capacity by reducing the number of Life span of IT equipment 2.89* (LPT (1)) physical machines and thereby energy consumption; (in France) in number of years 3.82 (PC (2)) 4.25* ppthe acquisition of more compact machines using less energy; Life span of IT equipment ppsignificant space savings in IT centres by limiting the need to (outside France) in number 2.91 (LPT) build extensions; of years 3.83 (PC) n.a. ppextensions to the life span of IT equipment. * A significant portion of the Group’s IT equipment was replaced in 2011 and 2012, which explains the marked decline in life span between 2011 and 2012. (1) LPT: laptop computer. (2) PC: desktop personal computer. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 71 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environmental responsibility commitments ❙❙ Change in kWh consumption of business computers are themselves located all over France and abroad. Sopra Group has also developed offshore Service Centres in Spain, Morocco and India. All of the above generates a large amount of travel, which of 2012 2011 course has an impact on the environment. kWh consumption Consequently, several years ago the Group introduced an initiative of laptop business computers to reduce the amount of travel and its environmental impact by (France and international) 54 57 adopting the use of a videoconferencing system and promoting the most environmentally-friendly means of transport (train) whenever kWh consumption possible. of desktop business computers (France and international) 152 178 In this regard, and in order to reduce the amount of travel, Sopra Group implemented an action plan on several fronts: Energy consumption of laptop business computers declined from 67 kWh in 2008 to 54 kWh in 2012. pplimiting travel for internal and external meetings through the use Energy consumption of desktop business computers declined from 235 kWh in 2008 to of videoconferencing equipment at the majority of the Group’s 152 kWh in 2012. sites; ppencouraging the use of the most eco-friendly means of transport whenever possible, particularly for trips in France or daily ❙❙ Number of physical and virtual machines installed commutes to client locations. An annual memorandum distributed to the entire management 2012 2011 team to implement this action plan dictates the principles of the Group’s travel policy. Number of physical servers installed in Sopra Group premises 144 √ 204 ❙❙ Number of videoconferencing systems in place Number of virtual 2012 2011 servers installed in Sopra Group premises 916 √ 562 Number of new videoconferencing systems put in place during the financial year (France) 7√ 7 Total number of videoconferencing systems in place during the financial year 3.3.2. Paperless processes (France) 34 27 For several years, Sopra Group has encouraged the wider use Number of new videoconferencing of paperless processes by deploying tools permitting electronic systems put in place during the financial document management and by frequently urging its employees to year (international) 9√ 3 avoid printing whenever possible. The Group implements concrete Total number of videoconferencing measures to encourage the use of paperless processes and raises systems in place during the financial year awareness among employees to reduce the use of paper and the (international) 31 22 energy consumed by printing. Paperless processes also help to reduce the physical delivery of documents and, last but not least, less paper used for printing means less waste to be processed. Monitoring the Group’s carbon footprint related The Group’s paperless processes involve the various internal to business travel newsletters published by Sopra Group (Group newsletter and In order to identify areas in need of improvement, for the last newsletters of the functional and operational divisions distributed three years Sopra Group has monitored its carbon footprint via the intranet), monthly activity reports produced by each from employee commuting and business travel by air, train and employee; the management of paid leave and absences, IT automobile. This carbon footprint assessment helps to identify requests, purchases and travel invoices. ways the Group can limit the use of means of transport that cause New projects in this area, including offering paperless pay the most pollution. This is particularly relevant in France, where statements and expense accounts, were initiated in 2012 for rollout train travel to the Group’s multiple sites can help to reduce CO2 in 2013. Employees who wish to receive a paperless version of their emissions. pay statements may do so via a secure Digiposte digital lockbox Centralised travel management managed in partnership with the French postal service. To better manage and centralise the Group’s business travel, business trips in France are for the most part managed by two 3.3.3. Management of commuter journeys service providers: a travel agency for air and train travel, and a car and business travel rental company. The use of personal vehicles for long-distance business travel in Policy on work-related travel France is limited to the requirements of the department and when Sopra Group has locations both in France and abroad. In France, train and air travel are not appropriate. the Group has many sites located throughout the country. Its clients 72 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our environmental responsibility commitments 4 With respect to work-related travel over short distances, the used With regard to Sopra Group’s strategies concerning new business of taxis and personal vehicles is discouraged when public transport premises, the company’s policy is to favour buildings eligible for is easily accessible. the new RT 2012 (2012 thermal regulations), BBC (low energyGroup guidelines for work-related travel are disseminated via the consumption buildings) and HQE® (High environmental quality) Sopra Group intranet and apply to all staff. standards. These choices are made first and foremost to remain consistent with the criteria for advancing the quality of Sopra In 2013, Sopra Group will continue its policy of limiting Group’s work environment. business travel and will make an effort to optimise the use of videoconferencing systems. New standards for construction of new sites In France’s Rhône-Alpes region, in the city of Limonest, an ❙❙ CO2 emissions from business travel in France 8,000 m² building is being completed that has been HQE® and BBC certified. In mid-2013, the employees of Sopra Group’s (in tonnes of CO2 equivalent) 2012 2011 regional headquarters will move into this new building. In order to meet the needs of the Group’s strong business Total CO2 emissions due to train and air growth in the Toulouse region, construction will begin in 2013 travel (AMEX) 4,395,176 4,556,008 on a building that will meet the new RT 2012 environmental Total CO2 emissions due to train and air standards. This new site will house a portion of the employees travel (SELECTOUR, CARLSON and in Sopra’s Midi-Pyrénées region in 2014. TOUROMED) 1,233,340 n.a. Total CO2 emissions due to business travel (rental cars and personal vehicles Water consumption used for business) 2,251,259 n.a. With regard to water consumption, Sopra only uses water from Total CO2 emissions for the municipal water system and mainly for sanitary use. The precise all business travel in 2012 7,877,267 √ assessment of water consumption for all of the Group’s operations In 2012, the kilometres travelled by department automobiles in France (53 vehicles) were in France is difficult to obtain, since it depends on the utility not included. management system readings made available by Sopra Group’s various lessors. However, Sopra Group intends to intensify its efforts in order to obtain this information. 3.3.4. Management of business premises ❙❙ Annual water consumption in France At all of its sites in France and, depending on national regulations, for its operations outside France, Sopra Group favours the application of measures for the protection of the environment: 2012 ppfurnishing of premises with ergonomic workstations enhancing Average consumption of clean water per workstation the quality of working conditions for its staff. One way in which in the year (m3) 3.20 this approach has been applied for some thirty years by the Average consumption of clean water per square Group is to ensure that each workstation has direct access to metre in the year (m3) 0.29 daylight; Average water consumption calculated on the basis of five sites representative ppinstallation of energy-efficient and environmentally friendly of the Group’s business in France. heating and air-conditioning systems whenever these systems require replacement; Energy consumption and action taken pppreventive maintenance of installations to conserve energy; ppuse of non-toxic and non-hazardous products by the cleaning ❙❙ Annual electricity consumption in France services; ppinstallation of water fountains, directly connected to the drinking water distribution network, with the aim of reducing plastic 2012 2011 bottle use; Electricity consumption per square ppefforts to raise the awareness of employees as to the importance metre in kWh across 23 sites 178.23 170 of applying the best practices contained in the Group’s guide to Breakdown of actual consumption across 23 out of a total of 30 sites in France. eco-friendly behaviours; ppcommitment by site managers to observe and encourage respect As regards the sensible use of resources more generally, action is for the environment and good practice on a day-to-day basis. In regularly taken to raise employee awareness via the guide to ecoassuming direct day-to-day responsibility for waste separation at friendly behaviours and Group communication tools. Campaigns sites, these managers promote best practices and communicate will continue in 2013 to encourage employees to limit energy information to staff members as necessary. They also verify consumption in the course of their day-to-day activities. the gradual installation of low-energy devices as equipment is replaced. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 73 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society 3.3.5. Responsible purchasing In 2012, regular awareness campaigns to limit printing led to a and environmental indicators 10% reduction in paper consumption. ❙❙ Purchases of “green” paper in France ❙❙ Purchases of refilled recycled cartridges 1,700 2012 2011 1,650 Total number of reams purchased 25,872* 28,516 1,600 Of which number of reams of A4/A3 1,550 paper purchased (SFI certified) 25,670 28,275 Of which number of reams of A4/A3 1,500 paper purchased (SFC/PEFC certified) 142 241 1,450 Total weight of paper purchased (kg) 61,187 70,167 2012 2011 Of which weight of SFI certified paper (kg) 60,423 √ 69,269 Of which weight of SFC/PEFC Number of refilled recycled cartridges purchased certified paper (kg) 464 898 in the year * Includes 60 uncertified reams. As regards used printer cartridges, the company opted several years ago to purchase recycled cartridges, except in the case of From 2011, Sopra Group began to use SFI certified photocopy new printers for which recycled cartridges have not yet become paper across all its French sites (1). In 2012, purchases of paper were available. This policy continued to apply in 2012. supplemented by other FSC/PEFC certified paper (2). All paper used within the company in France is certified paper produced from sustainably managed forests. 4. Our responsibility to society 4.1. Regional, economic ❙❙ Number of work/study recruits per region: apprenticeships and social impacts 48 recruits in 2012 √ 4 Aquitaine 4.1.1. Employment and regional development in France 1 Sopra Group continued to be a major driver of growth in regional Auvergne employment in 2012, recruiting 1,676 new employees in France, with 1,100 of these in the provinces. 13 6 Sopra Group has 9,386 employees in France, two thirds of whom Rhône-Alpes Bretagne are based at the company’s provincial sites. To serve its clients and meet their needs as effectively as possible, 4 Île-de-France Sopra Group has developed regional service centres and boosted its 6 workforce at its regional sites. This policy has led to the creation of Pays de la Loire a large number of new positions and the recruitment of significant numbers of new staff into the Group’s regional entities. 6 8 PACA Midi-Pyrénées (1) SFI: Sustainable Forestry Initiative is an internationally recognised standard for the sustainable management of North American forests. It is one of the world’s most widely-used forestry certification standards. (2) PEFC (Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes) and FSC (Forest Stewardship Council): certifications for products produced from sustainably managed forests. 74 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society 4 Number of work-study personnel recruited Percentage of recruitments per region: per region: professionalization contracts permanent contracts √ 164 recruitments in 2012, down from 198 in 2011 √ 5% 1 Aquitaine Auvergne 2 % 1% 4 Alsace-Lorraine Auvergne Bretagne 25 15% 4% Rhône-Alpes 1 Rhône-Alpes Bretagne Centre 5% 2 % Centre Poitou-Charente 18 0.5% Pays de la Loire 6 % Haute-Normandie 70 Pays de la loire 4 Île-de-France PACA 9% 31% PACA Île-de-France 17 Nord-Pas-de-Calais 6 % Nord-Pas-de-Calais 24 Midi-Pyrénées 13% 0.5% Midi-Pyrénées Languedoc-Roussillon Percentage of recruitments per region: conversion of internships √ 3% 4.1.2. Relations with local populations Aquitaine in India 1% 2% As a responsible company, Sopra Group India (SGI), which employs Alsace-Lorraine Auvergne more than a thousand people in India (in Noida and Bangalore), has for several years been running aid programmes for underprivileged 12% 6% populations and people with disabilities. Rhône-Alpes Bretagne The Yogdaan platform, set up by SGI in 2011, is intended to bring 5% together all activities falling within the remit of corporate social 2 % Centre responsibility (CSR). Poitou-Charente 1% 11 % Haute-Normandie Pays de la loire 6% PACA 31% Île-de-France In August 2012, a new recognised body was formed: Sopra Group India Yogdaan Trust. This body, which is funded via monthly 7% contributions from more than 900 SGI employees, with support Nord-Pas-de-Calais from the company, is now responsible for implementing all of SGI’s 12% 1% CSR-related activities. Midi-Pyrénées Languedoc-Roussillon Furthermore, more than 45 active employees belonging to the Yogdaan team voluntarily took part in Sopra Group India humanitarian initiatives in 2012. In 2012, Yogdaan’s activities were focused around five key areas, which are outlined below: ppeducation for the underprivileged. In conjunction with the OM Foundation school, Yogdaan Trust launched a project named “Encouraging education through regular volunteering”. The project aims to provide students with help in the areas of arts and crafts, dance, public speaking and sport. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 75 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society OM Foundation is a registered charity that works to improve The responsible purchasing charter sets out fundamental principles living conditions for the underprivileged via a range of activities of fair and transparent purchasing and establishes the roles and in support of education and employment; responsibilities of the purchasing network. ppIT training. The charter is sent out to all regular suppliers to gain their buy-in. It Since 2010, SGI has been involved in a NASSCOM initiative aimed formalises the Group’s values in terms of sustainable development at closing the gap between the business and academic worlds. and draws on the ten principles laid down in the United Nations In 2012, SGI worked with Sharda University and Inderprastha Global Compact. Engineering College in Sahibabad. Between October 2011 and March 2012, a group of 40 students and five lecturers received training in software engineering from SGI employees and 4.2.2. Supplier CSR assessment √ managers; In 2011, a pilot project was launched in France to assess ppdonation campaigns. key suppliers’ responsibility in respect of human resources, the Various donation campaigns were run in 2012 in relation to environment and society. school supplies and winter clothing. A blood donation drive was In 2012, the guiding principles for assessing responsibility in these also held on SGI’s premises; areas were approved and the assessment process and resources to ppevent sponsorship. be used in that process were finalised. Sopra Group India continues to support a variety of charitable Sopra Group’s responsible purchasing charter and CSR assessment events in favour of people with disabilities. questionnaire were sent to regular French suppliers of the Purchasing and Logistics Department (excluding lessors) and the IT For example, the company sponsored three major local events Resources and Security Department. in 2012: The CSR assessment questionnaire, which was only sent to tier 1 • a sports event for blind people, suppliers (1), measures suppliers’ level of commitment in three areas: • a charity football tournament organised by the French embassy, human resources, the environment and society. A scoring system • a corporate citizens’ challenge. ranks each supplier’s answers on a scale of values. SGI also sponsored pupils in the nineto ten-year-old class at the This programme, piloted within the Sustainable Development OM Foundation’s school. Department, involves the Purchasing, Logistics, and IT Resources Conscious of its responsibility to local communities, in 2013 Sopra and Security (ITR&S) Departments. Group India will continue to take part, along with its employees, in humanitarian programmes initiated within the Yogdaan platform. ❙❙ Supplier CSR assessment rates √ 2012 4.2. Responsible purchasing Purchasing ITR&S Logistics Total charter and supplier CSR Tier 1 suppliers assessment (number) 13 8 26 47 Tier 1 suppliers assessed (number) 8 8 19 35 Tier 1 suppliers 4.2.1. Responsible purchasing charter assessed (%) 62% 100% 73% 74% Sopra Group is particularly attentive to the issue of purchasing that complies with sustainable development goals. Sopra Group Progress targets for 2013 are aimed at assessing all tier 1 is therefore committed to purchasing responsibly and applying a suppliers and including lessors within the scope of the assessment supplier and service provider selection policy that fully complies with programme. An awareness process will also be initiated among the principles laid down in the United Nations Global Compact, of those suppliers achieving low CSR scores to encourage them to which Sopra Group is a signatory. Sopra Group defined a formal draw up CSR improvement plans. responsible purchasing policy as long ago as 2010. In 2011, the Group drew up a responsible purchasing charter based on the key As regards subcontracting, a pilot CSR assessment project was principles found in the Global Compact. The charter formalises launched among a panel of French subcontractors in late 2012. the Group’s values in relation to corporate social responsibility If this pilot progresses satisfactorily, a CSR assessment programme and its commitment to sustainable development in its purchasing will be rolled out among tier 1 subcontractors from 2013 onwards. processes. (1) A tier 1 supplier is a supplier that transacts a certain volume of sales with Sopra Group and/or undertakes sensitive activities in the areas of human resources (e.g. temporary recruitment) or the environment (e.g. premises maintenance). 76 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society 4 4.3. Fair commercial practices 4.4.1. Client involvement in processes In the context of projects, Sopra Group’s teams share with clients Sopra Group’s main priority in carrying on its day-to-day activities their approach to production, the resources and organisation has always been to observe business ethics. This requirement is necessary to ensure the quality of services or deliverables. Shared formalised in Sopra Group’s Charter of Ethics, which is aligned indicators may also be put in place, allowing for the measurement with the Group’s aim of behaving transparently, equitably and of satisfaction in accordance with mutually agreed requirements fairly towards all its stakeholders: clients, employees, shareholders, and/or satisfaction as perceived by the various client and Sopra partners, suppliers and players within civil society. Group stakeholders. This charter is founded on compliance with legislation and regulations in all countries in which the Group operates, and on the Group’s commitments to carry on its business as efficiently and 4.4.2. Quality certification effectively as possible. All Sopra Group entities (in Europe and India) have been certified In particular, Sopra Group’s Charter of Ethics aims to lay down to ISO 9001 by accredited organisations. This certification ethical principles that will help the Group pursue fair and demonstrates the Group’s desire to increase client satisfaction by transparent economic growth with its clients, partners and taking into account changes in the Group’s operating environment suppliers, both in its relationships and in its working practices. and continuously improving Group processes. Sopra Group does not tolerate any form of corruption or abuse intended to derive a commercial advantage. In carrying on its business, Sopra Group is committed to ensuring 4.4.3. Developing the Quality System that the Group and its employees: Sopra Group updated its multi-location production model in 2012 ppwork to prevent all forms of active or passive corruption, whether to better reflect clients’ expectations and challenges. The criteria direct or indirect; used to apportion work between more than one production site ppabide by competition rules; take into account not only project type, project life cycle and financial considerations, but also skills availability and risks. ppmaintain the confidentiality of information to which employees have access in the course of their duties and activities within the Some project activities may be carried out in service centres in Group. France, in Europe or outside Europe. Sopra Group is also committed to avoiding personal conflicts of The main goal of a service centre is to optimise projects and the interest that are contrary to the Group’s best interests. quality of delivery. Such a centre is characterised by a striving for excellence in production and industrialisation and progress for The Charter of Ethics is supported by Sopra Group management, junior production staff. which is responsible for ensuring that these rules are observed. The charter applies to all Group employees in France to ensure that they Overall quality control within a multi-location production perform their duties effectively. environment remains subject to the Group’s standard governance rules. The charter is set to be rolled out to international entities in 2013, taking into account specific regulations in each country and Work to further refine the Group’s fundamental principles and charters already in force within those entities. their operational application in the form of project procedures will continue in 2013 with the aim of harmonising practices in relation to multi-location projects. 4.4. Quality and client satisfaction Client satisfaction is closely linked to both the quality of the 4.4.4. Attentiveness to clients’ needs products and services provided by Sopra Group and the use and and measurement of client satisfaction continuous improvement of a quality management system. All information channels are used to ensure client satisfaction: The quality policy is backed by a high level of commitment from ppstaff responsible for the Group’s Offerings and Innovation Sopra Group’s Executive Committee, with the main focus being functions keep a constant watch on market developments and on meeting clients’ requirements while continuing to deliver help extend and improve Sopra Group’s range of services; the strong performance that ensures that the Group retains the ppmanagement and/or sales teams meet regularly with clients freedom it needs to offer appropriate solutions to its clients. involved with Sopra Group in projects or for whom the Group Sopra Group’s Quality System is the embodiment of this quality policy. supplies industry-specific personnel to assist at the local level; Its end goal is not only to correct compliance defects or problems as ppproject steering committees usually meet once monthly to assess they arise, but to safeguard against such defects and problems and to client satisfaction against any indicators established for the continuously improve Sopra Group’s processes so that they are always project; efficient, competitive and relevant to clients’ expectations. ppreports written up by team members at the end of projects are In order to monitor client needs more closely, Sopra Group plans to also used to refine this assessment system. periodically conduct targeted satisfaction surveys, starting in 2013. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 77 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society Quality teams within the various divisions are responsible for the In order to serve Sopra Group’s growth and value ambitions, in implementation of measures or supplementary indicators at the 2013 the Recruitment Department will maintain the momentum local level depending on their specific context. already built up through the school relations policy by: ppstrengthening the school stakeholder scheme, particularly in the Ile-de-France region, as is already happening in other regions; 4.5. Relations with persons ppplacing the priority on content-based activities that provide and organisations opportunities to explain the Group’s business to students. with a stake in the business Sopra Group will also work to develop new work/study curricula to support changes in this area in the Group’s partner schools and universities. 4.5.1. Educational partnership policy These progress targets are included in the annual action plan that Given its recruitment objectives, according to which 70% of the underpins Sopra Group’s school relations policy. For the 2012-2013 targeted population consists of either engineers or managers academic year, Sopra Group plans to undertake more than 400 taking on their first position of this type or those with less than activities with around 140 partner schools and universities. two years of managerial experience, Sopra Group maintains strong partnerships with educational institutions both in the Paris region and in the French provinces. This policy, pursued under the Group’s Educational Partnership plan, is grounded in local action. Its main 4.5.2. Stakeholder dialogue aims are to: Sopra Group’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact is aligned with the Group’s aim of behaving transparently, ppraise the profile of Sopra Group, its professions and its values; equitably and fairly towards all its stakeholders: clients, employees, ppimprove the sourcing of interns, work-study personnel and shareholders, subcontractors, suppliers, partners and players within applicants for permanent positions; civil society. ppfacilitate the recruitment of young graduates. It is in this spirit of dialogue and transparency that Sopra Group The Educational Partnership plan allows Sopra Group to take an has, in France, incorporated the sustainable development and active part in major events in the life of educational institutions at corporate social responsibility dimensions into its relationships with all levels: its stakeholders. For example, the 2012 Sustainable Development ppschool management (boards of directors, involvement in and Corporate Social Responsibility Report was designed to meet foundations and expert panels, sponsorship of classes, etc.); this demand for transparency and information in the Group’s dealings with its stakeholders. The report, which mainly focuses ppteaching staff (corporate chairs, training, feedback, industrial on the Group’s French businesses, will be expanded each year to projects, etc.); include reporting information about international entities. ppstudents (success stories, round table discussions, lectures, An independent third party was appointed by Sopra Group to check simulated interviews, graduation ceremonies, forums, company that all information required under Article 225 of the “Grenelle 2” visits, sponsorship of associations, etc.). Act (as listed in Article R225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code) In this context, Sopra Group has put in place an organisational was included and to verify a selection of information indicated by structure between the Human Resources Department and the the symbol √. The verification report can be found on pages 85 and company’s operating units that is designed to help them work 86 of this report. together more closely and share out activities. In 2012, Sopra Group undertook more than 350 activities with Clients around 120 partner schools and universities, 70% of which were For many years, Sopra Group has succeeded in building lasting in the provinces. relationships with its clients, whom it supports in their major transformation programmes. In order to achieve this, the Group Sopra Group partners with the 44th EDHEC Cruising Race has developed a set of values backed by a code of professional For the sixth consecutive year, Sopra Group sponsored the ethics and relies on established fundamentals that govern the leading European sports event for students: the EDHEC Cruising Group’s operations and service activities on an ongoing basis. Race, held in April 2012 in La Rochelle. The values that have shaped the Group’s development since its formation, in particular the priority placed on client service, Examples of new activities undertaken with schools in 2012 choosing quality and professional excellence, have led it to constantly improve the relevance and quality of its services for the ppSopra Group financed the Team Voile Centrale Nantes association and the BRIO project, with the aim of supporting benefit of its clients. students from modest backgrounds by helping them find out This approach to managing client relationships and responsibilities about higher education options and cultural projects such as has enabled Sopra Group to achieve preferred partner status with a sailing for beginners. number of major organisations that have trusted the Group to help them grow for a number of years and continue to do so. ppSopra Group sponsored Cheer Up, an association that helps young cancer patients with their personal and professional plans. Sopra Group aims to keep its clients informed of its commitments In connection with the EDHEC Cruising Race, the association in the area of corporate social responsibility by communicating trained a crew to teach them about the basics of sailing and frequently about progress made through improvement measures give them the opportunity to experience a sports competition. put in place. Clients are themselves also encouraged, whenever 78 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society 4 possible, to join with the Group in implementing actions to reduce Sopra Group has for many years held various types of meetings our combined carbon footprint. This may involve favouring the use to share its strategy, financial performance and outlook with this of videoconferencing technology instead of meetings requiring audience. Such meetings include the following: travel or the use of paperless processes for all documents related ppShareholders’ General Meetings; to the monitoring of projects conducted by Sopra Group on their behalf. ppfull-year and interim results announcements. Sopra Group has also developed a Group finance site Employees (www.finance.sopragroup.com) in French and English to facilitate Sopra Group complies with European and French social legislation, access to published market information. collective bargaining agreements in each of the countries where it Dialogue is also encouraged via a dedicated e-mail address, operates and recognises the right to trade union representation in investors@sopragroup.com. all countries concerned. Subcontractors The Group applies a social policy with the aim of safeguarding the health and safety of each of its employees and treating everyone in Sopra Group’s expertise covers consulting, technology services the workplace with dignity and respect. and software vending on the one hand, and associated services (training, organisation, support and maintenance) on the other Sopra Group remains particularly attentive at all times to ensure hand. compliance with principles of equality, diversity and nondiscrimination, as much in relation to its recruitment practices as in Sopra Group may make use of subcontractors in cases where its the development of its employees’ careers. commitments cover activities or services that fall outside its usual scope of activity, or where specific expertise is needed within a To keep its staff informed of actions and events related to the life given project. of the Group and its development, Sopra Group has put in place a range of communications tools and procedures. A procedure within the Quality Procedures Guide describes in detail how Sopra Group draws up subcontractor requirements, chooses The perception survey conducted by Sopra Group among its subcontractors, enters into subcontracting agreements, manages employees in 2012 forms an essential component of the Group’s services delivered by subcontractors, monitors the quality of those range of tools for communicating with staff. services and accepts them. A report on the work performed by Furthermore, Group employees in France are regularly made aware subcontractors is then prepared. of issues related to sustainable development and corporate social Where external skills are used, any subcontractors to whom work responsibility and involved in Sopra Group’s improvement process is entrusted remain under the responsibility of Sopra Group. Their and associated actions. services are subject to the same level of monitoring and control Shareholders as services delivered by other members of the Sopra Group team. Sopra Group shares have been listed on Segment B of NYSE In 2012, a pilot project was launched to assess subcontractors’ Euronext Paris since 1990. CSR performance, drawing on the supplier assessment programme introduced in France in 2011. This Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report is published within the management report in order to Suppliers share information about the Group’s sustainable development The Procurement Department verifies that its suppliers and service and corporate social responsibility approach and its improvement providers share Sopra Group’s values in the area of corporate social efforts in France. In accordance with French legislation, Sopra responsibility. Throughout the selection process and even once Group is committed to communicating its progress and the the business relationship has been established, this department relevant performance indicators every year in the three areas in monitors risk exposure on an ongoing basis. question: human resources, the environment and society. In order to ensure that its suppliers took into account sustainable Sopra Group is constantly working to maintain a relationship of development issues, Sopra Group continued with its supplier trust and transparency with its shareholders; as such, it regularly CSR assessment programme in 2012. Details can be found in issues communications to shareholders, institutional investors and section 4.2 of this chapter, “Responsible purchasing charter and financial analysts. These communications include both financial supplier CSR assessment”. and non-financial information about the Group. In accordance with the Group’s obligations, recommendations Partnerships issued by stock exchange authorities and market best practice, Sopra Group’s partnership strategy involves working with major the Group’s communications with the financial community are software developers and publishers to provide the Group’s clients punctuated by the release of quarterly, interim and full-year with market-leading solutions, whether for their business processes financial information. or their information systems. This strategy has resulted in alliances and offerings that create value for the Group’s clients. Partnerships are also key to Sopra Group’s innovation, training and knowledge management programmes, and play a role in project methodology and management, so as to ensure a high level of service. Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 79 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our responsibility to society The Group’s relationship with its partners involves all levels of Sopra Group’s participation in the Congé Solidaire programme Group management and sales functions, and permeates its organised by Planète Urgence is a contribution to the work of this consulting, technology services and software vending businesses in NGO shared by the company and the interested employee. every country in which Sopra Group operates. Under this innovative programme, volunteer employees are able to The Group’s four strategic partners are Microsoft, IBM Software, use their paid holidays to provide assistance in various developing SAP and Oracle. Each of these partnerships is supervised by an countries. Advocate, who is a member of the Group’s Executive Committee, The humanitarian missions proposed by Sopra Group to its and by an Alliance Manager, who is responsible for day-to-day employees directly relate to their professional experience. The coordination of all aspects of relations with the partner. In addition company’s participation involves the payment of travel expenses, to these strategic partnerships, Sopra Group enters into industrytraining and administrative fees. specific and technology partnerships, managed and implemented The Congé Solidaire programme is a rewarding new way for by the Group’s Industry Solutions teams. employees to put their free time to good use, and Sopra Group is Civil society keen to encourage it through its partnership with Planète Urgence. Jean Mounet, a member of Sopra Group’s Board of Directors, is Following the success of the Planète Urgence programme and Executive Chairman of the Observatoire du numérique (Digital the number of in-house applications, Sopra Group is planning Observatory) and a member of the Strategic Committee for the to step up its involvement. In 2013, 20 employees will have the ICTS industry (1). opportunity to participate in the programme. Created in late 2011 by the minister with responsibility for the Green Cross France & Territoires √ digital economy, the Observatoire du numérique exists to highlight the scale and real impact of the digital sector on the economy as a whole and society at large. The Observatoire du numérique acts as a central repository for all data on the digital economy so that this data can be used by public authorities, economic agents and the public more generally. The Observatoire’s Strategic Orientation Committee has formed seven working groups, including an “Employment, Training and CSR” working group. 4.5.3. Partnership and sponsorship activities In France, Sopra Group has put in place sponsorship activities In 2012, Sopra Group decided to focus its commitment to focused around two key areas: humanitarian initiatives with Planète the environment on major issues, including in particular those Urgence and the environment with Green Cross France & Territoires. linked to water-related issues. The Group therefore decided to At an international level, the Group’s other entities have also support Green Cross France & Territoires (GCFT), an association implemented a large number of humanitarian initiatives. dedicated to reinforcing the general programmes run by Green As well as information on activities in India set out in section 4.1 Cross International. GCFT also runs various activities including of this report, “Regional impact of activities”, the Group’s 2013 the development of regional and national water-related advocacy reporting will include information on activities undertaken by other programmes. Green Cross works in more than 30 countries, international entities. focusing its activities on the relationship between poverty, security and the environment. Green Cross seeks to tackle both the causes Planète Urgence √ and the environmental consequences of wars and conflicts. The ONG carries out environmental analyses and surveys, defends the sustainable management and use of natural resources, and helps inform and educate the public about these issues. Sopra Group’s support takes two forms: a financial donation to the association to help it expand its activities and skills sponsorship in support of internal or external GCFT projects. In 2012, this Sopra Group/GCFT skills sponsorship formed part The Group’s partnership with Planète Urgence, which dates back to of an overall package of advice and support in relation to various 2008, continued in 2012. internal projects within the association, as well as an external As part of this partnership, 11 employees of Sopra Group France environmental project supported by GCFT. Sopra Group made its used paid leave for humanitarian purposes under the “Congé consulting expertise available for a large-scale project launched Solidaire” programme in 2012. by GCFT in 2012, “Transition towards a sustainable pig sector in Brittany”. GCFT is working to revitalise the sector from producers Planète Urgence is a non-governmental organisation (NGO) that right through to consumers, and has established requirements that has been working for over ten years with local NGOs operating in provide guarantees in relation to environmental protection and developing countries, including in particular sub-Saharan Africa, animal welfare and ensure a fair and stable income for breeders. Haiti, Cambodia, Laos and Nepal. (1) ICTS: information and communication technologies and services. 80 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 4 In 2012, seven members of Sopra Group management and staff initiative. For example, local employees at the Nantes site organised from outside the Sustainable Development Department were several blood donation drives in 2012. involved in skills sponsorship. Initiatives in favour of people with disabilities In 2013, Sopra Group is repeating its financial sponsorship and continuing with skills sponsorship in connection with the project Other humanitarian initiatives were also undertaken in 2012 by “Transition towards a sustainable pig sector in Brittany”. Group employees in France. For example, a race was organised in Strasbourg in May 2012 involving runners from the Association des aveugles et amblyopes d’Alsace et de Lorraine (Alsace-Lorraine Association for the Blind and Amblyopic/AAAL). 4.5.4. Humanitarian initiatives organised by employees in France The idea behind the race was to pair up sighted and blind runners in a shared sporting endeavour. In France, in addition to initiatives managed by the Group, employees have joined forces to undertake humanitarian initiatives. In Annecy, Group employees have for several years taken part For example, employees were behind two types of initiative in 2012. in an event organised by the local council, “Annecy court pour handisport” (“Annecy runs in support of disabled sports”). The Blood donation drives event’s partners recognise this fine collective effort by awarding a For several years, employees have been organising blood donation cash sum to Annecy’s disabled sports association. drives, at their own initiative and with the help of Sopra Group. At an international level, employees of Group entities have also These drives, which take place within the framework of the Group’s taken part in a large number of humanitarian initiatives. The activities, are an opportunity to encourage other employees to give Group’s 2013 reporting will include information about these blood and raise awareness of the vital need for this humanitarian initiatives. 5. Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 ❙❙ Overview of Sopra Group’s compliance with Grenelle 2 indicators Policy (labour, environmental and societal) Grenelle 2 Scope GRI ISO 26000 Labour component Actions led and guidelines followed 2.1 Sopra Group Culture Group 6.2 Organisational by the company to take into account the labour 2.8.3 Employee perception governance and environmental consequences of its activity survey and to meet its societal commitments in favour 3.1 Taking into of sustainable development consideration environmental impacts a) Employment ppTotal workforce 2.2.1 Workforce and trends Group LA1 Total workforce by 6.4 Labour ppBreakdown of employees by gender, 2.2.1 but NA Gender employment type, employment practices age and geographic region for geographic region and age contract and region 6.4.3 Employment in France LA13 Composition of governance and bodies and breakdown employment of employees per category relationships according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity ppHirings and dismissals 2.2.2 Recruitment Group LA2 Total number and rate and separation of hirings/ of employee turnover by age employees dismissals group, gender, and region France only ppRemuneration and trends 2.2.5 Remuneration France Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 81 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 Policy (labour, environmental and societal) Grenelle 2 Scope GRI ISO 26000 b) Work organisation ppOrganisation of the work schedule 2.3 Work organisation France 6.4 Labour ppAbsenteeism 2.3 Work organisation France LA7 Rates of injury, occupational practices diseases, lost days, and 6.4.7 Health and absenteeism, and total number of safety at work work-related fatalities by region c) Employee relations ppOrganisation of dialogue between employees 2.4 Employee relations France 6.4 Labour and management, in particular procedures and practices for informing and consulting with the staff 2.8 Internal communications 6.4.5 Social and negotiating with employees dialogue ppOverview of collective bargaining agreements 2.4 Employee relations France d) Health and safety ppConditions for workplace health and safety 2.7 Health and safety France 6.4 Labour ppOverview of agreements signed with labour No agreements on this practices organisations or employee representatives subject have been signed 6.4.7 Health and with regard to workplace health and safety safety at work ppWorkplace accidents, particularly 2.7.1 Workplace accidents France their frequency and severity, and occupational illnesses pp Compliance with provisions 2.6 Promoting and of the fundamental conventions of the ILO complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO e) Training ppPolicies implemented with respect to training 2.2.3 Training policy Group 6.4 Labour ppTotal number of training hours 2.2.3 Training policy Group LA10 Average hours of training per practices year per employee by employee 6.4.3 Employment category and employment relationships f) Equal treatment ppMeasures taken in favour of gender equality 2.5 Non-discrimination France 6.3.7 Discrimination principles and vulnerable ppMeasures taken in favour of employment 2.5 Non-discrimination France groups and integration of disabled workers principles 6.3.10Fundamental principles and ppAnti-discrimination policy 2.5 Non-discrimination France principles rights at work g) Promoting and complying with the fundamental conventions ILO ppUpholding the freedom of association 2.6 Promoting and Group and the right to collective bargaining complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO ppEliminating discrimination in respect 2.6 Promoting Group of employment and occupation and complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO ppEliminating forced or compulsory labour This subject does not relate to Sopra Group in view of the countries where it operates ppEffective abolition of child labour 2.6 Promoting and Group complying with the fundamental conventions of the ILO 82 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 4 Policy (labour, environmental and societal) Grenelle 2 Scope GRI ISO 26000 Environmental component a) General environmental policy ppThe company’s organisation to take 3.1.1 Organisation to take France 6.2 Organisational environmental issues into consideration, environmental issues governance and where applicable, environmental into consideration assessment or certification processes ppTraining and information on protecting 3.1.2 Training and France the environment offered to employees information on protecting the environment offered to employees ppResources dedicated to preventing This subject does not relate environmental risks and pollution to Sopra Group’s activities ppAmount of provisions and coverage This subject does not relate for environmental risks, provided that to Sopra Group’s activities such information is not liable to seriously harm the company in any on-going litigation b) Pollution and waste management ppMeasures to prevent, reduce or remedy waste This subject does not relate in the air, water and soil that seriously affect to Sopra Group’s activities the environment ppWaste prevention, recycling and elimination 3.2 Waste management France EN22 Total weight of waste 6.5.3 Prevention measures by type and disposal method of pollution pp Taking into consideration noise pollution and This subject does not relate any other form of pollution specific to an to Sopra Group’s activities activity c) Sustainable resource use ppWater consumption and supply according 3.3.4 Management France 6.5.4 Sustainable to local requirements of business premises resource use ppConsumption of raw materials and measures 3.3.1 Management Group EN1 Materials used by weight taken to improve efficient use of these of information or volume resources technology resources ppEnergy consumption, measures taken 3.3.1 Management EN6 Initiatives to provide energyto improve energy efficiency and use of information efficient or renewable energy of renewable energies technology resources based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 3.3.2 Paperless France processes 3.3.3 Management of travel 3.3.4 Management of France EN3 Direct energy consumption business premises by primary energy source EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ppLand use This subject does not relate to Sopra Group’s activities Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 83 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Appendix and reconciliation tables: Grenelle 2, GRI and ISO 26000 Policy (labour, environmental and societal) Grenelle 2 Scope GRI ISO 26000 d) Climate change ppGreenhouse gas emissions 3.3.3 Management of travel EN16 Total direct and indirect 6.5.5 Climate greenhouse gas emissions change ppAdapting to the consequences This subject does not relate by weight (tonnes of CO2 eq.) mitigation of climate change to Sopra Group’s activities EN18 Initiatives to reduce and greenhouse gas emissions adaptation and reductions achieved e) Protection of biodiversity Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity This subject does not relate to Sopra Group’s activities Societal component a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the activity Employment and regional 4.1.1 Employment France EC8 Development and impact 6.8 Community development matters and regional of infrastructure investments involvement development in France and services provided primarily and With regard to resident and local populations 4.1.2 Relations with local India for public benefit through development populations in India commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement b) Relations with persons or organisations having interests in the company’s activities Conditions of the dialogue with these persons 4.5 Relations with persons France or organisations or organisations having interests in the company’s activities Partnerships or sponsorship actions 4.5 Relations with persons France or organisations having interests in the company’s activities c) Subcontracting and suppliers Taking into account social and environmental 3.3.4 Environmentally France challenges in the purchasing policy responsible purchasing indicators and 4.2 Significance of subcontracting and taking 4.2.2 CSR assessment France EC6 Policy, practices, and 6.6.6 Promoting into account the social and environmental of suppliers proportion of spending on locally social responsibility of suppliers and subcontractors based suppliers at significant responsibility in relationships with them locations of operation in the value chain d) Fair trade practices Anti-corruption actions 4.3 Fair trade practices Group 6.6 Fair operating Measures taken to promote consumer This subject does not relate practices health and safety to Sopra Group’s activities e) Other actions initiated in favour of human rights 4.4 Quality and Group PR5 Practices related to customer 6.7 Consumer client satisfaction satisfaction, including results issues of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 84 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Report of one of the Statutory Auditors expressing limited assurance on selected workforce-related, environmental and societal information published in the Group’s management report 4 Report of one of the Statutory Auditors expressing limited assurance on selected workforce-related, environmental and societal information published in the Group’s management report For the attention of the Executive Management of Sopra Group We were assisted in our work by our Corporate Social Responsibility As requested and in our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Sopra and Sustainable Development experts. Group, we hereby present our statement of completeness with Statement of completeness regard to the consolidated workforce-related, environmental and societal information included in the Corporate Social Responsibility We conducted the following procedures in accordance with section of the management report, presented in the Registration professional standards applicable in France: Document issued for the financial year ended 31 December 2012, ppwe compared the Information included in the management and prepared in application of Article L. 225-102-1 of the French report with the list set forth in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. We also provide our limited assurance report Commercial Code; with regard to certain elements of this information selected by the ppwe verified that the Information covered the entire scope of Group and identified by the symbol “√”. consolidation, i.e. the Company and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article L. 233-1 and the companies that it controls within the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Responsibility of the Company Commercial Code, with the limits specified in section 1.6 of the Corporate Social Responsibility portion of the management The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a management report, presented in the Registration Document; report including the consolidated workforce-related, environmental and societal information provided for in Article R. 225-105-1 of the ppwhere certain consolidated information was omitted, we French Commercial Code (hereinafter the “Information”), prepared verified that explanations were provided in accordance with the in accordance with the reporting criteria used by Sopra Group provisions of Decree 2012-557 of 24 April 2012. (the Sopra Group CSR Reporting Protocol) and available from the On the basis of these procedures, we certify that the Information as Group’s Sustainable Development Department. required has been presented in the management report. Limited assurance report on selected workforce-related, environmental and societal information, identified Independence and quality control by the symbol “√” Our independence is defined by regulations, the code of ethics for our profession, and the provisions of Article L. 822-11 of the Nature and scope of procedures French Commercial Code. We have also set up a quality control We conducted our procedures in accordance with the International system that includes policies and documented procedures to Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 and with ensure compliance with rules of ethics, professional standards and professional standards applicable in France. applicable laws and regulations. We carried out the procedures described below in order to provide limited assurance that the indicators selected by the Group and identified by the symbol “√” contain no material misstatement Responsibility of the Statutory Auditor that would call into question the assessment that they are Based on the procedures performed, it is our responsibility to: fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. A higher level of assurance would have required ppcertify that the Information as required has been presented more extensive work. in the management report or, if any such information has been omitted, that an explanation as provided for in the third Our work consisted in the following: paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial ppwe assessed the Reporting Criteria with respect to their relevance, Code and in Decree 2012-557 of 24 April 2012 has been given completeness, neutrality, comprehensibility and reliability, taking (Statement of completeness); into account best practices in the industry, if applicable; ppexpress an opinion of limited assurance that the indicators ppwe verified the implementation within the Group of a data selected by the Group and identified by the symbol “√” are collection, compilation, processing and quality control process fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the to ensure the completeness and consistency of the selected Reporting Criteria (Limited assurance report). indicators. We also reviewed the internal control and risk management procedures involved in the preparation of this information. We conducted interviews with the individuals in charge of workforce-related, environmental and societal reporting; Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group 85 4 2012 Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Report of one of the Statutory Auditors expressing limited assurance on selected workforce-related, environmental and societal information published in the Group’s management report ppwe conducted the following procedures with regard to the Conclusion specific indicators selected (1): Based on our procedures, we did not identify any material • we conducted analytical procedures and verified the misstatement that would call into question the assessment that calculations made as well as the consolidation of these the indicators identified by the symbol “√” are fairly presented in indicators, using sampling techniques, accordance with the Reporting Criteria. • we conducted interviews to verify the proper application Paris-La Défense, 19 April 2013 of procedures and obtained information allowing us to document our verifications, Mazars • we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, Christine Dubus Emmanuelle Rigaudias in order to verify the calculations made and reconcile the Partner Partner, CSR & Sustainable information provided with the supporting documents. Development (1) These indicators are as follows [our verification procedures confirmed a 100% coverage rate for all the indicators]: total workforce, average FTE workforce, total workforce by type of contract, portion of management-level employees in the workforce, average age of employees under permanent contracts, average length of service of these employees, new hires, staff turnover rate for employees under permanent contracts, absenteeism rate, rates of frequency and severity of workplace accidents, number of training days and hours, average number of training days per employee, rate of employment of disabled workers, quantities of WEEE, number of physical and virtual machines installed, purchases of SFI paper, number of new videoconferencing systems implemented during the financial year, CO2 emissions of all work-related travel, number of work-study recruitments per region, distribution of recruitments by region, partnerships and sponsorship initiatives, supplier assessment system, rate of CSR assessment of suppliers. 86 Registration Document 2012 Sopra Group
