AC I LIMI TED 5 August 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Message from the Chairman Dear Global Compact Stakeholders, Advancing Possibilities It gives me great pleasure to commemorate another significant year with UN Global Compact and communicate the CSR activities of ACI. Being a socially responsible corporation, ACI finds ways to return some of its reward Inside this issue: to the community. ACI is committed to the development of the community, protection of the environment and in bringing about qualitative improvements in the workplace for its employees. In 2012, ACI continued some sustainable projects that had been started earlier and also initiated some new activities. As a part of ACI’s CSR approach, Employment Gen2 “Adopt a Village”this program has further expanded into 11 villages by using the eration experience of the pilot project. ACI endeavors to improve the living standard of the rural community by spreading the project across the country. Awareness for Safe 3 Motherhood Finally, as an active member, ACI embraces the ten principles of UN Global Compact and attaches a great deal of importance to protecting the environment and ensuring human and labor rights in 3 the workplace. Observing “World Diabetes Day” Best Regards, Adopt a Village 4 M. Anis Ud Dowla Training program for 6 Chairman, ACI Limited employee safety About ACI Limited Proactive teamwork 6 Advanced Chemical Industries (ACI) Limited is a conglomerate that has spread its wings in pharmaceuticals, conto prevail constraint sumer, commodity , agricultural and packaging products. It also has extended into retail business. Discrimination free 7 With seventeen SBUs and eight functions, it has a employee strength of around eight thousand. The yearly revenue workplace of the company is around USD 280 million. Confronting Corrup7 tion Scope of the COP 2012 The Scope of the Communication on Progress is directed towards development of the community through improving the awareness relating to healthcare, proper sanitation, surrounding environment, water supply and so on. In 2012, ACI carried out following activities: Contact Point: Muallem A. Choudhury Activities Global Compact Principles Executive Director Employment Generation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationACI Limited ally proclaimed human rights 245,Tejgaon I/A, “Adopt a Village” Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Dhaka, Bangladesh Discrimination free workplace Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation E-mail: edfp@aci-bd.com Proactive teamwork to prevail Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility constraint Confronting Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Page 2 Employment Generation Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights With a growing population and relatively small size of during the last decade. the economy employment generation is a challenging task for Bangladesh. Since its independence, the econIndeed, enhancement of economic growth should be at omy of the country has been experiencing structural the centre of an employment strategy, which will be interchanges. It has gradually moved from an agrarian to a twined with the ultimate aim of poverty reduction through more industry and services sector based economy. Along employment generation. However, for Bangladesh the mawith the structural change, the economy has also jor impetus for increased employment has to come from achieved impressive growth in terms of Gross Domestic the private sector. Enhancing growth and employment Product (GDP). However, the growth of the economy creation in Bangladesh will of course require removal of has not been accompanied by adequate employment obstacles such as infrastructural bottlenecks, institutional creation and the number of unemployed people has inweakness and political instability. creased over the years. The country continued to reveal a vigorous pace of economic development despite an adverse international economy. The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Bangladesh expanded 6.30 percent in 2012 from the previous year. Agricultural and aqua-cultural production, shipbuilding industry, export earnings from readymade garments and generous remittance from Bangladeshi expatriates; all contribute to a good performance of the econOutcome: omy. Due to adverse macroeconomic environment including Table: Contribution to Growth (%) political disturbance, the year 2012 proved to be challenging for ACI. However, ACI and its resilient workforce managed to increase the business by 13.07% over the previous year. With the growth of business, ACI has been generated employment for many people. Development of people has been the cornerstone of ACI’s activities, and is the primary reason behind sustained business growth. Through on the job coaching, mentoring, training and other ways of development, ACI enhances the skill and knowledge of employees. In year 2012, total number of employees increased to A recent report of the World Bank (2012) reveals that 8050. And the growth of employees is 5 percent over the Bangladesh is the only country in South Asia where last year. growth in labour force outpaced growth in employment Page 3 Awareness for Safe Motherhood Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Safe motherhood is fundamentally a matter of human In Bangladesh 194 mothers are still dying per 100,000 rights; all women are entitled to good health and highbirths each year as over 68 per cent of them still give quality health services. Despite the strides made in materbirth unattended by trained personnel, according to a nal health, women in the developing world are still at exrecent nationwide demographic health survey. tremely high risk of dying or being injured from pregnancy OutCome: ACI observed safe motherhood day on 28 -related causes, with the lifetime risk of maternal mortality May 2012 by taking a month long program to help being as high as one in eight in some places. With the inmothers and new born babies protecting them from creasing focus on the MDGs, there is an extraordinary opall kinds of germs. ACI distributed Savlon New Born portunity for accelerating progress and expanding efforts Baby Kit to all the mothers of new born babies at 47 to improve maternal health worldwide. Smiling Sun Franchise Program (SSFP) clinics throughout Bangladesh through partnership arrangement with SSFP. Observing “World Diabetes Day” Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ACI Pure Flour, a subsidiary of ACI Ltd, with the help of NHN (National Heath Network) center run by BIRDEM, observed “World Diabetes Day” by undertaking a highly effective awareness campaign on 14 November, 2012. Throughout the day, 15 teams interacted with diabetes patients, advised them to emulate doctors’ suggestions and raised awareness about diabetes. They distributed leaflets which were enriched with valuable information that ranged from types of diabetes and their respective prevention methods, diet chart etc. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Page 4 Adopt a Village Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Adopt a Village is a project of ACI for the progression of the community through sustainable poverty reduction initiatives. This is a CSR approach to change the society by providing adaptable technology, cost effective solution and services. The core objective of this project is to improve the lives of the people who strive to get adequate food, proper education and bare minimum health care. Another purpose of this sustainable project is to drive for sustainable agriculture, food security followed by prosperity through best agronomic practice, profitable agriculture & serving the purpose of corporate social responsibility. At the initial stage, ACI adopted a village as pilot basis to improve the villagers’ knowledge on personal hygiene, sanitation and agricultural practices. After running the project for two years of period, the project has been evaluated to find the appropriateness of the project goal, deviation of the actual result from the expected result, and the sustainable benefits acquired from the project. The positive result of the project provided a drive to extend the activities into more villages. In Year 2012, this project has been replicated in further 11 villages under the Gopalgonj Sadar and Tungipara Upazila in Bangladesh. According to the action plan ACI has conducted following pro“In Year grams during the period. 2012, this Access to Safe Drinking Water: project has been replicated Lack of access to safe drinking water is a significant barrier to improving the health and wellbeing and reducing poverty in Gopalgonj area. Salinity in ground and surface water, arsenic contamination in further 11 of shallow aquifer, lack of aquifer and difficulties in extracting saline free water are some of the villages under causes. The effects are negative health, social and economic outcomes for the local population. In an the Gopalgonj Sadar and Tungipara Upazila” effort to allow villagers to get access to safe drinking water, ACI also installed at least 26 Deep Tube Wells (DTW) in the villages of Gopalgonj district where people were facing acute shortage of pure drinking water. Deep Tube well helps to prevent many water generated diseases. Villagers are now less prone to the water generated diseases. Skill Development programs: ACI organized training program for villagers to transfer the best agronomic practice to the farmers. Increasing the productivity with lowering the cost is the main objective of this training program. Through this training program farmer gets thorough knowledge about crops, soil, land, purchasing characteristics, credit status, new technology for high yield crop production etc. Page 5 Besides that, a two day long retailers’ training has been conducted in October. 25 2012 retailers, who deals with fertilizer, pesticide & herbicide, participated in this training program to provide better understanding about new technology to create sustainable environment for agriculture. Pesticide Safety Awareness Programs: Safe and judicious use of pesticides: ACI provided training on safe and judicious use of pesticides among 1455 farmers in 50 batches from selected 11 villages to educate the farmers about the best agronomic practices. Provide personal protective equipment (PEE): ACI also distributed personal protective equipment (PEE) among the farmers where every lead farmer got apron, safety goggles, set hand gloves and spray machine. “ACI will recommend fertilizer douse including right type of fertilizer which will save farmers money and keep good soil condition” Soil Health Testing and Fertilizer Recommendation: ACI started the establishment of a mobile soil testing booth. A “Humboldt Soil Testing Kit” will be established in this booth. Farmers will take their soil for testing purpose and ACI will recommend fertilizer douse including right type of fertilizer which will save farmers money and keep good soil condition. Motivational Activities: ACI is also performing a consistent motivational activity among the villagers about vegetable cultivation, homestead gardening, safe drinking water, hygiene and sanitation etc. About 300 household are engaged in vegetable cultivation in their homestead premises and fallow land. ACI distributed various types of vegetable seeds among the villagers to draw their attention and to create eagerness to boost up the production. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Page 6 Training programs for employee safety Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights ACI is committed to conduct all its operations in a manner that is protective to the environment, health and safety of employees as well as community. On September 2012, ACI formed a SHE (Safety, Health and Environment) committee to ensure a safe and healthy work environment that will yield productivity and efficiency while minimizing work related hazards, injuries, accidents, incidents and diseases etc. Outcome: Under SHE initiative, a “Safety Training for Non Management Staff” was organized on 29 December 2012 aiming to form a fire fighting team and train them to handle crisis situation, identify hazardous conditions and taking corrective measures. The training has covers some important areas like general safety, housekeeping, working at height, safety techniques for hazard, handling manual tools, use of fire extinguisher etc. Proactive teamwork to prevail constraint Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility Flood in Bangladesh is commonly a result of the geoOutcome: graphical position of the country. Bangladesh is situated ACI Pure flour (APFL) stepped forward to help recent in the Ganges Delta and this can make it probe to floodflood affected people of Sylhet district of Bangladesh. In ing especially during the rainy season. In recent years the response to the requirement of Non Governmental Orfrequency of abnormal floods in Bangladesh has increased ganization Islamic-Relief, ACI Pure flour Ltd distributed substantially, causing serious damage to lives and proprelief bags to the flood affected people that contained erty. Torrential rain starting on 23 Jun 2012 resulted in food items like rice, dal, sugar, salt, oil as well as non floods and landslides, killing 139 people and causing the food items like candles, matches and polythene sheets. destruction of homesteads and significantly affecting ten Employees of ACI worked together to distribute relief districts in the northern and south-eastern parts of Bangmaterials among 500 flood affected families. Whenever ladesh. such situation arises, APFL will always be there to support and extend their help towards helping people in need during similar calamities. Page 7 Confronting Corruption Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Anti-corruption has become the greatest challenge to operating as a value based organization in a country like Bangladesh. Corruption imposes steep cost not only on the organizations, but also on the society. Corruption obstructs business from running in a smooth manner. Corruption can corrode the soul of financially efficient businesses. In order to attain business practice free from corruption, company must take anti corruption strategies. This may reduce the profit incurred from corruption practice but on the other hand it creates climate of integrity and ethical base culture across the company. Outcome: ACI also has some anti corruption strategies which restrict stakeholders from engaging in any undue activities. ACI embraces some policies in its day to day activities to reduce corruption and increase accountability and transference in the transactions.  Company shows zero tolerance attitudes for any misconduct, fraud, theft and illegal activities.  Internal audit plays vital role in anti bribery efforts.  There are regulation and guidelines in terms of giving and receiving gifts.  Maintaining transparency in procurement process.  Employees of ACI can not be a supplier of this company. Employees need to sign an agreement known as “Loyalty and Security Agreement” where they make commitment not to engage with any undue and illegal activities. Management always pays attention to the issues regarding corruption and take prompt action to wipe out the corruption from the Company. Discrimination Free workplace Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation One of the basic rights women have is not to be discriminated against in the workforce and in the workplace. ACI always follow this principle in its workplace and provide a safe and discrimination free working condition to the female workers. In this regards, a two day training program on “Promoting Gender Equality and Preventing Violence against Women at Workplace” in ACI Formulation factory where selected employees participated from respective departments. The training program was organized by Bangladesh Employer’s Federation (BEF).
