Communication on Progress {January-December 2012} Full name of the participating company/organization: Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited Country of headquarters / countries of major operations: Dhaka, Bangladesh Industry sector: Footwear Manufacturing and Exporting Reported period: January to December 2012 Structure of the Communication on Progress: 1. Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited (AAFL) is committed to upholding the principles of the UN Global Compact through all vistas of its operations. The company believes that prosperity and growth is firmly pegged to the wellbeing of the community through which it operates, concurrently safeguarding the human rights of its workforce, customers and suppliers through ensuring labor standards are met and treating all its stakeholders in an unbiased and transparent manner. This is embodied in the company’s corporate credo, “Honest Growth”. 2. Description of practical actions, and policies if available, taken to implement the UN Global Compact principles and quantitative measurement of performance. The guidelines below are developed to help you with identifying the actions and indicators under the four issue areas. Human Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Rights: internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses What is the relevance of Human Rights Actions and indicators – examples: for your company? What The company provides information among its impact/influence has your company on employees on the measures supporting human Human Rights? How is your company rights. It had organized over 12 training programs impacted/influenced by Human Rights? in the concluded year on topics such as Fire Fighting, Chemical safety, ILO conventions, code Does the company demonstrate its of conduct, personal protective equipment and human rights protection policy in any of emergency management. the following documents? Organizational structure In partnership with COEL, AAFL also conducted Employment rules Gender Equality Training, Maternity Health Care HR plan Training and HIV awareness training among the Risk management plan factory staff in 2012. Supplier selection criteria Customer relation systems The company selects its contractors based on a Employee relation systems list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the Employee information and training availability of information about their engagement plan with human rights protection. Sponsorship, donation and social activity policy The company protects the rights of its customers by providing information about its products and Is there a special person or team or services. Page 1 committee in charge of implementing this AAFL’s Human Resources unit is tasked with policy? safeguarding the human rights of its employees. This 15 member task force is led by Mr. Mominul Does the company have other special Ahsan, Group HR Head who reports directly to projects, for instance assisting nonthe Managing Director and Chairman. The governmental organizations to support strategic and operational Human Rights initiatives disadvantaged social groups? have been delegated to 2 Assistant General Managers who look after the factory and head office staff respectively. The company has a policy supporting: educational projects scholarships projects for participation in cultural life minorities This is done after an evaluation of the needs All employees of the factory have been made a part of a group life insurance policy which ensures compensation to their families in the event of accidents and death. The company allocated 0.75% of retained profits for concrete human rights protection projects. The data is taken from: internal reports and external audit report. The company has partnered with Center of Excellence for Leather Skills Bangladesh Limited (COEL) to help those worst affected by climate change in the Gaibandha and Rangpur region through a comprehensive apprenticeship program. These men and women, who used to earn less than a dollar a day through sharecropping, are given a 12-month long paid apprenticeship, whereby they are trained as machine operators, machine maintenance officers or supervisors. By the end of 2012, AAFL had assisted COEL in training over 3900 economically disadvantaged individuals, 70% of whom were women. The courses were administered through ILO’s TVET initiative and 95% of the graduates have already been absorbed by a number of leather footwear exporters in the country. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Standards: effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What is the relevance of Labour Actions and indicators – examples: Standards for your company? What The company has a plan for employment, training impact/influence has your company on and career development, the criteria being Labour Standards? How is your company transparent for the employees. The company has impacted/influenced by Labour clear rules regarding working hours, breaks, etc. Standards? Job advertisements guarantee equal access to all Page 2 able candidates. Does the company demonstrate its human rights protection policy in any of The company has a formal representation of the the following documents?: employees in the management. The company Collective labour contract has a formal system to hear the opinion of the Organizational structure employees Employment rules Risk management plan The company selects its contractors based on a Supplier selection criteria list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the Customer relation systems availability of information about their engagement Employee information and training with labour standards protection. plan External audit reports Given the potential risk in the sector of employing Equal opportunities policy children under 18, company displays in the notice board not to employing children under 18. Is there a special person or team or committee in charge of implementing this The aforementioned 15-member Human policy? Resources team has devised and implemented AAFL’s Human Rights Policy and through Does the company have other special continuous monitoring, ensures policy projects, for instance, assisting a noncompliance. The company has also proactively governmental organization, which works sought empowerment and employment of for supporting equal opportunities marginalized women in BD. This is reflected in between women and men, the abolition of the fact that approximately 70% of AAFL’s factory child labour and other forms of labour workforce is comprised of women. norms violation? The data is taken from internal reports and external audit reports. Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What is the relevance of Environmental Actions and indicators – examples: issues for your company? What The precautionary approach of the company impact/influence has your company on guarantees that it collects information in order to the Environment? How is your company identify, monitor and assess the possible impacted/influenced by the environmental effects of its products and Environment? manufacturing processes. Does the company demonstrate its The company selects its contractors based on a environment protection policy in any of list of criteria, including a criterion regarding the the following documents?: availability of information about their engagement Risk management plan with environment protection. Supplier selection criteria Customer relation systems AAFL’s backward integration with Apex Tannery Employee information and training Limited – 2 (ATL2) ensures that the key raw plan material of leather is processed responsibly, as Marketing plans ATL2 operates its own independent ETP capable of treating 150 m3 of waste per day. Is there a special corporate environmental policy, independent or as In addition, AAFL Factory completed its first part of other documents? production run without using any Volatile Organic Compound (VOC) in line with the long-range Is there a special person or team or trans-boundary air pollution pact of the Geneva committee in charge of implementing this Convention (1979). policy? Page 3 The company states clearly its planned Does the company have other special environmental targets and achievements (on the projects, for instance, assisting a nonweb site, internal bulletin, etc.) governmental environmental organization? In 2012, AAFL also conducted to courses titled Environmental Training and Waste Handling Procedures, which were attended by 552 and 40 factory staff respectively. The data is taken from internal reports and external audit reports. In April 2012, AAFL conducted a month long environmental awareness campaign through its domestic manufacturing and retail wing, Gallerie Apex. Titled, the Green Gallerie Initiative, the program introduced environment friendly, recyclable shopping bags and dedicated recycle bins in 10 of its premium outlets encouraging consumers to recycle paper, glass and plastic. Framed environment pledges have been placed in select showrooms encouraging customers to get involved in saving electricity, paper and water. A vindication to AAFL’s efforts came in August, 2012, when it was awarded the prestigious Gold Certification from Worldwide Responsible Accredited Production (WRAP), making AAFL the only leather footwear manufacturing company in Asia to receive this distinction. AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including Corruption: extortion and bribery. What is the relevance of Corruption for Actions and indicators – examples: your company? What impact/influence has your company on Corruption? How The company observes strict rules with regard to is your company impacted/influenced by donations, including for political parties, Corruption? guaranteeing transparency. Documents that could bear on elements The employees are informed about the company of anti-corruption policy: policy thanks to an internal bulletin. financial rules and orders regarding gifts, social expenses and Both suppliers and partners are informed about representational expenses the company purchase policy. purchase rules description of connected persons The company has signed the initiative of the GC donation rules, including for political and BBLF to limit the amount of cash payments. parties rules for service payments by state The company finances: employees and/or employees to survey and discussion on Corruption in business partners universities within the framework of a project of the х Association Does the company have a document, participation of one of its employees in a describing the anti-corruption and antilecture-discussion with students “What is bribery policy, for instance in a Code or corruption and what are its forms?” other form? AAFL’s local wing Gallerie Apex was awarded the Is there a person charged specifically with highest Value Added Tax Payer for the year Page 4 implementing this policy? 2010-11 by the Bangladesh Government, which serves as a vindication of the transparent Does the company have any other practices of the company. special projects, for instance with a business organization and/or with the support of a non-governmental The data is taken from: internal reports and organization? external audit reports. 3. Sharing the COP with the company’s stakeholders – available links to the company’s Communication on Progress and additional information on the location of the COP report – and posting the COP on the Global Compact website http://www.unglobalcompact.org/admin/ Contact person for the COP (full name, position, email, etc.): Md. Mominul Ahsan, Head of Human Resources, Apex Adelchi Footwear Limited; ahsan@apexadelchi.com Page 5
