United Nations Secretary-General H.E. Ban Ki-moon United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA 19.12.13 Communication on Progress, COP 2012-2013 Dear Secretary-General, Since our first commitment to support, proactively develop and promote the ten principles of United Nations Global Compact in 2003 the universal values reflected in here determine our business activities and define our license to operate. In the past ten years sustainable business development, reflected in the Compact´s ten principles, became our exclusive guideline for all corporate and public activities. The support and the promotion of this unique ground-breaking United Nation initiative becomes more and more important for us. The private sector driven Global Compact will play a crucial role for the development of the post 2015 agenda and already today helps to reach the goals being formulated in United Nations resolution “The World We Want”. A.C.A Riegelsberger underlines its commitment to the UN Global Compact and herewith officially declares an ongoing strong support in the future to come. Inand externally we will continue to implement and to promote the ten principles out of Human Rights, Labor, Environment Protection and Anti-Corruption. Appointed as “UN Habitat Youth Goodwill Envoy” the Managing Director of A.C.A Riegelsberger, Mr. Wolfgang Riegelsberger, recognizes global youth unemployment as one of the world´s biggest challenges. The company and its newly founded Institute for Global Responsibility and Leadership (IFGRAL) since two years develop concepts and innovative models to eradicate global youth unemployment by the year 2030 for the interest of UN Habitat. Youth, representing the majority of the global population, already today is the most active driver for sustainable development and should therefore be stronger recognized within the Global Compact initiative and its network. A.C.A Riegelsberger herewith hands over its Communication on Progress for the 2012-2013 time period. Wolfgang Riegelsberger Managing Director / A.C.A Riegelsberger
