Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM Integrated Annual Report 2012 Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM, the Life Sciences and Materials Sciences company Our purpose is to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come. We connect our unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences to create solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance. DSM uses its Bright Science to create Brighter Living for people today and for generations to come. Based on a deep understanding of key global trends that are driving societies, markets and customers, DSM creates solutions to some of the world’s biggest challenges, thus adding to both its own and its customers’ success. DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by its ability to create shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that allow its customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit solutions − solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being able to offer end-users improved products; society and the planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longer-lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives; and, as a result, DSM and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and profitability. Finally, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated both through the contribution they make to a better world and the success this creates for the company in which they work. DSM – Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Royal DSM is a global science-based company active in health, nutrition and materials. By connecting its unique competences in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM is driving economic prosperity, environmental progress and social advances to create sustainable value for all stakeholders. DSM delivers innovative solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance in global markets such as food and dietary supplements, personal care, feed, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, automotive, paints, electrical and electronics, life protection, alternative energy and bio-based materials. DSM’s 23,500 employees deliver annual net sales of around € 9 billion. The company is listed on NYSE Euronext. More information can be found at www.dsm.com. © 2013 Royal DSM. All rights reserved. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com Key data for 2012 Net sales, continuing Operating profit plus Net profit, continuing Net profit, total DSM operations depreciation and operations1 (x million) (x million) amortization, continuing (x million) operations1 (x million) € 9,131 € 1,109 € 437 € 288 Cash provided by Capital expenditure Core earnings per ordinary Dividend per ordinary operating activities, total including acquisitions share, continuing share2 DSM (x million) operations3 (x million) € 730 € 1,980 € 2.78 € 1.50 ROCE, continuing Innovation sales as % of Sales in High Growth China sales, continuing operations total sales Economies as % of total operations (in %) sales (x USD million) 8.9 18 38 1,700 ECO+ solutions as % of ECO+ solutions as % of Energy use, continuing Water use, continuing innovation pipeline, total running business, total operations operations DSM DSM (in petajoules) (in million m3) 80 43 41 150 Greenhouse-gas Workforce Employee engagement Frequency Index of emissions, continuing (at year-end) favorable score recordable injuries operations (in %) (per 100 DSM employees (x million tons) and contractor employees) 4.2 23,498 72 0.44 1 Before exceptional items 2 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 3 Before exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets related to purchase accounting Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 1 Table of contents 3 Key data 122 Report by the Supervisory Board 122 Supervisory Board report 4 DSM at a glance 125 Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board 6 Letter from the Chairman 134 Supervisory Board and Managing Board 10 Report by the Managing Board 10 Highlights of 2012 136 What still went wrong in 2012 14 DSM in motion: driving focused growth 18 Growth Driver: High Growth Economies 138 Information about the DSM share 21 Growth Driver: Innovation 24 Growth Driver: Sustainability 140 Consolidated financial statements 28 Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships 140 Summary of significant accounting policies 33 Stakeholder engagement 146 Consolidated statements 43 External recognition 153 Notes to the consolidated financial statements of 45 People in 2012 Royal DSM 57 Planet in 2012 69 Profit in 2012 206 Parent company financial statements 207 Notes to the parent company financial statements 74 Review of business in 2012 77 Life Sciences 216 Other information 78 Nutrition 216 Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements 87 Pharma 217 Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability 91 Materials Sciences Information 92 Performance Materials 218 Profit appropriation 101 Polymer Intermediates 219 Special statutory rights 105 Innovation Center 219 Important dates 109 Corporate Activities 220 DSM figures: five-year summary 110 Financial and reporting policy 110 Financial policy 224 Explanation of some concepts and ratios 110 Reporting policy 227 List of abbreviations 112 Corporate governance and risk management 112 Introduction 229 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ 114 Dutch corporate governance code 115 Governance framework 116 Risk management 121 Statements of the Managing Board Forward-looking statements This document may contain forward-looking statements with respect to DSM's future (financial) performance and position. Such statements are based on current expectations, estimates and projections of DSM and information currently available to the company. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements made or implied about the company’s strategy, estimates of sales growth, financial results, cost savings and future developments in its existing businesses as well as the impact of future acquisitions, and the company’s financial position. These statements can be management estimates based on information provided by specialized agencies or advisors. DSM cautions readers that such statements involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict and therefore it should be understood that many factors can cause the company's actual performance and position to differ materially from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, macro-economic, market and business trends and conditions, (low-cost) competition, legal claims, the company's ability to protect intellectual property, changes in legislation, changes in exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates, pension costs, raw material and energy prices, employee costs, the implementation of the company’s strategy, the company’s ability to identify and complete acquisitions and to successfully integrate acquired companies, the company’s ability to realize planned divestments, savings, restructuring or benefits, the company’s ability to identify, develop and successfully commercialize new products, markets or technologies, economic and/or political changes and other developments in countries and markets in which DSM operates. As a result, DSM’s actual future performance, position and/or financial results may differ materially from the plans, goals and expectations set forth in such forwardlooking statements. DSM has no obligation to update the statements contained in this document, unless required by law. The English language version of this document is leading. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 2 Key data 2012 2011 People Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 23,498 22,224 Female/male ratio 26/74 26/74 Total employee benefits costs in € million 1,761 1,655 Frequency Index of recordable injuries (per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees) 0.44 0.53 Employee engagement favorable score (in %) 72 71 Planet Energy use (in petajoules), continuing operations 41 44 Water use (in million m3), continuing operations 150 157 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons), continuing operations 4.2 4.6 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons), continuing operations 3.4 4.2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges (x 1000 tons), continuing operations 5.5 7.1 ECO+ solutions as % of innovation pipeline, total DSM1 80 94 ECO+ solutions as % of running business, total DSM 43 41 Profit (in € million, unless otherwise indicated) Net sales, continuing operations 9,131 9,048 China sales in USD million, continuing operations 1,700 2,002 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization, continuing operations (EBITDA)4 1,109 1,296 Operating profit, continuing operations (EBIT) 4 635 866 Net profit, total DSM 288 814 Cash provided by operating activities 730 882 Dividend for DSM shareholders 263 247 Capital expenditure including acquisitions 1,980 1,502 Net debt 1,668 318 Shareholders' equity 5,874 5,784 Total assets 11,966 11,157 Capital employed, continuing operations 8,084 6,581 Market capitalization at 31 December2 8,307 6,504 Per ordinary share in € Core earnings, continuing operations 2.78 3.66 Dividend 1.503 1.45 Ratios (%) Sales in High Growth Economies / net sales (total DSM) 38 39 Innovation sales / net sales (total DSM) 18 18 EBITDA / net sales (continuing operations) 12.1 14.3 Operating working capital / annualized net sales (continuing operations) 20.7 20.2 ROCE (continuing operations) 8.9 14.0 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 21.6 5.1 Equity / total assets 50.5 53.5 Cash provided by operating activities / net sales (total DSM) 8.0 9.6 1 For a definition of ECO+ see page 224 2 Source: Bloomberg 3 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 4 Before exceptional items Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 3 DSM at a glance DSM’s activities have been grouped into For reporting purposes, the activities are business groups representing coherent grouped into five clusters. In addition, DSM product/market combinations. The reports on a number of other activities, business group directors report directly to which have been grouped under Corporate the Managing Board. Activities. Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Continued value growth Leveraging partnerships for growth The Nutrition cluster comprises DSM Nutritional Products and The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM DSM Food Specialties. These serve the food and beverage, Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world’s leading feed, personal care, dietary supplements and pharmaceutical custom manufacturing suppliers to pharmaceutical and industries with global capabilities and a deep understanding of biopharmaceutical industries. Many of today’s medicines around customer and market needs. With customized formulation the world contain ingredients produced by DPP. The cluster also activities at more than 60 locations and a presence in more than contains DSM’s 50 percent interest in the DSM Sinochem a hundred countries, customer intimacy is key. DSM's nutrition Pharmaceuticals joint venture (DSP). DSP was formed in 2011 technologies are broad, utilizing competences in biotechnology from the former DSM business group DSM Anti-Infectives. DSP (including fermentation) and state-of-the-art process is one of the few producers and marketers of beta-lactam active technology. DSM has the world's broadest ingredients portfolio pharmaceutical ingredients with a global presence, using and holds leading positions in many large ingredient markets for cutting-edge manufacturing technology with a low animal and human nutrition and health, like vitamins, environmental footprint. carotenoids, enzymes, cultures, yeast extracts, polyunsaturated fatty acids, premixes and formulations. Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Growing via sustainable, innovative solutions Strengthening backward integration for DSM Engineering The Performance Materials cluster comprises DSM Engineering Plastics Plastics, DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. The Polymer Intermediates product cluster comprises These business groups specialize in the manufacture of caprolactam and acrylonitrile produced by DSM Fibre technologically sophisticated, high-quality materials that are Intermediates (DFI). These products are raw materials for tailored to meet customers’ performance criteria, and that help synthetic fibers and plastics. Caprolactam is a key feedstock for customers substitute traditional solutions with more sustainable DSM Engineering Plastics’ polyamide production. Globally, DFI and durable alternatives. DSM's performance materials are used is the largest merchant caprolactam supplier and the third largest in a wide variety of end-use markets like automotive, aviation, merchant acrylonitrile supplier. In addition, the business group electrical and electronics, marine, sports and leisure, paint and produces ammonium sulfate, sodium cyanide, cyclohexanone coatings, and construction. Sustainability is a true driver of new and diaminobutane. business and innovations in materials. DSM's materials portfolio is shifting towards a higher value added mix by introducing innovative, more sustainable solutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 4 Innovation Center As an enabler and accelerator of innovation, the Innovation solutions to meet the needs of the medical device and Center facilitates DSM's strategic transition towards becoming biopharmaceutical industries with coatings, drug delivery an intrinsically innovative organization. Innovation at DSM is platforms and a wide range of biomedical materials for use in guided by functional excellence in order to find the best implantable medical devices. The EBA Bio-based Products & sustainable and commercially viable solutions to market needs, Services creates solutions for bioconversion of feedstocks for helping create profitable growth. In addition to the activities of the production of bio-based chemicals and materials and the DSM Innovation Center (including DSM Venturing), this part develops the technologies to enable the production of bioof the company also includes the three Emerging Business Areas energy such as cellulosic biofuels. DSM Advanced Surfaces (EBAs). These EBAs are growth engines that focus on new provides solutions for the development and application of smart business areas outside the scope of the company's business coatings and is focused on solutions for the solar industry. groups. DSM Biomedical develops novel materials-based Sales per cluster in 2012 EBITDA per cluster in 2012 Workforce per cluster in 2012 net sales in € million EBITDA in € million headcount at year-end 2012 excl. Innovation Center (-€ 38 million) ■ Nutrition ■ Nutrition ■ Nutrition ■ Pharma ■ Pharma ■ Pharma ■ Performance Materials ■ Performance Materials ■ Performance Materials ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Innovation Center 102 129 668 1,596 1,474 3,667 280 5,354 9,489 793 2,772 39 726 3,314 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 5 Letter from the Chairman Dear reader, As the world continues to face unprecedented challenges from of total sales. In 2012 this was 18 percent. Our target for 2015 both an economic, environmental and societal perspective, our is 20 percent. existing approaches are being put to the test. Navigating through a decade that is already being dubbed the ‘Turbulent Teens’ is Our Emerging Business Areas (EBAs) are doing very well. The becoming increasingly challenging, as developments in our acquisition of Kensey Nash has further strengthened the complex and interconnected world are happening with great Biomedical EBA, making DSM a leading medical device speed. However, to DSM these challenges are also providing materials supplier. And together with POET in the United States, opportunities. We believe we can contribute to solutions and we started POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, a joint venture to new approaches and we are committed to turning them into commercially develop the production of cellulosic biofuels, made reality. out of plant residues. The construction of the POET-DSM biofuels facility in Emmetsburg, Iowa (USA), is proceeding The innovative and sustainable solutions that we offer our according to plan. In the field of bio-based chemicals, too, we customers help them address their current and future needs. saw good progress, including the start-up of our new bioThese needs are a response to global trends and challenges. succinic acid plant in Italy, in cooperation with Roquette. The global population is growing and aging, and is increasingly urban and increasingly wealthy. This all leads to increased Besides being a core value and a responsibility to contribute to consumption per capita and a bigger claim on the world’s society, sustainability has become a real business driver for resources. DSM. Our ECO+ products and solutions, which have a clearly smaller environmental footprint than mainstream solutions, We see all this come together in the three key global societal increased in 2012 to 43 percent of our total sales and accounted trends that we have on our corporate radar screen: a global for 80 percent of our innovation pipeline. Our list of ECO+ demographic shift, challenges in the field of the global climate solutions continues to grow. In 2012, we further enhanced our and (alternative) energy use, and a growing focus on how to leadership position in sustainability. DSM is developing a secure nutrition, health and wellness for all. People+ strategy that aims to deliver measurably better solutions for improving people’s lives. People+ will do for the ‘people’ Our strategy in addressing these trends and meeting these element of our Triple P approach what ECO+ has done for needs has led us to focus on four growth drivers: High Growth ‘planet’. Economies, Innovation, Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships. In 2012 we once again delivered progress on all In 2012 DSM was very active on the Acquisitions & Partnerships four growth drivers. front. In addition to the biofuels partnership with POET and the biomedical acquisition of Kensey Nash, we announced more In the High Growth Economies, we continue to increase our than five acquisitions in the nutrition field, including Ocean sales and presence. In 2012 these economies accounted for Nutrition Canada (Canada; polyunsaturated fatty acids, such as 38 percent of our total sales versus 39 percent in 2011. This Omega-3/DHA), Tortuga (Brazil; organic chelates and other feed decrease was mainly due to lower caprolactam sales in China. ingredients), Verenium Enzymes (USA; enzymes), the cultures Five years ago this was less than 30 percent. Most notable in and enzymes business of Cargill (USA and Europe, cultures) and 2012 were our investments in China (nutrition, resins and Fortitech (USA; food (premix) ingredients). caprolactam) and our announcement of our upcoming expansion in Brazil, where we are preparing to acquire Tortuga, In total we have invested € 2.8 billion in acquisitions since a leading company in nutritional supplements with a focus on September 2010, when we adopted our current strategy. The pasture raised cattle. acquisitions will result in stronger and more stable growth and profitability for DSM overall and will contribute to the current and We remain committed to R&D and innovation and have built future growth of DSM. Due to synergies the internal value of the further on our best practices. Evidence of this commitment is our acquisitions is significantly higher than the total acquisition new investment in R&D facilities in Delft and Sittard-Geleen (both amount. All acquisitions immediately contribute to earnings per in the Netherlands). During 2012 we further added over 300 new share. patents to our rich patent portfolio. In India and China we continued to develop regional innovation centers. We are firmly As a result of the acquisitions announced in 2012, we are on track towards our target for innovation sales as a percentage welcoming approximately 2,700 new colleagues to our Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 6 Letter from the Chairman increasingly global workforce. Their smooth integration into the accountability for performance, collaboration with speed and DSM family in a timely and efficient manner, while ensuring inclusion & diversity. business continuity and customer satisfaction, is a key priority for us. DSM’s fifth worldwide Employee Engagement Survey showed a very high response rate of 87 percent. The Employee When all of the announced acquisitions have been completed, Engagement Index, the percentage of employees scoring the majority of DSM’s portfolio will be geared towards attractive favorable, was 72 percent compared to 71 percent in 2011, end-markets with low GDP sensitivity. In the Nutrition cluster, which means that it was once again above the global overall DSM has announced around € 2.4 billion in acquisitions since norm. An engaged workforce is critical to DSM in realizing our 2010, broadening our product portfolio, extending and ambitions. enhancing our presence across the value chain and strengthening our global footprint. On a pro forma basis, the Our hard work to further improve safety is bearing fruit. During cluster now has a size of around € 4.6 billion in sales and an the year we focused on the improvement of our safety culture EBITDA margin in the range of 20-23 percent. and performance, among other things by securing compliance with the Life Saving Rules. The Frequency Index of recordable As the world’s largest supplier of nutritional ingredients, DSM has injuries fell to 0.44 in 2012 from 0.53 a year earlier. Although this created a unique position with the broadest, deepest and most is a considerable improvement, we still need to work on further global offering to customers, positioning our company for further reducing this Frequency Index. profitable growth. Nutrition now represents more than 70 percent of total EBITDA and has become a high value, global We also need to improve further with regard to diversity, among business with attractive growth prospects across the full value other things by implementing best practices. chain. For DSM, People, Planet and Profit are equally important. Our During 2012 we continued to experience a challenging macrocompany’s primary goal is to provide value for all stakeholders economic environment, with low growth in Europe. Asia on all three dimensions. We stay committed to aligning our continued to show good levels of economic activity whilst the US strategy and operations with the principles of the United Nations has maintained a modest rate of recovery. In the context of these Global Compact. We are very proud that in 2012 we were again conditions, DSM delivered growth across all clusters in 2012, named among the leaders in the Dow Jones Sustainability World excluding caprolactam. For the full year EBITDA amounted to Index. € 1,109 million, 14 percent lower compared to 2011. Profit growth in all clusters was more than offset by approximately € 300 million lower results from DSM’s caprolactam activities in Polymer Intermediates and Performance Materials. The Profit Improvement Program that was launched in August 2012, on top of the previously announced program in DSM Resins & Functional Materials, is fully on track and is expected to deliver structural annual EBITDA benefits of € 150 million by 2014 of which more than half is expected in 2013. As anticipated, DSM has expanded the profit improvement initiative and now expects to achieve another € 50-100 million in benefits on top of the € 150 million. The benefits following this extension are expected to be fully achieved by 2015. During 2012, we transitioned our Change Agenda into a ONE DSM Culture Agenda in order to develop the culture required to achieve our strategic ambitions, mirror the world that we operate in, and become a high performance organization. The ONE DSM agenda consists of four themes: external orientation, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 7 We are also proud that during 2012 DSM won several prestigious awards and received a great deal of recognition for its achievements regarding its integrated Triple P approach, developing a sustainable business that creates value for all stakeholders. We continue to further develop our integrated reporting based on the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We have determined that this integrated annual report, our third, once again merits the GRI A+ rating, representing a high level of transparency. The significant strategic progress we made during 2012 through our value creating acquisitions and the profit improvement initiatives we have taken, leave us well positioned to achieve our long term objectives. In 2013 we will focus on the operational performance and integration of the acquisitions we completed in 2012 with special attention to capturing synergies. We expect strong EBITDA growth in 2013, moving towards € 1.4 billion. The Board’s proposal to increase the dividend for the third consecutive year is testament to the stronger DSM we have built in recent years, with more stable growth and profitability going forward. At DSM we are committed to creating value for all stakeholders by fully leveraging the unique opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, for the benefit of people today and for generations to come. It is a collective effort whose success depends on the engagement not only of our employees but also of the people that we cooperate with: at our customers, at our suppliers and at the civil society organizations that we engage with. I would like to extend my sincere appreciation and gratitude to all who are traveling with us on this very exciting journey. We look forward to reporting further progress. Feike Sijbesma CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 8 Letter from the Chairman Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 9 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), continuing operations General Despite ongoing global economic headwinds, DSM delivered x € million 2012 2011 growth across all clusters in 2012, except for caprolactam. The Managing Board proposes to increase the dividend for the third Nutrition 793 735 consecutive year as a testament to the stronger DSM that has Pharma 39 36 been built in recent years, with more stable growth and Performance Materials 280 293 profitability going forward. Polymer Intermediates 129 380 Innovation Center (38) (57) Full year EBITDA was € 1,109 million, 14 percent lower Corporate Activities (94) (91) compared to 2011. Profit growth in all clusters was more than offset by approximately € 300 million lower results from DSM’s Total 1,109 1,296 caprolactam activities in Polymer Intermediates and Performance Materials. Full year sales from continuing operations increased to € 9,131 million. Nutrition Full year organic growth was 2 percent driven by volumes and Significant strategic progress was made during 2012 through stable prices. EBITDA was € 793 million and increased by value creating acquisitions and profit improvement initiatives. As 8 percent as a result of continued growth in advanced forms, a result, DSM is well positioned to achieve its long-term premixes and nutritional lipids and contributions from objectives. Nutrition now represents more than 70 percent of acquisitions. total EBITDA and has become a high value, global business with growth prospects across the full value chain. Pharma Full year organic sales growth was 9 percent. EBITDA for the full Overall, based on current economic assumptions, DSM expects year slightly increased due to improved volumes at DSM a step-up in EBITDA during 2013 due to stronger organic Pharmaceutical Products and somewhat higher prices at DSM growth, supported by DSM’s Profit Improvement Program and Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. This more than offset the higher as the benefits of acquisitions and a more resilient portfolio start costs partly associated with the startup of the new 6-APA plant to have impact. In 2013 the focus will be on the operational for the anti-infectives business as well as the effect of the 50 performance and integration of the acquisitions DSM completed percent deconsolidation of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals as in 2012 with special attention to capturing synergies. Overall, of 1 September 2011. based on current economic assumptions, the above will enable DSM to move towards its 2013 EBITDA target of € 1.4 billion. Performance Materials Full year organic sales development was -4 percent due to lower Net sales, continuing operations volumes (-3 percent) and lower prices (-1 percent). EBITDA was slightly below last year. The result of DSM Resins & Functional x € million 2012 2011 Materials showed an impressive improvement in 2012 due to cost reductions and pricing, despite weakness in building and Nutrition 3,667 3,370 construction industries. Strong underlying improvements at Pharma 726 677 DSM Engineering Plastics were partly offset by the weakness in Performance Materials 2,772 2,752 the polyamide 6 chain (caprolactam effect). DSM Dyneema’s full Polymer Intermediates 1,596 1,820 year result was below previous year due to the absence of new Innovation Center 102 60 large vehicle protection tenders, which had been supporting Corporate Activities 268 369 DSM Dyneema in the first half of 2011. Total 9,131 9,048 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 10 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 The DSM Managing Board (from left to right): Stefan Doboczky, Stephan Tanda, Feike Sijbesma (Chairman/CEO), Nico Gerardu, Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (CFO) Polymer Intermediates Innovation Full year organic sales development was -16 percent due to DSM is targeting innovative products and solutions to account 6 percent lower volumes as a result of the turnarounds and for 20 percent of total sales by 2015. Innovation sales, defined 10 percent lower prices. EBITDA was significantly lower. High as sales created by new products and applications introduced benzene prices could not be passed on to the market due to in the past five years, accounted for 18 percent of total sales in weaker demand for caprolactam in combination with new 2012, the same as in 2011. DSM is firmly on track to reach its production capacity coming on-stream. 2015 innovation sales target. Innovation Center Sustainability Full year results showed good sales and EBITDA improvement In 2012 the percentage of ECO+ solutions in the innovation primarily driven by continued strong growth in DSM Biomedical, pipeline was 80 percent, equal to the aspiration set at supported by the contribution of Kensey Nash, which was 80 percent. ECO+ solutions as a percentage of running business acquired in 2012. increased to 43 percent in 2012. DSM is on its way toward the 50 percent aspiration for 2015. High growth economies Sales to high growth economies accounted for 38 percent of Financials total sales in 2012 versus 39 percent of total sales in 2011. The Net finance costs increased by € 12 million compared to the decrease was mainly due to lower caprolactam sales in China. previous year to a level of € 94 million due to a lower average Net sales to China amounted to USD 1.7 billion versus cash position at lower average interest rates and € 7 million USD 2.0 billion in 2011 which was because of lower sales prices impairment of certain financial assets. at DSM Polymer Intermediates. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 11 The effective tax rate before exceptional items for the full year was 18 percent versus 19 percent in 2011. Net profit before exceptional items amounted to € 437 million, compared to € 615 million in 2011. Total net profit for 2012 amounted to € 288 million compared to € 814 million in 2011. This was due to the lower operating profit in 2012 and the restructuring and acquisition costs which were included in the exceptional items of 2012. In 2011 exceptional items included the book profit on divestments (€ 262 million). Net earnings per ordinary share (continuing operations, excluding exceptional items) amounted to € 2.58 versus € 3.53 in 2011. Safety, Health & Environment Considerable improvement was achieved in safety in 2012. The Frequency Index for recordable injuries dropped to 0.44 from 0.53 in 2011. The number of serious incidents decreased significantly from 19 to 9. Profit Improvement Program In the second quarter of 2012 DSM launched a company-wide Profit Improvement Program (on top of the previously announced program in DSM Resins & Functional Materials), mainly focused on cost reductions and efficiency improvements, but also on sales growth and pricing. This program is fully on track and is expected to deliver structural annual EBITDA benefits of € 150 million by 2014 of which more than half is expected in 2013. One-off cash costs for the Profit Improvement Program recognized in 2012 were approximately € 120 million, in line with the guidance given in the second quarter. DSM continued to look for opportunities to expand this program, and this has resulted in an increase in the program’s scope to € 200-250 million in benefits. The one-off cash cost related to this extension of the Profit Improvement Program are expected to be in the order of € 70-80 million. The benefits following this extension are expected to be fully achieved by 2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 12 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 13 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Climate and Health and Global Shifts The strategy that DSM embarked on in September 2010, DSM Energy Wellness in motion: driving focused growth, marks the shift from a time of intensive portfolio transformation to a new era of maximizing sustainable and profitable growth. After a long history of Acq successful transformations, DSM is now halfway this next th Innovation Sustainability uisit row s ions hG ie Par & development phase, becoming a truly global leader in health, Hig onom tne rsh Ec ips nutrition and materials, delivering on its mission of creating brighter lives for people today and generations to come. Life Materials Sciences Sciences Embedded in this mission is DSM’s core value that its activities should contribute to a more sustainable world. This guides how People Planet Profit: creating value along three dimensions DSM pursues sustainable value creation for all stakeholders on three dimensions simultaneously: People, Planet and Profit. and energy. Increased demand around the world is also driving The businesses that form DSM’s core in Life Sciences and a higher use of natural resources, underlining the need for further Materials Sciences are built around finding innovative and efficiency improvements. Several new technologies, especially in sustainable solutions to some of the world’s main challenges, the communications industry, are having a high impact on based on a clear understanding of key global societal trends and society and behavior. their consequences for the planet, consumers and societies. Climate and Energy Most of the world’s biggest challenges stem from population The accepted reality that our fossil age is causing considerable growth. The global population has surpassed seven billion change to our climate is driving the search for alternative energy, people and is expected to grow to nine billion by 2050. The chemicals and materials sources as well as efforts to reduce population is aging and becoming increasingly urban and resource consumption in a multitude of ways as the world will wealthy. This leads to increased consumption per capita and a enter an era of resource scarcity. bigger claim on the world’s resources. All this comes together in three key global societal trends: a global demographic shift, Climate change is a reality and future energy is a central challenges in the field of climate and energy usage and a growing challenge for society both in terms of how to create it and how focus on how to secure health and wellness for all. to get more out of it. In this context, customers are seeking sustainable value chains with higher yields, reduced waste, lower DSM’s strategic focus on Life Sciences and Materials Sciences energy use and fewer greenhouse-gas emissions. At the same is fueled by the three main societal trends that it explored with time there is a growing focus on renewable energy sources. stakeholders as part of its strategy development process: Global Shifts, Climate and Energy, and Health and Wellness. The Health and Wellness company aims to meet the unmet needs resulting from these The impact of a growing, aging, increasingly urban population is societal trends with innovative and sustainable solutions. being felt across the world, but in remarkably different ways. The drive to improve well-being and the increasing life span among Global Shifts the growing middle classes of the high growth economies The accelerating shift of wealth from West to East and from North contrasts with the continuing struggle to effectively feed the to South is the basis of a whole series of global shifts which are populations in less well-off parts of the world, especially children creating a more urban, more connected and more prosperous in their first 1000 days after conception. world − but with huge resource and cultural challenges as a result. There is an increasing need to address core health issues, whether through nutrition, medicines or lifestyle improvements. We live in a world which is changing faster than ever. These In the West, cost pressure on all healthcare systems is rising changes influence where demand comes from, how and where because of the aging population. Healthcare demand in high people are living and how we connect with one another. growth economies is increasing. Nutrition security and access is Urbanization and economic prosperity are promoting dietary increasingly important, and there is also growing demand for changes and increased spending on housing, transport, lifestyle safer and healthier foods and for pharmaceuticals. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 14 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 DSM’s focus is on providing its customers with the innovations Targets and aspirations as set in September 2010 and sustainable products they need to meet the societal and market demands arising from these trends. By adding to its Financial targets customers’ success, DSM adds to its own success too. Profitability targets 2013 EBITDA € 1.4 1.6 bn In responding to these three megatrends, it is DSM’s ambition ROCE > 15% to fully leverage the unique opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences, using the four growth drivers defined in its Sales targets 2015 corporate strategy: High Growth Economies, Innovation, Organic sales growth 5-7% annually Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships. The company China sales from USD 1.5 bn to > USD 3 bn wants to bring all four drivers to the next level. At the same time High growth economies sales from ~32% towards 50% of sales DSM aims to make maximum use of the potential of all four Innovation sales from ~12% to 20% of sales growth drivers to mutually reinforce each other and generate a greater number of compelling business opportunities. Aspiration regarding Emerging Business Areas for 2020 EBA sales > € 1 bn Regional organizations, functional excellence groups and shared services enhance the performance of the business groups. DSM Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 will capture regional business opportunities and synergies and Dow Jones Sustainability Index implement excellence throughout its organization. Top ranking (SAM Gold Class)1 ECO+ (innovation) DSM has set itself ambitious targets for the current strategy At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 period. The company has high aspirations, based on an ECO+ (running business) assessment of the opportunities, particularly in high growth From approximately 34% towards 50% economies, innovation, sustainability, acquisitions and Energy efficiency partnerships, and aims at accelerated growth and increased 20% improvement in 2020, compared to 2008 profitability. Greenhouse-gas emissions -25% (absolute) by 2020, compared to 2008 In 2012, DSM delivered on its strategic ambitions in particular Employee Engagement Survey with acquisitions and partnerships, helping the company expand Towards High Performance Norm3 its presence in high growth economies and boost its range of Diversity and People+ innovative products and solutions. See also: New acquisitions To be updated4 and partnerships in 2012 (page 29). 1 This means a total score within 1% of the SAM sector leader. Strategic targets and aspirations 2 See page 224 for a definition of ECO+. 3 The High Performance Norm (80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% Financial targets employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations. When DSM presented its current strategy in September 2010, it The aspirations for Diversity and People+ were both updated in 2012. Targets have 4 now been set. See page 45 and page 50 . set two profitability targets for 2013: an increase in EBITDA to a level of € 1.4-1.6 billion and an increase in Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) to more than 15 percent. In 2012 EBITDA was later than expected, and (b) the deterioration of the global macro€ 1,109 million, compared to € 1,296 million in 2011. ROCE in economic conditions. 2012 was 8.9 percent, compared to 14.0 percent in 2011. Sales in high growth economies amounted to 38 percent of total At its Capital Markets Days presentation for investors and sales in 2012, bringing the company closer to its announced goal financial analysts in Basel (Switzerland) in September 2012, the of moving from 34 percent in 2009 towards 50 percent of total company confirmed the 2013 EBITDA target. Assuming no net sales. Innovation sales − measured as sales from innovative further deterioration of the economic conditions, and based on products and applications introduced in the last five years − its strategy, financial strength, and the additional actions now reached 18 percent of total net sales in 2012, near the taken, DSM will move towards the 2013 strategic targets. The company's 2015 target of approximately 20 percent. ROCE target is unlikely to be achieved due to (a) the fact that despite DSM’s drive to accelerate acquisitions, many of these During the year, significant further progress was made in the acquisitions — and hence also their synergy effects — came Emerging Business Areas (EBAs), in particular in DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 15 Biomedical, with the acquisition of Kensey Nash, and in DSM DSM’s People+ concept, being designed to deliver measurably Bio-based Products & Services, with the POET-DSM Advanced better solutions to improve the lives of people, was further Biofuels partnership. See also: POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels defined in 2012. The dimensions of health, comfort and well(page 106). being, working conditions and community development have been identified as distinct and instrumental categories to Sustainability aspirations measure People+ impact at product level. See also: People+ DSM continued to make good progress towards meeting the (page 45). ambitious sustainability aspirations that are part of its DSM in motion: driving focused growth strategy, as evidenced by the Organization and culture following highlights. During 2012, DSM transitioned its Change Agenda into a ONE DSM Culture Agenda with an emphasis on collaboration and DSM once again was listed among the chemical industry leaders speed of execution to support the strategy. The themes of the in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. See also: External ONE DSM Culture Agenda have been simplified and more recognition (page 43). aligned with DSM’s business environment and business strategy as well as with its global footprint. See also: ONE DSM Culture The share of ECO+ solutions in the running business portfolio Agenda (page 47). continued to steadily increase to 43 percent in 2012 from 41 percent a year earlier. This reflects DSM's efforts to expand the The ONE DSM cultural identity is further supported by the new share of ECO+ solutions in its portfolio and shows that these corporate brand that the company introduced in 2011. This solutions are increasingly well received by customers. The share brand is a symbol of the company's transition in recent years of ECO+ solutions in DSM's innovation pipeline was 80 percent and demonstrates very clearly to all stakeholders that DSM has in 2012 as major ECO+ innovations were launched during the turned a page. During 2012, the global roll-out of the brand was second half of the year. ECO+ solutions are products and nearly completed. services that, when considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological benefits compared to the mainstream solutions The business groups are the primary organizational and they compete with. See also: ECO+ (page 57). entrepreneurial building blocks with a focus on customers and markets. The regional organizations strengthen the business DSM is on track with its drive to improve energy efficiency by 20 groups by providing infrastructure and capabilities. They also percent by 2020 compared to 2008. Between 2008 and 2012, cater for local innovation in designated countries and represent energy efficiency improved by 14 percent. See also: Energy DSM to external stakeholders. As a shared responsibility, the consumption (page 63). regional organizations also support sales growth. Greenhouse-gas emissions in 2012 were 4.2 million tons, a All this is supported and optimized by shared services (providing 1 percent reduction compared to 2008. DSM aspires to achieve efficient high quality services in designated areas) and functional an absolute reduction of 25 percent by 2020, compared to 2008. excellence groups (offering functional expertise and See also: Greenhouse-gas emissions (page 64). implementation capabilities). Corporate staff departments support the Managing Board in running the company. In 2012 the company executed its fifth worldwide Employee Engagement Survey. The main element in the survey is the DSM aims to truly internationalize its business. This will bring it measurement of DSM’s Employee Engagement Index, the closer to its key markets and customers, strengthen the regional percentage of employees scoring favorable on a combination of businesses and stimulate diversity and innovation. DSM four attributes: commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. combines a strong regional infrastructure with clear board level The Employee Engagement Index measured in 2012 was 72 accountability for regional growth. percent (2011: 71 percent). This is above the global overall norm of 69 percent. The score takes DSM within an 8 percentage point range of the external benchmark of high performing companies (scoring 80 percent favorable), which is the league DSM wants to be part of. See also: DSM Employee Engagement Survey (page 47). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 16 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 17 Growth Driver: High Growth Economies China As in previous years, sales in China in 2012 contributed From 'reaching out' to becoming truly global significantly to DSM's total sales in high growth economies. The company has a clear focus on China, where it aims to increase A key element of DSM in motion: driving focused growth is for its sales to at least USD 3 billion by 2015. In 2012 DSM’s sales DSM to move from being a European company reaching out to in China declined to USD 1.7 billion from USD 2.0 billion a year the world to becoming a truly global company. Fast-growing earlier, mainly due to lower sales prices for caprolactam at DSM economies such as China, India, Brazil and Russia are proving Polymer Intermediates. to be the main growth engines for the world economy this decade. The share of high growth economies in DSM’s total To support its strategic growth in China, DSM is investing sales has increased significantly in recent years and reached 38 USD 1 billion in the country during the current strategy period. percent in 2012. DSM’s strategic target is to increase this share Part of that investment is being made in an expansion project to towards 50 percent by 2015. DSM expects more than 70 double the caprolactam capacity of DSM Nanjing Chemical percent of its growth in the 2010-2015 strategy period to come Company, a partnership with Sinopec Nanjing Chemical from high growth economies. Industries, to 400 kilotons. The new facility is due to come on stream at the end of 2013 and is expected to operate at full To achieve its 2015 targets for high growth economies, DSM capacity in early 2014. See also: Polymer Intermediates (page continued the global reorganization of its operations. The 101). headquarters of DSM Engineering Plastics were moved to Singapore in 2012 and the headquarters of DSM Fibre China sales in billion USD Intermediates are now in Shanghai (China). The headquarters of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals are in Singapore. 2.0 2.0 1.7 1.6 A structure of country presidents in China, India, Russia and 1.5 Latin America, as well as in Japan and North America, facilitates 1.2 1.2 regional decision making. Regional innovation centers have been 1.0 established in India and China. At Managing Board level, clear accountability has been established for regional growth. 0.5 Sales in high growth economies 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 as % of total sales, including China 50 40 39 38 Latin America, India and Russia 37 34 DSM is also increasing its presence in other markets, mostly 29 30 through acquisitions and partnerships, seeking to double or even 20 triple sales in Latin America, India and Russia. 10 In 2012 the company achieved a major leap in Latin America by 0 agreeing to acquire Tortuga, a leading nutritional ingredients 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 provider to cattle farmers. The acquisition is expected to close at the end of the first quarter of 2013. With annual sales of € 385 million, Tortuga will significantly boost DSM's Latin America sales. The acquisition will more than double DSM’s workforce in Latin America to approximately 2,000 people. See also: New acquisitions and partnerships in 2012 (page 29). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 18 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Ocean Nutrition Canada and Fortitech, both acquired in 2012, also have a presence in Latin America. Fortitech is present in all major regions and generates about 16 percent of its revenues in Latin America and 13 percent in Asia. Besides the United Sates, Denmark and Poland, it also has production sites in Brazil and Malaysia and sales offices in Mexico and China. Ocean Nutrition Canada has a production site in Peru, in addition to Canada and the United States. Sustainability in high growth economies As the first regional organization in DSM globally, DSM China established a regional China sustainability committee in 2012. This committee helps to contribute to more awareness of sustainability as a business driver at DSM China by establishing quarterly reporting and by organizing sustainability events. DSM India has defined a sustainability roadmap with specific focus areas. The president of DSM India chairs the India sustainability committee. In December, DSM organized an event in São Paulo (Brazil) to discuss the internal Latin America sustainability agenda. See also: Growth Driver: Sustainability (page 24). DSM’s transformation proves very successful with the right approach to innovation and sustainability. Professor Cheng Siwei, former vice chairman, Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress of the People's Republic of China, Chinese Economist Innovation in India and China Part of DSM’s innovation efforts in the coming years is to further develop the new Innovation Centers in China and India that were established in 2011. Innovation is increasingly happening in high growth economies, especially in Asia. The DSM China Science and Technology Center in Shanghai is being developed to become DSM’s main innovation base in Asia. It will form a vital part of the company’s global science and technology innovation network. The center integrates research and application technology activities in the areas of materials sciences, chemistry and biotechnology. It also provides advanced business development capabilities and can support creating new ventures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 19 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 20 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Growth Driver: Innovation Governance DSM actively manages its innovation activities at a platform level. From building the machine to doubling the output The platforms include for example food & nutrition security, functional materials, sustainable manufacturing, and energy At DSM, innovation is about turning ‘Bright Science’ into security. ‘Brighter Living’. This ‘Bright Science’ is not just about great ideas, state-of-the-art technology and high-tech laboratories. The platforms create a solid base for the management of It is about finding and integrating the best sustainable and company-wide competence building programs in Research & commercially viable solutions to market needs, in order to create Development, directed from the office of the Chief Technology profitable growth. Officer, and guide explorative searches for DSM’s Business Incubator. See also: Innovation Center (page 105). DSM creates solutions that nourish, protect and improve performance, using its unique competences in Life Sciences and This platform-based approach to innovation enables the Materials Sciences. This way DSM helps create a healthier, more company to increase cohesion between various projects and sustainable and more enjoyable way of life. business development activities, giving more focus to its efforts. The innovation platforms draw on DSM’s competences, have Innovation sales real and significant commercial potential and address key global as % of continuing sales trends. 20 18 18 DSM’s Emerging Business Areas, or EBAs, are instrumental in 16 turning innovations into major businesses. The EBAs are growth 15 engines within the Innovation Center that focus on new business 10 areas outside the scope of the company’s business groups. DSM aspires to achieve EBA sales of up to one billion euro by 5 2020. See also: Emerging Business Areas (page 105). 0 2010 2011 2012 Research & Development R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), continuing operations By 2015, DSM wants innovative products and solutions to account for 20 percent of its total sales. Innovation sales, defined x € million 2012 2011 as sales created by new products and applications introduced in the last five years, accounted for 18 percent of total sales in Nutrition 202 200 2012. The inflow of innovations continued. Significant process Pharma 56 67 innovations at DSM Fibre Intermediates no longer qualified as Performance Materials 131 128 innovation solutions because they were introduced more than Polymer Intermediates 18 18 five years ago. Innovation Center 61 42 Corporate Activities 22 21 Achieving the 2015 innovation sales target is a cornerstone of DSM’s innovation strategy. DSM is firmly on track to reach this Total 490 476 target and expects to be able to maintain its innovation sales at Total as % of net sales 5.4 5.3 this level after 2015. Staff employed in R&D activities 2,511 2,520 DSM is deeply committed to becoming an intrinsically innovative company. An internal benchmarking of DSM’s innovation Research and Development (R&D) is instrumental in the process with that of its peers in 2012, based on the DSM realization of DSM’s innovation strategy. Most of the annual R&D Innovation Diagnostic, developed with McKinsey, for the expenditure is directed toward business-focused R&D 2006-2012 period, shows that the company has consistently programs. In addition, DSM has a Corporate Research Program increased its innovation score since 2006 and now ranks among in place to build and strengthen the technological competences the top quartile of its peer group. the company needs to execute development projects. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 21 Key technological competences are Materials Sciences, the Excellence in Innovation program in order to maintain its top Nutritional Sciences, Process Technology, Biotechnology, ranking position and further improve its capabilities. Materials Chemistry & Advanced Synthesis and Analysis & Characterization. These competences form the basis for the DSM Licensing overarching innovation platforms. DSM Licensing, a unit of the DSM Innovation Center, is the company’s center of excellence for value creation from The DSM Science Network is globally spread and consists of intellectual property (IP). approximately 2,500 internal scientists. These scientists extensively cooperate with external R&D institutions. Many of DSM views its IP rights as a tool for creating partnerships. DSM these collaborations are specific and bilateral. In addition DSM Licensing assists the company’s business groups and Emerging works extensively in broader public private partnerships to Business Areas with the initiation and management of increase its scientific scope. collaboration based on IP, including patents, trademarks and know-how. DSM approaches licensing as a completely One example is the Dutch Polymer Institute, known as DPI. This integrated, powerful way of creating shared value with partners. is a partnership between polymer producing and processing industries and knowledge institutes involved in polymer In DSM’s Emerging Business Areas, licensing is regarded as one research. Founded in 1997, at the initiative of DSM and others, of the most important elements of the business model, helping DPI is a leading European technology institute in the area of enhance the value proposition and increasing the speed with polymer science and engineering. which products can be brought to the market. BioMedical Materials (BMM) is a partnership program Open Innovation established in 2008 with a research budget of € 90 million for 18 An essential element of DSM’s approach to innovation is Open pre-competitive research projects in three areas: cardiovascular Innovation, which means combining internal and external ideas (heart), musculoskeletal (locomotive system or ability to move) and capabilities. The company is proud of the capabilities of its and nephrology (kidneys). employees, but is at the same time aware that there is a vast store of ideas, know-how and expertise outside the company. Patents Cooperating with others is the best way to develop and discover DSM filed 319 patents in 2012, compared to about 300 in 2011. solutions for the challenges facing today's society. In addition to filing own patents, DSM strengthened its Intellectual Property position through in-licensing. This is a logical DSM is keen to continuously improve the quality of its Open outcome of DSM's open innovation strategy, in which the Innovation. Licensing its know-how and expertise is one company’s own R&D efforts and patent filings are example that perfectly fits its drive toward new business models. complemented by the in-licensing of patents filed by other DSM is eager to speed up its venturing activities and to increase companies. its partnering activities, not only in its key business areas but also in technology areas, given that it aims to broaden and strengthen Value Creation through best practices its technological competence base. DSM has continued its extensive Excellence in Innovation program. This program aims to optimize DSM’s innovation An example of DSM’s approach to Open Innovation is its infrastructure and also builds on the work already done to partnership in the Bioprocess Pilot Facility, known as BPF, which improve the ‘soft' aspects of innovation (such as effective was established in 2012 on the DSM site in Delft (Netherlands). behavior, personal leadership skills and teamwork) in order to The BPF is an open facility in which other companies, secure an even more favorable innovation culture at DSM. universities, institutes, etc. can conduct their upscaling research for bio-processes. DSM, CSM and Delft University of Technology In 2012, the program focused on market understanding, optimal are joining forces to create a world-class facility for testing new delivery of the top 50 innovation projects, entrepreneurship and bio-processes that are upscaled from laboratory and pilot plant opportunity engineering. Opportunity engineering is a tool that to industrial production. The pilot facility is of key importance for helps project managers to identify the main risks of a project at upscaling fermentation and purification processes as well as for an early stage and, based on this, to improve the outcome of the the pretreatment of vegetable residues to convert them into project as well as reducing its time to market. fermentation feedstock, for instance as used for advanced biofuels. Thanks to a joint contribution from the European After achieving the ‘best in class’ quartile of the McKinsey Regional Development Fund (ERDF) and regional authorities, the Innovation Diagnostic assessment in 2012, DSM will continue BPF will also be available for use by smaller start-ups. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 22 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Another example of Open Innovation at DSM is Fruitflow®, a sciences. In 2013 DSM will grant a Nutritional Sciences Award breakthrough ingredient. It is the first natural, scientifically for research in human nutrition. substantiated solution contributing to healthy blood flow. This product, an extract from tomatoes, was created by Provexis, Innovation partner to the top-level sports community a small UK start-up. DSM invested in Provexis through its DSM and the Dutch Olympic Committee (NOC*NSF) were venturing subsidiary in 2008. Subsequently this collaboration ‘Partners in Sport’ between 2001 and the end of 2012. As the was extended with DSM obtaining the distribution rights for the committee's innovation partner, DSM developed new products product. Fruitflow® was commercially launched in 2010. In 2012 in the field of health, nutrition and materials. Fruitflow® was named one of the most innovative products of the year at the Food Ingredients South America trade show. See For the 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games in London, rowing also: DSM Venturing (page 107). and cycling were made the spearheads in this innovation program. In cycling, two innovations were used in competition DSM Bright Science Awards by the athletes: Dyneema® reinforced cycling shorts, providing Keen to promote pioneering research that leads to products or effective protection in the event of a fall, and ultra-light and strong solutions enhancing people’s quality of life, DSM has put in place chains and sprockets made of DSM’s high performance a Bright Science Awards program. The program recognizes polyamide Stanyl®. The latter were used by the paralympic achievements of DSM scientists as well as those working outside cycling team. In rowing DSM introduced rowing boats with a rigid DSM who have displayed excellence in innovative research. The hull using its styrene-free resins. The Dutch women’s eight won awards program is an integral part of the company’s open a bronze medal with their new olympic boat. In addition, DSM innovation approach. provided nutritional support to a large number of sportsmen and women, from vitamin D to eye care products with lutein and The DSM Science & Technology Awards recognize outstanding, zeaxanthin, which prevent athletes being dazzled by direct innovative PhD research. From 2013, DSM will grant a Science sunlight or by light reflected off the water. & Technology Award every year in three regions: Europe, the USA and China. The North/South structure, organized around the Netherlands and Switzerland, will be replaced by a single European award. The new award structure will also be implemented in the USA, where it replaces the Polymer Technology Award, and in China. In 2012, the first prize in the DSM Science & Technology Awards (North) 2012 was presented to Dr. Chang Chen, KU Leuven (Belgium), for his PhD research in the field of nano science for label-free genomic sequencing. The first prize in the DSM Science & Technology Awards (South) was presented to Dr. Ruth Lohwasser, Bayreuth University in Germany, for her PhD research in the field of applied functional polymers. Dr. Frank Leibfarth of the University of California in Santa Barbara, California (USA), was awarded the DSM Polymer Technology Award 2012 for his PhD research in the field of functional polymeric materials. In addition, DSM each year grants a major award to an established scientist who has made a significant, peeracknowledged contribution to the advancement of science. This award alternates between Nutritional Sciences and Materials Sciences. The DSM Materials Sciences Award 2012 was awarded to Geoffrey W. Coates, Tisch University Professor of Chemistry and Chemical Biology at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York (USA), in recognition of his exceptional contributions to the advancement of polymer chemistry and the materials Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 23 Growth Driver: Sustainability Sustainability aspirations 2011-2015 Realization 2012 From responsibility to business driver Dow Jones Sustainability Index DSM's mission is about creating brighter lives for people today Top ranking (SAM Gold Class)1 Gold Class and generations to come. The company's core value, ECO+ (innovation) contributing to a more sustainable world, supports this mission. At least 80% of pipeline is ECO+2 80% As part of its 2010-2015 strategy, DSM in motion: driving ECO+ (running business) focused growth, the company formulated the ambition to go to From approximately 34% towards 50% 43% the next level in sustainability: sustainability remains a core value Energy efficiency and a responsibility to contribute to society, but in addition DSM 20% improvement in 2020, compared 14% improvement is now developing sustainability into a strategic growth driver as to 2008 well. Greenhouse-gas emissions -25% (absolute) by 2020, compared 1% decrease By 2050 there will be nine billion people living on the planet. The to 2008 growth in the modern world requires innovative solutions to meet Employee Engagement Survey the needs of all, and to generate a stable, prosperous and fair Towards High Performance Norm3 72% favorable future, within planetary boundaries. Diversity and People+ To be updated Diversity aspirations By 'sustainable' DSM means ‘meeting the needs of the present defined4 generation without compromising the ability of future People+ framework generations to meet their own needs’. That is the widely defined4 accepted definition that was first published in 1987 by the Brundtland Commission set up by the United Nations to 1 This means a total score of within1% of the SAM sector leader page 224 for a definition of ECO+ encourage countries to jointly pursue sustainable development. 3 See 2 The High Performance Norm (80% favorable) is the composite of the top 25% Like this commission, DSM believes that achieving sustainability employee responses of the selected external benchmark organizations 4 See page 45 and page 50 in the People chapter means simultaneously pursuing social responsibility, environmental quality and economic performance, creating value on the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. manufacturing and use to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ is determined using Life Cycle Assessments. DSM believes sustainability will be the key differentiator and value driver in the coming decades. The company is uniquely Typical ECO+ examples are DSM's engineering plastics that positioned to capture new opportunities across the value chain. enable customers to produce lower-drag, lighter-weight and therefore more fuel-efficient cars. A life-science example is Sustainability is an integral part of the company's operations, Brewers Clarex™, which enables brewers to prevent chill haze strategic actions and decisions. DSM’s businesses are coming without having to cool their beers to sub-zero temperatures. up with new science-based products and solutions that Resins for the production of high performance coatings based contribute to brighter living while also helping grow the bottom on water, instead of harmful solvents, also help reduce line of the business. emissions. ECO+ In 2015 DSM aims for at least 80 percent of its innovation pipeline ECO+ is DSM’s strategic concept for promoting the to be ECO+ products or solutions and in 2015 their share of total development of sustainable, innovative products and solutions net sales is expected to grow towards 50 percent. with ecological benefits. Products qualify as ECO+ when their environmental footprint is reduced compared with competing A comprehensive description of the ECO+ program can be products or solutions. ECO+ solutions offer, when considered found in the 'Planet in 2012' chapter. See also: ECO+ (page over their entire life cycle, not only superior performance but also 57). ecological benefits such as a clearly lower eco-footprint when compared to the mainstream solutions they compete with. People+ ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with less DSM is developing a People+ strategy for measurably improving environmental impact. The ecological benefits can be created at the lives of consumers, workers and communities across the any stage of the product life cycle, from raw material through Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 24 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 value chains in which the company is active. People+ will do for On the Planet dimension, DSM delivers activities, solutions and the ‘people’ element of Triple P what ECO+ has done for ‘planet’, innovations that improve the environmental footprint of its own giving further impetus to sustainability as a business driver for businesses and those of its customers and suppliers. This the company. DSM refined its People+ strategy in 2012 and also includes the ECO+ program. Improving energy efficiency and defined and road tested new metrics for it, thereby further reducing greenhouse-gas emissions are also among the enhancing its leadership position in sustainability. sustainability aspirations for the current strategy period. DSM aspires to realize a 20 percent improvement in energy efficiency Until recently a tool to measure a product’s impacts on the by 2020, compared to 2008. The company seeks an absolute People dimension was not available. By contrast, a product’s reduction in greenhouse-gas emissions of 25 percent by 2020, eco-benefits (its ECO+ effect) can readily be measured using the compared to 2008. See also: Planet in 2012 (page 57). well-known Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. The LCA method is widely accepted as a tool to assess environmental DSM's Triple P approach to profit aims to translate sustainable impacts associated with all the stages of a product's life. innovations into strong and profitable businesses that meet the needs of today’s global society while at the same time creating The People+ program was further defined in 2012, including true value for the company’s shareholders. Because of its developing a new tool to measure the impact on people, in engagement with stakeholders, DSM has a deep understanding cooperation with a broad group of stakeholders. Business can of societal needs and therefore is well positioned to develop new use this first version of the ‘DSM People LCA tool’, a Life Cycle products and solutions that can effectively grow its business. Assessment method, as a tool to further develop value See also: Sharing value among stakeholders (page 37). propositions, taking into account the impact of DSM products on the lives of people involved in making and using the product. This also encourages innovation and R&D. Growing profitable business on a strong foundation Credible Sustainability Sustainability Growth Qualifiers Drivers DSM is exploring a social metrics system to steer Internal DSM External DSM sustainable and innovative purchasing in Europe and Asia Triple P Foundation Sustainability Position by realistically looking at challenges through stakeholders’ eyes. This approach not only increases DSM’s insight into • Health and safety DSM Sustainability • Diversity the challenges that come with social issues but also People • Employee engagement People+ enhances its determination to address these challenges. As • Vitality@DSM a global player, DSM can make a difference. Greenhouse-gas Positioning • Nico Roozen, executive director, Solidaridad Network Planet emissions ECO+ • Energy efficiency • Water A comprehensive description of the People+ framework can be found in the 'People in 2012' chapter. See also: People+ (page Sustainability governance 45). Sustainability is the responsibility of the entire Managing Board, with its Chairman Feike Sijbesma as primary point of contact. People, Planet, Profit Members of the Managing Board chair various sustainability The People dimension of the Triple P approach is twofold. Firstly, projects and areas. Managing Board member Stephan Tanda is DSM addresses the needs of its employees and people working the primary point of contact for DSM’s partnership with the World in the value chains where the company is active, looking for a Food Programme, Feike Sijbesma for Inclusion and Diversity, positive impact in areas such as employee health and vitality, and Managing Board member Nico Gerardu for Safety, Health employee safety, diversity and employee engagement, as these and Environment. are critical components in delivering DSM's strategy. Improving employee engagement and encouraging diversity are defined as DSM’s Supervisory Board clearly recognizes sustainability as an sustainability aspirations in the current strategy period. important element on its agenda. The overall strategic Secondly, DSM seeks to improve people’s lives with its activities, importance of sustainability for DSM is illustrated by the fact that solutions and innovations. This includes the People+ program, the Supervisory Board has a Corporate Social Responsibility DSM’s strategy for measurably improving people’s lives. See Committee. See also: Corporate Social Responsibility (page also: People in 2012 (page 45). 124). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 25 At a corporate level, sustainability is organized in a network Sustainability in supply chains supported by the Corporate Sustainability department under the Suppliers help DSM be successful in the field of sustainability by responsibility of the Executive Vice President Corporate Affairs, closely cooperating on steps and actions that make value chains who reports directly to Mr. Sijbesma as Chairman of the more sustainable. Managing Board. DSM strives for full adherence to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, DSM also has a dedicated Corporate Operations & Responsible as defined in 2011 under the international Corporate Accounting Care department, which, among other things, is responsible for and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition. This means the all corporate issues in the area of Safety, Health and Environment company reports not only emissions from its own production (SHE). The Vice President Corporate Operations & Responsible processes and those related to the electricity and steam it Care reports directly to Managing Board member Nico Gerardu. purchases, but also emissions coming from the value chains in which it operates. See also: Sustainable value chains (page An internal network of people dedicated to sustainability, known 67). as Sustainability Champions, supports line management in all business and functional groups and at the DSM Innovation DSM takes sustainability explicitly into account in the selection, Center. SHE managers provide support at business group level. evaluation and development of suppliers by applying a Supplier The DSM SHE Council, which includes all business group SHE Code of Conduct that is based on the company’s Code of managers, is instrumental in sharing experiences and developing Business Conduct. At the end of 2012, 91 percent of DSM’s practices and communications regarding SHE issues. suppliers had signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. See also: Global Supplier Sustainability Program (page 39). Sustainability is also addressed at a regional level, with internal sustainability networks established in India, China and Latin External Sustainability Advisory Board America. See also: Sustainability in high growth economies DSM's external Sustainability Advisory Board met two times in (page 19). 2012. The board is a diverse international group of thought leaders on key sustainability topics. Its members are Amir Sustainability in manufacturing Dossal, Paul Gilding, Pamela Hartigan, David King, Ye Qi and In DSM’s manufacturing organization, sustainability is Josette Sheeran, all leading international sustainability experts. embedded in Functional Excellence programs and expert They provide advice and act as a sounding board for the DSM networks for maintaining and improving specific competences. Managing Board. The external Sustainability Advisory Board Functional Excellence programs help make DSM’s pooled supports DSM in deepening its understanding of stakeholder manufacturing expertise available wherever and whenever it is needs and strategic issues such as the bio-based economy and needed throughout the global organization. Competence malnutrition, sharpening its focus, conducting advocacy efforts networks have been set up to develop shared solutions to DSMand handling dilemmas. See also: Stakeholder engagement wide issues. The programs and networks help DSM to achieve (page 33). its objectives in the People, Planet and Profit fields. They are driven and supported by stakeholder engagement activities. Integrated reporting Since sustainability was defined as a key growth driver in 2010, After implementing standard business processes in the entire DSM has reported a number of sustainability metrics on a semioperations area in the early 2000s and executing the Advanced annual basis. Since 2010 the company has published an Manufacturing program – delivering a value exceeding € 200 Integrated Annual Report. million over 36 site implementation projects – in 2008-2011, DSM further integrated manufacturing and supply chain activities The transparency of DSM’s sustainability reporting is measured in 2012 and made new steps towards world class by applying criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). DSM manufacturing. The company achieved this by further has determined that this Integrated Annual Report once again implementing Lean Six Sigma, advanced process control and by merits GRI application level A+, representing a high level of extending its use of the Advanced Manufacturing toolbox, transparency. Ernst & Young has reviewed compliance of the among other things. In addition, the company placed focus on Sustainability Information with this application level. See also: increasing the alignment of DSM’s asset footprint with defined Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information business strategies by running a process called Business (page 217). Operations Strategy in several units. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 26 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 27 Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships From portfolio transformation to growth They should contribute to cash earnings per share from the beginning. When DSM presented its current strategy back in 2010, the They should contribute to earnings per share from year two. company said that besides defining more ambitious targets for They should support DSM’s other financial targets. organic growth it also aimed to accelerate growth through acquisitions and partnerships. These partnerships need to make In the exceptional case that a very attractive acquisition clear strategic sense and must meet the criteria that the opportunity arises of a size that would put pressure on financial company has defined. By the end of 2012, significant progress metrics, DSM may be willing to accept a temporary deviation had been achieved with Acquisitions & Partnerships, with the from the credit metrics commensurate with its ratings objective. company investing € 2.8 billion in acquisitions, of which € 2.4 However, DSM believes that Single A ratings are the right place billion in Nutrition. to be for the company to ensure sufficient financial and strategic flexibility at all times. The company would seek to manage its DSM applies stringent strategic and financial criteria to any balance sheet and underlying financials after such an acquisition potential acquisition or partnership. During the screening to allow the company to realign ratios with Single A ratings within process, a first selection is made to determine the strategic fit. a short period of time. This results in a shortlist to which DSM then applies financial criteria. A key strategic consideration is that the business or In 2012 DSM continued to be involved in a number of specific partner needs to add or improve a leadership position and needs partnerships that serve a strategic business purpose, in addition to add value to DSM in terms of technological and/or market to regular contract arrangements with suppliers and customers. competences. Often, but not always, these specific business partnerships involve long-term supply agreements. These strategic business The key financial criteria for acquisitions are: partnerships are material to DSM's business performance. Acquisitions should enable DSM to remain within the boundaries defined for maintaining its desired Single A credit rating. Acquisitions in the current strategy period (2010-2012) Enterprise Company Business group / EBA value in € m Year Martek DSM Nutritional Products 790 2011 Ocean Nutrition Canada DSM Nutritional Products 420 2012 Tortuga1 DSM Nutritional Products 465-490 2012 Cultures and enzymes business of Cargill DSM Food Specialties 85 2012 Fortitech DSM Nutritional Products 495 2012 Kensey Nash DSM Biomedical 275 2012 Other acquisitions 235 Total enterprise value approx. 2,800 1 Expected closing Q1 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 28 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Value creation via acquisitions & partnerships since 2010 Acquisitions & Partnerships Leadership Market Geographic Innovation/ Position Ambition Technology Martek • • • • Vitatene • • Microbia • • Premix plants • • AGI Taiwan • • • • KuibyshevAzot • • Shandong ICD • • C5 Yeast Company • • • POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels • • • • Kensey Nash • • • • Verenium assets • • Ocean Nutrition Canada • • • • Tortuga • • • Enzymes and cultures business of Cargill • • • • Fortitech • • • • •Nutrition & Health •Performance Materials •Emerging Business Areas New acquisitions and partnerships in 2012 technology. The transaction strengthens and complements POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels DSM’s biomedical business, one of the company’s three A major strategic decision that DSM made at the beginning of Emerging Business Areas, and positions DSM Biomedical as a the year was to join forces with POET LLC, one of the world’s profitable growth platform. See also: DSM Biomedical (page largest ethanol producers. Together, the two companies will 105). commercially demonstrate and license cellulosic ethanol by combining their proprietary and complementary technologies. Ocean Nutrition Canada POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, LLC will produce cellulosic DSM completed the acquisition of Ocean Nutrition Canada, a ethanol from corn crop residue through a biological process Canada-based supplier of fish-oil derived Omega-3 fatty acids using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation, providing to the dietary supplement and food and beverage markets. The for a sustainable biofuel. See also: POET-DSM Advanced company is headquartered in Halifax, Nova Scotia (Canada) with Biofuels (page 106). approximately 415 employees. Ocean Nutrition Canada, founded in 1997, has production sites in Canada, the US and Verenium assets Peru. Every day over 21 million servings of its MEG-3® product DSM acquired certain assets, licenses and other agreements in line are consumed in supplements and foods and beverages the area of food enzymes and oilseed processing from Verenium, across the world. The company’s average annual growth over based in San Diego, California (USA). Verenium's enzyme the past five years in local currency amounted to nearly 20 products can help minimize pollution by reducing or replacing percent. See also: Acquisitions in Nutrition (page 80). harsh chemicals used in industrial processes while also enhancing yields in customers’ processes. See also: DSM Food Tortuga Specialties (page 84). DSM agreed to acquire Tortuga Companhia Zootécnica Agrária (Tortuga), a privately held Brazilian company with a leadership Kensey Nash position in nutritional supplements with a focus on pastureDSM further strengthened its industry leadership in the raised beef and dairy cattle. The company is headquartered in biomedical field by completing the acquisition of Kensey Nash, São Paulo (Brazil) with approximately 1,200 employees. Tortuga a US based technology-driven biomedical company with 325 has three production sites in Brazil. The transaction is expected employees. Kensey Nash primarily focuses on regenerative to close at the end of the first quarter of 2013. See also: Animal medicine utilizing its proprietary collagen and synthetic polymer Nutrition & Health (page 83). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 29 The cultures and enzymes business of Cargill DSM acquired the cultures and enzymes business of Cargill. This business is a leading global manufacturer of cultures and enzymes for the dairy and meat industries with manufacturing operations in the state of Wisconsin (USA) and France. It has a strong pipeline of new products built on three pillars of technology: culture texture toolbox, fast acidification for cheese yield improvements and culture flavor systems. The business has approximately 200 employees. The transaction closed just before the end of the year. See also: DSM Food Specialties (page 84). Fortitech At the end of the year, DSM completed the acquisition of Fortitech, Inc., a privately held company based in Schenectady (New York, USA). Fortitech is a leader in customized, valueadded food ingredient blends for food & beverage, infant nutrition and dietary supplements industries. The company has approximately 520 employees. Fortitech has six production sites located in New York (USA), California (USA), Campinas (Brazil), Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Gastrup (Denmark) and Poznan (Poland), with sales offices in China and Mexico. See also: Human Nutrition & Health (page 83). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 30 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 31 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 32 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Stakeholder engagement Hidden hunger Malnutrition caused by deficiencies of vitamins and minerals is DSM believes and invests in a strategic and pro-active dialogue also known as hidden hunger because most of the people with its key stakeholders not only to share thoughts and views, affected by it do not show the physical symptoms usually but also to deepen the company’s insights into governmental, associated with hunger and malnutrition. An estimated two societal and customer trends, drivers and needs. The company billion people globally suffer from the effects of micronutrient wants to achieve its engagement objectives in a focused manner deficiencies. Hidden hunger is therefore a global problem of by taking part in stakeholder dialogues on relevant topics. enormous magnitude that, until recently, was largely ignored. It aspires to resolve issues, receive endorsement and build trust, and, by doing so, create more shared value. In many countries, poor people consume the same starchy foods (such as rice, corn or wheat flour) every day. While such a Based upon the discussions with stakeholders DSM has diet may have enough calories to ease hunger pangs, it does not mapped the issues that are important to both DSM's businesses provide the micronutrients needed for good health. A balanced and society. diet, containing adequate amounts of all essential micronutrients, includes a variety of fruits, vegetables, pulses, Materiality matrix dairy, eggs and possibly other foods from animal sources. People who do not consume such foods for any reason, like Actively monitor & communicate Prioritize cost, availability, traditions or ignorance, will sooner or later Societal interest 12 develop hidden hunger. 11 2 1 The Copenhagen Consensus Center 2012 Expert Panel, which 10 4 3 includes four Nobel Laureates, has stated that fighting 8 9 10 9 7 5 malnourishment should be the top priority for policymakers and 15 14 11 6 philanthropists. It identified “bundled interventions to reduce 8 13 12 malnutrition in preschoolers” as the smartest way to allocate 7 money in response to ten of the world’s biggest challenges. Nobel Laureate economist Vernon Smith said the panel 6 17 16 concluded that getting nutrients to the world’s undernourished 5 is one of the most compelling investments. Building better Low priority Actively manage nutrition begins early. It is vital to deliver proper nutrition and 4 provide the right micronutrients during the 1000 day window of 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Business impact opportunity between a mother’s pregnancy and her child's 1 Climate change 9 Diseases & health second birthday. The negative effects of malnutrition during this 2 Food safety & quality 10 Human rights critical period cannot be reversed and permanently stunt a 3 Health & wellness 11 Water management child’s development. 4 Bio-based economy 12 Resource constraints 5 High growth / emerging 13 Nanotechnology economies 14 DSM actively engages to build greater awareness about the Advocacy 6 Hidden hunger 15 Poverty alleviation 7 Careers & employment 16 importance of improved nutrition, which is one of its main Environmental labeling 8 Renewable energy 17 businesses in both the developing and the developed Bioethics world. In recent years the company has emerged as one of the The strategy that DSM adopted in 2010 – DSM in motion: driving industry leaders in this area, and it is often consulted by United focused growth – was influenced by the company’s dialogue Nations agencies, governments and NGOs. with its stakeholders: shareholders, customers, suppliers, local communities, end-consumers, industry peers, financial DSM’s Nutrition Improvement Program (NIP) aspires to be the institutions, governments, investors, non-governmental partner of choice in the global fight against hidden hunger in organizations (NGOs), special interest groups and the emerging economies. The company offers nutritious, safe and company’s own employees. Based on the input from these affordable solutions and sustainable business models tailored to stakeholders, DSM has defined the following needs and topics the needs of local communities in the developing world, with a as strategic. special focus on women and children. NIP works in Latin America, Africa and Asia. The target population is at the base of the socio-economic pyramid, also known as BoP. In the last year, NIP increasingly focused on BoP consumers, giving them Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 33 the opportunity to have access to nutritious products. See also: based economy in a number of industry organizations in the NIP website. chemical and biotechnological areas. Through various partnerships DSM invests its scientific DSM promotes the development of industrial biotechnology in expertise, employee capability, broad network and funds, and several ways. DSM’s Bio-based Products & Services unit benefits from greater credibility, access to new markets and continues to invest in this field and seeks to help create a biodistribution channels and knowledge of consumer behavior. based economy as an alternative to a fossil-fuel based economy. New nutrition innovations result from this win-win model and DSM Managing Board member Stephan Tanda serves as provide treatment and prevention of malnutrition. See also: chairman of EuropaBio, the European Association for BioSustainability (page 82). industries. In the Netherlands, the company is involved in a multistakeholder initiative that resulted in a Manifesto on the BioIn 2012 DSM celebrated the 100th anniversary of vitamins with based Economy. DSM is represented on the board of SusChem, a campaign, events and a dedicated website. In 1912, the term the European technology platform for sustainable chemistry, and 'vitamin' was coined to describe the bioactive substances leads the industrial biotechnology working group of this proven to be essential to human health. Over the past century, organization. In the United States, DSM is a member of the the world has seen remarkable advancements in the Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO). understanding of vitamins. Exciting new breakthroughs continue as researchers around the world uncover new benefits vitamins Role of business in society have for human health. See also: 100 Years of Vitamins website. DSM believes that in this ever more complicated world, companies, governments, academia, NGOs and international Bio-based economy institutions have to work together to solve the big global issues Biomass is a renewable resource that, if managed carefully, can of today. These issues include the question of how to deal with sustainably supply the world with food, feed, energy, chemicals the big demographic changes in the world, including the rise of and materials. With the help of biotechnology, biomass can be new economies and an aging population, but also how to converted into almost anything. As a pioneer, using its chemical address climate change and the development of alternative and biotechnological toolbox for the development of bio-based energy, and how to secure the health and well-being of all by routes to chemicals and materials, DSM teams up with leading resolving food and nutrition security and water issues, among innovators in the value chain to speed up this development other things. All of the world’s problems are simply too big to be process. solved by just one entity. DSM promotes the bio-based economy as a sustainable The company is an active member of the World Economic solution. The company strives for broader societal acceptance Forum, an independent international organization based in and a better understanding in order to generate political traction Switzerland that is committed to “improving the state of the that can improve the industrial policy framework for bio-based world”. This Forum brings together leaders from governments, industries and technologies, and that contributes to a more businesses, academia and NGOs to exchange and synchronize conducive climate for investment in these sustainable solutions. thoughts and to work together on important agenda topics to make the world a better place. DSM is a also co-developer of DSM's increasing involvement in industrial biotechnology is the UN Business Partnership concept as an active participant in inspired by its sustainability ambitions, which make the company the UN Global Compact LEAD, a platform for corporate strive to use resources that do not compete with the food supply sustainability leadership. chain. The company closely cooperates with parties such as the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN), several In 2012 the company actively participated in the annual meeting other NGOs that co-signed the Dutch Manifesto on the Bioof the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos (Switzerland), based Economy, the Dutch Sustainability Criteria Commission organizing a session on nutrition security. At the Annual Meeting (Corbey commission) and EuropaBio. of the New Champions in Tianjin (China), DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma participated as one of eight mentors on the theme of To further support its drive towards realizing a bio-based Creating the Future Economy, in several sessions on subjects economy DSM became a member of Growth Energy, a US including sustainability, innovation and the bio-based economy. based group which represents ethanol producers. In Europe, the At the United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, company joined the biofuel partnership ePure, which represents also known as Rio+20, which took place in Rio de Janeiro and supports companies that produce renewable ethanol in the (Brazil), Mr. Sijbesma led a panel debate on the role of the public European Union. In addition, DSM continued to promote the bioand private sectors. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 34 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Climate change Water management DSM believes industry can and must play a positive role in DSM acknowledges that sustainable water management, taking securing economic growth while simultaneously reducing the into account the needs of present and future users, is a total carbon footprint of both its own operations and the value necessity. DSM executes water risk assessments at its sites in chains in which it operates. The company is involved in multiple order to mitigate environmental, societal, operational, regulatory, supply-chain initiatives and sector organizations such as the reputational and financial risks. Mr. Sijbesma has endorsed the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, a public-private the Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition and The Sustainability initiative that helps develop and implement sustainable water Consortium to address the topic of how to measure the practices and policies. DSM also takes part in the water task environmental impact in the value chain and collectively steer force of the WBCSD. See also: Full transparency in reporting towards products with minimum environmental impact. In the water performance (page 65). World Economic Forum DSM has been involved in the climate change ambassadors group. Biodiversity Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a Food safety and quality more sustainable world. They provide what are known as As a leading nutritional ingredients supplier, DSM considers it its ecosystem services: by fulfilling basic human needs such as duty to address concerns about health issues related to food food, materials, clean water and fresh air, they sustain human safety and quality. The company helps develop programs life. DSM considers the conservation of biodiversity and together with various external stakeholders, including for ecosystems an essential part of sustainable development and example the Chinese government. DSM’s Quality for Life™ seal corporate social responsibility. It is DSM’s belief that companies reflects its commitment to create safer, fully traceable, more have an important role to play in the conservation of nature. This reliable and more sustainable business processes. It also is a learning process; it starts with building awareness, to be incorporates DSM’s commitment to the environment and followed up with actions to (1) assess DSM’s impact on society, extending beyond products and services. The seal biodiversity and (2) mitigate the impact in order to preserve symbolizes DSM’s pledge to uphold ethical values in biodiversity. Together with some of the partners in the relationships with customers, employees and partners. Inspirational Programme of the Leaders for Nature platform of IUCN, DSM is working on a 'business area of the future' concept. Careers and employment See also: Biodiversity (page 65). Each year DSM conducts a company-wide Employee Engagement Survey to gauge the needs and concerns of its Sustainable value chains employees worldwide and to hear their opinions on all aspects DSM is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, of its operations. The company encourages employees to customers, NGOs and industry peers that seek to increase the actively engage with some organizations in its partnership sustainability of the various value chains in which the company network, in particular with the United Nations World Food operates. This includes both environmental and societal Programme (WFP). An employee volunteer program offers DSM sustainability. See also: Sustainable value chains (page 67). employees the opportunity to take on WFP assignments. See also: People at DSM (page 47). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 35 Public-Private Partnerships DSM is engaged in a range of partnerships. Besides the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP), this includes the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and, together with General Mills and Cargill, the Partnership in Food Solutions. DSM is also a partner in the Mercy Corps’ food cart social enterprise KeBAL and World Vision International. Improving 30 million lives In 2012 DSM contributed to the development of an interactive DSM's public-private partnership with the United Nations global vitamin D map published by the International World Food Programme (WFP), in place since 2007, has Osteoporosis Foundation (IOF). The map and the accompanying contributed to improving the diets of people, using essential publication confirm that vitamin D insufficiency is a major public vitamins and nutrients, in countries that include Nepal, health issue in both the developing and the industrialized world, Kenya, Bangladesh and Afghanistan. The strengthened with more than one-third of all the populations studied showing partnership will focus on pregnant and nursing women, insufficient levels of vitamin D. DSM strongly supports IOF’s call young children and vulnerable households, as well as on for healthcare decision makers to take immediate action to rice fortification. Nine food products have been created or address vitamin D deficiency as a priority public issue and to improved and two new food aid delivery methods emphasize the role of supplementation as a key tool for developed. Early in 2013 DSM and WFP announced a preventing bone diseases such as osteoporosis. See also: IOF three-year extension of their global partnership to 2015. Vitamin D map website. DSM and WFP will seek to double the number of people who benefit from their cooperation, from the current annual The company continued its participation in Project Laser Beam, reach of 15 million to 25-30 million per year by 2015. a five-year, USD 50 million public-private partnership that seeks to eradicate child malnutrition. The partnership was established With DSM’s continued support, WFP is committed to in 2009 on behalf of founding partners WFP, DSM, Unilever, Kraft providing the right food at the right time, especially for Foods, and GAIN. DSM is working with these partners to fortify children in the first 1,000 days of life. When building the a range of foods and create a sustainable business model for potential of future generations, there is no substitute for fortified foods. good nutrition, said Ertharin Cousin, WFP Executive Director. Through its continued support of the non-profit humanitarian nutrition think tank Sight and Life, DSM is helping improve the The partnership has provided nutrition-related assistance world’s knowledge, understanding and awareness of hidden to 16 WFP country offices and helped develop WFP hunger. Sight and Life promotes nutrition research, shares best nutrition policy. DSM nutrition training materials for 12,000 practices and mobilizes support for the world’s undernourished. WFP employees also helped build capability in 16 countries. In 2012, Sight and Life extended its partnership with Vitamin The body of research produced by partnership scientists Angels for the distribution of vitamin A capsules. Vitamin A has created additional evidence around the efficacy of deficiency is a major contributing cause to poor health and death these nutrition interventions. This represents shared value among young children. Sight and Life has transferred to Vitamin for both parties. The partnership jointly developed new Angels the responsibility for the management of vitamin A products (such as micronutrient powders) that would capsule distribution and both partners have started initiatives otherwise not exist. These are now an integral part of WFP’s intended to catalyze locally sustainable vitamin A supply and programs and are sold commercially. One existing WFPdistribution systems. distributed product, Corn Soy Blend, was reformulated to include a higher content of vitamins and minerals. The To stimulate the nutrition science agenda, DSM engages with revenues of the staple food fortification segment (managed the New York Academy of Sciences, Johns-Hopkins-University by the Nutrition Improvement Program) doubled in the School of Public Health, Tufts University, the University of period from 2008 to 2012. See also: WFP website. Groningen (Netherlands) and a number of other academic institutions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 36 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Sharing value among stakeholders DSM is committed to creating value for all stakeholders by fully leveraging the unique opportunities in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences for the benefit of people today and for generations to come. It is a collective effort whose success depends on the engagement of the company's employees and of the people, companies and organizations that it cooperates with. In addition to sharing financial value, as outlined in the graphic below, DSM creates environmental and societal value through for example employee development, product development, education and Public Private Partnerships. Creating shared value among stakeholders in 2012 Customers Suppliers DSM’s customers increasingly Suppliers are an integral part seek comprehensive and unique of DSM’s strategy for achieving solutions to the challenges that the sustainability aspirations. The they face. In 2012 they spent company in 2012 spent a total of some € 9.1 billion on DSM’s € 6.7 billion on goods and services. products and solutions. Employees Shareholders The company in 2012 spent a In return for their investments, total of € 1.8 billion on salaries DSM in 2012 made available and wages, to compensate the € 263 million in dividends to employees for their added value. shareholders. Total shareholder return in 2012 was 27 percent. NGOs and associations Governments Bondholders Partnerships such as those with Governments received a total of In 2012 DSM paid € 101 million the UN World Food Programme € 85 million in tax payments, excluding in interest to bondholders. are of strategic importance for DSM income taxes and social security and help alleviate global problems payments for employees. DSM’s 2012 such as hidden hunger. income statement included € 20 million in government grants. Customers business groups have adopted the NPS® system as a strategic DSM’s customers increasingly seek comprehensive and unique tool. The system is to be rolled out to all other DSM business solutions to their needs and the challenges that they face. They groups in 2013. want high performing value propositions that help them to deliver against their strategy and meet their business objectives. It was clear from the start that DSM had the scientific and Customers operate in a dynamic and complex international technical expertise and a great materials portfolio that business environment that constantly creates new customer and perfectly matched our needs. What really surprised and market needs, as well as significant opportunities. To enhance impressed us, though, was the way they approached the its competitiveness and profitability and to offer sustainable collaboration. The DSM team didn’t arrive with solutions, DSM embraces true customer centricity in its focus on preconceived notions about our needs: they asked excellence in marketing and sales. open-ended questions, were very transparent and provided us with genuine insights. DSM’s nutrition businesses have used the Net Promoter Score, Simon de Jong, Director, FiberCore Europe, Rotterdam, or NPS®, over the last few years to monitor customer Netherlands engagement. In 2011, a best practice was developed for the whole of DSM, validated with two pilots in 2012. By now, four Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 37 True customer-centric relationships help DSM remain The company organized capital market days with a special focus competitive, providing best possible insights into nutrition, health on its Nutrition business, participated in investor conferences and materials markets in which it operates and the particular and interacted with investors in roadshows in Europe, North challenges and opportunities facing its customers. Focusing on America and Asia. A seminar was organized for financial analysts customer centricity enables DSM to go beyond traditional salesand investors on DSM's bio-based business activities. driven relationships and develop a much more rounded, sophisticated and in-depth understanding of its customers’ All relevant information was made available to all interested needs and the evolving markets in which they operate. parties via publication on the DSM Investor Relations website, ensuring that such information was equally and simultaneously Suppliers provided and accessible to all interested parties See also: Suppliers help DSM be successful in the field of sustainability by Information about the DSM share (page 138). closely cooperating on steps and actions that make value chains in which both operate more sustainable. Improving production Governments processes and reducing raw materials usage are crucial to The company believes that dialogue between business and DSM’s sustainability performance. Moreover, in order to reduce government authorities is a constructive part of the legislative the overall footprint of the value chains in which it operates, the decision-making process. DSM wants to be transparent when it company needs to closely collaborate with its suppliers. comes to sharing its expertise with policymakers and government authorities in all markets. The company is for To gain better insight into the environmental impact of its example registered in the European Commission's voluntary products and to improve their environmental footprint, DSM register of lobbyists active in Brussels. DSM engages with pays close attention to the entire value chain in which it operates. policymakers worldwide on various topics, including nutrition, In the past, DSM used to focus primarily on the effects of its own sustainability and industrial biotechnology. production activities, including the greenhouse-gas emissions from the power plants that supply the company with electricity and steam. Today, DSM increasingly takes into account the DSM's efforts are helping the nation benefit from energy emissions from the value chains in which it is active. These efficiency. Together with the other partners in the Better emissions reflect the wider impact of DSM's activities both Buildings, Better Plants Program, DSM's actions will save upstream and downstream in the value chains. DSM is looking billions in energy costs, create new manufacturing jobs, for suppliers who can support the company in the areas of strengthen the nation's economic competitiveness, and ECO+ and People+. help protect the environment. Kathleen Hogan, Acting Program Manager, Advanced Manufacturing Office, US Department of Energy, Both our organizations see sustainability as a real business Washington DC driver. We add tangible value to DSM’s people agenda. We are proud to be working with and for you. Jeffrey van Meerkerk, ManpowerGroup Global Account Employees Director People are at the heart of DSM’s business and the company wants its employees to reach their full potential. The main elements of its human resources approach are recruitment, A comprehensive description of the company's approach to talent management, leadership development and performance sustainable value chains can be found in the Planet chapter. management, supported by the implementation of DSM’s ONE See also: Sustainable value chains (page 66). DSM Culture Agenda and the career management process. The company's human resources strategy also supports DSM’s DSM's award-winning Global Supplier Sustainability Program is internationalization goal. part of the company's strategy for achieving its sustainability aspirations. A comprehensive description of this program can be The company’s performance is linked directly to the health and found on the next page. well-being of its employees. That is why DSM has a single, comprehensive health and safety policy that is consistent around Shareholders the world. The policy includes Safety, Health and Environment In 2012 DSM actively engaged with investors and financial (SHE) training programs and vitality programs that help analysts by organizing conference calls following the publication employees assess their health risks and set personal goals. See of quarterly results and announcements of major acquisitions. also: Employee health management (page 54). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 38 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Global Supplier Sustainability Program A powerful factor in the award-winning DSM Global Supplier basic rights, laws and principles, DSM also asks suppliers to Sustainability Program is the company’s willingness to help look at their supplier base and make sustainable choices, to suppliers achieve the level of compliance that it demands, and pay attention not only to the safety but also to the health of to initiate co-developments. The audits are not just a check their employees as well as to demonstrate their ability to on performance and compliance. They also help build ensure business continuity. A clear distinction is made sustainable relationships with suppliers. The program, between people, planet and profit dimensions. In 2012 the operated by DSM Sourcing, helps bring the company closer supplier code was updated and further aligned with ECO+ to its sustainability aspirations and innovation targets by and People+ programs and also with the Life Saving Rules. selecting suppliers based on their potential to contribute. Moreover, short guidelines on biodiversity, biomass policy to prevent potential competition with food/feed as well as water DSM uses a quantitative supplier evaluation tool with clear scarcity have been incorporated. criteria to identify significant issues. Based on their overall score, suppliers are categorized as follows: sustainable Some 93 percent of total procurement spend was covered supplier: no follow up needed; acceptable supplier: specific by the Supplier Code of Conduct in 2012. Suppliers have improvements need to be addressed; unacceptable supplier: either accepted the DSM code or presented their own code an improvement program needs to be implemented; rejected of conduct that is materially similar to that of DSM. The code supplier: supplier to be replaced. is an integral part of each supplier contract and is incorporated into DSM's general purchase conditions. DSM Sourcing has started cooperation with an NGO to engage with suppliers in order to jointly improve working A self-assessment questionnaire enables suppliers to conditions, reduce CO2 emissions and identify supplier measure their activities against DSM’s code. In 2012 DSM solutions for DSM's Innovation pipeline. In 2012 one supplier received 59 self-assessment questionnaires. From 2013 did not pass the sustainability audit, which meant that DSM DSM will be using a third-party sustainability assessment tool had to freeze the contract with that supplier. and will send specific requests for sustainability information to suppliers during supplier selection or on-boarding The program started in 2006 with the introduction of the first processes. The results of these self-assessments will Supplier Code of Conduct. Since then, DSM has added selfdetermine if DSM wants to do business with that supplier and assessment questionnaires and audits. In 2012 DSM will guide actions to be agreed before signing a contract. updated the program to keep up with the changes in the legislative environment and sustainability trends. Targets are In 2012 DSM audited 62 suppliers. A total of 40 audits were aligned with key climate change initiatives and conventions done by an external party, whereas 22 were performed by such as the Kyoto protocol and the Copenhagen agenda. internal DSM auditors who were independent from purchasing functions (mostly from SHE and quality assurance The program comprises two main elements: supplier departments). For 13 suppliers an improvement program had compliance and supplier solutions. It engages both direct to be agreed. The majority of these improvements are in the (raw materials and energy) and indirect (professional services, area of working conditions as defined in the various country packaging and transportation) suppliers. It is primarily aimed labor laws. at critical suppliers. After internal screenings, the company has identified approximately 1,500 out of a total of about Having a third party perform sustainability audits at its 100,000 suppliers as critical in the sense of providing DSM suppliers means DSM can benchmark its suppliers in terms with critical components, being located in potentially high risk of environmental and social performance against their peers. countries, supplying high volumes, or having a potential to These benchmarked results show that DSM’s suppliers create joint value in the areas of innovation and sustainability. perform above average. Suppliers generally were more aware of their water consumption and restricted their emissions. On Three-step approach towards supplier compliance the other hand, they could do better when it comes to The Supplier Code of Conduct sets sustainability guidelines increasing employee awareness on sustainable production for suppliers. DSM’s mission statement and the DSM Code and setting energy efficiency targets. of Business Conduct, based on DSM’s core value – sustainability, create the basis for this code. In addition to More information about the program is available at DSM's website. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 39 Human rights and United Nations Global Compact DSM has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2007. The company remains committed to aligning its operations and strategy with the principles of the UN Global Compact for human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. By doing so, DSM helps ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. The company fully supports the Global Compact’s principles and continues to integrate them further into its business. For example, DSM will refrain from any form of corruption, including active or passive bribery and extortion, even if it loses business as a consequence. The company is firmly committed to supporting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and commits to the UN Framework and Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. DSM also follows United Nations guidance on embargoed and sanctioned countries and adheres to national and international legislation where relevant. The company blocks vendors from embargoed countries in its book keeping systems so that no transactions can be made with blacklisted suppliers. Principles of the UN Global Compact1 DSM Code of Business Conduct and relevant page(s) in the Integrated Annual Report 2012 Principle 1 Support of human rights page 44 to page 54 Principle 2 Exclusion of human rights violation page 44 to page 54 Principle 3 Observance of the right to freedom of association page 44 to page 54 Principle 4 Abolition of all forms of forced labor page 44 to page 54 Principle 5 Abolition of child labor page 44 to page 54 Principle 6 Elimination of discrimination page 44 to page 54 Principle 7 Precautionary environmental protection page 21 to page 26 , page 44 to page 66 , page 229 Principle 8 Specific commitment to environmental protection page 21 to page 26 , page 44 to page 66 , page 229 Principle 9 Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies page 21 to page 26 , page 44 to page 66 , page 229 Principle 10 Measures to fight corruption page 40 , page 44 to page 54 1 In 2012 DSM once again renewed its commitment to the UN Global Compact's CEO Water Mandate; see the Planet chapter page 56 Donations and sponsoring In 2012, DSM donated and/or made available more than Sponsoring provides DSM with an opportunity to connect and € 4 million to a range of initiatives. DSM continued its long-term interact with the people around it, to show them that DSM is a commitments such as that to WFP. DSM continued its sustainable and innovative partner, both worldwide and in local humanitarian initiative Sight and Life and made charitable communities. donations to a number of local causes. Many of DSM’s contributions draw on the expertise of its micronutrient scientists DSM’s Code of Business Conduct creates an agenda for making or materials specialists. a positive contribution not only to the world of business but also to society as a whole. In line with this Code, DSM does not make As in previous years, DSM and its employees developed many any payments nor donations in kind to political parties or their initiatives to create awareness for WFP and to collect money. institutions, agencies or representatives. DSM focuses its Employees at 39 DSM sites in 17 countries took part in the Bright donations and sponsorships on activities that are connected to Experience for WFP event, a global engagement and fund raising its know-how and competence base, its business position or its event to end child hunger. DSM employees again raised a present and future geographical presence (in this case the considerable contribution for WFP with events and a World Food donations and sponsorships are part of 'being an active Day campaign, helping provide meals to children through WFP’s neighbor'). School Meals program. In 2012 two DSM employees went on WFP volunteer assignments in Indonesia and Kenya. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 40 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Legally required safety studies Position papers As an innovative company, DSM continuously develops new As part of its transparency in reporting, DSM has posted on its products. Legal requirements require the company to assess the website a number of position papers. These are available on the properties and safety profiles of these products. These following topics: sustainable biomass, biodiversity, CO2 assessments can necessitate the use of live animals. The emissions trading, nanotechnologies, biotechnology and company only uses animals in studies for safety assessment if industrial biotechnology. A position paper on infant formula is this is required by regulation and only if no accepted and due to be published in the first quarter of 2013. DSM also has validated non-animal alternative methods are available. DSM is available a large number of documents that provide background committed to constantly pursuing opportunities to further information on relevant topics, including bio-based performance improve its performance and to ‘reduce, replace and refine’ materials, the bio-based economy and the Cradle to Cradle® methods in which the use of animals is the only alternative. The concept. See also: Position papers section on dsm.com examples below illustrate this ‘3R’ approach. DSM will continue to make reasoned requests to the authorities to waive safety DSM discloses to its customers how its products are tests with animals in cases where the company considers that manufactured and, where possible, offers them a choice requirements are excessive and in cases where the information regarding the production system used. Some DSM products are can be provided by other means. The company increasingly produced with the help of genetically modified micro-organisms makes use of in silico (computer modeling) and in vitro in contained use. When a product is produced by such microtechniques (e.g. cell arrays) to identify candidate substances. organisms, the company clearly states this in the information that accompanies the product. DSM conducts in-house projects to develop and promote alternative testing methods. The company develops ‘early safety’ and ‘early efficacy’ assessments aimed at predicting these effects by computer calculations, based on comparison of new compounds to known effects of existing compounds. DSM also cooperates actively in external networks and with academic partners. Examples are the International Council of Chemical Associations’ Long-Range Research Initiative and the joint government-industry initiative European Partnership for Alternatives to Animal Testing, or EPAA. DSM remains concerned about the increasing need for assessments because of the implementation of REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances), the European chemicals legislation. DSM has already observed an increase in animal tests performed for this purpose even though the company has, where possible, used alternative ways to fulfill the data requirements and has worked together with other companies in consortia. Further reduction will require adjustment of legal requirements and the development, validation, dissemination and implementation of new testing methods. DSM does not want the safety and efficacy of its products to be compromised. However, for many test systems validated alternative in vitro methods acceptable to the authorities are presently not available. This means that studies involving animals will continue to be necessary in the foreseeable future. However, DSM believes that its approach is sensible and responsible and the company is committed to further reducing, refining and replacing these studies where possible. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 41 External recognition At the Annual Brazilian Bioenergy Awards, Brazilian biofuels producer GraalBio in conjunction with its suppliers, including In 2012 DSM and its business groups were awarded a variety of DSM, was presented with the Brazilian Bioenergy Deal of the awards and other forms of recognition by customers, suppliers, Year Award for 2012 in São Paulo, Brazil. The award recognizes the academic world, non-governmental organizations and trade the initiative to launch commercial scale production of cellulosic organizations. A few illustrative examples are given below. ethanol in Brazil by 2013. DSM was again among the leaders in the chemical industry At the end of the year Maastricht University in the Netherlands sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in 2012. announced that it had selected CEO Feike Sijbesma for an Since 2004 DSM has held the worldwide sustainability leader honorary doctorate. The university conferred this honor on position in the chemicals sector six times. In the other three Mr. Sijbesma because of the way he embodies DSM’s core years, the company ranked among the top leaders in the sector. value, sustainability. DSM received two Sustainability Awards from investment fund At the Transform Awards 2012, a European award recognizing SAM, based on SAM’s yearly corporate sustainability excellence in rebranding, DSM won gold in the ‘Internal assessment. The awards represent recognition for DSM’s Gold Communication of a Rebrand’ category. The judging panel Class status in 2012 and for its Sustainability Leadership in the particularly applauded the good combination of strategy and Chemical Sector of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index in creativity with which the DSM brand was launched in 2011, with 2011. global cinema events and a movie. DSM's corporate website received recognition in KWD Webranking’s 2011-2012 annual survey of 950 corporate websites in 40 countries, including the 27 largest companies by market capitalization in the Netherlands. In 2012 DSM topped the ranking of AEX-listed companies. According to KWD, DSM’s website scored particularly highly for the insight it provides into the company’s growth factors, financial targets and social responsibility endeavors. The US Chamber of Commerce awarded DSM its Corporate Steward Award 2012 for the company's integrated Triple P A full list of the many awards and other forms of external approach to creating a sustainable business and shared value recognition that DSM received in 2012 can be found on the with all stakeholders. The prize was awarded in Washington DC company website, www.dsm.com. at the 13th annual awards ceremony of the chamber's Commerce Business Civic Leadership Center. The Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO) recognized DSM with the 2012 Sustainable Supply Chain Award. The VBDO jury awarded DSM for a robust and transparent sustainable supplier program as well as ongoing dialogues with stakeholders to keep sustainability a true business driver. DSM’s 2011 Integrated Annual Report was awarded the De Kristal award for the most transparent sustainability report for the second year in a row by the Dutch Ministry for Economic Affairs. In the Netherlands DSM also won the FD Henri Sijthoff-Prijs for financial reporting, and on top of that it won the Publieksprijs after emerging as the winner in a survey among private and institutional investors for best annual report. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 42 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 43 People in 2012 The People dimension of DSM’s Triple P strategy is about products and solutions by assessing the impact on both the improving people’s lives through the company’s activities, consumer and the people involved in the value chain for a solutions and innovations. ‘People’ here includes consumers, product or solution. The new metric, the ‘DSM People LCA’, workers and communities across the value chains in which DSM takes into account the product’s impact on the health condition, is active. This chapter includes both the People+ strategy, which the perceived comfort and well-being of end-users, the working is the external component of the People dimension, and, under conditions of the employees involved, as well as the impact on 'People at DSM', the human resources strategy as the internal communities across the value chains in which DSM is active. component. For DSM, sustainability provides both a growth driver and a strong foundation for its human resources strategy. The People+ approach focuses on four distinct dimensions: See also: Growth Driver: Sustainability (page 24). (I) Health Condition (II) Comfort & Well-Being Growing profitable business on a strong foundation (III) Working Conditions (IV) Community Development Credible Sustainability Sustainability Growth Qualifiers Drivers The DSM ‘People LCA’ indicators are based on international Internal DSM External DSM Triple P Foundation Sustainability Position standards, such as those formulated by the World Health Organization, the International Labor Organization and the • Health and safety Global Reporting Initiative. DSM Sustainability • Diversity People • Employee engagement People+ • Vitality@DSM DSM is road testing the new metrics in R&D and value Greenhouse-gas proposition projects. Positioning • emissions Planet • Energy efficiency ECO+ • Water On the next page a few illustrative examples are given, such as the disposable medical gown for surgeons based on DSM’s Arnitel® VT. This gown incorporates a membrane that provides People+ a higher barrier to viruses and bacteria than competing solutions. The Arnitel-based solution also allows perspiration to pass easily, DSM is developing a People+ strategy for measurably improving which increases surgeon comfort. Another example is the lives of consumers, workers and communities across the FloraGLO®1 Lutein which can be used in dietary supplements. value chains in which the company is active. People+ will do for Lutein is a component of the eye and supplemental use may help the ‘people’ element of Triple P what ECO+ has done for ‘planet’, visual performance. It has also been linked to the prevention of giving further impetus to sustainability as a business driver for age related eye diseases. The BluCure™ Technology for cobaltthe company. DSM refined its People+ strategy in 2012 and also free curing of synthetic resins also illustrates the People+ defined and road tested new metrics for it, thereby further concept. This technology eliminates exposure of workers to enhancing its leadership position in sustainability. cobalt during manufacturing, while enabling a high quality of the See also: ECO+ (page 56). cured resin product. Until recently a tool to measure a product’s impacts on the The new assessment will make it possible for DSM to quantify People dimension was not available. By contrast, a product’s its brand promise of ‘Brighter Living’. The company aims to eco-benefits (its ECO+ effect) can readily be measured using the further develop the methodology and align with external well-known Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. The LCA stakeholders in the years to come. method is widely accepted as a tool to assess environmental impacts associated with all the stages of a product's life. In 2012 DSM, together with a broad group of stakeholders, developed a new metric to measure the People+ effect of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 44 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 FloraGLO® 1 Lutein: natural ingredient for eye health dietary supplements. End user benefits Lutein is a component of the retina, which is responsible for central vision. Lutein has been linked to reduction of age-related eye diseases and improved visual performance. Value chain benefits DSM is a reliable business partner. FloraGLO® Lutein is manufactured exclusively with food grade marigold oleoresin, ensuring high standards in safety and health of workers involved in the supply chain. Arnitel® VT: bacterial and viral People+ barrier in disposable medical gowns for surgeons. DSM’s People LCA End user benefits Surgeons profit from an effective barrier Dyneema Purity® fiber: medical End users against bacteria and viruses. Membranes grade material applied in high strength allow perspiration to pass easily, keeping the C surgeon comfortable and safe. orthopedic sutures and devices. th We om al ition llValue chain benefits Co He rt & End user benefits nd fo eing B As Sustainability leader, DSM applies high Less breakage of sutures during the surgical procedure and a smaller suture and knot DSM standards in safe and healthy working Product conditions and environmental policies in diameter compared to polyester based u operations, partnerships and innovations. orthopedic sutures. Supports faster r p m n it y Wo n d k ent m healing and causes less discomfort. Co iti i n g m on C o v el o s De Value chain benefits DSM advocates science-based Valu e h ain biomedical technologies, contributing to c better understanding and application of innovative materials and device designs. BluCure™: cobalt-free curing Technology for composites applied in boats and constructions. End user benefits End users can enjoy the benefits of composite materials such as low weight, design freedom and durability. Value chain benefits Vitamin D3: an essential nutrient for all age This Technology eliminates the need for using cobalt for curing, and consequently eliminates any exposure groups to help improve or maintain health. of workers to cobalt in resin and composite part End user benefits manufacturing. Vitamin D3 is important for the activity of genes. An adequate intake helps maintain the health of bones and muscles and the functioning of the immune system. Value chain benefits DSM has set high standards for its production processes and way of doing business, based on its Business and Supplier Codes of Conduct and following Global Compact rules. 1 FloraGLO® is a trademark of Kemin Industries, Inc., a DSM business partner. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 45 People at DSM viewing mistakes as individual and collective learning opportunities. DSM's human resources strategy contributes to the development of inspiring and collaborative leaders, creates an Collaboration with Speed engaged and competitive workforce and fosters an inclusive DSM expects that in an ever more connected environment where people trust and respect one another, and world, where collaboration is becoming an where they encourage each other to achieve sustainable important source of competitive advantage, DSM focused business growth. The approach is supported by the employees will actively (co-)create, share and build ONE DSM Culture Agenda. on ideas, information, knowledge and expertise of their colleagues and the external world. By fostering collaboration, DSM aims to further internationalize its business in order to bring DSM will harvest the power of its growing global workforce, as its organization closer to its key markets and customers, anchored in its leveraged organizational model with businesses, strengthen the business and stimulate inclusion, diversity and functions and regions. Besides increased collaboration, there is innovation. DSM combines a strong regional infrastructure with a need for faster decision making and execution. DSM needs to clear board level accountability for regional growth. Its human build a ONE DSM Culture in which its employees trust each resources strategy supports the internationalization goal. other’s skills and have a sense of togetherness, of being ONE DSM. ONE DSM Culture Agenda Inclusion & Diversity During 2012, DSM transitioned its Change Agenda into the ONE DSM believes that fostering an inclusive culture that DSM Culture Agenda. The themes of the ONE DSM Culture embraces differences will help to create a more Agenda have been simplified and more aligned with DSM’s diverse workforce which will drive a high business environment and business strategy, as well as with its performance organization achieving its business global footprint. With the ONE DSM Culture Agenda, DSM is and strategic goals, especially in view of DSM’s focus on further developing the culture required to achieve its strategic internationalization, innovation and sustainability. A more ambitions, to mirror the world it operates in, and to become a balanced DSM leadership group (in terms of gender, nationality high performance organization. The four themes of the agenda and background) will improve the decision-making process as are: External Orientation, Accountability for Performance, well as the implementation of DSM’s strategy. Inclusion & Collaboration with Speed and Inclusion & Diversity. Accelerating Diversity requires thoughtful bridging skills and a full commitment the four themes across DSM will lead to a more agile organization to DSM’s joint corporate values. that is fit to cope with fast moving developments in the business environment. DSM Employee Engagement Survey External Orientation DSM’s HR strategy is about helping employees to successfully DSM is convinced that, in order to be able to deal with the challenges of a changing company in a fast-moving execute its growth strategy and rapidly adapt to global marketplace. The concept of employee engagement is changing customer and industry requirements, the very important in this respect. An engaged workforce is critical vast majority of its employees need to be fully in to DSM in realizing its ambitions. Engagement is about creating tune with the challenges the external world offers. This means an inclusive and high-energy working environment, where not just anticipating customer needs to drive marketing & sales employees are aligned and energized to contribute to the and innovation priorities, but also tracking, learning and company’s success. competing with best practices for all functions. External Orientation is also needed to broaden DSM’s networks and In 2012 DSM executed its fifth worldwide Employee engage with stakeholder groups. Engagement Survey. A total of 19,039 employees, including 631 contractor employees, completed the questionnaire, which was Accountability for Performance distributed online and on paper in 19 languages to all DSM DSM expects its employees to set ambitious employees. This represents a very high response rate of 87 targets and take ownership to deliver these. percent. The main element in the survey is the measurement of Accountability for Performance is about people DSM’s Employee Engagement Index, the percentage of taking responsibility for their actions and for the employees scoring favorable on a combination of four attributes: performance of their teams, about recognizing and celebrating commitment, pride, advocacy and satisfaction. The Employee successes, but also about bringing issues to the surface and Engagement Index measured in 2012 was 72 percent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 46 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 (2011: 71 percent). This is above the global overall norm of 69 The DSM Leadership Model consists of five imperatives. First, percent. The neutral responses amounted to 19 percent, the DSM expects its leaders to have: same as 2011. DSM continued to create a more inclusive working environment for its employees. The Inclusion Index, a • Insight being a leader in DSM starts with having insight into subset of survey items to measure inclusion, improved for the oneself and others. DSM expects its leaders to recognize the third year in a row. Of the respondents 68 percent scored strengths and the development areas of themselves and favorable on this index in 2012 (2011: 66 percent). others by listening, asking questions, observing, and dealing with feedback. And then: learn and act accordingly. The DSM Engagement Index score takes DSM within an 8 percentage point range of the external benchmark of high DSM Leadership Model: expectations performing companies (scoring 80 percent favorable), which is the league DSM wants to be part of. The 2012 results are in general at a good level and show a positive trend in almost all Deliver areas. Items are mostly at or above the external average Shape benchmarks. The survey results for the individual DSM units and regions have been translated into measurable action plans. DSM Develop will continue to use the Employee Engagement Survey to guide its ONE DSM Culture Agenda. Talent management Insight Connect DSM strongly believes that successful talent management requires leaders who have the right focus, mindset and capability © 2012 Royal DSM to identify, develop, engage and share diverse talent. Leaders who are inclusive and who are focused on growing themselves, Secondly, DSM expects its leaders to: their people and the business. In addition, the company believes in creating opportunities for its talented employees to maximize • Shape by setting the direction and targets based on vision, their development. In 2012 the company started many initiatives driven by external orientation and a view on competences and aimed at (1) empowering employees to take ownership of their options. Use an entrepreneurial approach with passion and a career and (2) empowering leaders to take accountability for sense of urgency and show a relentless drive for performance, both talent performance and talent development. continuous improvement, innovation and business growth. • Connect internally and externally, forge collaboration whilst DSM Leadership Model leveraging the benefits of ‘ONE DSM’ and build relationships In 2012 DSM presented a new leadership model that specifies based upon a genuine, authentic and motivational trust and the characteristics expected from leaders now and in the future interest in people, with respect and humility based on selfin a simple, understandable and compelling way. The DSM insights and a deep understanding of others. Leadership Model provides a common vision and language regarding the leadership DSM desires, and it describes an inspirational mindset to raise the bar on the performance of leaders and to grow people. The model sets out the expectation for leaders to be role models and developers of a sustainable, successful organization for the future. It is the basis for high quality processes to hire people, to grow and develop talent and build high performing teams. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 47 Thirdly, DSM expect its leaders to: This enables interactive knowledge sharing and stimulates peerto-peer networking in the organization. In 2012 further progress • Develop themselves and others, recognize and take was made in designing and rolling out new curricula for ownership for leadership and talent development and delivery, marketing, sales and innovation. In addition a brand-new offering and maximize the power of inclusion and diversity to build high for DSM talent, the Bright Talent Program, was launched, performance teams. reconfirming DSM's commitment to talent development. In • Deliver against ambitious targets and commitments and take 2012, 19 new programs were designed and introduced, bringing accountability for performance, empowering people to act the total number of available learning programs to 96 across with speed and agility. Celebrate and reward successes and three different regions: Europe, Asia and the Americas. learn openly from failures. Show a drive to win and be decisive. In 2012, a total of 3,706 DSM employees worldwide (from 35 different countries; 2,239 male and 1,467 female) participated in DSM Leadership Model: leadership capabilities the learning programs of the DSM Business Academy (DBA). This is an increase of 21 percent compared to 2011. The total Shape number of programs delivered in 2012 was 212. Program portfolio Available Available Deliver Insight Connect programs programs 2012 2011 Executive programs 8 8 Develop Management programs 31 27 Functional programs 45 34 © 2012 Royal DSM e-Learning programs 12 8 DSM is now working on the full roll-out of the DSM Leadership Total 96 77 Model, encompassing training and integration of its leadership model in all talent management processes. In addition to the DBA offerings, DSM employees at all levels in Organizational learning the organization are offered a wide variety of training opportunities (both on-the-job and classroom training). The DSM strongly believes in the need to invest in the knowledge, number of training hours per employee decreased from 28 in skills and experience of its employees to ensure their long-term 2011 to 24 in 2012. The previously reported number for training employability. The company provides its employees with various hours in 2011 has been adjusted. kinds of learning opportunities, including classroom and virtual programs, on-the-job training, coaching and mentoring. The Training per FTE in hours DSM Learning Architecture consists of four program clusters: executive programs, management programs, functional 40 programs and e-learning programs. 30 28 This architecture creates a common and coherent concept of 25 24 21 21 learning and program design, facilitates the development of a 20 DSM learning culture and provides enhanced learning for talent. The programs are designed and delivered in close cooperation 10 with leading international business schools and global training 0 providers (IMD, Wharton, Erasmus University) and are supported 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 by a diverse internal faculty, primarily consisting of DSM’s top management. Other learning methods such as round table discussions, business simulations, virtual classrooms, webcasting and team assignments are integrated into the programs. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 48 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Workforce composition Inclusion & Diversity The number of women in executive positions (40) remained at the same level, 10 percent, as in 2011. This will require attention going forward. In addition to recruiting female executives from the external market, DSM also makes an effort to recruit female executives from its internal pool of women candidates. The growth of the non-European executive population, relative to the growth of DSM in high growth economies, will also continue to demand full attention from the businesses and regional organizations. DSM has defined inclusion and diversity aspirations (in terms of gender and nationality) for its business groups for the period 2011-2015 to ensure that its organizational readiness is in line with its stretched growth ambitions for 2015. DSM continues to address the geographical distribution of management and other key functions, with a keen eye on gender and nationality balance. In this respect it can also be noted that new appointments to the Supervisory Board contributed to gender and nationality balance. Inclusion & Diversity aspirations As part of its strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth, the company in 2012 defined the following aspirations for Inclusion & Diversity: • Women in executive positions: 21% by 2015 • BRIC+ nationals in executive positions: 24% by 2015 • Inclusion Index: year-on-year improvement See also: Strategic targets and aspirations (page 15). The role of the DSM Inclusion & Diversity Council, chaired by DSM CEO Feike Sijbesma, is to facilitate inclusion and diversity at DSM and to ultimately support all DSM businesses in creating a sustainable inclusive environment, where diversity is fully embraced. This Council is strongly aligned with DSM’s internationalization efforts to make further progress with the company-wide ONE DSM Culture Agenda. Gender diversity % women ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 40 30 27 27 25 26 23 24 20 20 21 21 20 9 10 10 10 7 8 0 Executives Management Other Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 49 Workforce diversity % non-Dutch ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 100 75 76 75 71 71 71 63 59 58 53 47 49 50 42 40 39 32 25 0 Executives Management Other Executive hires Professional hires diversity in % diversity in % ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 100 100 84 87 79 81 77 75 71 70 75 65 67 58 50 50 41 38 38 39 31 25 25 18 20 25 14 8 0 0 Non-Dutch Women Non-Dutch Women New hires by region in % ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 40 37 30 29 27 27 25 23 23 22 21 20 21 21 20 20 20 18 18 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 10 7 7 0 Netherlands Rest of Europe North America China Rest of Asia-Pacific New employees The total inflow of new employees into DSM in 2012 was 2,073 not including the inflow of employees due to acquisitions. As a result of acquisitions a total of 1,493 people were added to DSM's workforce in 2012. In 2012, DSM recruited a total of 719 professionals (graduates and experienced hires), of whom 41 percent were women. The company wants to keep its focus on the diversity of these hires (nationality/gender) and build a strong diverse talent pipeline to achieve sufficient 'diverse critical mass' in the organization. DSM wants to improve its labor market positioning as an employer of choice, to ensure that the company is an attractive career option for talented individuals across all groups of potential employees. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 50 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Employees by age category in % ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 40 34 35 32 31 30 30 27 28 28 28 28 23 23 24 24 22 20 11 11 12 10 10 10 6 5 6 6 6 0 < 26 yrs 26-35 yrs 36-45 yrs 46-55 yrs > 55 yrs Net sales per employee Outflow of employees x € 1000, based on weighted average headcount in % of total workforce 405 410 ■ Resignations and other ■ Dismissed ■ Reorganization ■ Retirements 400 397 399 ■ Divestments 340 18 300 12 200 6 100 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Outflow of employees The total outflow of employees at DSM in 2012 was 2,189. A total of 225 employees retired, 1,094 resigned of their own will and, sadly, 22 employees passed away. In 2012, a total of 507 employees were requested to leave the company for non-performance or non-compliance reasons. A further 323 were made redundant due to reorganizations that took place across DSM in 2012. A part of the outflow (18 employees in total) was related to divestments. International labor standards Respect for people is an essential part of the business principles outlined in the DSM Code of Business Conduct that DSM launched in 2010. DSM supports and respects human values as outlined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. DSM’s employees represent about 50 different nationalities and the company supports the equal treatment of all employees irrespective of race, nationality, ethnic background, age, religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability. Respect for human rights is also integral to DSM’s sourcing policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. DSM utterly rejects and condemns any form of forced labor or child labor. This is clearly stated in the DSM Code of Business Conduct. DSM conducts due diligence before making any investment decisions in order to exclude, among other things, any relationships or practices which may be in contravention of human rights. DSM is unaware of any cases of breach of human rights or the use of forced or child labor within its operations in 2012. DSM is a Dutch signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. DSM also meets the recommendations made in the OECD (Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development) Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Furthermore, DSM supports the work-related rights defined by the ILO (International Labor Organization) and recognizes the International Labor Standards. In countries or businesses where employees have third-party representation via a works council or collective bargaining, DSM respects these relationships and works with these third parties in a mutually respectful manner. See also: Stakeholder engagement (page 33). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 51 In the event of an organizational restructuring that results in the violations of the Code can result in dismissal. In line with this loss of a significant number of jobs, DSM develops and policy, 28 employees were requested to leave the company implements either a social program (aimed at assisting because they had breached the Code of Conduct or other legal employees to continue in employment, whether inside or outside or local company regulations, for example by committing fraud the company) or else a severance program. DSM promotes or theft. employee empowerment and human rights protection and therefore seeks dialogue with its employees and their Safety and health representatives (works councils, labor unions). See also: People Occupational safety at DSM (page 46). For the first time since mid-2009 DSM’s safety performance is showing clear improvement. The Frequency Index of Recordable DSM Code of Business Conduct Injuries for 2012 was the lowest ever, thanks to an improvement of DSM's safety culture and performance, among other things The DSM Code of Business Conduct, as introduced in 2010, by securing compliance with the Life Saving Rules. contains the company’s business principles across the three dimensions of People, Planet and Profit. All DSM employees are It is DSM’s goal to have an injury and incident free working expected to act in accordance with the Code, and the Managing environment. DSM has set itself the target of reducing the Board holds DSM management accountable for compliance Frequency Index of recordable injuries by 50 percent or more by therewith. The full text of the DSM Code of Business Conduct is the year 2020, from 0.57 in 2010 to less than or equal to 0.25 in available on www.dsm.com. 2020. This index measures Lost Workday Cases (LWCs), restricted workday cases, medical treatment cases and/or The code serves as an umbrella for several other DSM fatalaties per 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in regulations, such as those regarding global trade controls and one year. At the end of 2012 this Frequency Index was 0.44 global competition law principles and practices. The (2011: 0.53). implementation of these regulations is structurally embedded in DSM’s systems and processes. For example, as part of the Frequency Index of recordable injuries global trade controls process, DSM master data is screened 12-month moving average overnight to check customers and suppliers against embargoes REC-rate DSM all Rate for Lost Workday Cases (LWC), DSM-own and lists of sanctioned parties. Furthermore, compliance with competition law and trade controls is being addressed via 1.25 regular classroom training sessions and e-learning. Those employees who are most exposed to competition laws have to 1.00 complete an annual statement to confirm their compliance with the rules set forth in the DSM Competition Law Compliance Manual. In 2012 DSM was not subject to any investigations by 0.75 competition authorities related to potential anticompetitive behavior. 0.44 0.50 DSM also has rules in place on the holding of and execution of transactions in DSM financial instruments and certain other DSM Target FI REC All 2020: 0.25 0.25 financial instruments related to trading in DSM shares and if applicable other company shares and related financial 0.12 instruments, which apply to all DSM employees, including 0 members of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board. 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 DSM applies zero-tolerance consequence management with respect to deliberate violation of its Code of Business Conduct policy. A whistleblower procedure (DSM Alert) and a consequence management policy are in place to support compliance with the Code. The DSM Compliance Officer responsible for dealing with violations of the DSM Code of Business Conduct reports to the CEO and is invited to report independently to the Supervisory Board once a year. Proven Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 52 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 The Frequency Index of Lost Workday Cases involving DSM process safety incidents (PSI). Of the total number of incidents employees was 0.12 in 2012 (2011: 0.15). By 2020 the number reported, 162 (2011: 173) have also been classified as a process of serious safety incidents should be reduced by 65 percent safety incident. This translates into a Frequency Index for PSI of compared to 2010, when there were 15 such incidents. In 2012, 0.55 (2011: 0.58). The performance is similar to last year. DSM’s the number of serious safety incidents was 7 (4 DSM employees targets for reducing the Frequency Index for PSI are 50 percent and 3 contractor employees). The third quarter of 2012 was the in 2015 and 75 percent in 2020, starting with a baseline first quarter ever in DSM’s history during which no serious safety Frequency Index of 0.68. incidents occurred. When it comes to reporting on process safety incidents there The improvements are attributable to increased efforts at all currently are two approaches commonly used. One has been levels and in all disciplines in the organization to focus on safe developed in the US and has been condensed in Recommended work practices. The renewed implementation of the Life Saving Practice 754 of the American Petroleum Institute. The other has Rules was a major program in 2012. Although aimed at been developed in Europe, condensed in a CEFIC guidance. preventing very serious accidents (fatalities), the reintroduction Although the principles of these approaches are similar, the of these Life Saving Rules resulted in a general increase in safety results are not comparable. DSM is of the opinion that this awareness. Management attention and leadership as well as reduces transparency on process safety performance to its peer-to-peer and other audits further enhanced the focus on stakeholders and is in favor of migrating to a harmonized, safe work practices. This resulted in in-depth discussions with globally applicable approach for reporting on process safety the people involved in activities to which the Life Saving Rules performance. DSM is working with organizations like CEFIC and apply, leading to improved general awareness as well as EPSC (European Process Safety Centre) and has contributed to practical solutions for safety issues encountered. The Life Saving process safety conferences in Brazil, Argentina and Germany. Rules are now also introduced in all new organizations that join DSM is member of an ICCA Task Force to develop a harmonized DSM through acquisitions. The company has set ambitious international approach. safety targets and continues its journey towards creating a workplace free of incidents and injuries. See also: What still went Global Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Conference wrong in 2012 (page 136). On 12 and 13 June 2012, Corporate Operations & Responsible Care hosted a global DSM SHE Conference in Noordwijk e-Learning courses (Netherlands) around the theme of ‘Creating our legacy; a never In 2012 two e-learning courses for all employees and contractor ending journey’. Attendees included 135 line managers from all employees were issued in eight languages. One course levels in the company and experts on Safety, Health, introduces the DSM Life Saving Rules and the other gives an Environment and Sustainability representing DSM locations all overview of SHE and security at DSM. Both courses are over the world. The participants rated the conference 4.5 out of mandatory for all employees. 5, which illustrates the successful set-up. The attention paid to storytelling and sharing personal experiences very much Safety in logistics appealed to those present. The program included panel In 2012 DSM paid extra attention to load securing. Poorly discussions with external keynote speakers and DSM top secured loads are dangerous not only during transport but also managers, as well as break-out sessions. One of the keynote during unloading operations at customers’ premises or DSM lectures was about health and focused on how employees can sites. Despite this extra attention, DSM still experienced nearsustainably improve their personal performance. The conference misses and incidents relating to poorly secured loads in 2012. underlined the importance of employee health and indicated that The company’s overall SHE performance in logistics further a sustainable employee health and wellness program should be improved compared to 2011. The number of safety incidents in an integral part of every DSM site’s SHE plan. the supply chain once again decreased and reached its lowest level ever: 16 cases (compared to 24 in 2011). Currently, about SHE Award and SHE Improvement Award 12.5 percent of safety cases are supply chain related. The main To stimulate excellence in the field of SHE, DSM annually grants causes are ergonomic issues (spraining muscles and joints when a SHE Award to the DSM site that showed the best SHE moving heavy objects or when moving things in an performance, and a SHE Improvement Award to the site that has uncomfortable position). made the greatest progress in improving its SHE performance over a number of years. All business groups were invited to Process safety nominate sites or other parts of their organization for these As of 2011, DSM follows the European Chemical Industry awards. The nominees are ranked on the basis of approximately Council (CEFIC) guidance in defining which incidents qualify as 30 criteria. Besides SHE elements, these include sustainability Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 53 aspects, for example how the unit has supported the local joint effort of the DSM Netherlands Occupational Health Center, community. The winner of the SHE Award receives a bronze Corporate Operations & Responsible Care and the business sculpture and a check of € 10,000, to be spent on the local groups. community. This reflects the importance that DSM attaches to the communities around its sites. To emphasize the importance One of the key focus areas of Vitality@DSM is to increase of the awards, a member of the Managing Board hands over the awareness about the importance of healthy choices in lifestyle. prizes to the winning organizations. In 2012, DSM Nutritional Therefore, employees are invited to set their personal goals, and Products in Dalry, Scotland (United Kingdom) won the SHE are being coached individually. This has been combined with Award and donated its prize to the MacMillan Cancer Support comprehensive health check-ups. The role of departments Ayrshire. DSM Engineering Plastics in Evansville, Indiana (USA) overall is to support making action plans with the objective of won the SHE Improvement Award. improving individual and group performances. Employee health management At the end of 2012 nearly 7,000 DSM employees all over the DSM has a global employee health management program, world had participated in Vitality@DSM. Participation rates at all Vitality@DSM. Participants are offered a Vitality Check (an sites where the program has been introduced vary from 65 extensive periodic medical check-up) and are asked to fill out an percent to 95 percent. The scorecard gives an overview of how electronic questionnaire. This provides DSM employees with a the various business groups and business units perform with personal scorecard, and the company with anonymized, respect to 'Health at Work'. Overall, the highest risks according tangible and quantitative data on health at work. This enables to the scorecard relate to lack of exercise, a Body Mass Index the company to monitor progress through performance (BMI) of more than 25 and low satisfaction and high stress at indicators, compare results by region as a basis for defining the work. Several DSM units that had already participated in content and priorities of health promotion campaigns at site and Vitality@DSM defined the content and priorities of health regional level, and create scorecards at relevant levels in the promotion campaigns at site level in 2012. This follow-up is very company. Vitality@DSM fits the company’s mission very well as important to make Vitality@DSM sustainable. The scorecard is it creates ‘brighter lives’ for the employees and addresses one presented to business group and business unit management of the global trends, Health and Wellness, defined in DSM’s each quarter. strategy for the years 2010-2015. The roll-out in the Netherlands started in 2009 and was virtually completed in 2012. The Occupational health program is also being piloted in DSM China, DSM India and DSM In 2012 a total of 13 occupational health cases were reported. North-America. The implementation in the various regions is a Absenteeism in % ■ 2008 ■ 2009 ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 4 3.8 3.4 3.0 3.0 3.1 3.0 3 2.9 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.1 2 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.0 1.1 1 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.6 0.5 0 Netherlands Rest of North America China Rest of Europe Asia-Pacific Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 54 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 55 Planet in 2012 Brewers Clarex™, which enables brewers to prevent chill haze without having to cool their beers to sub-zero temperatures. On the Planet dimension of its Triple P approach, DSM delivers activities, solutions and innovations that improve the Other ECO+ benefits are the minimization of the use of natural environmental footprint of its own business and that of its resources such as water or minerals (including metals), or the external stakeholders in the value chains in which the company reduction of waste. A typical example is phytase used in animal operates (customers, supplier and end consumers). This feed. Phytase enables animals to absorb more phosphorus from approach includes the ECO+ program, which defines their feed. This translates into less phosphorus supplementation sustainability as a growth driver. This chapter also addresses the and less phosphate pollution from animal manure. Another reporting on DSM’s environmental footprint and on its example are Akulon®-based flexible packaging films such as implementation of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for scope 3 Pack-Age™, a cheese ripening solution in the form of a emissions. See also: Growth Driver: Sustainability (page 24). breathable film bag that gives cheese the same taste and texture as the traditional coating method, but without the labor and without the waste. Growing profitable business on a strong foundation All the above examples might be characterized as ‘eco-efficient’. Credible Sustainability Sustainability Growth They help minimize environmental impact. DSM’s long-term goal Qualifiers Drivers is to become fully eco-effective, by providing solutions that close Internal DSM External DSM Triple P Foundation Sustainability Position the loop and have a truly positive, rather than less negative, environmental impact. To achieve a truly circular economy, it is • Health and safety essential to invest in the development of products made from DSM Sustainability • Diversity People • Employee engagement People+ renewable, bio-based raw materials rather than fossil fuels. • Vitality@DSM Palapreg Eco™ is an example of such a product. See also: DSM Greenhouse-gas Bio-based Products & Services (page 106). Positioning • emissions Planet • Energy efficiency ECO+ • Water To promote a circular economy, DSM also proactively seeks to develop safer alternatives to existing solutions. Many products that are on the market today contain ingredients that bring ECO+ specific benefits during use but that may cause problems in the end-of-life stage or make the product difficult to recycle. ECO+ is DSM’s strategic concept for promoting the Considering safer alternatives creates new business development of sustainable, innovative products and solutions opportunities that are not available to companies that are merely with ecological benefits, and for measuring these benefits. compliant with regulations. Good examples of safer alternatives ECO+ solutions create more value with less environmental are BluCure™, the 100 percent cobalt free curing technology for impact. The ecological benefits can be created at any stage of composite resins, and halogen-free flame retardant plastics ® ® the product life cycle, from raw material through manufacturing such as Arnitel XG and Stanyl ForTii™. DSM also continues to ® and use to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. To measure focus on Cradle to Cradle closed-loop solutions. them, the ECO+ framework uses the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) methodology. For a full definition of ECO+, see page Some DSM ECO+ solutions carry an Environmental Product 224 . Declaration (EPD). An EPD is a standardized way of communicating the environmental performance of a product or In 2012 the percentage of ECO+ solutions in the innovation system. It is based on ISO standard 14025/TR and Life Cycle pipeline was 80 percent, equal to the aspiration set for 2015. Assessment. Eighty percent of DSM's ECO+ solutions are ECO+ solutions as a percentage of running business increased supported by LCAs. to 43 percent. DSM is on its way toward the 50 percent aspiration for 2015. Finally, most ECO+ solutions generate downstream cost benefits coupled to their environmental benefits at specific Typical ECO+ examples are DSM's engineering plastics that stages of the value chain. These effects include generating less enable customers to produce lower-drag, lighter-weight and waste in the use phase, making the application more durable therefore more fuel-efficient cars. A life-science example is and reducing energy consumption in the application or disposal phase. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 56 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Value chain benefits of innovative ECO+ solutions Applications Higher ecoRenewable Safer Environmental Downstream efficiency1 content alternative2 Product cost Declaration benefits (EPD) Materials Arnitel® VT Breathable film • • Arnitel® XG Wires and cables • • Akulon® Fuel Lock Fuel tanks • • • Arnitel® Eco Pan liners • • • • BluCure™ Technology Marine, building & construction • Dyneema® Aquaculture and fishing nets, • • • cut-resistant gloves EcoPaXX® Engine covers • • • HighQ™ Container Lightweight containers • • Hybrane® CY-245 Car refinish • • • KhepriCoat™ 3 Solar panels • • Neocryl® XK-238 Industrial coating • • Neocryl® XK-555 Anti-graffiti coating • • NeoPac® PU-480 Architectural coating • • • NeoRez® U-475 Graphic arts printing • • • • Palapreg® ECO Composite bridges • • • Stanyl® ForTii™ Micro-electronics • • • Stanyl® polyamide 46 Chain tensioners • • Stanyl® TC LED lighting • • • Synolite® 7524-N-1 FC resin Artificial stone • • • Uradil® AZ-785 Architectural interior wall paint • • • Uralac® P32 series Construction, heavy steel, • • • part powder coating Uralac® P752/755/3307 Construction sheet molding • • • compounds Health & Nutrition Bakezyme® Bread • • Brewers Clarex™ Beer • • • Brewers Compass™ Beer • • • Claristar® Wine • • Delvotest® Milk • • • Panamore® Bread • • • Phytase Animal feed • • • Purifine® PLA2 Soy oil • • DSMPureActives™ Antibiotics • • • • Rapidase® Fruit juices • • • Vitamin E Vitamins • • Combined Pack-Age™ Cheese packaging • • • 1 Better resource efficiency and/or reduced GHG emissions thanks to e.g. higher energy efficiency in the product life cycle 2 Product can be used instead of existing products that contain materials that may contain substances of hazardous concern 3 LCA pending Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 57 Environmental impact of DSM's operations DSM's energy efficiency improved by 14 percent compared to the reference year 2008, which is a further improvement of approximately 2 percent compared to 2011. Greenhouse-gas emissions decreased slightly compared to the reference year 2008, from 4.3 million tons of CO2 equivalents to 4.2 million. This is a strong reduction compared to 2011, when greenhouse-gas emissions were 4.6 million tons of CO2 equivalents, in spite of the fact that several new reporting units were consolidated for the first time in 2012. An important structural improvement was realized at DSM Fiber Intermediates (DFI) Nanjing, where an N2O abatement system was taken into operation in September 2012. See also: Sustainability in Polymer Intermediates (page 102). Key environmental indicators, continuing operations 2012 2011 Energy use in petajoules (PJ) 40.6 44.6 Water use (x million m3) 150 153 Greenhouse-gas emissions in CO2 equivalents (x million tons) 4.2 4.6 Emission of volatile organic compounds (x 1000 tons) 3.4 4.2 COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand) discharges to surface waters (x 1000 tons) 5.5 7.0 Total water withdrawal in 2012 decreased by approximately gives guidance to the rolling three-year plans of the business 3 million m3 to 150 million m3. The decrease is the balance of groups. In addition to SHE topics, the CMP 2010-2015 also reductions at some sites and increases at other sites. Positive addresses security as a strategic subject. Quantitative targets changes were also obtained by specific water projects. have been set for six SHE topics (see table on the next page). For three other SHE topics improvement programs have been Significant improvements were achieved in emissions to air. set up. VOC, NOx and SO2 emissions were significantly reduced due to structural improvements, as well as several changes in The eco-efficiency targets, representing the main emissions from production volumes. DSM’s plants, are based on the principle that all DSM sites in the world should as a minimum meet the standards as applied in the The landfilling of non-hazardous waste increased significantly in European Union or the US. New plants and major plant absolute terms, mainly due to the fact that two newly acquired modifications should meet this requirement right from the start, sites land-filled relatively large amounts of non-hazardous waste. whereas existing plants should meet it within five years. Relative to production volumes, the amount of landfilled nonhazardous waste has decreased since 2010. The CMP was reviewed according to plan in 2012. The target for water availability and use has been confirmed at 15 percent The discharge of COD decreased significantly in 2012 compared reduction of water use. In the coming years once through cooling to 2011. This is the balance of an increase due to the fact that will be excluded in those cases where it is shown that this does several newly acquired units were consolidated for the first time not result in thermal pollution. Water risk assessments will focus in 2012, and lower production volumes at several other sites. on sites located in water scarcity areas and sites that contribute significantly to DSM’s discharge to water and/or water use. The Environmental targets impact of the discharge of nitrogen and phosphorus is now In the framework of its corporate strategy, DSM has defined included in the local water risk assessments. Risk assessments long-term Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) targets for on biodiversity and ecosystem services, taking 'no net loss' as 2010-2015 and translated these into plans and activities in a long term (2020) ambition, were added as a new item. Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care (CMP). This CMP Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 58 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Safety, Health and Environment targets1 2015 2020 Safety at work Reduction in number of serious incidents by 65% Frequency Index of recordable injuries ≤ 0.25 Process safety2 Reduction in number of process safety Reduction of PSI by 75% incidents (PSI) by 50% Health at work Vitality@DSM target: at least 75% uptake per project done, and ambition to reach 15,000 entries by 2015 Eco-efficiency Reduction of discharges to water: COD 20% Reduction of emissions to air: VOC 40% SO2 70% NOx 30% Reduction of waste: Landfilling non-hazardous waste 15% Climate change Energy-efficiency improvement of 20% by 2020 compared to 2008 Reduction (absolute) in GHG emissions of 25% by 2020 compared to 2008 Water availability and use Reduction of water use 15% 1 Reductions compared to 2010, unless otherwise stated 2 See page 53 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 59 Progress made in 2012 towards environmental reduction targets % Reduction realized up to % Reduction realized up to 2011 compared to 2012 compared to Reduction target (%, reference year2 reference year1 reference year-target year) Discharges to water COD 5% 8% 20% (2010-2015) Emissions to air VOC 29% 31% 40% (2010-2015) SO2 65% 92% 70% (2010-2015) NOx 21% 39% 30% (2010-2015) Landfilling non-hazardous Waste waste 6% increase 6% 15% (2010-2015) Improvement of energy Climate change efficiency 12% 14% 20% (2008-2020) Greenhouse gases 8% increase 1% 25% (2008-2020) Water availability and use Total water consumption 5% increase 0% 15% (2010-2015) 1 Corrected for changes in production volumes and product portfolio relative to the reference year (except greenhouse-gas emissions, which is an absolute target). Acquisitions made during the target period are not taken into account. Divested units have been excluded. 2 Some minor differences compared to the numbers reported in last year's report are the result of corrections that have been applied. All environmental targets, except for the target for greenhouseIn addition to the consolidated graphs shown in this section, gas emissions, are relative targets, i.e. emissions and DSM publishes detailed information on the environmental consumption relative to production volumes. This means that the performance of all its production sites, such as emissions, reduction percentages in the table above are the result of consumption figures and SHE highlights on www.dsm.com. calculations incorporating changes in production volumes. Acquisitions and divestments in the target period are excluded Data reporting by the sites is regularly audited by DSM’s for the determination of target realization in order to have a likeCorporate Operational Audit department. See also: Reporting for-like comparison. policy (page 110). The target for greenhouse-gas emissions is an absolute target. The previously divested units DSM Agro, DSM Melamine, DSM Elastomers, Citric acid, and DSM Special Products Rotterdam were excluded from the base year 2008, but the impact of other acquisitions and divestments is reflected in these figures. The reported figures are the result of improvements achieved in the year 2012, changes in production volumes, the impact of acquisitions, divestments and site closures carried out in the same year and the fact that the planet data for DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals (DSP) are consolidated for 50 percent as of January 2012, compared to 100 percent in previous years. See also Pharma (page 101). The graphs on the following pages show the absolute DSM totals over the years 2008-2012. This can give rise to some apparent differences with the target realization figures, as the latter are corrected for changes in production volumes and do not include companies that were acquired or divested in this period. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 60 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Emissions to air Nitrogen oxide Volatile Organic Compounds Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions decreased significantly, from Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) decreased 2,200 tons in 2011 to 1,700 tons in 2012. This is mainly because strongly from 4,200 tons in 2011 to 3,400 tons in 2012 due to the two coal-fired steam boilers at DFI Nanjing were closed in several causes. The largest decrease results from the fact that July 2011, as was already mentioned in the 2011 annual report. planet data from DSP is only consolidated for 50 percent as of A smaller contribution resulted from the closure of DSP January 2012, compared to 100 percent in previous years. In Zhangjiakou, the fact that planet data for DSP are only addition, significant reductions are the result of improvements at consolidated for 50 percent as of January 2012 and a decrease DSM Nutritional Products in Dalry, Scotland (UK) and DSM at DFI Augusta as a result of lower production volumes. Engineering Plastics in Emmen (Netherlands), the closure of the DSP site in Zhangjiakou (China) and several process changes at NOx tons/year DSP in Ramos Arizpe (Mexico). 3,000 On the other hand, there are several new reporting sites, such as DSM Food Specialties Zhongken (China), DSM Dyneema in Laiwu (China) and DSP in Yushu (China), which contribute to 2,000 DSM’s VOC emissions as of January 2012. Shifts in production processes at DSP Toansa (India), which realized higher output 1,000 of processes with higher emissions per ton of product, and operational issues at DFI Augusta, Georgia (USA), also resulted in higher emissions. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 In addition, VOC emissions at DFI Nanjing have increased as a result of a change in the processing of a waste stream. This waste stream used to be incinerated on site. The incineration Sulfur dioxide process required a large amount of energy and yielded an DSM’s sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions decreased significantly, aqueous waste stream of sodium carbonate which was drained from 500 tons in 2011 to 100 tons in 2012. The main reason is to the Yangtze river. A more sustainable solution to treat the that the two coal-fired steam boilers at DFI Nanjing were closed waste stream was found. Various (valuable) components are in July 2011. A smaller reduction resulted from the closure of recovered and energy consumption is considerably lower. DSP Zhangjiakou and the fact that as of January 2012 DSP is However, the existing incinerator was also used to burn offonly consolidated for 50 percent, compared to 100 percent in gases (VOC), and these are now temporarily released to the air. previous years. A new (small) incinerator to burn the off-gases is under construction. A high workload at the vendor and additional safety SO2 tons/year requirements unfortunately caused a delay. 1,500 VOC tons/year 1,000 10,000 8,000 500 6,000 0 4,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 61 Discharges to water and landfilling of waste Energy and greenhouse gases Chemical Oxygen Demand Energy consumption The discharge of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand; an indicator DSM’s total energy consumption decreased by approximately of the degree of pollution of wastewater by organic substances) 10 percent from 44.6 petajoules in 2011 to 40.6 petajoules in decreased from 7,000 tons in 2011 to 5,500 tons in 2012. The 2012. main reductions were achieved by the closure of DSP Zhangjiakou and shutdowns of production units at DNP Dalry DFI Nanjing realized a significant improvement in energy and DSP Ramos Arizpe and lower production volumes due to efficiency, resulting in lower energy consumption at the same turnarounds and less demand at DFI Augusta and DPP Capua production volume. The replacement of steam supplied from its (Italy). On the other hand, new reporting sites, including DNP own relatively inefficient coal-fired boilers with steam supplied Leon (Spain), DNP Kingstree, South Carolina (USA) and DSP from a more efficient external supplier, as was already mentioned Yushu, caused an increase in COD discharge. in last year’s report, was now effective in the whole year. COD Significant further reductions resulted from the closure of DSP tons/year Zhangjiakou and reductions and/or shifts in production volumes at DSP Ramos Arizpe, DNP Dalry, DFI Augusta and DFI Sittard8,000 Geleen (Netherlands). 6,000 Energy consumption PJ 4,000 50 2,000 40 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 30 20 10 Non-hazardous waste The landfilling of non-hazardous waste increased from 27,700 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 tons in 2011 to 33,700 tons in 2012. The main reason for this significant increase is the fact that two new sites, DNP Kingstree and DSP Yushu both landfilled significant amounts of nonhazardous waste. On the other hand, a significant decrease On the other hand, the new reporting plants DNP Kingstree, DSP resulted from shifts in production processes at DSP Ramos Yushu and DFS Zhongken caused an increase in DSM’s total Arizpe. energy consumption. Other sites show fluctuations that are the result of changes in As was mentioned in the 2011 Integrated Annual Report, DNP production processes. These are not considered structural. Belvidere has taken a new combined heat and power unit into operation. The unit was started up in November/December, Landfilling non-hazardous waste which means that there is not yet any significant impact on tons/year energy efficiency improvement. Energy efficiency at DSM Pharmaceutical Products (DPP) in Greenville, North Carolina 40,000 (USA) improved, as was expected based on the project that was mentioned in the 2011 report. 30,000 20,000 10,000 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 62 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Greenhouse-gas emissions Water consumption x 1000 m3 DSM’s greenhouse-gas emissions decreased from 4.6 million tons in 2011 to 4.2 million tons in 2012. A structural improvement ■ surface water ■ groundwater ■ potable water was realized at DFI Nanjing, where an N2O abatement system 160,000 was taken into operation in September 2012. A significant reduction resulted from lower production volumes at DFI 120,000 Augusta, and the fact that planet data for DSP are only 80,000 consolidated for 50 percent as of January 2012, compared to 100 percent in previous years. Smaller reductions at several 40,000 other sites and the closure of DSP Zhangjiakou are offset by the contribution of three new reporting sites (DNP Kingstree, DSP 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Yushu, DFS Zhongken). Greenhouse-gas emissions million tons DSM aims to achieve a situation where its operations have no ■ direct CO ■ indirect CO ■ N O and other gases 2 adverse effect on the quality and quantity of water in the regions 2 2 in which the company operates. In regions that face water 5 scarcity, DSM actively assesses the local impact of its 4 operations, based on a watershed approach as part of a water risk assessment. In these water risk assessments, the focus is 3 not only on reducing water consumption in DSM’s own 2 operations but also on promoting an overall sustainable water 1 management system in cooperation with other stakeholders in 0 the watershed area and in the supply chain. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Operational improvement and increased awareness In 2012, a number of DSM sites in areas of extreme water Water consumption scarcity as defined by the Global Water Tool executed a water risk assessment using a dedicated Sustainable Water The graph in the next column shows DSM’s global water Management methodology. The assessment included water consumption, split up into surface water, groundwater and governance capability, (local) stakeholder integration, potable (tap) water. Total water withdrawal decreased from 153 million m3 in 2011 to 150 million m3 in 2012. This is the balance of reductions at some sites and increases at other sites. Specific DSM supports UN CEO Water Mandate water projects at DEP Emmen, DNP Grenzach (Germany) and DEP Jiangyin (China) resulted in significant local reductions. Sustainability is a core value and growth driver for DSM. Further reductions were achieved by the closure of DSP Our mission is to create brighter lives for people today and Zhangjiakou and shutdowns of large water-consuming generations to come. One of the essential elements in production units at DFI Nanjing and DSP Ramos Arizpe, as well people’s lives is water. It is becoming increasingly scarce as turnarounds at DFI Augusta and DFI Sittard-Geleen. The main and polluted. But increasingly water is also becoming too increase was due to new reporting sites, including DNP Leon, abundant due to natural effects, increased by climate DNP Kingstree, DSP Yushu and DFS Zhongken, and changes changes and therefore threatening lives within our society. in production processes at DNP Lalden (Switzerland), DFI DSM truly values initiatives like the United Nations Global Sittard-Geleen, DPP Linz (Austria), DSP and DFS Delft Compact CEO Water Mandate, to the principles of which I (Netherlands). express my continued support. We need to keep each other focused on the essentials in life. The topic of water and A significant part of DSM’s total water consumption is for once sustainable water management has our full attention. through cooling. These volumes were influenced by incoming river water temperatures, in particular at DNP Sisseln Feike Sijbesma, CEO of Royal DSM (Switzerland), DNP Grenzach, DNP Lalden and DPP Linz. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 63 business risks related to existing and future operations, and suppliers to commit themselves to targets and assessments value chain and ecosystem impact. similar to those applied by DSM. In 2012, the company developed a new supplier water performance and risk Based on the results and insights gained, DSM updated its assessment tool, which integrates relevant parts of the DSM roadmap to sustainable water management. The company Sustainable Water Management tool and impact analysis. This confirmed its overall water intensity target of reducing water helps DSM suppliers to develop sustainable water management withdrawal by 15 percent by 2015. In 2013 and 2014 the water supply chains. See also: Water management (page 35). risk assessment methodology will be applied to other sites of extreme water scarcity as well as to significant water To improve the methodology of water footprinting, assessment withdrawers and significant polluters (including thermal pollution and awareness building, DSM continued to participate in and of once-through cooling). The impact studies on scarcity and collaborate with associations and partnerships which address pollution set priorities for local mitigation actions (e.g. water this topic. DSM has for example joined the World Business reduction projects, local stakeholder participation and Council for Sustainable Development’s Water Leadership cooperation projects) as defined in business group roadmaps for Group. The company also actively participates in UN Global 2015/2020. Compact country networks to promote innovations in the process industry, including process intensification or other Based on the water impact and risk assessments, DSM has technologies stimulating the re-use of water. And finally, DSM is created a transparent overview of its impact on water scarcity contributing to the development of the ISO 14046 water footprint and water pollution (COD, nitrogen, phosphorus) at specific standard. locations. There are a number of small sites where water scarcity may occur for up to a few months per year in their area of Biodiversity operation, but their impact is relatively insignificant as they consume less than one percent of available fresh water sources. Biodiversity and healthy ecosystems are key conditions for a There are also a number of big sites where the risk of water more sustainable world. They provide what are known as scarcity is low but the potential impact is high. These sites have ecosystem services: by fulfilling basic human needs such as prepared local water consumption reduction plans in line with food, materials, clean water and fresh air, they sustain human DSM’s water aspiration. Depending on the specific location and life. DSM considers the conservation of biodiversity and impact, DSM will create awareness and seek cooperation with ecosystems an essential part of sustainable development and industrial and governmental stakeholders to make sure there will corporate (social) responsibility. It is DSM’s belief that companies be no adverse impacts at the local level. Water risk assessments have an important role to play in the conservation of nature. This provided additional insight into improvements to achieve DSM's is a learning process; it starts with building awareness, to be 'no adverse effect' policy. While no violations were observed with followed up with actions to (1) assess DSM’s impact on regard to local permit conditions, some water discharges were biodiversity and (2) mitigate the impact in order to preserve using a significant part of the rivers' assimilation capacity. Further biodiversity. investigations will be conducted and mitigation measures will be taken where necessary. DSM supports the terms of the Convention on Biological Diversity, being the conservation of biological diversity, the Full transparency in reporting water performance sustainable use of the components of biological diversity and the DSM continues to publish location reports on all DSM sites fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising out of the worldwide on the internet, providing external stakeholders with utilization of genetic resources. This has been embedded in detailed insight into local situations. DSM remains committed to DSM’s management systems. the CEO Water Mandate that it signed in 2009, and the company has reported its water performance within the Carbon Disclosure In 2012 some DSM employees from the SHE, business and Project since 2011, although it is not rated to be a high water purchasing communities were trained by IUCN on the basics of intensity business. Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services. This training was developed by the World Business Council for Sustainable Promote improvements in value chain Development, or WBCSD. This was a first step in raising DSM is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with suppliers, awareness, which needs to be taken to a next level, including customers and industry peers to create sustainable value chains more insights into the impact on biodiversity of DSM's operations by progressively enhancing the eco-footprint (including water in the value chain. See also: Biodiversity (page 35). footprint) of products and processes across each chain. Moreover, in the coming years DSM will increasingly require Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 64 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 In addition DSM requested its production sites to assess their Renewable raw materials in % of total raw materials spend potential impact on legally protected areas, as well as areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. In a first analysis, 10 40 percent of DSM's sites were identified as being located in or adjacent to high biodiversity value areas. This is significantly 8 more than previously reported numbers, as a result of the 6 application of new criteria. The distance to these protected and/ or high biodiversity value areas ranged from 500 meters up to 4 25 km. In all cases DSM has no indication of any adverse impact 2 on these areas and all sites operate within the permit levels of local governments. 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Together with some of the partners in the Inspirational Programme of the Leaders for Nature platform of IUCN DSM is working on a 'business area of the future' concept. This concept Fines and sanctions includes assessing a company's impact and dependency on A total of four environmental sanctions were given to DSM sites. biodiversity and ecosystem services. DSM aspires to prevent further degradation of biodiversity and wishes to contribute to The total amount paid in fines by DSM amounted to the preservation of biodiversity wherever possible and wherever approximately € 45,000, which is much lower than in 2011 the company’s activities have impact. (€ 70,000) and previous years. Renewable energy To the best of DSM’s knowledge, no other fines or non-monetary sanctions for environmental issues were incurred in 2012. DSM acknowledges that the world urgently needs to shift its energy mix from fossil based towards renewable, while securing Environmental incidents and complaints energy supply, and aims to be a front-runner in combating global The total number of registered environmental complaints was 35 warming and resource depletion. DSM is investing heavily in the (24 in 2011), of which 22 were about odor, 10 about noise and production of cellulosic bio-ethanol. DSM considers growth 1 about flaring. enabled by just buying more energy – which currently predominantly drives the demand for cheap fossil energy − The total number of environmental incidents was 316, compared a vicious circle which needs to be broken. It considers the limited to 300 in 2011. Of these incidents, only two were rated as serious prospect of timely availability of sufficient renewable energy (11 in 2011). In previous years health incidents were also a matter of deep concern and a huge challenge to deal with included in these numbers but these are now separately properly. DSM, although not involved in the business of energy reported in the occupational health paragraph of the 'People in generation, nevertheless realizes its dependency on the timely 2012' chapter. See also: Occupational health (page 54). future availability of reliable and economically viable energy sources. DSM considers a worldwide shift towards renewable Sharing information on the safe use of chemicals energy as necessary and urgent. Within the scope of REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical substances), the Raw materials European legislation on chemicals, DSM is running a program to share with its peers all available information on the properties and In 2012 approximately 8.7 percent of DSM’s total spend on raw safe use of chemical substances. The importance of REACH materials related to renewable raw materials. This represents an cannot be overestimated: companies that fail to comply with increase compared to 2010 and 2011, which is in line with the REACH will at some point no longer be able to do business in DSM portfolio changes. A further increase is expected in the the European Union. DSM is on track with its registration process coming years. for the next REACH deadline, 31 May 2013. DSM continuously monitors developments with regard to the UN Globally Harmonized System (GHS) on Classification and Labeling of dangerous chemicals and takes the necessary actions to ensure implementation according to national or regional deadlines. Products have been relabeled, and revised Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 65 Safety Data Sheets are provided according to the new a side event of the Helsinki Chemicals Forum, both relating to requirements. The DSM employees involved are made aware the substitution of hazardous chemicals by safer alternatives. and trained accordingly on the new information. Sustainable value chains DSM has also committed itself to actively participate in the Global Product Strategy (GPS) initiated by ICCA. The aim of the GPS To gain better insights into the environmental impact of its initiative is threefold: products and to improve their eco-efficiency, DSM pays close attention to the entire value chain in which it operates. In the past, To reduce differences in the safe handling of chemical DSM used to focus primarily on the greenhouse-gas emissions substances between developing, emerging and industrialized of its own production activities, including the greenhouse-gas countries emissions from the power plants that supply electricity and To ensure the correct handling and use of chemicals across steam, known as ‘scope 1’ and ‘scope 2’ emissions. Taking into the value chain and across geographical boundaries by account also the greenhouse-gas emissions coming from the providing relevant and reliable information value chains in which DSM operates, known as the ‘scope 3’ To increase transparency by helping companies provide emissions, provides a more complete picture of DSM’s stakeholders with information about marketed chemicals in an environmental impact. easily understandable format: the GPS Product Safety Summary The Greenhouse Gas Protocol for scope 3 emissions, issued in 2011 by the World Business Council for Sustainable With a focus on high volume chemicals, DSM published GPS Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute, Product Safety Summaries on its website and on the GPS portal distinguishes a total of 15 different categories. Based on this of ICCA in 2012. In addition, DSM contributed to one of the protocol, the Chemical Sector Working Group of the World capability-building workshops organized in Bogotá (Colombia). Business Council for Sustainable Development has developed a These workshops are critical to advancing the capability of small guidance for scope 3 reporting by chemical companies. The and medium sized companies which would otherwise lack the protocol and the guidance have been used as starting point for knowledge and skills necessary to implement product safety. a materiality assessment to identify which categories are most important for DSM. Both the business impact and the societal DSM supported the launch of SUBSPORT, Substitution Support impact were evaluated in the materiality assessment, in addition Portal, a case story database presenting practical real-case to the estimated size of the different categories and the examples of companies and other stakeholders that have done availability of data. The outcome was used to set priorities for successful substitution work. DSM brought two real-case improving the quality of the data. examples to this database at the official launch of this portal at Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 66 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Greenhouse-gas emissions in DSM’s value chain 15-17 million tons CO2-eq CO2 N2O Purchased goods and > 4 million tons 3.1 million tons CO2-eq services CO2-eq Transport & distribution 1.1 million tons Waste CO2-eq generation Business travel Purchased electricity Leased and steam Transport & distribution assets scope scope scope scope indirect indirect direct indirect Upstream activities Royal DSM Downstream activities © 2012 Royal DSM Scope 3 emissions under Greenhouse Gas Protocol Based on a materiality assessment, which also considers aspects such as business impact and societal interest, DSM has Category Emissions1 determined the following five categories as most relevant: 1 Purchased goods and services 13,500 2 Capital goods 1,000 1,750 Purchased goods and services 3 Fuel and energy-related activities 250 500 Upstream transportation and distribution (includes transport 4 Upstream transportation and distribution 186 of DSM products to customers) 5 Waste generated in operations 173 Waste generated by operations 6 Business travel 77 Business travel 7 Employee commuting 40 60 Upstream leased assets 8 Upstream leased assets (company cars) 29 9 Downstream transportation & distribution 10 25 For these five material categories, the greenhouse-gas 10 Processing of sold products not relevant emissions are based on primary data and are considered to be 11 Use of sold products not relevant relatively accurate. In the materiality assessment, four categories 12 End-of-life treatment of sold products 3,000 4,000 are considered to be irrelevant, based on the guidance from the 13 Downstream leased assets not relevant chemical sector working group of the WBCSD. For the remaining 14 Franchises not relevant six non-material categories, the order of magnitude has been 15 Investments 10 30 estimated. 1 in kilotons of CO2 equivalents The table on the left provides an overview of all 15 categories. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 67 Profit in 2012 Financial results Income statement x € million, continuing operations 2012 2011 Net sales 9,131 9,048 Operating profit before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,109 1,296 Operating profit before exceptional items 635 866 Net finance costs (94) (82) Share of the profit of associates 2 3 Income tax expense (96) (147) Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (46) Net profit before exceptional items 437 594 Net profit from discontinued operations, excluding exceptional items 21 Net result from exceptional items (149) 199 Total net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 288 814 ROCE, continuing operations (in %) 8.9 14.0 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations (in %) 12.1 14.3 Net sales At € 9.1 billion, net sales from continuing operations in 2012 were 1 percent higher than in the previous year. Volume development accounted for a 1 percent decrease in net sales. Selling prices were on average 2 percent lower than in 2011. Exchange rate fluctuations had a positive impact of 3 percent, while acquisitions contributed 1 percent. Net sales by business segment, continuing operations EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations in 2012 in % in % ■ Nutrition ■ Pharma ■ Performance Materials ■ Polymer Intermediates ■ Innovation Center ■ Corporate Activities 25 21.6 20 13 1 4 18 15 20 37 40 10.1 10 8.1 5.4 5 30 31 7 0 8 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Materials Intermediates 2012 2011 The graphs on the next page show the development of sales by origin, by destination and by end-use market. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 68 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Operating profit Net sales by origin, continuing operations in % The operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items decreased by € 231 million (27 percent), from ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe € 866 million in 2011 to € 635 million in 2012. The EBITDA margin ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ Other (operating profit before depreciation and amortization as a 5 4 percentage of net sales) decreased from 14.3 percent in 2011 10 11 to 12.1 percent in 2012. 3 34 3 35 18 17 Net profit The net profit from continuing operations before exceptional 1 1 items decreased by € 157 million to € 437 million. Expressed per 29 29 ordinary share, net earnings from continuing operations before 2012 2011 exceptional items decreased from € 3.53 in 2011 to € 2.58 in 2012. Net sales by destination, continuing operations in % Net finance costs increased by € 12 million compared to the previous year to a level of € 94 million due to a lower average ■ Netherlands ■ Rest of Western Europe ■ Eastern Europe ■ North America ■ Latin America ■ China ■ India ■ Japan cash position at lower average interest rates and a € 7 million ■ Rest of Asia ■ Rest of the world impairment of certain financial assets. 3 7 2 7 9 9 3 3 2 2 At 18 percent, the effective tax rate (before exceptional items) in 29 29 2012 was 1 percentage point lower than in 2011. The lower tax 14 16 rate was a result of a different geographical spread of results and the application of preferential tax regimes in countries where 7 6 7 6 DSM is operating. 20 19 2012 2011 Total net profit for the full year amounted to € 288 million compared to € 814 million in 2011. This was due to the lower Net sales by end-use market, continuing operations operating profit in 2012 and the restructuring and acquisition in % costs which were included in the exceptional items of 2012. In ■ Health and nutrition ■ Pharmaceuticals ■ Metal / building and construction 2011 exceptional items included a book profit on divestments ■ Automotive/transport ■ Textiles ■ Electrical/electronics (€ 262 million). ■ Packaging ■ Other 15 11 Exceptional items 7 Full year exceptional items before taxes resulted in a loss of 8 41 8 38 € 194 million (2011: gain of € 174 million), comprising costs of 6 restructuring actions based on the profit improvement program, 8 10 losses regarding non-recurring value adjustments and 8 8 7 6 acquisition costs relating to the various acquisitions in 2012, and 8 11 2012 2011 costs for litigation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 69 Cash flow At € 730 million, cash provided by operating activities (total DSM) was 8.0 percent of net sales. Cash flow statement x € million 2012 2011 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 1 January 2,147 2,290 Current investments at 1 January 89 837 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2,058 1,453 Operating activities: Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 941 1,430 Changes in operating working capital (16) (260) Other changes (195) (288) Cash flow provided by operating activities 730 882 Investing activities: Capital expenditure (686) (477) Acquisitions (1,262) (929) Sale of subsidiaries 7 513 Disposals 39 229 Change in current investments 77 748 Other (31) (77) Cash from / used in investing activities (1,856) 7 Dividend (210) (155) Repurchase of shares (357) Proceeds from re-issued shares 90 111 Other cash from / used in financing activities 291 59 Cash used in financing activities 171 (342) Effect of exchange differences 18 58 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1,121 2,058 Current investments at 31 December 12 89 Cash, cash equivalents and current investments at 31 December 1,133 2,147 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 70 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Balance sheet The balance sheet total (total assets) increased by € 0.8 billion in 2012 and amounted to € 12.0 billion at year-end (2011: € 11.2 billion). Equity increased by € 68 million compared to the position at the end of 2011. The increase was due to the net profit for the year and the proceeds from reissued shares, which were partly offset by the dividend and the actuarial losses on defined benefit obligations. Equity as a percentage of total assets decreased from 54 percent at the end of 2011 to 50 percent at the end of 2012. Compared to year-end 2011, net debt increased by € 1,350 million. The gearing was 22 percent at year-end. Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment amounted to € 715 million in 2012 and was above the level of amortization and depreciation. The operating working capital (continuing operations before reclassification to held for sale) was € 141 million higher than in 2011 and amounted to 20.7 percent of annualized net sales (2011: 20.2 percent). Excluding acquisitions operating working capital amounted to 20 percent of sales. Cash and cash equivalents including current investments decreased by € 1,014 million and amounted to € 1,133 million. Capital employed by business segment at Equity at 31 December 31 December 2012, continuing operations x € billion as a % of balance sheet total 4.1 4 60 53 54 52 49 50 50 3 40 2.0 2 30 20 1 0.8 0.4 0.5 10 0.2 0 0 Nutrition Pharma Performance Polymer Innovation Corporate 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Materials Intermediates Center Activities Balance sheet profile1 in % 2012 2011 Intangible assets 24 16 Property, plant and equipment 32 31 Other non-current assets 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents 9 18 Other current assets 31 31 Total assets 100 100 Equity 50 54 Provisions 2 1 Other non-current liabilities 22 23 Other current liabilities 26 22 Total liabilities 100 100 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 71 Dividend DSM’s dividend policy is to provide a stable and preferably rising as the benefits of acquisitions and a more resilient portfolio start dividend. DSM therefore proposes a dividend of € 1.50 per to have impact. In 2013 the focus will be on the operational ordinary share compared to € 1.45 per ordinary share for 2011. performance and integration of the acquisitions DSM completed This will be proposed to the Annual General Meeting of in 2012 with special attention to capturing synergies. Overall, Shareholders to be held on 3 May 2013. An interim dividend of based on current economic assumptions, the above will enable € 0.48 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2012, the DSM to move towards its 2013 EBITDA target of € 1.4 billion. final dividend would then amount to € 1.02 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15 percent Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 7 May 2013. Outlook The challenging macro-economic environment experienced during Q4 2012 has continued into 2013, with low growth in Europe. Asia continues to show good levels of economic activity whilst the US has maintained a modest rate of recovery. The Profit Improvement Program that was launched in August 2012 is fully on track and is expected to deliver structural annual EBITDA benefits of € 150 million by 2014 of which more than half is expected in 2013. As anticipated, DSM has expanded the profit improvement initiative and now expects to achieve another € 50-100 million in benefits on top of the € 150 million. The benefits following this extension are expected to be fully achieved by 2015. Nutrition is expected to show clearly higher results than in 2012 due to organic growth moving towards the target of 2 percent above GDP and the acquisitions. Business conditions in Pharma are likely to remain challenging though DSM is confident of being able to deliver substantially better results notwithstanding the usual uneven delivery patterns between quarters. Performance Materials is expected to show improved results in 2013, despite the expected negative effects of caprolactam especially compared to the first half of 2012. Polymer Intermediates is expected to show lower results than in 2012. For the Innovation Center the activity level will be in line with 2012, with EBITDA clearly improving following the full year contribution of Kensey Nash. Overall, based on current economic assumptions, DSM expects a step-up in EBITDA during 2013 due to stronger organic growth, supported by DSM’s Profit Improvement Program and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 72 Report by the Managing Board Highlights of 2012 DSM in motion: driving focused growth Growth Driver: High Growth Economies Growth Driver: Innovation Growth Driver: Sustainability Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships Stakeholder engagement People in 2012 Planet in 2012 Profit in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 73 Review of business in 2012 In 2012 DSM's activities were grouped into five clusters: Nutrition, Pharma, Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and DSM Innovation Center. In addition, DSM reports separately on Corporate Activities. Net sales, continuing operations Operating profit (EBIT), continuing operations x € million 2012 2011 x € million 2012 2011 Nutrition 3,667 3,370 Nutrition 613 577 Pharma 726 677 Pharma (19) (8) Performance Materials 2,772 2,752 Performance Materials 146 162 Polymer Intermediates 1,596 1,820 Polymer Intermediates 97 339 Innovation Center 102 60 Innovation Center (63) (69) Corporate Activities 268 369 Corporate Activities (139) (135) Total 9,131 9,048 Total 635 866 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization Capital employed at 31 December (EBITDA), continuing operations x € million 2012 2011 x € million 2012 2011 Nutrition 793 735 Nutrition 4,122 3,019 Pharma 39 36 Pharma 766 802 Performance Materials 280 293 Performance Materials 2,026 2,016 Polymer Intermediates 129 380 Polymer Intermediates 447 397 Innovation Center (38) (57) Innovation Center 507 174 Corporate Activities (94) (91) Corporate Activities 216 173 Total 1,109 1,296 Total 8,084 6,581 EBITDA / net sales, continuing operations ROCE in % 2012 2011 in % 2012 2011 Nutrition 21.6 21.8 Nutrition 18.3 20.7 Pharma 5.4 5.3 Pharma (2.3) (1.0) Performance Materials 10.1 10.6 Performance Materials 7.2 8.7 Polymer Intermediates 8.1 20.9 Polymer Intermediates 23.3 91.5 Total DSM 12.1 14.3 Total DSM 8.9 14.3 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 74 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Capital expenditure and acquisitions x € million 2012 2011 Nutrition 1,193 950 Pharma 72 87 Performance Materials 109 258 Polymer Intermediates 214 81 Innovation Center 303 40 Corporate Activities 89 84 Total continuing operations 1,980 1,500 Discontinued operations 2 Total 1,980 1,502 R&D expenditure (including associated IP expenditure), continuing operations x € million as % of net sales 2012 2011 2012 2011 Nutrition 202 200 5.5 5.9 Pharma 56 67 7.7 10.0 Performance Materials 131 128 4.7 4.7 Polymer Intermediates 18 18 1.1 1.0 Innovation Center 61 42 59.8 70.0 Corporate Activities 22 21 8.2 5.7 Total 490 476 5.4 5.3 Workforce at 31 December headcount 2012 2011 Nutrition 9,489 8,329 Pharma 3,314 3,324 Performance Materials 5,354 5,599 Polymer Intermediates 1,474 1,439 Innovation Center 668 383 Corporate Activities 3,199 3,150 Total 23,498 22,224 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 75 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 76 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Life Sciences DSM’s Life Sciences activities are bundled into two clusters: Nutrition and Pharma. In 2012, these two clusters represented 48 percent of DSM’s total net sales. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 77 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 78 Review of business in 2012: Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Nutrition Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Continued value Net sales growth € 3,667 m The Nutrition cluster has delivered a compounded annual growth x € million 2012 2011 rate of 7 percent over the last five years, taking net sales to € 3.7 billion in 2012. Net sales: DSM Nutritional Products: A focus on ‘value before volume’ has led to increased Animal Nutrition & Health 1,717 1,627 understanding among customers of where DSM can add value. Human Nutrition & Health 1,407 1,219 Moreover, this strategy is further enhancing the company’s Personal Care 174 168 differentiation, ensuring that it focuses on profitable approaches, 3,298 3,014 including activities that take it further down the value chain. DSM Food Specialties 369 356 With customized formulation and premix (blending) activities and Total 3,667 3,370 a marketing & sales presence reaching more than sixty countries, customer intimacy is a key success factor. The Organic sales development (in %) 2 4 technical expertise in the cluster is based on application knowOperating profit 613 577 how and innovation, translating market trends into products and Operating profit plus depreciation services with new benefits. Formulation for example is a key and amortization (EBITDA) 793 735 expertise that DSM offers its customers. Specialist teams work Capital expenditure and closely with customers to jointly develop the right ingredient acquisitions 1,193 950 formulation for their wide range of end products. Formulations, Capital employed at 31 December 4,122 3,019 sometimes referred to as 'forms', need to be customized in order ROCE (in %) 18.3 20.7 to ensure the best ingredient characteristics for each specific EBITDA as % of net sales 21.6 21.8 end product. R&D expenditure 202 200 DSM has particularly strong positions in vitamins, nutritional Workforce at 31 December lipids, enzymes, cultures and carotenoids. New nature-identical (headcount) 9,489 8,329 or natural ingredients as well as the expansion of the premix footprint in emerging economies are important drivers in the areas of human and animal nutrition and health. Business DSM offers the world’s widest range of nutritional ingredients, The Nutrition cluster consists of DSM Nutritional Products and addressing existing markets based on fermentation, chemical DSM Food Specialties. These businesses serve the feed, food synthesis as well as key niches of active compounds derived and beverage, pharmaceutical, dietary supplements and from plant extracts. personal care industries. The activities are based on in-depth knowledge of local and global customer and market needs. Trends With continued strong fundamentals, the Nutrition cluster again Key societal trends in the world driving the company’s nutrition achieved solid value growth in 2012. A series of strategic actions and health business remain intact despite the difficult macroin recent years have driven continuous sales growth and economic environment. With more than half of the world’s safeguarded profitability. By sustaining high margins even during population now living in cities, the need for convenience and the global downturn, the cluster has proven to be largely resilient processed food continues to grow. This perfectly matches the to economic turmoil. company’s ability to deliver tailor-made local applications and blends. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 79 Shifting age pyramids and growing awareness about hidden more modest growth rates and in some cases even below GDP hunger, where people consume enough calories but lack key growth levels, DSM relies on innovation and new product nutrients, promote health consciousness and encourage the introductions to outpace GDP growth. This is accompanied by uptake of additional supplementation or fortified foods. a continuous drive to improve DSM’s value proposition to customers by broadening and deepening its offering on the one Growing middle classes in emerging markets and the increasing hand and raising standards of quality, reliability, traceability and world population also translate into a higher demand for animal sustainability on the other hand. In addition, DSM looks for protein. This boosts the demand for feed. Scarcity of resources opportunities to increase its participation in the value chain to continues to foster the drive towards better, more efficient feed serve customer needs more holistically. conversion and towards further reductions of undesirable waste components. Acquisitions Since the launch of the DSM in motion: driving focused growth Legislators increasingly focus on food safety due to increasing strategy in 2010, the company has announced acquisitions in awareness of contamination issues, and standards are being Nutrition for a total of € 2.4 billion, taking annual cluster sales to raised further. Critical authorities now prefer producers to work € 4.6 billion on a pro forma basis. The Nutrition cluster now with suppliers such as DSM, who are rigorously diligent in their accounts for approximately half of total company sales and for application of science and who have adopted state-of-the-art about three-quarters of EBITDA, with EBITDA margins of 20-23 quality assurance systems. percent. See also: Growth Driver: Acquisitions & Partnerships (page 28). Policy initiatives addressing more sustainable food production systems are a major opportunity for the company’s enzymes The successfully integrated Martek business completed its first business, particularly given the potential of these products to full business year with DSM. The nutritional lipids business was help boost resource efficiency. further boosted in 2012 by the acquisition of Ocean Nutrition Canada. Martek’s and Ocean Nutrition Canada’s offerings, Strategic context algae based and fish oil based omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids, respectively, are highly complementary. Combining them The Nutrition cluster has a growth ambition of 2 percent above in DSM's nutritional lipids business has turned the company into GDP growth. While well-established ingredient markets grow at a global leader in this very dynamic ingredients category. Nutrition acquisitions 2010-2012 Enterprise Company Business group value in € m Year Martek DNP 790 2011 Ocean Nutrition Canada DNP 420 2012 Tortuga1 DNP 465-490 2012 Cultures and enzymes business of Cargill DFS 85 2012 Fortitech DNP 495 2012 Other acquisitions 70 Total enterprise value approx. 2,400 1 Expected closing Q1 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 80 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Acquisitions further strengthen DSM’s value chain presence Nutritional consultancy Active Forms & & services ingredients delivery systems Premix Macro Blends DSM Tortuga Martek Fortitech Ocean Nutrition Canada Microbia Vitatene Human Nutrition & Health Animal Nutrition & Health The addition to DSM Food Specialties of the cultures and logistics and boosts final value delivery to customers and the end enzymes business previously owned by Cargill enhances DSM's consumer. strong position in ingredients for dairy markets. The expansion into carotenoids from natural sources through Microbia and As an industry pioneer and key driver of the global science Vitatene anticipates increasing consumer demand for ‘clean agenda in the field of ingredients, DSM’s Nutrition business labels’. focuses on advancing the world's understanding of intricate relationships between nutrition, health, product development With Fortitech, world leader in customized food ingredient and food production processes. blends for food & beverage and infant nutrition industries, and Tortuga, the Brazilian market leader in organic trace minerals for The company also has a unique global role, based on a animal nutrition and health, DSM Nutritional Products is building considerable presence across all large ingredients markets and an exceptionally comprehensive portfolio, with number one or a highly developed ‘local for local’ infrastructure around the runner-up positions in all fields of activity, further reinforcing its world. This gives it unparalleled depth and breadth across leadership in vitamins and nutritional ingredients. sizeable markets, and economies of scale are contributing to resilience in the marketplace. Value chain DSM is involved in all three main steps of the ingredients value DSM's Nutrition cluster is working from its strong base as a chain: global market leader in key value-added ingredients offered through an international infrastructure that is highly competitive. Producing pure actives This enables the company to be a front-runner in terms of Creating sophisticated formulations out of actives product quality and innovation, regulatory and technical Providing localized, tailored premixes expertise and customer and consumer understanding. This strategic position will lead to further growth in the coming years. With the acquisitions of Fortitech and Tortuga, DSM has significantly expanded and strengthened its value chain The company will continuously strengthen the core of its presence and business model downstream, adding macro business by improving its operations and supply chain, by blends and strengthening nutritional consultancy and services. innovating and upgrading delivery systems (application and As the only fully integrated player, the company can differentiate formulation technologies), by expanding premix networks and all the way through the value chain in which it is active. Managing services, through nutritional science and advocacy, by interdependencies between active ingredients, formulations, maintaining investment in state-of-the-art quality management, premixes and macro blends drives innovations, optimizes and by building the capability to deliver more value, more efficiently. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 81 DSM also seeks to ensure that the cluster increasingly leverages DSM Nutritional Products the company's unique full value chain position by further expanding its ingredients portfolio, which already is the broadest in the industry. Finally, it seeks to establish new growth platforms Key drivers of profitability in adjacent areas which expand the breadth of DSM’s global presence in identified areas of strength. Acquisitions are seen as Leadership in global markets: scale, costs, differentiation, the vehicle to deliver additional new growth platforms, innovation and quality particularly in emerging markets. Strong customer value proposition Quality for Life™ seal Long history of nutrition innovation The company is increasingly recognized as a thought leader in Focus on value before volume the field of nutrition and health. This is becoming a key element in its ongoing development. Thought leadership potentially Key success factors enables DSM to actively engage in discussions on nutrition guidelines, policy and practices with high-level decision makers Global sales, marketing and distribution network and authorities around the world and helps build proprietary including global / regional key account management institutional knowledge while boosting confidence among Innovation (products, concepts and processes) customers and other stakeholders. Complete product portfolio and full value chain player Strong differentiation Sustainability Integration of acquisitions Sustainability is a significant growth driver for DSM's Nutrition cluster. Programs such as DSM's Nutrition Improvement Program and partnerships with the United Nations World Food Programme help fight malnutrition and hidden hunger while DSM Nutritional Products is organized around three marketencouraging innovation. See also: Hidden hunger (page 33). facing entities: Animal Nutrition & Health, Human Nutrition & Health and Personal Care. In 2012, DSM Nutritional Products Good nutrition is an important requirement for physical and posted sales of € 3,298 million compared to € 3,014 million in mental development, and a key factor for unlocking the human 2011. potential in every man, woman and child. The elimination of malnutrition is a global responsibility that the company supports While expanding its portfolio during 2012, DSM achieved solid wholeheartedly. A global team of committed experts works to progress in the consolidation of key competitive strengths, eliminate micronutrient deficiencies through customized quality particularly in the most cost competitive vitamin categories. The products, scientific and technical expertise, and educational company’s center for water soluble vitamins in Grenzach support. The DSM Nutrition Improvement Program aims to be (Germany) saw a restructuring which will significantly improve its the preferred partner for implementing sustainable solutions. See cost position in the B vitamins. In DSM’s Quali-C® production also: Nutrition Improvement Program website. center in Dalry, a restructuring project was finalized to improve efficiency and to reduce the cost base. DSM is the only producer Notable examples of ECO+ solutions in the Nutrition cluster are of vitamin C in the western hemisphere, thanks to a clear animal feed with phytase, which reduces the need for premium position. phosphorus in feed and improves the efficiency of feed conversion, and Brewers Clarex™, which significantly reduces In 2012, increased emphasis was placed on category energy use in beer brewing processes. See also: ECO+ (page management, focused on: 56). Nutritional lipids In 2012 DSM Nutritional Products helped the company move Water soluble vitamins and strategically sourced products closer towards fulfilling its overall sustainability aspirations by Fat soluble vitamins improving energy efficiency at its sites, such as by building a new Carotenoids combined heat and power generation plant at its site in Belvidere, New Jersey (USA) and by reducing greenhouse-gas The category-based structure helps provide the right focus emissions in Belvidere and the site in Dalry, Scotland (UK). required to find answers to critical strategic questions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 82 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Various new opportunities are emerging. For example, by DSM's position in these key market segments in 2013 and introducing the products of Martek and Ocean Nutrition Canada beyond. the company leveraged combined innovation expertise that helped develop new formulations and made it possible to enter HNH largely addresses the nutritional ingredients part of the food new market segments. For some of these opportunities a and beverage market and the dietary supplements market. dedicated task force has been established. Fundamental drivers are the indisputable link between nutrition and wellness, the aging population and rising healthcare costs, DSM Nutritional Products is the only producer who can supply and higher standards of living in developing countries. the complete range of vitamins, nutritional lipids, enzymes and carotenoids in the most suitable formulations for a broad range In the global market, HNH provides ingredients for food & of human and animal applications. beverage, dairy products, dietary supplements and infant nutrition with an unrivalled portfolio that provides a full palette to Animal Nutrition & Health meet customer needs. The Animal Nutrition & Health (ANH) business achieved sales of € 1,717 million in 2012 compared to € 1,627 million in 2011. DSM’s ambition to deeply understand customer needs runs from product conception through manufacturing all the way to Animal Nutrition & Health delivered a good result in 2012. This after-sales support. This has led to the Quality for Life™ seal of was achieved despite a challenging world economic excellence. The seal assures customers that the ingredients are environment and high raw material prices for the animal industry. safe, reliable and traceable and that they are manufactured in a Sales growth in premix was in the high single digits in line with safe and sustainable way. More than 40 customer brands have strategy and ambition. The acquisition of Tortuga will enable now adopted the seal on their products. The seal also stands for DSM to continue with its successful strategy. sustainability. It symbolizes DSM's commitment to the environment, consumers, business partners and the regulatory ANH addresses the nutritional additives segment of the animal framework that governs the company's operations. nutrition market, which continues to grow as GDP and population growth drive protein consumption. Especially high Personal Care growth economies show increased meat, milk, egg and fish DSM's sales in Personal Care in 2012 were € 174 million, consumption. compared to € 168 million in 2011. ANH holds a strong global position with sales distributed in Personal Care again showed healthy growth in all its product markets for poultry, swine, aquaculture and ruminants. The segments of skin, sun and hair care, despite the phasing out of company is positioned as a full value chain player with a broad some non-strategic products in 2012. Latin America and Asia product portfolio that includes active ingredients, delivery were leading the way in geographic growth whereas Europe was systems, blends and premix solutions. Its premix network is by affected by the general economic climate. far the largest in the industry. The Personal Care business targets the market for specialty The acquisition of Brazil-based Tortuga, which is expected to ingredients with a focus on premium value adding products such close in the first quarter of 2013, will further increase ANH’s as peptides, natural bio-actives, UV filters and vitamins. It is presence in the ruminants market. Thanks to Tortuga’s unique DSM's ambition to expand its position in personal care position in organic trace minerals DSM will be able to expand its ingredients. This market offers considerable opportunities for global position in this market segment. See also: Growth Driver: accelerated growth. Acquisitions & Partnerships (page 28). This business is driven by global trends, in particular the aging Human Nutrition & Health population and growth in emerging markets, particularly Brazil, DSM’s Human Nutrition & Health (HNH) business reported 2012 India and China. Skin and hair care are the largest markets, while sales of € 1,407 million compared to € 1,219 million in 2011. sun care is showing strong growth. In 2012 Human Nutrition & Health sales were driven by: premix growth in all regions; nutritional lipids in infant nutrition; and high growth economies, with Asia leading the way. The Ocean Nutrition Canada and Fortitech acquisitions will strengthen Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 83 DSM Food Specialties Food ingredients represent on average approximately two percent of the cost of the final product. The added value of the ingredients in terms of taste, texture, flavor and other Key drivers of profitability functionalities is significant. Differentiation, for instance through enzymes or cultures, directly impacts the end-product. Innovation in enzymes, cultures, savory ingredients and other bio-ingredients DSM Food Specialties has defined ambitious growth aspirations Scale and production efficiency for 2015. It aims to be the fastest growing force in enzymes, Volume growth cultures, savory taste and other bio-ingredients by competing Margin growth aggressively at the highest level, building business in high growth economies, and helping customers to succeed through Key success factors innovation. Innovation and value differentiation DSM has the required expertise in enzyme and fermentation Key customer intimacy technology to take a leadership position in this market. Growth Global distribution network in food enzymes is expected to continue. Enzymes enable food Quality and regional application know-how manufacturers to achieve cost savings and more sustainable production by accelerating certain reactions during production, reducing raw material usage, and reducing waste, emissions and energy need. The market for cultures and probiotics is DSM Food Specialties is a leading global manufacturer of food expected to continue to grow as a result of the trend toward enzymes, cultures, taste ingredients and other specialties for the health and the growing consumption of fermented milk products, food and beverage industries. In 2012 this business group while savory ingredients meet the growing market demand for realized sales of € 369 million compared to € 356 million in 2011. authentic ingredients and sodium reduction for the processed food industry. DSM Food Specialties realized growth in all market segments. Especially enzymes and savory ingredients showed strong DSM Food Specialties succeeded in strengthening its position organic growth. in the various regions in 2012 by focusing on the creation of value for customers and other stakeholders through innovations, by In 2012, DSM Food Specialties established itself as a tier one developing and producing products tailored specifically to local dairy cultures and enzymes player with the acquisition of the markets, and through regional cooperation, regional application enzymes and cultures business previously owned by Cargill. The labs and acquisitions and partnerships. market for cultures and enzymes is valued at over € 1 billion, growing steadily at more than 5 percent per year. The combination of Cargill's former cultures and enzymes business with the dairy business of DSM Food Specialties enables DSM to capture sizeable synergies in manufacturing, customer reach and R&D. DSM further strengthened its industrial biotechnology activities with the acquisition of Verenium’s enzymes business for oil seed processing. This business is mainly active in high growth economies, and its innovation portfolio includes various promising products. DSM’s advanced ingredients make a considerable contribution to the success of the world’s favorite food brands for the dairy, baking, fruit juice, beverage, oils and fats and savory segments. DSM Food Specialties is the global market leader in bioingredients for food and beverages. It holds leading positions in the relevant segments of its portfolio. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 84 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 85 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 86 Review of business in 2012: Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Pharma Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Leveraging Net sales partnerships for growth € 726 m these customers are nine of the top ten pharmaceutical x € million 2012 2011 companies as well as the top crop protection companies. In addition, DPP serves a large number of biotech, specialty and Net sales: emerging pharma companies across the globe. DSM DSM Pharmaceutical Products 543 409 Pharmaceutical Products’ facilities have been approved by the DSM Sinochem US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and similar agencies in Pharmaceuticals1 183 268 Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Japan. DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is licensed by the US Drug Enforcement Total 726 677 Administration to manufacture scheduled drugs. Organic sales development (in %) 9 3 DSP was formed in 2011 from the former DSM business group Operating profit (19) (8) DSM Anti-Infectives (DAI). DSP is one of the few producers and Operating profit plus depreciation marketers of beta-lactam active pharmaceutical ingredients with and amortization (EBITDA) 39 36 a global presence, using cutting-edge low eco-footprint Capital expenditure and manufacturing technology. acquisitions 72 87 Capital employed at 31 December 766 802 In 2012 sales in the Pharma cluster rose to € 726 million from ROCE (in %) (2.3) (1.0) € 677 million in 2011. Full year organic sales growth was EBITDA as % of net sales 5.4 5.3 9 percent. EBITDA for the full year slightly increased due to R&D expenditure 56 67 improved volumes at DSM Pharmaceutical Products and somewhat higher prices at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Workforce at 31 December offsetting higher costs partly associated with the start-up of the (headcount) 3,314 3,324 new 6-APA plant for the anti-infectives business. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals was proportionally deconsolidated 1 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, in which DSM has a 50% interest, has been for 50 percent as of September 2011. proportionally consolidated from 1 September 2011 Trends Business The pharmaceutical market is facing a range of trends and dynamics that question existing business models and that are The Pharma cluster includes the business group DSM leading to some fundamental changes in the industry. Pharmaceutical Products (DPP), one of the world’s leading Nevertheless, these trends also provide a number of future custom manufacturing suppliers to the pharmaceutical industry. growth opportunities for DSM's Pharma activities. Many of today’s medicines around the world contain ingredients produced by DPP. The cluster also includes DSM's 50 percent For DPP's customers, innovative pharmaceutical companies, it interest in the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture is becoming more difficult to discover new active molecules (DSP). which have sufficient additional patient benefits, which have an acceptable risk profile and which can obtain approval from the DPP is a leading provider of high-quality custom manufacturing FDA and other regulatory bodies. The cost of developing such and development services to the pharmaceutical, molecules is rising, while at the same time health service biopharmaceutical and crop protection industries. Customers providers – governments or insurance companies – are under around the world are serviced from two research and enormous pressure to reduce healthcare costs. As medicines development sites and seven manufacturing sites with a range are becoming an increasingly important element of total of clinical to commercial capacity in the US and Europe. Among healthcare costs, typically accounting for around 10 percent of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 87 total healthcare spend, the pressure on reducing the costs of Strategic context pharmaceuticals is high. DSM will further optimize DPP's current assets and refocus them Pharmaceutical companies are consolidating, reviewing their towards new customer requirements. This essentially means business models and product ranges, and competing to develop rebalancing towards smaller volume products and lower cost increasingly niche, narrow spectrum and specialized drugs. assets in the high growth economies. The inherent volatility of These can be highly active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs), the custom manufacturing business model makes optimizing often biopharmaceutical products, and volumes are typically asset utilization very challenging. In order to address this, DSM lower. The intensity of cost pressure and the need to review is strengthening its technology platforms and is expanding its business models result in above-GDP growth in the range of own products. Operational excellence in a cGMP pharmaceutical outsourcing market, especially for drugs nearing context and respective efficiency and cost measures will further the end of their (patented) life cycle. The imperative for strengthen the profitability of DPP. DSM believes it will drive pharmaceutical companies to optimize their asset base leads to positive results most rapidly if DPP partners with another a strong focus on finding experienced, cost-efficient and highly company which has strengths complementary to its own. qualified partners to take on manufacturing challenges as a supplier. DSP is well placed to deliver continued growth, with its strategy to strengthen its core business and to broaden its portfolio with Although outsourcing is becoming increasingly common, the for instance generic atorvastatin and cefaclor. DSP is placing business remains inherently volatile. Customer demand more emphasis on moving forward in the value chain. In 2012 it fluctuates, sometimes quite violently, as customers take delivered its first commercial sales as a player forward-integrated manufacturing back in house to fill their own capacity, or see into finished dosage forms to provide a complete generic planned production phases delayed by regulatory agencies. The solution matching customers’ requirements. rise of competitors from Asia is particularly felt in the domain of DSM Pharma Chemicals. Sustainability To further reduce their environmental footprint, both DPP and In most countries governments and regulators are increasingly DSP are deploying their technological toolbox to reduce the use paying attention to the responsible consumption of antibiotics. of scarce resources and energy where possible and are actively However infectious diseases continue to be a major life threat, implementing the use of renewable energy sources in their especially in high growth economies, and the beta-lactam antioperations. See also: Environmental impact of DSM's infectives – DSP’s area of leadership – continue to be most operations (page 58). physicians’ first choice of cure. As the coverage and quality of healthcare in these economies expands, and given that these The use of proprietary biotechnology makes DSP an industry products are very safe and cost-effective, DSP's market leader in terms of both cost and sustainability. Emissions are continues to grow. DSP is seen as an industry leader with clear considerably lower than with conventional technology, while market advantages, communicated via the DSMPureActives™ product quality is higher. The opening of the new 6-APA plant in brand. China in 2012 marks the completion of this technology roll-out across all of DSP’s production facilities around the world. The Asian market currently represents only about 6-7 percent of total global pharmaceutical spend, but this is estimated to rise The Quality for Life™ seal, which stands for quality, reliability, to 20 percent by 2020 (Source: Credit Suisse/IMS). DSM is well traceability and sustainability, emphasizes DSM’s commitment positioned to take advantage of this, with its anti-infectives to the highest and most comprehensive standards, delivering on business having two production sites in China and one in India, customers’ and consumers’ desire for peace of mind. supported by a network of sales offices. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 88 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities DSM Pharmaceutical Products Developing new ways of working Key drivers of profitability In 2012, DSM Pharmaceutical Products celebrated the third anniversary of its partnership with Shire Focus on new innovative products pipeline Pharmaceuticals. Shire is one of the world’s leading and end-of-lifecycle drugs specialty biopharmaceutical companies. Since its creation Operational excellence in the UK some 25 years ago, Shire has expanded its global Innovative technologies presence and products portfolio with an emphasis on Expansion of proprietary product portfolio behavioral health and gastrointestinal conditions, rare diseases, and regenerative medicine. Key success factors Shire in 2009 transitioned the manufacture of five specialty Commitment to first-time-right principles and pharma products, including Vyvanse®, to DSM DSM Quality for Life™ standards Pharmaceutical Products' facility in Greenville, North Continued demonstration of sustainable and Carolina (USA). At that time, DSM had already been innovative solutions for customers manufacturing two other products for Shire. Strong relations with strategic partners Increased presence in Asia and high growth economies In transferring operations from Shire to DSM, we have witnessed first-hand DSM's flexibility in supporting us through various supply challenges, said David Lowndes, Shire's Senior Vice President of Global Supply Chain and DSM Pharmaceutical Products focuses on innovative and Quality. With DSM's partnership, we have developed new generic pharmaceuticals, biologics and biosimilars, agro ways of working to strengthen our performance so that we chemicals, and markets for fine chemicals. The business group continue to fulfill our commitment to patients and includes DSM Pharma Chemicals (DPC) (custom chemical physicians. manufacturing services for complex registered intermediates and active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs)); DSM Exclusive Synthesis (which caters to various fine-chemical customers cost-effective, green processing at all phases of API outside of the pharma industry); DSM Biologics (focusing on development, from preclinical to commercial manufacturing. services and licenses for biopharmaceutical companies based on unique technological strengths); DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. further strengthened its project (offering manufacturing services for final dosage with a strong pipeline, working closely with a number of strategic partners. competence in sterile operations); and DSM BioSolutions (focusing on custom manufacturing services based on microbial At DSM Biologics, the business group strengthened its fermentation). biopharmaceutical operations in Groningen (Netherlands). The new ‘biologics plant of the future’, which is being built in Brisbane In 2012 sales at DPP amounted to € 543 million compared to (Australia) in conjunction with the government of Queensland € 409 million in 2011. The DSM Intermediates business (maleic and the federal government of Australia, is set to go into anhydride and derivatives), which in 2011 was accounted for operation in 2013 to serve the regional and global biopharma under Corporate Activities, was reintegrated in the DSM markets. During 2012, notable growth was experienced in Exclusive Synthesis business of DPP. biopharmaceutical services, including agreements for the supply of clinical trials for cancer treatments in Brazil and drug Business conditions in DPC remained challenging, whereas development for treatments of respiratory diseases in Australia. noticeable progress was made in outsourcing services for crop In 2012 DSM Biologics expanded its global customer base to protection chemicals. In 2012 DPC strengthened its technology include additional customers in Japan, Brazil and Australia. DSM offering by entering into a collaboration with Almac Group that entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with Amgen for augments DSM's rich portfolio in biocatalytic solutions. The use of DSM's proprietary XD® high cell density process patents. collaboration agreement with Almac provides sustainable manufacturing solutions that give customers access to even DSM BioSolutions experienced a setback with the lead CMO broader enzyme expertise and assets in order to achieve product that had negative phase III clinical trial results, which subsequently led to a substantial restructuring project. Actions Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 89 to further improve DPP's business performance have triggered During 2012, DSP’s beta-lactam business realized market share efficiency and cost reduction projects in several areas that will growth in the emerging and developing economies of Asia and further strengthen the unit's performance in 2013. Africa and DSP sustained its positions in the regulated markets. DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals The completion of the construction of its 6-APA intermediates plant in Yushu, Jilin (China) was an important step for DSP in 2012. This facility completes the company’s backward Key drivers of profitability integration in SSPs. Glucose and energy prices The year 2012 marked ten years of commercial activity in Access to regulated markets enzymatically produced active ingredients (SSCs and SSPs), Currency exchange rate clearly showing DSP’s technology leadership in beta-lactam Operational excellence anti-infectives. This was demonstrated once again in China’s Shandong province, where DSP finalized the construction of its Key success factors facility to produce APIs for new generations of SSCs using its proprietary technologies. This will enable DSP to further Market access through global presence/alliances strengthen its position as a sustainable producer of antiNew products infectives via green routes, and to reinforce its position in China. Product differentiation / brand value Low environmental footprint Generic pharmaceuticals other than beta-lactams showed double-digit growth in 2012. DSP obtained the Certification of Suitability to the Monograph of the European Pharmacopoeia, or CEP, for its generic atorvastatin. Using a unique fully DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals is the global market leader in backward integrated process based on proprietary beta-lactam APIs such as semi-synthetic penicillins (SSPs) and technologies, DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals is the first semi-synthetic cephalosporins (SSCs), which represent the company worldwide that will offer generic atorvastatin active biggest class of APIs in anti-infectives, and other active ingredients under CEP. ingredients such as nystatin. The joint venture manufactures nearly all its beta-lactam APIs and the related intermediates using Receiving the European Pharmacopoeia certification confirms proprietary biotechnology. compliance of DSP’s atorvastatin with the European standards. CEP certification enables more efficient registration and life cycle Sales for DSP in 2012, on a 100 percent basis, rose to management of products, supporting both DSP and its € 366 million from € 323 million in the previous year due to higher customers. volumes and higher prices. Results however remained under pressure due to higher raw materials and energy costs, costs Atorvastatin is the most prescribed drug globally for high related to the start-up of the 6-APA plant in China and costs cholesterol and cardiovascular disease. First synthesized in relating to the closure of the site in Zhangjiakou. DSM has 1985, it has topped the list of best-selling drugs worldwide for proportionally deconsolidated its 50 percent share in DSP as of more than a decade. September 2011. Industry dynamics remained challenging due to significant overcapacity, especially in China. The Chinese market contracted slightly, creating additional price pressure and increasing exports to mainly the rest of Asia, Africa and Latin America, as a result of the stronger focus of the Chinese authorities on the responsible use of antibiotics. The effects of these measures slowly disappeared towards the end of the year, with demand in China picking up again. The majority of the developing economies outside China saw steady growth of around five percent. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 90 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Materials Sciences DSM's Materials Sciences businesses comprise the Performance Materials and Polymer Intermediates clusters. In 2012 the two clusters represented 48 percent of DSM’s total net sales. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 91 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 92 Review of business in 2012: Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Growing via innovative Net sales sustainable solutions € 2,772 m businesses, turning it into a front-runner in creating and x € million 2012 2011 introducing more sustainable innovations. Net sales: The businesses in the cluster have achieved strong leadership DSM Engineering Plastics 1,260 1,249 positions in their chosen segments of the global markets for DSM Dyneema 235 234 advanced performance materials. In 2012 the cluster managed DSM Resins & Functional to grow its market share and sales in specific, attractive key Materials 1,277 1,269 markets. Total 2,772 2,752 Trends Organic sales development (in %) (4) 9 The most important trends in the materials industry continue to Operating profit 146 162 be related to resource scarcity and climate change. Customers Operating profit plus depreciation in virtually every industry ask for products that reduce energy use and amortization (EBITDA) 280 293 or emissions in their own operations or, even more importantly, Capital expenditure and throughout the value chains. DSM offers materials that reduce acquisitions 109 258 weight versus metals and other traditional materials and Capital employed at 31 December 2,026 2,016 supports customers who want polymer solutions based on bioROCE (in %) 7.2 8.7 based raw materials, as opposed to fossil feedstocks. EBITDA as % of net sales 10.1 10.6 R&D expenditure 131 128 The end market most sensitive to economic developments, building & construction, has remained weak without immediate Workforce at 31 December prospects for a recovery. The risk of further deterioration in this (headcount) 5,354 5,599 market is limited. Demand for alternative solutions without substances of Business hazardous concern is increasing in line with regulatory scrutiny. Against this background, DSM Engineering Plastics and The cluster consists of DSM Engineering Plastics, DSM Resins & Functional Materials actively seek to provide DSM Dyneema and DSM Resins & Functional Materials. These customers with new products and solutions that eliminate or business groups manufacture technologically sophisticated reduce the content of substances such as halogens, styrene or high-quality products and offer specialized value propositions cobalt. that meet the needs of customers. DSM Engineering Plastics is a global supplier of high-performance engineering thermoplastic Strategic context solutions. DSM Dyneema is the global supplier of Dyneema®, the world’s strongest fiber™. DSM Resins & Functional Materials is With a key focus on growth via innovative sustainable solutions, a global supplier of innovative high-quality resins solutions for DSM has set its sales growth aspiration for the Performance paints and coatings, composite materials and optical fiber Materials cluster at double GDP growth level and has set an coatings. EBITDA margin aspiration of 17 percent in 2015. With major investments in high growth economies, notably China The Profit Improvement Program helps the cluster mitigate the and India, the Performance Materials cluster is a significant impact of macro-economic headwinds and actively manage contributor to DSM’s growth in Asia. The portfolio has evolved margins and costs. DSM Engineering Plastics specifically targets in recent years towards more specialized, higher value-added reduced fixed costs and improved operational efficiency, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 93 combined with innovative growth. At DSM Dyneema, the efficiency, pricing and margin management, and to accelerate organization is being aligned with the development of the vehicle the growth of innovative specialty products. The Profit protection business. The restructuring program previously Improvement Program that was launched during the year in this announced at DSM Resins & Functional Materials already had a business is expected to contribute annual savings of more than positive impact in 2012 and will fully contribute in 2013, with € 30 million by 2014 and involve a headcount reduction of further initiatives focusing on Composite Resins. approximately 250 people. Sustainability DSM Engineering Plastics has a focused portfolio with global Sustainability is a true driver of new business and innovations in leadership positions in many of its products. It is the global Materials Sciences. New applications are required to address number three in the overall market for semi-crystalline key challenges relating to the global trends. DSM is committed engineering plastics and is the global market leader in highto creating innovative solutions that make a positive difference temperature polyamides. In polyamide 6 and thermoplastic to people’s lives and that reduce the environmental footprint. copolyester elastomers the business holds a global number two position. DSM Engineering Plastics’ leadership is underlined by The company has shifted its materials portfolio towards a higher its strong upstream integration in the polyamide 6 value chain added-value mix by introducing innovative, more sustainable with DSM Fibre Intermediates. solutions, some examples of which are outlined elsewhere in this chapter. See also: Planet in 2012 (page 56). Early in 2012 DSM Engineering Plastics completed the move of its global headquarters to Singapore from Sittard-Geleen DSM Engineering Plastics (Netherlands) in order to underline its commitment to the Asian market, which is expected to account for the bulk of its growth in the next decade. The business has production and R&D Key drivers of profitability facilities in the Netherlands, the United States, Japan, China, Taiwan, India, Belgium and Russia. Market growth in key segments and high growth economies Seeking to create shared value in its end markets, Sustainability: materials reducing the carbon footprint DSM Engineering Plastics targets four key industries: over the value chain automotive, electrical & electronics, flexible food packaging and Innovation: be at the forefront of functionality and consumer goods. In each of these, DSM Engineering Plastics performance offers materials and solutions that can lower the carbon footprint, Growth in market share in high-end innovative eliminate the use of substances of hazardous concern and/or applications offer improved recyclability (Cradle to Cradle®). These include Improved cost position bio-based polymers able to perform in critical technical components. Key success factors In the automotive sector, advanced materials from DSM enable Global market leadership in chosen markets manufacturers to reduce the carbon footprint over the life cycle Global presence (follow customers) of their vehicles, help preserve scarce raw materials and meet Engineering plastics portfolio future regulation on greater re-use and recovery of materials at Ability to commercialize market-driven innovations the end of a vehicle’s life, while at the same time helping end Products, application and value chain know-how users reduce fuel consumption. In the electrical and electronics industry, DSM Engineering Plastics contributes to finding a solution to the growing problem Sales for DSM Engineering Plastics in 2012 amounted to € 1,260 of e-waste, helping foster recycling initiatives and helping deliver million compared to € 1,249 million a year earlier. This is a result improvements in safety, health and environment. The company of strong underlying growth in the key segments combined with is able to do this through its unique portfolio of high temperature lower sales prices in Akulon® polyamide 6 due to lower materials with high flow combined with solutions for, for example, caprolactam prices. lead-free soldering. In the electronics sector, the business group is actively replacing substances of hazardous concern, DSM Engineering Plastics began executing a comprehensive particularly by introducing halogen-free alternatives such as program in 2012 to cut fixed costs, to improve operational Arnitel® XG, used in consumer electronics cables. Another Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 94 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities example is a product used for miniaturized electronic connectors In consumer goods, DSM Engineering Plastics meets that is based on a new breakthrough high-temperature sustainability demands and addresses the future performance polyamide with halogen-free flame retardant grades. and functionality needs of the industry by moving towards a full range of innovative products with reduced substances of To meet strong growth in demand for the Stanyl® ForTii™ high hazardous concern, bio-based content, recyclability and/or performance polyamide in electronics, automotive and other reduced environmental impact. See also: ECO+ (page 56). markets, DSM Engineering Plastics in 2012 increased its capacity for the new polymer and opened its third market DSM Dyneema development unit. The plant is co-located with DSM’s two existing units in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). Key drivers of profitability Improving environmental performance Market growth and penetration into existing applications DSM Engineering Plastics continuously strives to further Success of innovations, new launches improve the environmental performance of its products. Dyneema® brand Among the most innovative developments in this field are bio-based polymers and bio-based building blocks. The Key success factors company is making very good progress with EcoPaXX®, a high performance durable bio-engineering plastic with up Capability to manage growth, both in hardware and in to 70 percent bio-based content. people Ability to commercialize market driven innovations Three grades of EcoPaXX® polyamide 4,10 received the Product, application and value-chain-know-how ‘Certified Biobased Product’ label of the United States Strong, healthy IP position (patents & trademarks) Department of Agriculture (USDA) in 2012 and are included Brand value (trust and innovation) in USDA's catalog of 'Biopreferred' products. The polymer contains building blocks derived from castor oil obtained from plants that can grow on poor soil otherwise not used for food products. DSM Dyneema reported sales of € 235 million in 2012 compared to € 234 million in 2011. The overall growth achieved was limited DSM also has introduced Arnitel® Eco, a thermoplastic despite close to double digit growth in areas like commercial copolyester elastomer, creating more value with a lower marine and sports. The tender driven defense market remained environmental impact. With a bio-based content of up to weak. 50 percent Arnitel® Eco has a lower carbon footprint than traditional elastomers and rubber materials. Over the course of 2012, DSM Dyneema adjusted its operations See also ECO+ (page 56). to a changing market outlook, especially in the global vehicle protection markets. A full review of all functions and business areas was undertaken across all sites and locations, and a key Other notable achievements in 2012 were substantial reorganization of the business towards greater regional investments in DSM's polyester manufacturing capabilities for autonomy led to consolidation of several roles and positions. At Arnite® and Arnitel® in Emmen (Netherlands), which had a DSM Dyneema, the Profit Improvement Program is expected to positive impact on quantity and quality. The polymerization contribute more than € 15 million in annual savings. The full facility in Kaohsiung (Taiwan) was upgraded, developing impact of these cost savings on Dyneema’s financial capabilities in specialty polyamide for Novamid® and Akulon® performance will occur in 2013. Other steps to improve flexibility engineering plastics. At the Chemelot site in Sittard-Geleen, of operations through enhanced workforce skills training allowed ground was broken for a new R&D building. a number of mainly contractor positions in operations to be eliminated. The total program involves a headcount reduction of In the flexible food packaging industry, DSM’s leadership in approximately 150 people. polyamide 6 film and specialty packaging is enabling customers to provide better solutions to the world’s rapidly changing food Concurrent with the completion of a multi-year investment in a packaging needs, helping meet global demands for food waste new, state-of-the-art full commercial scale UHMwPE tape reduction. manufacturing facility in Greenville, North Carolina (USA), DSM Dyneema closed its Flaach (Switzerland) tape development and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 95 small-scale production unit which was acquired in 2007 and DSM Dyneema has conducted eco-footprint studies throughout moved key equipment to Greenville. the commercial marine (both wild catch and aquaculture), cutresistant gloves and personal (ballistic) protection end-use DSM Dyneema's ICD facility in Laiwu, Shandong (China) has industries. The results demonstrate that solutions developed rapidly established a reputation for innovation and leadership in with Dyneema® have a lower impact on resources and the the Chinese market. Operating independently under the Trevo™ environment than traditional solutions involving steel, nylon or name, ICD, a UHMwPE fiber manufacturer acquired by DSM in aramid fibers. This is due to a combination of low weight, which 2011, has delivered some early breakthroughs in new results in production and transport benefits, and inherent applications in China by leveraging existing know-how within product durability as well as end-use specific benefits. For DSM Dyneema and applying local knowledge and application example, trawlers equipped with nets and ropes made from development approaches. Some of the applications are new to Dyneema® are more fuel efficient and safer to operate than those DSM Dyneema overall, thus further adding to the breadth of the employing conventional steel and nylon equipment. business. Building on the inherently positive environmental impact of The Dyneema® brand is licensed for use in a wide and everreplacing traditional solutions with Dyneema®, DSM Dyneema increasing range of applications such as medical sutures, embarked on several end-user education initiatives. DSM commercial fishing and aquaculture nets, ropes, slings, highDyneema had joined forces with partners from industry, media performance fabrics such as cut-resistant gloves and apparel and education to launch 'Below 100,' a train-the-trainer program and vehicle and personal ballistic protection. The Dyneema® aimed at reducing law enforcement officer fatalities in the US in brand is well known in the industries served. DSM is 2011. The program was rolled out nationwide in 2012. A similar implementing a comprehensive brand licensing strategy which approach was launched in the worker safety market with 'Zero will result in a number of new licensees and enhanced control of Excuses', which aims to educate manual workers on the benefits the brand. This strategy is particularly targeted at supporting key of routinely wearing safety equipment. The wearability and customers. comfort of gloves with Dyneema® (close-fitting, cooling and yet highly protective) are a distinct benefit. Both these programs DSM will accelerate innovations and get these to market even demonstrate DSM Dyneema’s commitment to end-user quicker by extending its co-creation partnerships with leading benefits, and the delivery of the brand promise – With You When value chain players. This will help DSM to extend the penetration It Matters. of the product into new markets. The combination of light weight and high strength of Dyneema® fiber has huge potential in areas yet untouched. Growth will be driven by creative application development. As part of a continuing commitment to innovation in high growth economies, and in order to provide application development support close to customers around the world, DSM Dyneema completed the construction and commissioning of a new regional technical development center in Singapore. It is the third facility of this kind worldwide. This facility features a state-of-theart test firing range in support of the Life Protection business. Among notable examples of business developments in 2012 is the development of Dyneema® Max Technology DM20, a new fiber designed for the production of incredibly strong ropes that provide unrivaled strength, safety and durability. This fiber provides a pathway into several new (marine) applications. And in conjunction with Net Systems, a leading manufacturer of netting for the aquaculture market, DSM Dyneema developed a new construction of netting featuring Dyneema® which helps improve predator protection and positions both companies to benefit from the resulting anticipated growth in warm water aquaculture. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 96 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities DSM Resins & Functional Materials construction. Overall, the business group had a continued focus on innovation in sustainable technology, with DSM Coating Resins and DSM Functional Materials successfully addressing a Key drivers of profitability growing demand for more sustainable and environmentally friendly materials. Market growth in key segments and regions Sustainability: lighter materials and environmentally DSM Coating Resins friendlier, safer paints DSM Coating Resins continued to support the coating industry Growth in market share in high-end innovative with resins that allow the manufacture and application of applications sustainable coating technologies such as water based, powder and UV-curing coatings. These resins are being used in coatings Key success factors for, for example, architectural, industrial wood, flooring, graphic arts, can, coil and powder coating applications. Weakness in the Global market leadership and presence building and construction industry created challenging market Brand value (differentiation, reliability) conditions in 2012. The business has continued its success by Ability to commercialize market driven innovations staying focused on continuing to innovate jointly with customers Leading low footprint technology platforms geared and other major players in the value chain. towards markets Growth is targeted through a continuous drive to innovate in core segments and technologies, and through innovation that allows sustainable technologies to grow at the expense of less DSM Resins & Functional Materials reported 2012 sales of sustainable coating solutions. Market penetration of sustainable € 1,277 million compared to € 1,269 million a year earlier. coatings currently is the highest in Europe and the US. Coating resins market growth stems from innovation as well as increased Despite ongoing subdued market conditions DSM Resins & awareness in the value chain of the detrimental effect of nonFunctional Materials delivered improved results due to better sustainable coatings. DSM Coating Resins seeks to grow the margins and the implementation of cost saving actions. market for sustainable coating solutions with resins for three types of coatings: powder coatings, water-based coatings and DSM Resins & Functional Materials is recognized as a global UV-curing coatings. DSM’s solvent borne coating resins leader in the development and production of environmentally business, based in Hoek van Holland (Netherlands), was friendly resins such as water-based coating resins and powder reorganized and positioned as a separate unit, and was branded coating resins for industrial and decorative coatings. DSM as DSM Synres. Resins & Functional Materials is the European market leader in unsaturated polyester resins and is rapidly building a position in To confirm the value of its innovation products DSM Coating the fast growing markets of China. In functional materials, it is a Resins conducts numerous carbon footprint measurements. niche player with a global leadership position in fiber-optic This data driven approach fosters cooperation throughout the coatings, protecting more than one billion kilometers of fibervalue chain. DSM is making a significant contribution to the optic cables around the world. transformation of the entire coating industry, helping it move towards more sustainable coating solutions. In 2012 DSM Resins & Functional Materials benefited from the successful execution of the restructuring programs as started in In water-based paint for decorative applications, product 2011 when facing uncertain market conditions. These previously developments have been focused on bio-based water-based announced restructuring initiatives, which involve a headcount coatings. With new product development in urethane-based reduction of approximately 300 people, already had a positive technologies the need in the industry for odorless indoor air impact in 2012 and are expected to contribute approximately quality compliant coatings has been met. In powder coatings € 25-30 million to annual savings by 2013. These restructuring DSM is investing in technologies that expand the potential initiatives were intensified in 2012 with further initiatives focused application of this sustainable technology to a wider range of on the business unit DSM Composite Resins, which will lead to substrates, including wood and plastic. In graphic arts, DSM’s additional savings in 2013. flexible packaging coating anticipates the industry’s need to differentiate and become more competitive. DSM Composite Resins faced a challenging year in 2012 as a result of deteriorating markets in transportation, building and Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 97 DSM Functional Materials artificial stone products suitable for food contact applications, DSM Functional Materials is a leading developer of formulated setting a new standard for the industry. coatings and composites designed to address the growing demand for more sustainable, more environmentally friendly and Another notable example are the composite lightweight bridges lighter-weight materials. in infrastructure projects that bridge manufacturer FiberCore, infrastructure company Heijmans and DSM have introduced In the telecommunications market, DSM’s UV-curable optical jointly. The companies for example installed an award-winning fiber materials set the standard for fiber protection and 140 meter long bridge over one of the busiest roads in the identification worldwide, helping ensure greater signal reliability Netherlands. Because of the bridge’s low weight, its installation and field performance within optical fiber networks. Bandwidth took little time and caused minimal interference with ongoing demand is surging worldwide, placing increasing performance traffic. requirements on optical fiber networks. DSM’s newest generation of optical fiber coatings, DeSolite® Supercoatings, helps network owners get higher levels of signal reliability and field performance from their optical fiber. DSM’s coating solutions help protect network investments, give greater signal reliability and make higher bandwidths possible, ensuring future-proof fiber networks for the world’s telecommunications leaders. DSM Composite Resins DSM Composite Resins provides resins solutions for lightweight composites used in containers, cars, trucks and trains, windturbine blades and other applications to improve energy efficiency. For DSM Composite Resins 2012 was a challenging year as transportation, building and construction markets in Europe were under pressure. The business partially offset the effects of lower volumes by maintaining tight cost control. The market will remain difficult in 2013 due to a cautious investment climate, predominantly in building and construction. DSM made significant investments to secure continued business growth in Asia by finalizing the construction of a new resin manufacturing plant in Nanjing. This plant is the largest of its kind in the world, and will help introduce the latest DSM resins innovations in Asia. Among the resins examples worth noting in 2012 are the launch, together with AkzoNobel, of BluCure™ Technology and the BluCure™ Seal for cobalt-free curing of synthetic resins. BluCure™ is a sustainable cobalt-free technology made available through licensing for the whole composite industry. The BluCure™ Seal is an easy way for the industry to recognize that products and parts are 100 percent cobalt-free. Also, DSM has introduced Synolite® a new resin based on biological raw materials and manufactured in line with Good Manufacturing Practices. By using this resin, DSM’s customer Compac, based in Spain, was able to create a new range of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 98 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 99 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 100 Review of business in 2012: Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Polymer Intermediates Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Strengthening Net sales backward integration for DSM Engineering Plastics € 1,596 m DSM Fibre Intermediates supplies key intermediates to DSM x € million 2012 2011 Engineering Plastics. This backward integration secures a baseload and provides security of supply to DSM Engineering Plastics Net sales: and is an important element to DSM's operations. See also: DSM DSM Fibre Intermediates 1,596 1,820 Engineering Plastics (page 94). Total 1,596 1,820 In 2012, DSM Fibre Intermediates posted sales of € 1,596 million, compared to € 1,820 million the previous year. Organic Organic sales development (in %) (16) 32 sales development was minus 16 percent due to 6 percent lower Operating profit 97 339 volumes as a result of turnarounds and 10 percent lower prices. Operating profit plus depreciation EBITDA was significantly lower as high benzene prices could not and amortization (EBITDA) 129 380 be passed on to the market due to weaker demand for Capital expenditure and caprolactam in combination with new production capacity acquisitions 214 81 coming on stream. Capital employed at 31 December 447 397 ROCE (in %) 23.3 91.5 During 2012 major turnarounds were completed at DSM’s EBITDA as % of net sales 8.1 20.9 caprolactam plants in the US, Europe and China. No major R&D expenditure 18 18 turnarounds are expected in the coming years. Workforce at 31 December The end of 2011 saw dropping caprolactam prices. Early in (headcount) 1,474 1,439 2012, the Chinese textile chain expected a strong demand later on in the year. This drove caprolactam and nylon 6 inventory building and price rises. However, at the end of the first quarter, Business demand growth from the textile segment was not as strong as generally anticipated. Besides, the economic outlooks for the US The Polymer Intermediates cluster comprises DSM Fibre and Europe, China’s main export outlets, steadily worsened. Intermediates, the global market and technology leader in With two new caprolactam producers appearing in the Chinese caprolactam and the leading acrylonitrile supplier in Europe. Its market, it became clear that caprolactam was no longer short in head office is in Shanghai, China. supply and prices steadily declined. DSM Fibre Intermediates has three operating companies for On the raw materials side, benzene prices rose by approximately caprolactam with a combined annual capacity of over 700 50 percent over the course of 2012, driven by tight supply. The kilotons: price of ammonia, another important raw material for caprolactam production, also increased throughout 2012. This, DSM Caprolactam Europe: office and plant in Sittard-Geleen together with low caprolactam prices, put significant pressure (Netherlands). on margins. DSM Chemicals North America: office and plant in Augusta, Georgia (USA). The acrylonitrile market also experienced more volatility, with two DSM Nanjing Chemical Company (DNCC): office and plant in clear dips in prices during 2012, but due to fairly stable demand Nanjing, Jiangsu (China). DNCC is a cooperation with Sinopec from contract customers in mainland Europe the business was Nanjing Chemical Industries. still performing well. The company’s two acrylonitrile plants are located in SittardGeleen. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 101 Trends DSM is securing its technology leadership position by pursuing an assertive approach to licensing its proprietary caprolactam Overall, global demand for caprolactam and acrylonitrile is technology and protecting its patents. expected to grow by approximately 3 percent per year in the coming period. The strongest growth, at up to 6 percent per In acrylonitrile, the company seeks to maintain its sustainable year, will be seen in China. Demand from the US and Europe is position as one of the leading players in Europe. expected to be relatively stable. By 2015, China and Taiwan are expected to consume over half of the world’s caprolactam. DSM expects its fiber intermediates business to maintain its global leadership position in caprolactam thanks to its strong The caprolactam business will be affected by a rapidly changing focus on the potential of high growth economies, sustainability industry landscape in China. New caprolactam plants are being and technological innovation, coupled with its unwavering built which bring more product to the local market, resulting in commitment to customers. significant price pressure. A number of new market entrants are announcing further plans for new caprolactam plants, raising the The company intends to further reduce its exposure to the likelihood of additional capacity. However, it remains to be seen merchant caprolactam market. to what extent all of these announced caprolactam initiatives will materialize. Sustainability Energy conservation and recovery projects were implemented at the caprolactam sites, reducing variable costs and improving Key drivers of profitability sustainability. Growth (DSM Engineering Plastics and China) DSM Fibre Intermediates has inaugurated an N2O abatement High utilization rates facility at its plant in Nanjing, China. The facility’s construction Raw material prices started in 2011, and the system was successfully started up after Low-cost operations DNCC’s turnaround in August 2012. It reduces nitrous oxide emissions by more than half. This is the first N2O abatement Key success factors system installed in a HPO®-based caprolactam plant. N2O is a strong greenhouse gas. This new facility removes emissions of Security of sales (excellent global coverage) 550 tons of N2O per year, equivalent to 170,000 tons of CO2, or Reliable supply, consistently good product quality the annual emissions of 30,000 cars. See also: Environmental Technology leadership impact of DSM's operations (page 58). Caprolactam Caprolactam is the raw material for polyamide 6, also known as Strategic context nylon 6, of which about 4.5 million tons are produced annually worldwide. The applications of polyamide 6 are very diverse, DSM Fibre Intermediates seeks to capitalize on the opportunities covering many end-markets, from carpets and textiles to car in the caprolactam market by: parts, electrical devices and packaging film. doubling production capacity in China by 2014; DSM is the major supplier to the merchant caprolactam market. implementing new sustainable technology; A major part of all caprolactam produced globally is made using further improving competitive position; DSM’s proprietary technology. The company actively licenses reducing merchant exposure; and this technology. achieving an EBITDA margin of approximately 14 percent on average over the cycle. The company has established a strong caprolactam position in China thanks to its local production facilities, reinforced by its In China, an expansion project to double DNCC’s capacity to strong partnership with winning customers in the downstream 400,000 tons started in 2011. The new facility is due to come on polyamide 6 industries. stream at the end of 2013 and is expected to operate at full capacity in early 2014. The expansion is on track, within timing and budget. Once completed, the DNCC site will be the largest caprolactam site in the world. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 102 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Acrylonitrile DSM Fibre Intermediates also is the leading supplier in the European merchant acrylonitrile market with a market share of 25 percent. Globally, it ranks third. Acrylonitrile is a raw material for acrylic fibers, plastics, rubber, water treatment chemicals and a wide range of specialty products. It is a key ingredient for bright, fashionable acrylic textile and carpet fibers and for materials such as acrylonitrilebutadiene-styrene (ABS) and styrene-acrylonitrile (SAN) that are used for automobile components, electronic devices, toys and sports equipment. The application of acrylonitrile in a wide range of valuable specialty products like carbon fibers, water treatment additives and detergents is rapidly growing. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 103 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 104 Review of business in 2012: Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Innovation Center Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Connecting bright Net sales science to brighter living € 102 m and regenerative medicine devices that improve and brighten x € million 2012 2011 patients’ lives throughout the world. Net sales 102 60 DSM Biomedical provides a proprietary product portfolio with Operating profit (63) (69) coatings, drug delivery platforms and a wide range of biomedical Operating profit plus depreciation materials that enable the replacement, repair, enhancement and and amortization (EBITDA) (38) (57) the regeneration of tissue and organ functions in the body. Its Capital expenditure and novel materials-based solutions are designed to meet the needs acquisitions 303 40 of the medical device and pharmaceutical industries. The R&D expenditure 61 42 ultimate objective is to improve the outcome for patients. Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 668 383 Continued market growth in medical devices and the need for increasingly sophisticated drug delivery systems are the drivers for this market, which is estimated at USD 1.5-2 billion, with DSM Innovation Center annual growth rates of 10-15 percent. With the aging population, it has good prospects for future growth. The DSM Innovation Center was originally set up in 2006 to help facilitate the company’s strategic transition toward an intrinsically DSM entered the medical field more than a decade ago, starting innovative organization. It serves as an enabler and accelerator with R&D efforts to develop medical applications based on of innovation within DSM. With its Emerging Business Areas and Dyneema®, which led to Dyneema Purity® fiber, a new material the business incubator, the DSM Innovation Center has a general for orthopedic sutures. DSM Biomedical was established in 2006 business development role, focusing on areas outside the as an Emerging Business Area. DSM Biomedical has become a current scope of the business groups. See also: Growth Driver: leading biomedical business with an annual growth rate of Innovation (page 21). 19 percent over the last three years. Emerging Business Areas DSM Biomedical further strengthened its industry leadership in 2012 with the acquisition of Kensey Nash, a US based, DSM’s Emerging Business Areas provide strong long-term technology-driven biomedical company, primarily focused on growth platforms based on the company’s core competences regenerative medicine utilizing its proprietary collagen and in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences. The company has three synthetic polymer technology. Since July 2012 Kensey Nash has Emerging Business Areas: realized sales of € 35 million with an EBITDA margin of 38.9 percent. DSM Biomedical DSM Bio-based Products & Services DSM’s medical device expertise nowadays spans one of the DSM Advanced Surfaces broadest portfolios of medical materials, including biostable polyurethanes, ultra high molecular weight polyethylenes, DSM aspires to realize € 1 billion in sales by 2020 in its combined resorbable polymers, ceramics, collagens, extracellular Emerging Business Areas. matrices, silicone hydrogels, device coatings, and drug delivery platforms. Millions of products are produced each year for DSM Biomedical applications in some of the most attractive high growth markets, including orthopedics, sports medicine, ophthalmology, general DSM Biomedical intends to be the medical industry’s leading surgery and cardiology. development partner, trusted to shape the future of biomaterials Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 105 DSM Biomedical applies materials science to create solutions value knowledge, ingredients and expertise in the field of biothat help the human body heal. Its investments are focused on conversion technology are critical success factors determining research and product development, building further its future. DSM’s strategy is to license its technology and opportunities for future growth. These efforts are focused expertise to bio-based entrepreneurs, enabling them to convert towards applying a wide range of materials and device biomass in a commercially viable and sustainable way. technologies to create clinically targeted products for its customers. These products extend the capabilities of physicians POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels by providing tools that enhance their skills and help them A major strategic milestone in 2012 was DSM's partnership with transform the quality of life for patients, replenishing mobility and POET LLC, one of the world’s largest ethanol producers, to vitality. With each innovation, DSM Biomedical provides new commercially demonstrate and license cellulosic ethanol based opportunities for collaboration with business partners, thereby on the two companies’ proprietary and complementary helping physicians and patients across the world. technologies. POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels, LLC will produce cellulosic ethanol from corn crop residue through a biological Other notable developments in DSM Biomedical during 2012: process using enzymatic hydrolysis followed by fermentation. The first commercial demonstration of the technology will be at A multi-year collaboration with the Utrecht University Medical Project Liberty, which is being constructed adjacent to POET’s Center (Netherlands) was agreed for a feasibility study of novel existing corn ethanol plant in Emmetsburg, Iowa (USA). The initial transcatheter heart valves made with Dyneema Purity® fibers. capacity is expected to be 20 million gallons in the first year, DSM’s VitroStealth® coating was used in Axis-Shield’s next growing to approximately 25 million gallons per year. generation Afinion® Point-of-Care Cartridge. DSM extended its license to supply CarboSil® TSPCU for use POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels intends to replicate and license in AxioMed Spine Corporation’s Freedom® Spinal Discs. the technology to additional plants to be built at the other 26 corn A clinical trial was initiated to assess the ability of DSM’s Meso ethanol facilities in POET’s network and license it to other Biomatrix to help patients undergoing post cancer therapy producers in the United States and the rest of the world. DSM reconstructive surgery. and POET each hold a 50 percent share in the joint venture, Initial product launch of the Norian® Fiber Reinforced bone headquartered in Sioux Falls, South Dakota (USA). The initial repair technology. capital expenditure in Project Liberty amounts to about USD 250 DSM expanded its capabilities for manufacturing metal million. POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels is expected to be orthopedic products. profitable in the first full year of production and to deliver DSM started commercial production of the ActiFit® meniscal substantial revenues with an above-average EBITDA repair scaffold for Orteq. contribution in the medium/longer term. Looking to the future, DSM Biomedical intends to be the leading Organic residue streams creator of clinically targeted biomedical materials and products Researchers from DSM have developed a novel process for the benefit of society, customers, employees and concept for pre-treating organic residue streams. In 2012 the stakeholders. concept was proven at lab scale. With this process, residues can be converted into biogas in around a week – with competitive DSM Bio-based Products & Services gas yields. This advancement is crucial for the growth of the biogas sector. It makes the management and storage of these At the core of DSM’s strategic focus on Life Sciences and organic streams much easier to handle, which means more Materials Sciences is its key competence in industrial companies can capture biogas on-site from their own residue biotechnology. The move towards a bio-based economy streams and convert it into energy for their own use. The DSM presents significant opportunities, particularly in renewable Biotechnology Center in Delft (Netherlands) is in the midst of energies such as cellulosic ethanol, renewable diesel and biogas developing its pre-treatment and fermentation process. The as well as renewable building blocks and materials like bio-based center has already established that the new process works at succinic acid. See also: Bio-based economy (page 34). pilot scale, using animal manure and brewers’ spent grains as feedstocks. Drawing on DSM’s unique position in biotechnology, materials science and chemistry, this unit is pioneering advances in Advanced bio-diesel biomass conversion and seeks to demonstrate the commercial In 2012 DSM entered into the next phase of a partnership with viability of renewable technologies in collaboration with strategic British Petroleum to jointly develop a large-scale, cost effective partners in the value chain. The development and supply of high microbial oil technology to convert sugars from sugar cane into Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 106 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities renewable diesel. The partnership has created a leading industry hungry for innovations that increase the efficiency of biotechnology platform that produces high yields of synthetic solar panels. bio-oil from plant sugars, which is in turn converted to a renewable diesel. About half of today’s world demand for In India, a 1 MW solar power plant is now being built using panels transport fuel is for diesel and it is expected to grow to a larger with this antireflective coating. At the end of 2012, DSM decided percentage in the upcoming decades. This makes innovative to increase the installed manufacturing capacity for solutions such as this route from sugars to diesel highly attractive KhepriCoat™ in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands). from a business point of view. Today, biodiesel is produced from vegetable oils such as palm oil, soy bean oil and rape seed oil. Looking ahead, DSM Advanced Surfaces has identified potential These oils are increasingly associated with concerns about partnerships that could address novel surface technologies, sustainability and availability. Finding alternative ways to produce which would help expand its product range. DSM’s Business diesel from renewable sources that do not compete with the food Incubator has been instrumental in feeding the pipeline with chain is crucial if growing demand is to be met in a sustainable opportunities that address customer needs. Partnerships and way. acquisitions will remain a critical factor for accelerated growth in advanced surfaces. Bio-succinic acid Reverdia’s bio-succinic acid plant in Cassano Spinola (Italy) DSM Business Incubator commenced its start-up process in 2012, leading to full production in 2013. Reverdia, established in 2010, is a 50-50 The DSM Business Incubator is an independent unit of the DSM joint venture between DSM and French starch and starch Innovation Center. It explores opportunities and technologies in derivatives company Roquette Frères. The plant is designed for new areas where its technologies can meet current and future commercial scale production of bio-based succinic acid. This is market demands. Platforms are created within the scope of the first non-fossil feedstock derived chemical building block that securing food, health and energy requirements of society, in allows customers in the chemical industry to opt for a bio-based close collaboration with industry partners and existing and alternative with a lower eco-footprint for a broad range of potential customers. See also: Open Innovation (page 22). applications, from packaging to footwear. DSM Venturing Looking ahead, the first sales of technology licenses by POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels and Reverdia (Roquette-DSM) DSM Venturing actively invests in early stage companies that for cellulosic ethanol and bio-succinic acid, respectively, are create innovative products and services in health, nutrition and expected once production has been demonstrated on a materials. DSM Venturing plays an important part in DSM’s open commercial scale. In the next few years, DSM expects to develop innovation policy and invests in activities that are of immediate additional strategic partnerships to demonstrate the commercial or future strategic relevance to DSM business groups and/or the viability of a wider range of bio-based solutions. Examples DSM Innovation Center. include bio-based adipic acid, a renewable building block for, for example, polyamide 6,6. DSM has achieved considerable DSM has invested in Regentis Biomaterials, a tissue repair technological progress in bio-based adipic acid and is in company based in Israel that is developing and commercializing advanced discussions with prospective partners both on the innovative biodegradable hydrogels for the local repair of biomass side and on the application side. damaged cartilage and bone. DSM Advanced Surfaces In 2012, the company also invested in Optiwind, a US-based producer of medium-sized wind turbines. DSM Advanced Surfaces provides solutions for smart coatings. In 2012, the unit recalibrated its strategic approach, which led In addition to direct investments DSM Venturing is also involved to a decision to fully focus on solutions for the solar industry, with in a limited number of venture capital funds. its anti-reflective coating KhepriCoat™. In 2012, DSM invested in the 4th China Environment Fund of KhepriCoat™ is increasingly recognized and valued by Tsing Capital. This is DSM’s first venture capital fund investment customers as a very high performing durable product. It in Asia. The China Environment Fund is a series of four funds, improves the average efficiency of solar panels by four percent. managed by Hong Kong based Tsing Capital. This benefit is welcomed by an increasingly competitive global Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 107 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 108 Review of business in 2012 Life Sciences Nutrition Pharma Materials Sciences Performance Materials Polymer Intermediates Innovation Center Corporate Activities Corporate Activities 2012 DSM’s 50 percent participation in DEXPlastomers was included under Corporate Activities. Various activities and businesses that do not belong to any of the five reporting clusters are included under Corporate Agreement was reached with BÜFA GmbH & Co. on the Activities. This consists of both operating and service activities divestment of parts of Euroresins. These units were reclassified and also includes a number of costs that cannot be logically as assets held for sale. allocated to the clusters. The segment normally has a negative operating result. In 2011, DSM's Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business was included under Corporate Activities. As from 2012 this business Various holding companies and corporate overheads are is included in the Pharma cluster. included in Corporate Activities. The most important cost elements included under this heading are corporate Associates departments and share-based compensation for the group. DSM has a share in a limited number of associates. Their contribution to the result in 2012 was negligible. x € million 2012 2011 Net sales 268 369 Operating profit (139) (135) Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) (94) (91) Capital expenditure and acquisitions 89 84 R&D expenditure 22 21 Workforce at 31 December (headcount) 3,199 3,150 Sitech Services Sitech Services provides such services as manufacturing services, park services and Safety, Health & Environment services for the Chemelot industrial site in Sittard-Geleen (Netherlands) and the site of DSM Pharma Chemicals in Venlo (Netherlands). DSM Insurances The company retains a limited part of its property damage and business interruption and product liability risks via a captive insurance company, DSM Insurances BV. Total retained damages in 2012 were less than € 10 million. Corporate Research Since 2011, the total costs of the Corporate Research Program have been reported under Corporate Activities. Assets held for sale At the end of the year, the company reached an agreement with Borealis AG for the sale of DEXPlastomers, a 50-50 joint venture of DSM with ExxonMobil. Subject to customary approvals and notifications, the transaction is expected to close in Q1 2013. In Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 109 Financial and reporting policy Financial policy It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of trade As a basis for and contribution to effective risk management and receivables and payables. In addition, operating companies may to ensure that the company will be able to pursue its strategies – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from even during periods of economic downturn, DSM retains a firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies strong balance sheet and limits its financial risks. giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, CHF, JPY and GBP. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed The current strategy, DSM in motion: driving focused growth, and hedged when appropriate. has ambitious strategic and financial targets which are outlined on page 15 . DSM targets a gearing that is below 30% and an Important acquisition criteria are strategic fit and financial operating profit before amortization and depreciation (EBITDA) condition. A business or partner should add value to DSM in which is at least 8.5 times the balance of financial income and terms of technological and/or market competences. Acquired expense. Under certain circumstances the gearing could be companies are in principle required to contribute to DSM's cash raised to a level between 30% and 40%, provided that the earnings per share from the very beginning and to earnings per boundaries of the desired Single A credit rating remain share from year two. In addition, they are required to meet the attainable. Furthermore, funds from operations need to be at company's profitability, sustainability and growth requirements. least 30% of net debt in accordance with the definitions of the There are, however, exceptions to this rule; a requirement may major credit rating agencies. This underlines the company's aim for instance not be appropriate in the case of small innovative of maintaining its Single A long-term credit rating. growth acquisitions, although the sustainability requirement will be upheld at all times. Most of DSM's external funding needs are financed through long-term debt. Debt covenants are not included in the terms DSM's policy in the various sub-disciplines of the finance and conditions of outstanding bonds and financing function is strongly oriented toward solidity, reliability and arrangements. DSM aims to spread the maturity profile of optimum protection of cash flows. The finance function plays an outstanding bonds in order to have adequate financial flexibility. important role in business steering. DSM has a commercial paper program of € 1,500 million and Reporting policy two committed credit facilities totaling € 900 million, consisting of € 500 million until September 2018 and € 400 million until April Reporting policy and justification of choices made 2013. In the sustainability information in this Integrated Annual Report, DSM explains its vision and policy with respect to sustainable An important element of DSM’s financial policy is the allocation enterprise and reports on its activities in this field during 2012. of cash flow. DSM primarily allocates cash flow to investments Besides presenting developments and data for the three aimed at strengthening its business positions and to dividend categories of People, Planet and Profit, DSM reports on its payments to its shareholders. The cash flow is further used for sustainability strategy, its stakeholder engagement activities, Acquisitions & Partnerships to strengthen DSM's competences and the organization of sustainability at DSM. Furthermore, DSM and market positions in Life Sciences and Materials Sciences discusses the global trends that drive its strategy. supported by the other three strategic growth drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation and Sustainability. As the It is DSM’s policy to proactively canvas the views of its occasion arises, the company may choose to return cash to employees on issues of material importance to the company. shareholders if excess cash is available over a longer period to The preparation of this report was facilitated by experts who such an extent that the above-mentioned cash flow priorities can were supported by a review group comprising employees be satisfied without an increase in gearing toward a level of 30%. selected from across the DSM organization. DSM aims to provide a stable and preferably rising dividend. Global Reporting Initiative DSM bases its sustainability reporting on the guidelines of the In order to avoid dilution of earnings per share as a result of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). For this report, the company exercise of management and employee options, DSM buys back used the GRI matrix G3 (see www.dsm.com). DSM has shares insofar as this is desirable and feasible. In 2012 no share determined that this report once again merits GRI application repurchase took place. level A+, representing a high level of transparency. Ernst & Young has reviewed compliance of the Sustainability Information with Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 110 Financial and reporting policy Financial policy Reporting policy this application level. See also: Independent Assurance Report Quality of data on Sustainability Information (page 217). The data for the sites are based on these sites’ own measurements and calculations, which are based on definitions, Assurance methods and procedures established at corporate level. The DSM asked Ernst & Young to provide limited assurance on the year-on-year comparability of the data can be affected by Sustainability Information in this Integrated Annual Report. See changes in the portfolio as well as by improvements made in the page 216 for Ernst & Young's assurance report. measurement and recording systems at the various sites. Whenever impact is relevant, it is stated in the report. Details for Selection of topics the individual sites are published on www.dsm.com, together The topics covered in this report were selected on the basis of with an explanation of the definitions used. input from stakeholders, GRI guidelines and DSM’s own management systems and their relevance and impact for DSM Manner of reporting and its various stakeholders. See also: Stakeholder engagement Quantitative data are reported per business group. All data are (page 33). consolidated at corporate level by the relevant departments. The qualitative reports on various subjects were provided by experts On the basis of the principle of materiality (see the materiality throughout the organization. matrix in Stakeholder engagement), DSM distinguishes between topics whose importance warrants publication in this annual Planet methodology report (relevant to both DSM and its stakeholders), and topics Environmental indicators are evaluated and established on a whose importance warrants publication on the company website yearly basis by the experts and process owners involved. Data only (topics important to either DSM or its stakeholders). on these indicators are collected on a yearly basis, while an additional mid-year measurement is done for the most relevant As in the 2011 report, DSM reports on its external recognition in indicators and reporting units. The methodology and a separate section. DSM also reports separately on its progress calculations can be found on www.dsm.com. in implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. See also: Human rights and United Nations Global Compact (page The site managers of reporting units are responsible for the 40). quality of the data. Data are collected based on measurements in the production process, information from external parties (e.g. Scope on waste and external energy) and estimates based on expert The People data in this report cover all entities that belong to the knowledge. Reporting units have direct insight into their consolidation scope of the consolidated financial statements. performance compared to previous years and are required to The Planet data cover all production entities of DSM that are provide justifications for deviations above the threshold. For controlled by DSM. Offices and R&D facilities are excluded from most parameters the threshold is set at 10 percent. Planet reporting. The ECO+ data cover all DSM business groups and the Innovation Center and are reported as consolidated People methodology global DSM key performance indicators (KPIs). All People and HR data are collected per business group and consolidated at corporate level. Acquisitions and divestments The HR data (People) for newly acquired companies are ECO+ reported from the first full month after the acquisition date. All financial ECO+ data are collected from the relevant financial Historical HR data are not restated for divestments. The and innovation systems by the controllers of the business groups Safety, Health (People) and Environment (Planet) data for and the Innovation Center. All assessments of ECO+ involve newly acquired companies are reported at the latest in the year internal LCA experts. All data are internally validated with following the first full year after acquisition, because these Corporate Sustainability and consolidated in global DSM ECO+ companies’ reporting procedures first have to be aligned with KPIs. those of DSM. Acquired and divested units are excluded from the evaluation of progress on environmental targets but are included in absolute figures (unless stated otherwise). ECO+ data for newly acquired companies are reported in line with the financial reporting guidelines. Historical ECO+ data are not restated for divestments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 111 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction1 number of shared service departments and research departments are contracted by the business groups on an arm's Koninklijke DSM N.V. (Royal DSM) is a company limited by length basis. shares listed on NYSE Euronext, with a Managing Board and an independent Supervisory Board. Members of the Managing Managing Board Board and the Supervisory Board are appointed (and, if The Managing Board consists of three or more members to be necessary, dismissed) by the General Meeting of Shareholders. determined by the Supervisory Board. The current composition of the Managing Board can be found in the chapter Supervisory The Managing Board is responsible for the company's strategy, Board and Managing Board starting on page 134 . Since 2005, its portfolio policy, the deployment of human and capital members of the Managing Board have been appointed for a resources, the company’s risk management system and the maximum period of four years. company's financial performance and performance in the area of sustainability. The Supervisory Board supervises the policy The members of the Managing Board are collectively responsible pursued by the Managing Board, the Managing Board's for the management of the company. Notwithstanding their performance of its managerial duties and the company's general collective responsibility within the Managing Board, certain tasks course of affairs, taking account of the interests of all the and responsibilities for business clusters and functional areas as company's stakeholders. The annual financial statements are well as regional responsibilities have been assigned to individual approved by the Supervisory Board and then submitted for members. adoption to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, accompanied by an explanation by the Supervisory Board of The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is how it carried out its supervisory duties during the year determined by the Supervisory Board based on the concerned. remuneration policy approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The company is governed by Dutch law and by its Articles of Association, which can be consulted at the DSM website The functioning of and decision making within the Managing (www.dsm.com). The General Meeting of Shareholders decides Board are governed by the Regulations of the Managing Board, on an amendment to the Articles of Association by an absolute which have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate majority of the votes cast. A decision to amend the Articles of governance code and can be found on the company’s Association may only be taken at the proposal of the Managing website. Board, subject to approval of the Supervisory Board. In 2012 the Managing Board met 54 times with the entire Board. DSM fully informs its stakeholders about its corporate objectives, In six meetings one member was excused due to another the way the company is managed and the company's commitment. In one meeting two members were excused. In all performance. Its aim in doing so is to pursue an open dialogue cases, members not able to attend provided their input to the with its shareholders and other stakeholders. meeting in advance in writing. DSM has a decentralized organizational structure built around Supervisory Board business groups that are empowered to carry out all short-term The Supervisory Board consists of at least five members. The and long-term business functions. At the operational level, the current composition of the Supervisory Board can be found on business groups are the primary organizational and page 134 . Members of the Supervisory Board are appointed entrepreneurial building blocks. The business groups are for a maximum of three four-year terms. grouped into clusters. Business groups within a cluster report to one and the same member of the Managing Board. The clusters All current members of the Supervisory Board are independent are the main entities for external strategic and financial reporting. in accordance with the Best Practice provisions of the Dutch corporate governance code. The remuneration of the members This structure ensures a flexible, efficient and fast response to of the Supervisory Board is determined by the General Meeting market changes. DSM has a number of functional and regional of Shareholders. organizations to support the Managing Board and the business groups. Intra-group product supplies and the services of a 1 This chapter contains, among other things, the information regarding corporate governance as referred to in Section 2 of the Dutch governmental decree of 23 December 2004 establishing further instructions concerning the content of the annual report (Besluit van 23 december 2004 tot vaststelling van nadere voorschriften omtrent de inhoud van het jaarverslag, Staatsblad [Bulletin of Acts and Decrees] 2004, 747) as amended in April 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 154) and December 2009 (Staatsblad 2009, 545). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 112 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board The functioning of and decision making within the Supervisory decisions of the Managing Board that would entail a significant Board are governed by the Regulations of the Supervisory change in the identity or character of DSM or its business. Board, which have been drawn up in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the company’s The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is held within six website. months of the end of the financial year in order to discuss and, if applicable, approve the annual report, the annual accounts, In line with the Dutch corporate governance code the any appointments of members of the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board has established from among its members an Supervisory Board and any of the other topics mentioned above. Audit Committee, a Nomination Committee, a Remuneration Committee and a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee. The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and, if necessary, The task of these committees is to prepare the decision making other General Meetings of Shareholders are called by the of the Supervisory Board. The functioning and tasks of these Managing Board or the Supervisory Board. The agenda and committees are governed by charters that have been drawn up explanatory notes are published on DSM’s website. in line with the Dutch corporate governance code and can be found on the company’s website. According to the Articles of Association, shareholders who, individually or jointly, represent at least one percent (1%) of the Diversity issued capital have the right to request the Managing Board or DSM has taken notice of recently adopted legislation effective as the Supervisory Board that items be placed on the agenda. Such of 1 January 2013 as a consequence of which a 'large' company, requests need to be received in writing by the chairman of the when nominating or appointing members of the Management Managing Board or the Supervisory Board at least sixty days Board or Supervisory Board, should take into account as much before the date of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. as possible a balanced composition of these Boards in terms of gender, to the effect that at least 30 percent of the positions are On 11 May 2012 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held by women and at least 30 percent by men. was held. The agenda was to a large extent similar to that of previous years. Mr. Ewald Kist was reappointed as member of The current composition of the Supervisory Board is already in the Supervisory Board. Mrs. Victoria Haynes and Mrs. Eileen line with the new legislation and the Supervisory Board profile will Kennedy were appointed as members of the Supervisory Board. be amended to reflect this change in law. An amendment to the remuneration of the Supervisory Board was adopted. Further details can be found on the company’s The current composition of the Managing Board deviates from website. the above-mentioned percentages. With regard to future nominations and appointments, the Managing Board and the External auditor Supervisory Board will take the gender diversity objectives into In accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code account as much as possible. (V. 2.3), the Managing Board and the Audit Committee have conducted a thorough assessment of the functioning of the General Meeting of Shareholders external auditor in 2012 following an extensive external review of The main powers of the General Meeting of Shareholders relate the activities of the external auditor by Maastricht University. The to: main conclusions of the assessment have been discussed in the Audit Committee and will be presented to the General Meeting the appointment, suspension and dismissal of members of the of Shareholders. Managing Board and the Supervisory Board; approval of the remuneration policy of the Managing Board; Article 10 of Directive 2004/25 approval of the remuneration of the Supervisory Board; With regard to the information referred to in the Resolution of the adoption of the annual financial statements and article 10 of the EC Directive pertaining to a takeover bid which declaration of dividends; is required to be provided according to Dutch law, the following release from liability of the members of the Managing Board can be reported: and the Supervisory Board; issuance of shares or rights to shares, restriction or exclusion Information on major shareholdings can be found below of pre-emptive rights of shareholders and repurchase or (Distribution of shares). cancellation of shares; There are no special statutory rights attached to the shares of amendments to the Articles of Association; and the company. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 113 There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the company’s Repurchase of own shares shares. When convening a General Meeting of Shareholders The company may acquire paid-up own shares by virtue of a the Managing Board is entitled to determine a registration date decision of the Managing Board, provided that the par value of in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Dutch Civil the acquired shares in its capital amounts to no more than one Code. tenth of the issued capital. Such a decision is subject to the The applicable provisions regarding the appointment and approval of the Supervisory Board. In the Annual General dismissal of members of the Managing Board and the Meeting of Shareholders of 11 May 2012 the Managing Board Supervisory Board and amendments to the Articles of was authorized to acquire own shares for a period of 18 months Association are set forth above. from said date. In 2012, no ordinary shares were repurchased. The powers of the Managing Board regarding the issue and repurchase of shares in the company can be found below Dutch corporate governance code (Issue of shares, Repurchase of own shares). Other information can be found in the notes to the DSM supports the Dutch corporate governance code adopted consolidated financial statements (16 Equity, 19 Borrowings, in 2003 and amended in 2008, which can be found on 27 Share-based compensation) and in the chapters www.commissiecorporategovernance.nl. Information on the DSM share and Other information. DSM can confirm that it applies all of the code’s 113 Best Issue of shares Practices. The issue of shares takes place by a decision of the Managing Board. The decision is subject to the approval of the Supervisory With respect to the appointment of members of the Managing Board. The scope of this power of the Managing Board shall be Board for a period of at most four years (Best Practice II.1.1) it determined by a resolution of the General Meeting of should be noted that DSM has adhered to this Best Practice Shareholders and shall relate to at most all unissued shares of since the introduction of the corporate governance code in 2004. the authorized capital, as applicable now or at any time in the future. In the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders of Since DSM respects agreements made before the introduction 11 May 2012 this power was extended up to and including of said code, the current chairman of the Managing Board will 11 November 2013, on the understanding that this authorization remain appointed for an indefinite period. of the Managing Board is limited to a number of ordinary shares with a nominal value amounting to 10% of the issued capital at With respect to the Dutch corporate governance code it should the time of issue, and to an additional 10% of the issued capital be noted that any substantial change in the corporate at the time of issue if the issue takes place within the context of governance structure of the company and in the company's a merger or acquisition within the scope of DSM's strategy as compliance with the code shall be submitted to the General published on DSM’s website. The issue price will be determined Meeting of Shareholders for discussion under a separate agenda by the Managing Board and shall as much as possible be item. calculated on the basis of the trading prices of ordinary shares on the Euronext Amsterdam Stock Exchange. All documents related to the implementation at DSM of the Dutch corporate governance code can be found in the Governance Distribution of shares section of the corporate website (www.dsm.com). Under the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act shareholdings of 5% or more in any Dutch company must be disclosed to the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets (AFM). According to the register kept by the AFM the following shareholders had disclosed that they owned between 5 and 10% of DSM’s total share capital on 1 January 2013: • ASR Nederland B.V. • Rabobank Nederland Participatie B.V. • Delta Lloyd N.V. • Capital Research and Management Company and Capital Group International Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 114 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Governance framework For the sake of clarity, a short summary of the main aspects of the framework at Managing Board / corporate level and Business groups are the main building blocks of DSM’s operational level is given here: organization; they have integral long-term and short-term business responsibility and have at their disposal all functions • The Managing Board adheres to the Regulations of the that are crucial to their business success. The business groups Managing Board. within a specific cluster report to one and the same member of • In addition, the Managing Board works according to the the Managing Board. This Board member manages the Management Framework for the corporate level. This implies coherence of operations and the leveraging of resources within among other things that it adheres to the DSM Code of the cluster and is accountable for the overall performance of the Business Conduct and applicable corporate policies and cluster within limits defined by the collective responsibility of the requirements. total Managing Board for the overall management of the • The Management Framework for the corporate level further company. The clusters are the main entities for external strategic provides a description of the most important (decisionand financial reporting. In order to ensure sufficient making) processes, responsibilities and 'rules of the game' at independence with regard to financial management, the Chief the Managing Board, functional and regional levels and Financial Officer has no business groups reporting to him. includes the governance relations with the next-higher levels (Supervisory Board and Shareholders) and the operational The following figure depicts DSM's overall governance units. In particular, the framework defines the roles of framework and the most important governance elements and corporate staff, functional excellence and shared service regulations at each level. departments as follows: Corporate Staff departments: small, high level groups, Shareholders supporting the Managing Board and reporting directly to a Articles of Association Managing Board member (in most cases CEO or CFO); Functional Excellence departments, in which expert capabilities in selected functions are concentrated and Supervisory • Regulations of the Supervisory Board Board • Charter of the Audit Committee which are steered by Functional Excellence Advisory • Charter of the Nomination Committee Boards, chaired by a Managing Board member; the Director • Charter of the Remuneration Committee • Charter of the Corporate Social Responsibility of a Functional Excellence department reports to a Committee Managing Board member; and Shared Service departments, in which selected service functions are leveraged and which are steered by Shared Managing • Regulations of the Managing Board Board / • Management Framework for the corporate level Service Boards, chaired by a business group director. The Corporate • DSM Code of Business Conduct director of a Shared Service department reports to a Managing Board member, who is also a member of the Shared Services Board. Operational Management Framework for operational units units The company’s strategic direction and objectives are set in a Corporate Strategy Dialogue. In 2010 such a Corporate Strategy Note: all internal regulations apply in addition to applicable national and international Dialogue was executed, resulting in the current strategy DSM in laws and regulations. In cases where internal regulations are incompatible with motion: driving focused growth. As part of this strategy, the national or international laws and regulations, the latter prevail. regional functions have been further strengthened, especially in the high growth economies. Regional management reports directly to a Managing Board member. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 115 The operational units conduct their business within the Risk management parameters of the Management Framework for operational units. This implies among other things that they: The Managing Board is responsible for risk management in the company and, supported by the Corporate Risk Office, has establish the strategy and objectives of their business designed and implemented a risk management system and a according to the Business Strategy Dialogue, aligned with risk management organization. The system and the organization the Corporate Strategy Dialogue, in which process various are documented in the DSM risk management policy, the DSM scenarios and related risk profiles are investigated; Code of Business Conduct, DSM policies in several functional implement risk management actions according to an Annual areas and the DSM Corporate Requirements and Directives. The Risk Management Plan and in line with corporate policies aim of the system is to ensure that the extent to which the and multi-year plans in several functional areas; company’s strategic and operational objectives are being comply with the Corporate Requirements and Directives; achieved is understood, that the company’s reporting is reliable and and that the company complies with relevant laws and monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and regulations. internal control system and regularly discuss the findings with the Managing Board. The DSM risk management system is based on the COSO-ERM framework. It has been designed to achieve maximum On average once every three years, the operational units are integration of the risk management process in the normal audited by Corporate Operational Audit (COA). The director of business processes. It provides for risk assessment tools, COA reports to the chairman of the Managing Board and has controls for risks that commonly occur in the company and access to the external auditor and the chairman of the Audit monitoring and reporting procedures and systems. The internal Committee of the Supervisory Board. Furthermore, the director controls for the goods and money flows have been ‘built into’ of COA acts as the compliance officer with regard to inside business processes, and tools have been developed to support information and is the chairman of the DSM Alert Committee, their implementation and to monitor their effectiveness in which is responsible for the DSM whistleblower policy, systems operation. In this way, a high level of internal control is achieved and processes. efficiently. In the Fraud Committee, relevant corporate functions participate Simultaneously with the publication of this Integrated Annual under the chairmanship of the CFO. The objective of the Report, an updated version of the full description of DSM’s risk committee is to ensure structural follow-up of fraud cases with management system and process together with a description of the aim of reducing fraud risks. the identified risks will be placed on the company’s website. These descriptions are to be considered an integral part of this Integrated Annual Report. The functioning of the system in 2012 The important events in risk management in 2012 are reported below. This section is structured according to the elements of the COSO-ERM risk management framework. Internal environment for risk management Values and business principles are an important element of the internal environment for risk management. Directly related to its mission to create brighter lives for people today and generations to come, DSM has chosen sustainability as its core value. DSM's business principles, which are defined in the DSM Code of Business Conduct, are based on this core value. The DSM Code of Business Conduct, which is available on the company’s website, describes principles in the areas of People (social and humanitarian standards), Planet (principles with regard to the environment) and Profit (principles regarding fair and ethical Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 116 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board business practices). In 2012, the e-learning course on the Code as part of the semi-annual risk reporting process. Additionally, of Business Conduct was completed by virtually all eligible risk assessments were performed by a number of central employees. Classroom training is ongoing for a restricted group functions, on major projects and as part of the compliance of employees without access to e-mail. A company-wide programs of new acquisitions. A risk assessment was inventory was made of bribery and corruption risks. This conducted on the Sustainability Program, covering both the risks inventory will be used to complement the general policy against and opportunities regarding the 'corporate responsibility' as well corruption and bribery with business and region specific actions as the 'business driver' elements in this program. and practices. In 2012, the Managing Board updated the Corporate Risk Another important factor determining the internal environment Assessment (CRA). Based on the results of the CRA conducted for risk management is the risk appetite. This risk appetite cannot in 2011, internal risk and incident reports and risk information be captured in one figure or formula, but varies per category of from external sources, the Managing Board, supported by the risks. The Managing Board has reviewed the company’s desired Corporate Risk Office, identified the risks that are relevant in risk appetite. The main characteristics can be described as relation to the achievement of the targets of the strategy DSM in follows: motion: driving focused growth. Board members individually identified and assessed risks, and during a Managing Board To fulfill its strategic intent, DSM is prepared to accept session they reached consensus on these risks and related risk considerable risks in its drive to develop its people and appetites. They identified any necessary responses to be made organizational base into a competitive advantage, in its in addition to the mitigating actions already in place in order to innovation programs, in its expansion to high growth bring the risks within the defined risk appetite. economies and in developing sustainability as a business driver. Of course these risks will always be limited by defined The preliminary outcomes of the CRA were reported to and hurdle criteria and rigorous implementation programs. discussed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board in In risk areas such as intellectual property protection, the meeting of 10 December 2012. These 'top-down' outcomes acquisitions and joint ventures, production-process reliability, were compared with the risks and incidents as reported 'bottombusiness continuity, and product liability the company is up' by the operational units in their Letters of Representation and cautious to conservative. with findings from internal and external audits. The final risk With regard to reputation, safety, health and environment and profile was reported to and discussed with the Audit Committee internal and external non-compliance the company is risk of the Supervisory Board on 18 February 2013. It is the basis for averse. the main risks and responses as reported on the following pages. This risk appetite gives guidance for the responses to the risks The company’s top risks identified in the Corporate Risk Assessment (see below). For The CRA identifies the likelihood and impacts of events that specific units, the risk appetite may deviate from the overall could jeopardize the achievement of the targets for 2013, 2015 company profile. and 2020 set in the DSM in motion: driving focused growth strategy. In setting these targets, assumptions were made about Objectives and risk identification, assessment and response the macro-economic and global financial developments (basic In line with the mandatory risk management process, business scenario). groups that updated their strategy in 2012 performed a business risk assessment to identify and assess the implementation risks The table on the next page shows the most important risks for of the chosen strategy and agree on responses. At mid-year and DSM achieving its targets under the basic scenario, and the at year-end, all units review and report their risks and incidents remedial actions to mitigate them. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 117 The top risks and related mitigating actions Description of risks Mitigating actions Competition and commoditization in existing markets, especially also referring to caprolactam outlook DSM has considerably reduced its exposure to cyclical and Specific projects are being defined to reduce the exposure to commodity markets. Price pressure and other competitive the merchant caprolactam market. Cost reductions in all challenges may cause the profitability of DSM’s activities to businesses are being continued to increase competitiveness. deviate from the projected levels. Further innovation drives a focus on high-end markets with less exposure to commoditization, which will also mitigate this risk. Risks related to High Growth Economies, especially in Asia In the current strategy, the relative importance of the High DSM will further detail country and region specific strategies of Growth Economies has further increased. There is, however, the business groups. More power and freedom will be given to always a risk that the markets will not grow as expected and/ regions like China, India and Brazil to achieve the strategic or that opportunities in these markets will be missed. goals. DSM does not only focus on High Growth Economies but has also invested significantly in the US during recent years (mainly via acquisitions). People, organization and culture The implementation of the business strategy is supported by DSM has launched the ONE DSM Culture Agenda focusing on: organizational measures to enhance regional and functional External Orientation effectiveness. These measures may lack sufficient clarity and/ Accountability for Performance or speed, resulting in inadequate collaborative and resultCollaboration with Speed oriented behavior and/or insufficient speed in achieving the Inclusion & Diversity projected diverse and international human resource base. Attention will be given to the implementation of stronger regional and functional talent efforts and career development. Global financial and economic developments (including currency effects) An economic downturn could have a significant detrimental DSM will proceed with its profit protection plans, including effect on the achievement of the targets. This effect could be further control on operating working capital. aggravated by volatility in currencies. The sensitivities to variations in several key currencies are given in note 23 'Financial instruments and risks' from page 186 . Growth and profitability in the Pharma cluster DSM has made a successful start with its partnering strategy DSM will continue to pay maximum attention to implementing in the Pharma cluster, but there remain considerable the Pharma partnering strategy in making DSP successful and uncertainties in realizing the desired growth and returning to achieving an improvement in DPP, in the knowledge that adequate profitability levels in this business area. establishing partnerships always takes time. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 118 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board Other important risks continued to recognize and prepare for the most important After the Corporate Risk Assessment 2012, two risks were scenarios. moved to the 'other important risks' category because it was Safety, Health and Environmental (SHE) risks concluded that they no longer represented top risks. These After a number of fatalities in prior years DSM has enhanced were: its already strict safety policies even further, among other things by strengthening the implementation of the Life Saving Acquisitions & Partnerships (excluding Pharma) Rules. Nevertheless, SHE risks cannot be excluded altogether and any accidents may have a deep impact in terms of human This risk has been reduced significantly by realizing several key suffering and (reputation) damage to the company. acquisitions in line with the strategy DSM in motion: Product liability risks driving focused growth. The risk on Acquisitions & Partnerships To reduce product liability risks, product risk evaluations have shifted from finding sufficient additional value adding acquisitions been carried out, contractual and quality procedures have to getting the recent acquisitions effectively integrated. The been updated and insurance policies have been reviewed. company has developed good practices and structured Unexpected effects of or undetected flaws in DSM's products processes to mitigate this. or services may, however, still cause considerable product liability exposures. Innovation Production process risks These risks are identified and mitigated frequently. This The Emerging Business Areas are developing well. The focus demonstrates awareness for the normal operational risks of and concentration of efforts, as well as the reinforcement of the the company. talent base, ensure that DSM capitalizes on talent. The current outlook is that DSM is on track to realize the innovation ambitions Overview of risk categories as set in its strategy. On the next page an overview is given of all risk categories that have been identified as potentially important and from which the In addition to the top risks, the most recent risk assessment and main risks described above have been derived. Simultaneously reports show the following risks as being most important: with the publication of this Integrated Annual Report, an updated comprehensive description of DSM’s risk categories will be Raw material and energy price and availability risks published on the company’s website (Governance section under DSM implements various policies to avoid supply chain Risk Management). disruptions (e.g. multiple supplier strategy) and decrease price volatility (e.g. commodity hedging). Nevertheless, the For the management of all these categories of risks, strategies, increasing complexity and interdependence of worldwide controls and/or mitigating measures have been put in place as supply streams as well as increasing (perceived) pressure on part of DSM’s risk management practices. These nevertheless the availability of resources may lead to price fluctuations and involve uncertainties that may lead to the actual results differing availability issues, influencing DSM’s profitability. from those projected. There may also be risks that the company Intellectual property (IP) risks has not yet fully assessed and that are currently qualified as The policy of accelerated growth through speeding up ‘minor’ but that could have a material impact on the company's innovation and expansion in high growth economies holds the performance at a later stage. The company's risk management risk of increased exposure in the IP area. Measures will and internal control system has been designed to identify and continue to be taken to contain these risks, but these may not respond to these developments on time, but 100% assurance always be completely effective in mitigating IP risks. can never be achieved. Security (including information security) Especially in the area of the security of and access to data in Control activities ICT systems, a continued focus on monitoring and mitigating Each business group and each major operational service unit actions is required, given the increasing tension between the has an Audit Committee which, under the direction of the growing professionalism of cybercrime and widespread use of director of the group or unit, sets up annual risk management (mobile) IT. plans, monitors their implementation and reviews risk Business continuity risks management issues on a regular basis. During the year under Major disruptions, especially in the supply chain, in review, major risk management events, such as business risk manufacturing and in the ICT environment, remain a low assessments, audits and the occurrence of control failures or likelihood but possibly high impact risk. Actions are being weaknesses, were discussed with the responsible Managing Board member. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 119 Commonly occurring risks are mitigated through the Generic/strategic risks implementation of the Corporate Requirements and process controls in the business processes. The operational units • Global financial and economic development risks regularly test compliance with these requirements and the • Risks related to high growth economies effectiveness of the controls. Deviations from Corporate • Risks of competition and commoditization in existing Requirements are only allowed temporarily, if sufficient markets alternative controls are in place and after approval by the • Political and country risks responsible Board member. A limited number of waivers have • Risks related to disposals, acquisitions and joint ventures been granted. • Innovation risks (new markets, products and technologies) Information and communication • People, organization and culture risks A continuous effort is being made to inform employees about the • Intellectual Property protection risks DSM risk management system and train them in its use. A • Raw material / energy price and availability risks special version of the risk management training course was • Sustainability risks conducted for financial and other staff in North America. • Other generic/strategic risks Regional risk management platforms were created in North America and India and the platform in China was reinforced. To Operational risks increase general awareness of risk management, internal webinars were started. On 14 June 2012 a comprehensive • Reputation risks presentation of the risk management system was given to and • Customer risks discussed with the full Supervisory Board. • Production process risks • Business continuity risks Monitoring and reporting • Product liability risks Information on the functioning of the system was collected on a • ICT risks continuous basis. Business groups tracked compliance with • Program and Project Management risks Corporate Requirements and the follow-up of actions arising • (Information) security and Internal Control related risks from risk assessments. They conducted assessments on the • Industrial relations risks effectiveness of their internal controls and reported and • Safety, Health and Environmental risks investigated incidents. Independent audits on the effectiveness • Other operational risks of risk management implementation were executed by the Corporate Operational Audit department according to a program Financial and reporting risks agreed with the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. Information coming in via the DSM Alert whistleblowing channel • Liquidity and market risks was also used as a source for reviewing the effectiveness of the • Pension risks risk management system. Any critical findings were addressed • Reporting integrity risks immediately. • Other financial risks (e.g. credit, tax) By signing an affidavit, the business group controllers confirmed, Legal and compliance risks among other things, that the quarterly financial statements had been produced according to the internal accounting rules and • Risks of non-compliance with the DSM Code of Business reporting procedures. Conduct, Policies, Requirements and Management Directives Based on developments within and external to the company, as • Risks of legal non-compliance well as findings from the various risk assessments, audits and • Risks related to regulatory developments monitoring and reporting efforts, the Corporate Risk Office drew • Other legal and compliance risks up a consolidated risk report, including recommendations for further improvement of the risk management system. These See www.dsm.com, Governance section. recommendations were integrated into an update of the Corporate Risk Management Plan 2011-2015. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 120 Corporate governance and risk management Introduction Dutch corporate governance code Governance framework Risk management Statements of the Managing Board In the June 2012 meeting of the Supervisory Board the most Statements of the Managing Board important enhancements to the risk management system were discussed. At the end of the second quarter, the operational On the basis of the above and in accordance with best practice units were asked to provide an update of their material risks and II.1.5 of the Dutch corporate governance code of December incidents over the first half of 2012 and the status of the 2008, and Article 5:25c of the Financial Markets Supervision Act, mitigation of the risks reported over 2011, and to specify any the Managing Board confirms that internal controls over financial material risks or uncertainties for the rest of the year. The reporting provide a reasonable level of assurance that the consolidated overview of these risks, incidents and mitigation financial reporting does not contain any material inaccuracies, measures was the basis for the risk section and the statements and confirms that these controls functioned properly in the year of the Managing Board as provided with the first-half figures in under review and that there are no indications that they will not accordance with the requirements of the Dutch Financial continue to do so. The financial statements fairly represent the Markets Supervision Act. company's financial condition and the results of the company’s operations and provide the required disclosures. Together with the annual financial accounts, the directors of all entities reporting to the Managing Board reported on any It should be noted that the above does not imply that these material strategic, operational, reporting and compliance risks or systems and procedures provide absolute assurance as to the incidents over the year 2012 in their Letter of Representation. realization of operational and strategic business objectives, or that they can prevent all misstatements, inaccuracies, errors, The Corporate Risk Office consolidated the reported risks and fraud and non-compliances with legislation, rules and incidents and compared them with the outcome of internal and regulations. external audits and of the Corporate Risk Assessment. The findings were reported to and discussed with the Audit In view of all of the above, the Managing Board confirms that, to Committee of the Supervisory Board in its meeting of 18 the best of its knowledge, the financial statements give a true February 2013. and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company, and the management report includes a Enhancements to the risk management system fair review of the position at the balance sheet date and the During 2012, the enhanced focus on risk controls in the safety development and performance of the business during the area (Life Saving Rules) was continued. New and enhanced financial year together with a description of the principal risks and controls were introduced to answer to the ever changing risk uncertainties that the company faces. profile in the area of ICT (for example increased mobile use, increased intruder sophistication, cloud solutions, off-shored shared services). The corporate requirements for sustainability Heerlen, 18 February 2013 were established, incorporating and sharpening the ECO+ requirements. A corporate directive to improve Master Data The Managing Board Management in all standard business processes was agreed and communicated. Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman of the Managing Board Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Strategic developments within DSM were supported by risk Stefan Doboczky management actions as follows: Nico Gerardu Stephan Tanda High Growth Economies: Enhancement of regional risk management capabilities with a focus on China and India. Sustainability: Enhancement of the control framework for ECO+ solutions and start of the development of a framework for People+. Innovation: Improved risk assessment practices, including Monte Carlo business simulations and value engineering. Acquisitions & Partnerships: Creation of best practices for (risk) management in the integration and operation of acquisitions and joint ventures. Enhancement of regional risk management capabilities in North America. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 121 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report development of the financials and the running business performance, a number of acquisition projects were discussed Introduction and approved. Other agenda topics were issue management The DSM Supervisory Board is in charge of supervising and and progress on the implementation of the strategy, including advising the DSM Managing Board in setting and achieving the opportunities to reduce exposure to the merchant caprolactam company’s objectives, strategy, policies and succession markets. Conference calls were organized to discuss the latest planning. In 2012 an important part of this task was focused on information and the mandate requests related to the recent acquisitions related to the strategy DSM in motion: driving acquisitions. The Supervisory Board greatly appreciated all open focused growth and discussions on next strategic steps. and in-depth discussions with the Managing Board enabling the Board to give relevant advice and to take well-considered In DSM's two-tier corporate structure under Dutch law, the decisions. One of the meetings was held at the DSM Delft site Supervisory Board is a separate body operating fully and combined with a well-organized site visit explaining and independently of the Managing Board. Members of the showing the Supervisory Board all day-to-day operational Supervisory Board and the Managing Board are (re)appointed activities on the Delft site of the DSM Food Specialties business by the General Meeting of Shareholders. and the anti-infectives joint venture with Sinochem, established in 2011. In another meeting an in-depth business update was Composition of Supervisory Board given on DSM Resins & Functional Materials. The composition of the DSM Supervisory Board is diverse in gender, nationality, background, knowledge and experience, in Financials and auditing particular after the appointment of two new Supervisory Board Financials and auditing topics were extensively discussed in the members in 2012: Mrs. Eileen Kennedy and Mrs. Victoria Audit Committee meetings. The Audit Committee met four times Haynes. The newly appointed members both contribute to key in 2012 and in addition had three phone calls to discuss the areas of DSM’s development as well as to the internationalization quarterly and half-year figures. As of 11 May 2012 the following of the company. For detailed background information on all Supervisory Board members were a member of the Audit Supervisory Board members, being Mr. Rob Routs (chair), Committee: Mr. de Swaan (chair), Mr. Sonder, Mr. Hochuli and Mr. Ewald Kist (deputy chair), Mr. Pierre Hochuli, Mrs. Haynes. With the exception of one meeting all members Mr. Claudio Sonder, Mr. Tom de Swaan, Mrs. Pauline van der were present; only one member was unable to join one Meer Mohr, Mrs. Haynes and Mrs. Kennedy, see the DSM conference call. The chairman of the Supervisory Board also website under Corporate Governance. Also the targeted profile attended all meetings. All discussions were considered to be of the Supervisory Board is published on the DSM website under very open and constructive. The outcome of all meetings and Corporate Governance. Within the Supervisory Board four minutes were shared with the full Supervisory Board. Based on committees have been established to cover four key areas in these summaries and all additionally provided information on more detail, being auditing, Supervisory Board and Managing financials and business performance, the Supervisory Board Board nominations, remunerations and corporate social was able to obtain in-depth background information on all responsibility. More information on these four areas is given financial and business results. below. Charters of the committees are published on the DSM website under Corporate Governance. The committee discussed among other items the 2011 Integrated Annual Report, the disclosure of financial information Composition of the Managing Board by the company, the financing and guarantee plan, the capital The composition of the Managing Board is diverse in nationality, expenditure plan, the dividend proposals, financial statements, background, knowledge and experience, and provides a good internal risk management and control systems, compliance with foundation to support all clusters and business groups in recommendations and observations of internal and external achieving their targets contributing to the company strategy to auditors, and the role and functioning of the operational audit drive focused growth. With regard to future nominations and department, including the endorsement of its proposed audit appointments, gender diversity objectives will be taken into plan. The application of information and communication account as much as possible. technology received special attention in 2012. Meetings and business topics DSM’s risk management system and its risk profile were In 2012 the Supervisory Board had six meetings and five extensively discussed and challenged. In 2012 special attention conference calls with the Managing Board; in three meetings one was given to security risks by performing an unannounced member was excused due to other commitments. In addition to security check. It was concluded that DSM is properly managing the standard agenda items of the meetings, such as the Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 122 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board and mitigating its potential risks. DSM’s risk management and independence and critical approach towards DSM in the risk profile are further elucidated on page 112 of this report. performance of the audit, the integrity and pro-active as well as responsive attitude of Ernst & Young. Key strengths were the In addition to the above-mentioned topics, DSM Alert cases, level of audit and accounting knowledge, the pro-active submitted under DSM’s whistleblower policy, and mitigating identification of potential concerns, the global reach and the actions to prevent recurrence were evaluated and discussed, presence of the auditor in DSM's growth markets. and recommendations were made. Communication by the auditors was timely and clear. When relevant, financial, auditing, risk and compliance Given the very positive outcome of the assessment, it has been responsible managers were present in the meetings of the Audit decided to continue the audit services provided by the audit firm Committee together with the CEO and the CFO. Ernst & Young based on a revised contract. This will give the company the flexibility to terminate the audit services on an Relevant topics to be approved by the full Supervisory Board annual basis taking into consideration new legislation in the were submitted to the full Supervisory Board together with an Netherlands with regard to the independence of auditors appropriate recommendation from the Audit Committee. (mandatory audit firm rotation by 2016 after eight consecutive financial years of audit services), as well as anticipated European In addition to the audit work, the external auditor of the company legislation which may affect the audit profession in the coming carried out non-audit work, to the extent allowed under years. applicable legislation and regulations and the internal procedures of the company. Important areas where non-audit Financial statements 2012 services were provided by Ernst & Young related to due diligence The Supervisory Board will submit the 2012 financial statements support in acquisitions, tax compliance work for certain foreign to the 2013 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, and will subsidiaries and expatriate tax services. All audit and non-audit propose that the shareholders adopt them and discharge the work carried out by the external auditor for the company were Managing Board from all liability in respect of its managerial performed in line with the conditions and instructions approved activities and discharge the Supervisory Board from all liability in by the Supervisory Board on the recommendation of the Audit respect of its supervision of the Managing Board. The profit Committee and after consultation with the Managing Board. appropriation as approved by the Supervisory Board is Fees and conditions of the external auditor for audit and nonpresented in the section Profit appropriation on page 218 of audit work were approved by the Audit Committee. the 2012 Annual Report. Despite ongoing global economic headwinds, DSM continued to deliver solid operational results in With the external auditor, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP, 2012 with growth across all clusters, except for caprolactam. discussions were held about the financial statements for 2012. Significant strategic progress was made during 2012 through The Report by the Managing Board and the financial statements value creating acquisitions and profit improvement initiatives. for 2012 were submitted to the Supervisory Board by the The Supervisory Board wishes to express its sincere Managing Board, in accordance with the provisions of Article 30 appreciation for the results achieved and would like to thank the of the Articles of Association, and subsequently approved by the employees and the Managing Board for their efforts. Supervisory Board in its meeting on 19 February 2013. The financial statements were audited by Ernst & Young Board nominations Accountants, who issued an unqualified opinion (see In 2012 nomination discussions were focused on the succession the Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements planning of the Managing Board and top management and the on page 216 of this report). The Supervisory Board concluded reappointment of the Supervisory Board members. According to that the external auditor was independent of DSM. the rotation schedule the term of appointment of Mr. Hochuli and Mr. Sonder expires in 2013. In-depth discussions were held In accordance with the Dutch corporate governance within the Nomination Committee, which as of 11 May 2012 code (V. 2.3), the Managing Board and the Audit Committee consisted of Mr. Routs (chair), Mr. Kist and Mrs. Van der Meer have conducted a thorough assessment of the functioning of the Mohr. Mr. Sijbesma and Mr. Chris Van Steenbergen, Executive external auditor following an extensive external review of the Vice President of the Corporate Human Resources department, activities of the external auditor by Maastricht University based were also involved in these discussions. The committee met four on a large number of interviews and questionnaires. The main times in 2012; one member could not be present in one meeting. conclusions of the assessment were that the external auditor fully The outcome and the minutes of all committee discussions were meets the expectations of DSM and provides a good service. In shared with the entire Supervisory Board. The reappointment of addition to its expertise, respondents rated highly the Mr. Hochuli as a member of the Supervisory Board for another Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 123 term of four years will be proposed to the Annual General sustainability reporting in the 2011 Integrated Annual Report, Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 3 May 2013. Mr. Sonder being again named among the leaders in the Dow Jones has indicated that he prefers to resign from the Board with effect Sustainability World Index and the CEO receiving an honorary from 3 May 2013. Although the Board will miss his much doctorate from Maastricht University for the way DSM is dealing appreciated good contributions to all discussions, it respects his with sustainability. choice. The Nomination Committee advised starting discussions on his succession in 2013. Following their appointment, Mrs. The CEO, the Managing Board member responsible for Haynes and Mrs. Kennedy took part in an extensive introduction Corporate Operations & Responsible Care, the Senior Vice program, including site visits and meetings with top President Corporate Affairs, the Vice President Corporate management, to familiarize themselves with all DSM businesses, Operations & Responsible Care and the Director Sustainable cultures and governance. Development were present during both meetings of the CSR Committee. The outcome and minutes of both meetings were Board remuneration shared and discussed with the entire Supervisory Board. The Remuneration Committee had five meetings and three conference calls in 2012; in one call one member was absent. In view of its supervision of corporate social responsibility issues As of 11 May 2012 Mr. Kist (chair), Mr. Routs and Mr. de Swaan relevant to the company, the sections 'Growth driver: were members of this committee. The main topics in 2012 were Sustainability', 'Stakeholder Engagement', 'People in 2012' and the remuneration of the Managing Board and executives of DSM, 'Planet in 2012' (the Sustainability Information) in the Integrated all discussed in the presence of Mr. Sijbesma and Mr. Van Annual Report 2012 were reviewed and subsequently discussed Steenbergen. The outcome and minutes of the Remuneration by the Supervisory Board in its meeting of 19 February 2013, Committee meetings were shared with the full Supervisory based on the advice of the CSR committee. Taking into Board. consideration the Independent Assurance Report on the Sustainability Information by Ernst & Young on page 217 of this During 2012 the Remuneration Committee continued the Integrated Annual Report, the full Supervisory Board approved discussion and evaluation of a number of adjustments to the the reporting in these sections. The Sustainability Information is remuneration policy of the Managing Board which it had already in compliance with the sustainability reporting guidelines of GRI started in 2011. These adjustments aim to align the Managing (G3) and the international reporting criteria of DSM included on Board remuneration even more with long term stakeholder page 110 of this Integrated Annual Report. interests and to update the remuneration policy to the most recent relevant market practices. The Remuneration Committee Supervisory Board meetings and performance evaluation has advised the full Supervisory Board on the proposed The December meeting was used to discuss the outcome of the adjustments. The adjustments to the current remuneration policy Supervisory Board effectiveness assessment, which was for the Managing Board will be submitted for approval to the organized by the Company Secretary by means of Annual General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 3 May questionnaires filled out by all individual Supervisory Board 2013. members, followed up by individual interviews by the chair of the Supervisory Board. The evaluation of the functioning of the chair Corporate Social Responsibility was done by the vice-chairman. The outcome of the assessment The Corporate Social Responsibility Committee met twice in was very positive and some actions for further improvement will 2012. All members were present in both meetings. As of 11 May be followed up. An external assessment is considered for 2013. 2012 Mrs. Van der Meer Mohr (chair), Mr. Hochuli, Mr. Sonder and Mrs. Kennedy were members of this committee. In the first meeting the Sustainability chapter to be included in the Integrated Annual Report of 2011 was extensively discussed and agreed on. The second meeting focused on progress made with the implementation of sustainability aspirations set by the company. In addition to the progress made with ECO+, People+, energy efficiency and greenhouse-gas emissions, DSM’s external sustainability recognition was evaluated. The committee's view that DSM is doing well when it comes to corporate social responsibility was supported by the external recognition that the company has received. This includes winning the Dutch ’De Kristal’ award for the most transparent Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 124 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Remuneration policy for the Managing Labor-market peer group Board and the Supervisory Board In order to be able to recruit the right caliber of people for the Managing Board and to secure long-term retention of the current This chapter comprises two parts. The first part outlines the Board members, DSM will take external reference data into remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting account in determining adequate remuneration levels. For this of Shareholders. The second part contains details of the purpose, a specific labor-market peer group has been defined remuneration in 2012 and changes expected in 2013. which consists of a number of Dutch and European companies that are more or less comparable to DSM in terms of size, Remuneration policy international scope and business portfolio. The Supervisory The objective of DSM’s remuneration policy is to attract, Board regularly reviews the peer group to ensure that its motivate and retain qualified and expert individuals that the composition is still appropriate. company needs in order to achieve its strategic and operational objectives, whilst acknowledging the societal context around The labor-market peer group currently consists of the following remuneration and recognizing the interests of DSM's eleven companies: stakeholders. The following elements are taken into consideration: Aegon Nutreco DSM strives for a high performance in the field of sustainability AkzoNobel Solvay and aims to maintain a good balance between economic gain, Clariant Syngenta respect for people and concern for the environment in line with Heineken TNT Express the DSM values and business principles as reflected in the KPN Wolters Kluwer DSM Code of Business Conduct. The remuneration policy LANXESS reflects a balance between the interests of DSM’s main stakeholders as well as a balance between the company’s short-term and long-term strategy. As a result, the structure As part of its remuneration policy DSM will benchmark its of the remuneration package for the Managing Board is remuneration package against the packages offered by the designed to balance short-term operational performance with labor-market peer group once every three years. In addition, the the medium and long-term objective of creating sustainable company will apply a yearly increase to the package based on value within the company, while taking into account the the ‘general increase’ (market movement) for DSM executives in interests of its stakeholders. the Netherlands. The remuneration policy was last benchmarked To ensure that highly skilled and qualified senior executives against the peer group in 2011. can be attracted and retained, DSM aims for a total remuneration level that is comparable to levels provided by Total Direct Compensation (TDC) other (Dutch and European) multinational companies that are The total direct compensation of the Managing Board consists similar to DSM in terms of size and complexity. of the following components: The remuneration policies for the members of the Managing Board and for other senior executives of DSM are aligned. (I) Base salary In designing and setting the levels of remuneration for the (II) Variable income Managing Board, the Supervisory Board also takes into Performance-related Short-Term Incentive (STI) account the relevant provisions of statutory requirements, Performance-related Long-Term Incentive (LTI) amended Dutch corporate governance clauses, societal and market trends and the interests of stakeholders. In addition to this total direct compensation, the members of the DSM’s policy is to offer the Managing Board a total direct Managing Board participate in the Dutch pension scheme for compensation approaching the median of the labor-market DSM employees in the Netherlands and are entitled to other peer group. benefits, such as a company car and representation allowance. As a matter of policy, the balance between fixed income and variable income (Short-Term plus Long-Term Incentive) within total direct compensation (on target) will be 50% 50%. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 125 Value in % of Total Direct Compensation (on target): The Short-Term Incentive opportunity amounts to 50% of the annual base salary for on-target performance (100% in the case of excellent performance). The part of the STI that is related to A: Base Salary 50% financial targets accounts for 25% of base salary and the other B: Variable income (STI + LTI) 50% 25% relates to sustainability and individual targets. Total Direct Compensation (TDC) 100% Target areas Distribution Shared Individual Base salary Financial 25% 25% 0% On joining the Board, the Managing Board members receive a Sustainability and base salary that is comparable with the median of the laborindividual 25% 20% 5% market peer group. Every year, base salary levels are reviewed based on a three-year remuneration benchmark. Adjustment of Total 50% 45% 5% the base salary is at the discretion of the Supervisory Board. In addition, the company will, when appropriate, apply a yearly increase to the package based on the ‘general increase’ (market Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to financial targets movement) for DSM executives in the Netherlands. The part of the STI that is linked to financial targets (25%) includes elements related to operational performance, being Variable income EBITDA before exceptional items, gross free cash flow and net The variable income part of remuneration consists of the Shortsales growth (organic), reflecting short-term financial results. Term and Long-Term Incentives. As a matter of policy, the distribution between Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives for The weighting given to the individual financial elements in the (on target) performance has been fixed at 50% 50%. This bonus is as follows: EBITDA 10%, gross free cash flow 7.5% and results in a balance between short-term result and long-term organic net sales growth 7.5% of annual base salary for onvalue creation. As indicated above, the on-target incentive target performance. potential of the variable income (Short-Term and Long-Term Incentives) will be 100% of base salary. Target areas On-target pay-out The parameters relating to the various elements of the variable (% of base salary) income part of the remuneration are established and where Financial targets necessary adjusted by and at the discretion of the Supervisory EBITDA before exceptional items 10 Board, taking into account the general rules and principles of the Gross free cash flow 7.5 remuneration policy itself. Organic net sales growth1 7.5 Distribution of variable income (on target): Total 25 1 Excluding currency fluctuations, divestments and acquisitions A: Short-Term Incentive (STI) 50% B: Long-Term Incentive (LTI) 50% The three financial-target-related Short-Term Incentive elements Total variable income as % of base salary 100% can be derived from the financial statements. Short-Term Incentive (STI) Managing Board members are eligible to participate in a ShortTerm Incentive (STI) scheme. The scheme is designed to reward short-term operational performance with the long-term objective of creating sustainable value, taking into account the interests of all stakeholders. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 126 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Short-Term Incentive (STI) linked to sustainability and individual targets Target area On-target pay-out The part of the STI that is linked to non-financial targets (25%) (% of base salary) relates to sustainability and individual targets. Non-financial targets Sustainability 20 For 2011/2012 three ‘first tier’ value-creating-performance Individual 5 measures were defined in the area of sustainability. The distribution over these three targets was set by the Supervisory Total 25 Board. On a regular basis, following proper evaluation, further refinement/adaptations of performance measures in the area of sustainability and their weight will take place. The targets are determined each year by the Supervisory Board, based on historical performance, the operational and strategic The following shared targets linked to sustainability were defined outlook of the company in the short term and expectations of for the STI: the company’s management and stakeholders, among other things. The targets contribute to the realization of the objective ECO+: percentage of successful product launches that meet of long-term value creation. ECO+ criteria Energy-efficiency improvement: linked to target of 20% The company does not disclose the actual targets, as they increase in energy efficiency in 2020 compared to 2008 qualify as commercially sensitive information. However, full Employee Engagement Index: related to the High transparency will be given on target areas and definitions. Target Performance Norm in industry setting and realization are audited by external auditors. The STI targets on sustainability are defined as follows: Long-Term Incentives (LTI) The Managing Board members will be eligible to receive ECO+ solutions performance-related shares. ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological Under the performance share plan, shares will conditionally be benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) granted to Managing Board members. Vesting of these shares compared to the mainstream solutions they compete with. is conditional on the achievement of certain predetermined These ecological benefits can be created at any stage of the performance targets during a three-year period. product life cycle − from raw material through manufacturing and use to potential re-use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ Two performance targets will apply for the vesting of solutions, in short, create more value with less environmental performance shares: impact. Energy-efficiency improvement Comparable Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance Reduction of the amount of energy that is used per unit of versus a peer group product (known as energy efficiency) on a three-year rolling Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume average basis. related revenue Employee Engagement Index An Employee Engagement Survey is conducted annually, The LTI performance targets can be defined as follows: focusing on a combination of perceptions that have a consistent impact on behavior and create a sense of Total shareholder return (TSR) ownership. Research has consistently shown that the four key This is used to compare the performance of different elements (satisfaction, commitment, pride and advocacy) companies’ stocks and shares over time. It combines share define engagement and link engagement to business price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return performance metrics. to shareholders. The relative TSR position reflects the market perception of overall performance relative to a reference In addition to shared sustainability targets (20%), a limited group. number of individual non-financial targets (5%) will apply. Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction The definition of greenhouse gases (GHG) according to the Kyoto Protocol includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 127 nitrous oxide (N2O), sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons benchmarks for DSM. As announced in the 2011 annual report, and perfluorocarbons. The scope for calculation of GHGE Arkema and Christian Hansen were added to the peer group in reduction is as follows: 2012. (I) DSM’s direct emissions (on site or from DSM assets) The peer group is verified by the Supervisory Board each year mainly comprise CO2 and N2O (scope 1). based on market circumstances (such as mergers and (II) DSM’s indirect emissions (emissions created on behalf acquisitions) that determine the appropriateness of the of DSM in the generation of electricity or the delivery of composition of the performance peer group. energy via hot water or steam) relate to electricity from the grid. DSM relies on local suppliers (scope 2). GHGE reduction as a performance measure (III) DSM has so far not reported in detail on scope 3 GHGE reduction over volume-related revenues in percentage emissions (catch-all for remaining emissions that result points (over a 3-year period) will be used as a basis for the vesting from activities of the company (e.g. business travel). of 50% of the performance shares. In the LTI plan, 50% of the performance-shares grant is linked Performance Incentive Zones to relative TSR, while 50% is based on GHGE reduction. The number of shares that become unconditional after three The policy level for the value of the Long-Term Incentive is set years ('vesting') is determined on the basis of two equally (on target) at 50% of base salary (75% in the case of excellent weighted factors: DSM's performance relative to the average performance). The number of conditionally granted shares is set TSR performance of the peer group and DSM's GHGE reduction by dividing the policy level (50% of base salary) by a share price over volume-related revenue. at the beginning of the year of the conditional grant. The annual grant level will fluctuate as a consequence of this mechanism. The following vesting schemes will apply: In determining the number of shares to be conditionally granted, the Supervisory Board takes into account a discounted face TSR vesting scheme GHGE vesting scheme value of shares. This method incorporates the actual share price DSM performance % of DSM GHGE % of and a fixed vesting probability multiplier. minus peer-group shares that reduction over shares performance vest volume-related that vest Granting date in % points revenue in % points The shares are granted on the first ‘ex-dividend’ day following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders at which DSM’s ≥ 30 100 5.27 100 financial statements are adopted. ≥ 25 and < 30 89 4.68 89 ≥ 20 and < 25 78 4.09 78 TSR as a performance measure ≥ 15 and < 20 67 3.50 67 DSM’s TSR performance is compared to the average TSR ≥ 10 and < 15 56 2.91 56 performance of a set of predefined peer companies. ≥ 5 and < 10 45 2.32 45 ≥ 0 and < 5 34 1.73 34 <0 0 <1.73 0 The TSR peer group for 2012 consists of the following companies: The retention period for performance shares expires five years AkzoNobel EMS Chemie Holding after the three-year vesting period or at termination of Arkema Kerry employment if this occurs earlier. BASF LANXESS Christian Hansen Lonza Group The final TSR performance of DSM versus its peers will be Clariant Novozymes determined and validated by a bank and audited by the external DuPont Solvay auditor at the end of the vesting period. The TSR peer group reflects the relevant market in which DSM competes for shareholder preference. It includes sector-specific competitors that the Supervisory Board considers to be suitable Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 128 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Pensions Claw-back / change-in-control The members of the Managing Board are participants in the The appropriate claw-back and change-in-control provisions Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland that were introduced in 2011 in the employment agreements of (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM the members of the Managing Board as well as in the LTI rules companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is remained in place in 2012. equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. Share ownership The Supervisory Board will encourage the Managing Board to Employment contracts hold shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the Term of employment strategy and the company. The employment contracts of the members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005 have been entered into Loans for an indefinite period of time. Members of the Managing Board DSM does not provide any loans to members of the Managing appointed between 1 January 2005 and 1 January 2013 were Board. also offered an employment contract for an indefinite period of time. Managing Board members to be appointed after 1 January Scenario analysis 2013 will no longer have a contract for an indefinite period of The amended Dutch corporate governance code requires that time. The employment contract ends on the date of retirement the Supervisory Board ‘shall analyze possible outcomes of the or by notice of either party. variable income components and the effect on Managing Board remuneration’. Within DSM this analysis is conducted at least Term of appointment every three years. Members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005 are appointed for an indefinite period of time. New members of the Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) are appointed for a period of four years. Newly appointed members are subject to reappointment by the shareholders after a period of four years. Notice period Termination of employment by a member of the Managing Board is subject to three months’ notice. A notice period of six months will for legal reasons be applicable in the case of termination by the company. Severance arrangement There are no specific contractual exit arrangements for the members of the Managing Board appointed before 1 January 2005. Should a situation arise in which a severance payment is appropriate for these Board members, the Remuneration Committee will recommend the terms and conditions. The Supervisory Board will decide upon this, taking into account usual practices for these types of situations, as well as applicable laws and corporate governance requirements. The employment contracts of newly appointed members of the Managing Board (appointed after 1 January 2005) include an exit-arrangement provision which is in accordance with the Dutch corporate governance code (that is, a sum equivalent to the fixed annual salary, or if this is manifestly unreasonable in the case of dismissal during the first term of office, two times the fixed annual salary). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 129 Managing Board remuneration in 2012 Number of stock incentives granted As part of its remuneration policy for the Managing Board, DSM Performance shares will benchmark its remuneration package against the packages 2012 2011 offered by the labor-market peer group once every three years. Feike Sijbesma 31,000 24,000 Benchmarking of the Managing Board remuneration policy was Stefan Doboczky 20,000 16,000 conducted in Q1 2011 and clearly showed that the remuneration Nico Gerardu 20,000 16,000 of the members of the Managing Board, particularly the variable Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 20,000 16,000 part, was well below the median at target level of the peer group. Stephan Tanda 20,000 16,000 Base salary in 2012 Given the uncertain economic circumstances, the base salaries For an overview of all granted and vested stock options and of the Managing Board members were not increased in 2012. performance shares see page 212 and page 213 . Short-Term Incentives (STI) for 2012 Pensions in 2012 STI targets are revised annually so as to ensure that they are The members of the Managing Board are participants in the stretching but realistic. Considerations regarding the Dutch pension fund Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland performance targets are influenced by the operational and (PDN). PDN operates similar pension plans for various DSM strategic course taken by the company and are directly linked to companies. The pension scheme for the Managing Board is the company’s ambitions. The targets are determined at the equal to the pension scheme for the employees of DSM beginning of the year for each Board member. Executive Services B.V. and DSM employees in the Netherlands. Target STI level and pay-out As already mentioned in previous annual reports, a new pension When they achieve all their targets, Managing Board members plan for DSM in the Netherlands has been agreed with labor receive an incentive of 50% of their annual base salary. unions with effect from 1 January 2011. The plan, which also Outstanding performance can increase the STI level to 100% of applies to the Managing Board, comprises the following the annual base salary. elements: The 2012 Integrated Annual Report presents the Short-Term • Career-average pay plan, with annual accrual of pension rights Incentives that have been earned on the basis of results achieved (old-age pension) over base salary exceeding € 13,062 in 2012. These Short-Term Incentives will be paid out in 2013. (reviewed annually) at a rate of 2%. The old pension plan was a final pay plan. The Supervisory Board has established the extent to which the • Retirement age 66 years for accrual from 2012 onwards. Until targets for 2012 were achieved. The realization of the 2012 2011 the accrual was linked to a pensionable age of 65 years. financial STI targets has been reviewed by Ernst & Young • The scheme includes a partner pension as well as a disability Accountants. Furthermore, Ernst & Young has reviewed the pension. process with respect to the target setting and realization of the • Employee's contribution of 3.5% of base salary up to € 58,074 non-financial STI targets. The average realization percentage and 7.5% of pensionable salary above this amount (reviewed was 25.6% of base salary. This reflects a prudent interpretation annually). of the realization of the targets. • Collective defined contribution: indexation of pensions and pension rights, depending on PDN's coverage ratio. See the next page for a tabular overview of the actual Short-Term • For participants who started participating before 2006, Incentive pay-out per individual Board member in 2012. transitional arrangements related to the plan changes in 2006 apply as described in previous annual reports. Performance shares in 2012 Performance shares were granted to the Managing Board on 15 Loans May 2012. The following table shows the number of DSM did not provide any loans to members of the Managing performance shares granted to the individual Board members: Board in 2012. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 130 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Purchasing shares Pensions All members of the Managing Board have purchased shares in the company to emphasize their confidence in the strategy and Pension costs Accrued pension1 the company. At 31 December 2012 the members of the (employer) Managing Board together held 139,012 shares in Koninklijke in € 31 Dec. 31 Dec. DSM N.V., compared to 117,512 at 31 December 2011. These 2012 2011 2012 2011 shares were bought through private transactions with private funds, and obtained through vested performance shares. Feike Sijbesma 124,123 110,595 433,123 416,584 Stefan Doboczky 81,348 49,386 17,253 6,615 Total remuneration Nico Gerardu 81,348 74,755 346,858 336,220 The remuneration and related costs of the Managing Board Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 81,348 74,755 64,252 53,613 (including pension costs and a non-recurring Dutch crisis levy, Stephan Tanda 81,348 74,755 82,244 71,605 which is a payment to the Dutch tax authorities based on salaries paid to executives that does not benefit the executives privately) 1 Pensions built up in the Dutch Pension Plan amounted to € 6.5 million in 2012 (2011: € 5.5 million). Overview of remuneration awarded to the Managing Board in Long-Term Incentives (LTI) 2012 For 2013, the number of conditionally granted ordinary shares The tables below show the remuneration awarded to the under the LTI program will be: Managing Board in 2012. Chairman 24,000 Members 16,000 Fixed annual salary Adjustments to remuneration policy Managing Board in € 1 July 2012 1 July 2011 During 2011 and 2012 the Supervisory Board and its Remuneration Committee have discussed and evaluated a Feike Sijbesma 840,000 840,000 number of adjustments to the current remuneration policy for the Stefan Doboczky 545,000 545,000 Managing Board. These adjustments aim to align the Managing Nico Gerardu 545,000 545,000 Board remuneration even more with long term stakeholder Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 545,000 545,000 interests and to update the remuneration policy to the most Stephan Tanda 545,000 545,000 recent relevant market practices. The adjustments to the current remuneration policy for the Managing Board will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of Short-Term Incentives Shareholders to be held on 3 May 2013. Details will be included in the notes to the AGM agenda. in € 20121 20112 Feike Sijbesma 231,000 657,460 Stefan Doboczky 117,175 279,315 Nico Gerardu 128,075 431,485 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 138,975 423,580 Stephan Tanda 163,500 411,722 1 Based on results achieved in 2012 and therefore payable in 2013 2 Short-Term Incentives paid in 2012 based on results achieved in 2011 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 131 Supervisory Board remuneration in 2012 Based on benchmarking in 2011 the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 11 May 2012 agreed to an appropriate increase in the remuneration of the Supervisory Board members in order for DSM to be able to retain and attract highly qualified international Supervisory Board members. This includes a proposal for an allowance for Supervisory Board members for intercontinental travel to attend meetings. The remuneration package for the Supervisory Board comprises an annual fixed fee and an annual committee-membership fee. The fixed fee for the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is € 70,000. The members of the Supervisory Board each receive a fixed fee of € 50,000. Audit Committee membership is awarded € 10,000 per member and € 12,500 for the Chairman. Nomination Committee, Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and Remuneration Committee membership is awarded € 5,000 per member and € 7,500 for the Chairman. In addition, Supervisory Board members will receive an intercontinental travel allowance of € 3,000 for each meeting that they attend outside their continent of residence. If any shares in DSM are held by Supervisory Board members, they serve as a long-term investment in the company. At year-end 2012 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. (same as in 2011). DSM does not provide any loans to its Supervisory Board members. Overview of remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2012 The following tables provide an overview of the remuneration awarded to the Supervisory Board in 2012. Annual Supervisory Board remuneration up to 11 May 2012 Fee in € Supervisory Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Total Board Committee Social Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Rob Routs, chairman 55,000 3,500 5,000 3,500 67,000 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 40,000 3,500 3,500 5,000 52,000 Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli 40,000 3,500 3,500 3,500 50,500 Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr 40,000 7,000 5,000 52,000 Claudio Sonder 40,000 7,000 3,500 50,500 Tom de Swaan 40,000 10,000 3,500 53,500 Total 255,000 24,000 22,500 12,000 12,000 325,500 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 132 Report by the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board report Remuneration policy for the Managing Board and the Supervisory Board Annual Supervisory Board remuneration as per 11 May 2012 Fee in € Supervisory Audit Corporate Nomination Remuneration Total Board Committee Social Committee Committee Responsibility Committee Rob Routs, chairman 70,000 7,500 5,000 82,500 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 50,000 5,000 7,500 62,500 Victoria Haynes 50,000 10,000 60,000 Pierre Hochuli 50,000 10,000 5,000 65,000 Eileen Kennedy 50,000 5,000 55,000 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 50,000 7,500 5,000 62,500 Claudio Sonder 50,000 10,000 5,000 65,000 Tom de Swaan 50,000 12,500 5,000 67,500 Total 420,000 42,500 22,500 17,500 17,500 520,000 For information on remuneration paid out to the members of the Supervisory Board in 2012 and 2011 please refer to Note 11 Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board in the Parent company financial statements. Heerlen, 19 February 2013 The Supervisory Board Rob Routs, Chairman Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Victoria Haynes Pierre Hochuli Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Claudio Sonder Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 133 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Supervisory Board Rob Routs (1946, m), chairman Ewald Kist (1944, m), deputy First appointed: 2010. End of current term: 2014. chairman Position: retired; last position held: executive First appointed: 2004. End of current term: 2016. director Downstream and member of the Board Position: retired; last position held: chairman of of Royal Dutch Shell plc. Nationality: Dutch. the Managing Board of the ING Group. Supervisory directorships and other positions Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and held: chairman of the Supervisory Board of other positions held: member of the Supervisory Aegon N.V., member of the Supervisory Board of Boards of Royal Philips Electronics N.V., Stage Royal KPN N.V., member of the Board of Entertainment and Moody’s Investor Services. Directors of Aecom Technology Corporation, ATCO Group Ltd. and A.P. Moeller-Maersk Group. Victoria Haynes (1947, f) Pierre Hochuli (1947, m) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2013. Position: retired; last position held: President and Position: retired; last position held: chairman of CEO of the Research Triangle Institute the Board of Directors of Devgen N.V. Nationality: International. Nationality: American. Supervisory Swiss. Supervisory directorships and other directorships and other positions held: member positions held: member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of PPG, Nucor, Ziptronix of Domes of Silence Holdings Ltd. and, as of 2013, Axiall. Eileen Kennedy (1947, f) Pauline van der Meer Mohr (1960, f) First appointed: 2012. End of current term: 2016. First appointed: 2011. End of current term: 2015. Position: Professor of Nutrition Friedman School Position: President of the Executive Board of of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University Erasmus University Rotterdam. Nationality: in Boston (USA). Nationality: American. Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other Supervisory directorships and other positions positions held: member of the Supervisory Board held: Dean of Nutrition Friedman School of of ASML N.V., chair of the Supervisory Board of Nutrition Science and Policy at Tufts University in the Rotterdam School of Management, member Boston (USA), Global Executive Director of the of the Supervisory Board of Nederlandse School International Life Sciences Institute, Washington voor Openbaar Bestuur, director of the D.C. (USA), Deputy Under Secretary for Hollandsche Maatschappij van Wetenschappen, Research, Education and Economics at the US member of the Economic Development Board of Department of Agriculture. Rotterdam and member of the Duisenberg School of Finance Board. Claudio Sonder (1942, m) Tom de Swaan (1946, m) First appointed: 2005. End of current term: 2013. First appointed: 2006. End of current term: 2014. Position: retired; last position held: chairman of Position: retired; last position held: member of the Managing Board of Celanese. Nationality: the Managing Board and Chief Financial Officer / Brazilian and German. Supervisory directorships Chief Risk Officer ABN AMRO. Nationality: Dutch. and other positions held: chairman of the Board Supervisory directorships and other positions of Lojas Renner S.A., member of the Supervisory held: non-executive director of the Board of Boards of Companhia Suzano de Papel e GlaxoSmithKline plc, vice-chairman of the Board Celulose S.A., RBS S.A. Media Group, Hospital of Zurich Insurance Group, chairman of the Albert Einstein, OGX S.A. and Executive Vice Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers, President of Suzano Holding S.A. vice chairman of the Supervisory Board of Royal Ahold, member of the Public Interest Committee of KPMG, chairman of the Board of Trustees of Netherlands Cancer Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital and chairman Advisory Board Rotterdam School of Management. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 134 Supervisory Board and Managing Board Managing Board Feike Sijbesma (1959, m), CEO/ chairman Position: CEO/chairman of DSM’s Managing Board since May 2007; member of DSM’s Managing Board since July 2000. Nationality: Dutch. Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Board of De Nederlandsche Bank N.V. (Dutch Central Bank), board member of CEFIC (European Chemical Industry Council), member of the Advisory Board of RSM Erasmus University and of ECP-EPN (Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands). e-mail: feike.sijbesma@dsm.com Rolf-Dieter Schwalb (1952, m), CFO Stefan Doboczky (1967, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board and Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board CFO since October 2006. since May 2011. Nationality: German. Nationality: Austrian. Supervisory directorships and other positions Supervisory directorships and other positions held: none. held: none. e-mail: rolf-dieter.schwalb@dsm.com e-mail: stefan.doboczky@dsm.com Nico Gerardu (1951, m) Stephan Tanda (1965, m) Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board Position: member of DSM’s Managing Board since April 2006. since May 2007. Nationality: Dutch. Nationality: Austrian. Supervisory directorships and other positions Supervisory directorships and other positions held: member of the Supervisory Board of held: chairman of EuropaBio (European Voestalpine Polynorm B.V. and the Bonnefanten Biotechnology Industry Association), board Museum in Maastricht (Netherlands) and board member of scienceindustries (Swiss association member of VNCI (Association of the Dutch for the chemical, pharmaceutical and biotech Chemical Industry). industries) and BIO (US Biotechnology Industry e-mail: nicolaas.gerardu@dsm.com Organization). e-mail: stephan.tanda@dsm.com Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 135 What still went wrong in 2012 DSM strives to continuously improve its performance in the field At DSM Nutritional Products Latin America in Villa Nueva of safety, health and environment. However, there is always the (Guatemala), a maintenance worker opened the metal cover possibility of something going wrong. of an elevator service pit and covered it with a piece of cardboard. On the next day, a contractor employee who The number of serious incidents in 2012 was significantly lower entered the area stepped onto the cardboard and fell into the than in previous years. This reflects DSM’s improved safety pit. performance. Serious incidents fall into various categories: At DSM Pharmaceuticals in Greenville, a material handler who safety, occupational health, environment, containment and was backing a fork truck away from the pallet transfer station process safety, and they include incidents that cause financial or stepped off the fork truck while it was still rolling. She caught reputation damage. For each category DSM has established her foot between the fork truck and a piece of angle iron. detailed threshold criteria. Examples are incidents leading to a At DSM Resins & Functional Materials in Compiègne (France) fatality, occupational health incidents leading to job transfer, a serious near-miss occurred when a truck driver finished incidents causing perceptible damage to ecosystems or any unloading his truck and climbed on the tank car without a SHE incident resulting in damage of more than € 100,000. See harness or other safety measure to protect him from falling also: Safety and health (page 52). from a height. At DSM Nutritional Products in Venlo (Netherlands), a serious The following overview summarizes the most important incidents near-miss was reported when it was noted during loading of in 2012. In line with DSM’s reporting policy, the company a vehicle that a different type of tire had been mounted on the includes in this overview some serious near-misses. These are tractor, which compromised safe driving conditions. incidents that did not result in an injury, illness or damage but had the potential to do so and are therefore used as a learning Q3 opportunity. No serious incidents or near misses occurred in the third quarter. Q1 Q4 At DSM Pharma Chemicals in Venlo (Netherlands), an operator got stuck with his safety shoe between a concrete pillar and At DSM Dyneema in Greenville, two operators were separating an electrical hand-pallet truck, resulting in serious foot injuries. yarns on pink rollers. A new creel was being started and the At DSM Nutritional Products in Harbin City, Heilongjiang yarns were at thread speed of 15 meters a minute. In this province (China) an employee was seriously injured in a traffic process the hand of one employee was seriously injured. accident while on a business trip. At DSM Trading Company in Shanghai, a warehouse was At DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Greenville, North Carolina completely burnt down, destroying the enzyme product that (USA), a contractor employee suffered a leg injury when his leg was stored there. was pinned between a working platform and a cross beam of At DSM Engineering Plastics in Genk (Belgium) contractor the rack system. employees were doing a welding job inside a cooling tower. At DSM Chemicals North America in Augusta, Georgia (USA), The internals caught fire and the fire spread rapidly. All an explosion followed by a fire occurred in the regenerative escaped without injuries. thermal oxidizer unit due to the presence of combustible liquid. At DSM Fibre Intermediates in Augusta a serious near-miss There were no injuries. was reported. Using a LOTOTO (lock out, tag out, try out) At the same site, a small fire occurred on the head flange of procedure, equipment was isolated from the electrical power the methanator vessel, caused by high temperatures. supply for a maintenance job. The job was put on hold when it became clear that a spare part (a new starter) that was Q2 required was not on-site. When several days later a work permit was issued to install the spare part, the electrician At DSM Pharmaceuticals in Greenville, a contractor employee checked the voltage on the starter leads and found them was utilizing a one-man lift extended to a height of energized. approximately 3.5 meters to check the fit of a new access door. The access door flipped, and in an attempt to avoid being hit by the falling door, the employee moved away, causing the lift to overturn. He fell down and suffered a serious laceration (open wound) in his neck area. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 136 What still went wrong in 2012 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 137 Information about the DSM share Shares and listings Ordinary shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. are listed on the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Stock code 00982, ISIN code NL0000009827). Options on ordinary DSM shares are traded on the European Option Exchange in Amsterdam, the Netherlands (Euronext.liffe). In the US a sponsored unlisted American Depositary Receipts (ADR) program is offered by Deutsche Bank Trust Co. Americas (Cusip 780249108), with four ADRs representing the value of one ordinary DSM share. Besides the ordinary shares, 44.04 million cumulative preference shares A are in issue, which are not listed on the stock exchange; these have been placed with institutional investors. The cumprefs A have the same voting rights as ordinary shares, as their nominal value of € 1.50 per share is equal to the nominal value of the ordinary shares. Transfer of the cumprefs A requires the approval of the Managing Board, unless the shareholder is obliged to transfer his shares to a previous shareholder by virtue of the law. The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2012 was 165,543,091. All shares in issue are fully paid. On 31 December 2012 the company had 168,684,088 ordinary shares outstanding. Development of the number of ordinary DSM shares 2012 2011 Issued Repurchased Outstanding Outstanding Balance at 1 January 181,425,000 18,167,612 163,257,388 166,467,632 Changes: Reissue of shares in connection with exercise of option rights (3,049,509) 3,049,509 3,568,018 Repurchase of shares (9,000,000) Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,377,191) 2,377,191 2,221,738 Balance at 31 December 181,425,000 12,740,912 168,684,088 163,257,388 DSM share prices on Euronext Amsterdam (€ per ordinary share): Highest closing price 46.29 46.82 Lowest closing price 36.33 30.54 At 31 December 45.79 35.85 Market capitalization at 31 December (€ million)1 8,307 6,504 1 Source: Bloomberg Optional dividend program for shareholders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. DSM offers an optional dividend program. As a result of this, shareholders have the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. DSM proposes to the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for the total dividend for the financial year 2012 to be € 1.50 per ordinary share. An interim dividend of € 0.48 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2012, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.02 per ordinary share. The dividend will be payable in cash or in the form of ordinary shares, at the option of the shareholder. Dividend in cash will be paid after deduction of 15% Dutch dividend withholding tax. The ex-dividend date is 7 May 2013. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 138 Information about the DSM share Managing Board holdings of DSM shares 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Board member Shares Vested Total Shares Vested Total purchased performance holdings purchased performance holdings with private shares with private shares money money Feike Sijbesma, CEO/chairman 33,000 24,500 57,500 30,500 19,500 50,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO 10,000 16,000 26,000 8,000 12,000 20,000 Stefan Doboczky 5,000 5,000 5,000 5,000 Nico Gerardu 8,556 20,000 28,556 8,556 16,000 24,556 Stephan Tanda 8,000 13,956 21,956 8,000 9,956 17,956 Total holdings 64,556 74,456 139,012 60,056 57,456 117,512 Geographical spread of DSM shares outstanding DSM share price development versus AEX and Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index, 2012 in € in % (excl. cumprefs A) 2012 2011 DSM AEX Index Dow Jones Euro StoXX Chemical Index Netherlands 23 23 United Kingdom 19 19 50 North America 19 22 Germany 8 9 45 Switzerland 6 5 France 9 7 Asia Pacific 5 6 40 Other countries 11 9 35 30 25 01/12 02/12 03/12 04/12 05/12 06/12 07/12 08/12 09/12 10/12 11/12 12/12 Trading volume DSM shares 2012 x million shares 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 January February March April May June July August September October November December Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 139 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting Segmentation policies Segment information is presented in respect of the group’s operating segments about which separate financial information Basis of preparation is available that is regularly evaluated by the chief operating DSM’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in decision maker. DSM has determined that the Nutrition, Pharma, accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Performance Materials, Polymer Intermediates and Innovation (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union. The accounting Center clusters represent reportable segments in addition to policies applied by DSM comply with IFRS and the Corporate Activities. The Managing Board decides how to pronouncements of the International Financial Reporting allocate resources and assesses the performance of the Interpretation Committee (IFRIC) effective at 31 December 2012. clusters. Cluster performance is reported and reviewed down to the level of operating profit before exceptional items. The clusters Consolidation are organized based on the type of products produced and the The consolidated financial statements include Royal DSM and nature of the markets served. The same accounting policies that its subsidiaries as well as the proportion of DSM’s ownership of are applied for these consolidated financial statements are also joint ventures (together ‘DSM’ or ‘group’). A subsidiary is an applied by the operating segments. Prices for transactions entity over which DSM has control. Control is the power to between segments are determined on an arm’s length basis. govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to Segment results, assets and liabilities include items directly obtain benefits from its activities. The financial data of attributable to a segment as well as those that can reasonably subsidiaries are fully consolidated. Non-controlling interests in and consistently be allocated. Selected information on a country the group’s equity and profit and loss are stated separately. A and regional basis is provided in addition to the information about joint venture is an entity in which DSM holds an interest and operating segments. which is jointly controlled by DSM and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement. Joint ventures are Foreign currency translation included in the consolidated financial statements according to The presentation currency of the group is the euro. the method of proportionate consolidation. Each entity of the group records transactions and balance sheet Subsidiaries and joint ventures are consolidated from the items in its functional currency. Transactions denominated in acquisition date until the date on which DSM ceases to have currency other than the functional currency are recorded at the control or joint control, respectively. From the acquisition date spot exchange rates prevailing at the date of the transactions. onwards, all intra-group balances and transactions and Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other unrealized profits or losses from intra-group transactions are than the functional currency of the entity are translated at the eliminated, with one exception: unrealized losses are not closing rates. Exchange differences resulting from the settlement eliminated if there is evidence of an impairment of the asset of these transactions and from the translation of monetary items transferred. In such cases a value adjustment for impairment of are recognized in the income statement. the asset is recognized. Non-monetary assets denominated in a currency other than the Business combinations functional currency continue to be translated against the rate at Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition initial recognition and will not result in exchange differences. method. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, including liabilities incurred On consolidation, the balance sheets of subsidiaries and joint toward the former owners, measured at acquisition date fair ventures whose functional currency is not the euro are translated value, and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the into euro at the closing rate. The income statements of these acquiree. Acquisition costs incurred are expensed. entities are translated into euro at the average rates for the relevant period. Goodwill paid on acquisition is recorded in the As of the acquisition date identifiable assets acquired, liabilities functional currency of the acquired entity. Exchange differences assumed and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree are arising from the translation of the net investment in entities with recognized separately from goodwill. Identifiable assets acquired a functional currency other than the euro are recorded in Other and the liabilities assumed are measured at acquisition date fair comprehensive income. The same applies to exchange value. For each business combination, DSM elects whether it differences arising from borrowings and other financial measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree at fair value instruments in so far as they hedge the currency risk related to or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net the net investment. On disposal of an entity with a functional assets. currency other than the euro, the cumulative exchange Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 140 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM differences relating to the translation of the net investment are Property, plant and equipment are systematically depreciated recognized in the income statement. over their estimated useful lives. The estimated remaining lives of assets are reviewed every year, taking account of commercial Distinction between current and non-current and technological obsolescence as well as normal wear and An asset (liability) is classified as current when it is expected to tear. The initially assumed expected useful lives are in principle be realized (settled) within 12 months after the balance sheet as follows: for buildings 10-50 years, for plant and machinery date. 5-15 years, for other equipment 4-10 years. Land is not depreciated. Intangible assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized upon DSM’s share in the net fair value of the identifiable assets and disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to liabilities of an acquired subsidiary, joint venture or associate. arise from the continued use or the sale of the asset. Any gain Goodwill paid on acquisition of subsidiaries and joint ventures is or loss arising on derecognition of the asset is recorded in the included in intangible assets. Goodwill paid on acquisition of income statement. associates is included in the carrying amount of these associates. Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment Leases annually and when there are indications that the carrying amount Finance leases, which transfer to the group substantially all the may exceed the recoverable amount. A gain or loss on the risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, are disposal of an entity includes the carrying amount of goodwill capitalized at inception of the lease at the fair value of the leased relating to the entity sold. property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. All other leases are operating leases. Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are recognized at fair value on the date of acquisition and Lease payments for finance leases are apportioned to finance subsequently amortized over their expected useful lives, which charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a vary from 4 to 20 years. constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are included in interest costs. Capitalized Acquired licenses, patents and application software are carried leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated at historical cost less straight-line amortization and less any useful life of the asset or the lease term. Operating lease impairment losses. The expected useful lives vary from 4 to 15 payments are recognized as an expense over the lease term. years. Costs of software maintenance are expensed when incurred. Capital expenditure that is directly related to the Associates development of application software is recognized as an An associate is an entity over which DSM has significant intangible asset and amortized over its estimated useful life influence but no control, usually evidenced by a shareholding (5-8 years). that entitles DSM to between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity Research costs are expensed when incurred. Development method, which involves recognition in the income statement of expenditure is capitalized if the recognition criteria are met and DSM’s share of the associate’s profit or loss for the year. DSM’s if it is demonstrated that it is technically feasible to complete the interest in an associate is carried in the balance sheet at its share asset, that the entity intends to complete the asset, that the entity in the net assets of the associate together with goodwill paid on is able to sell the asset, that the asset is capable of generating acquisition, less any impairment loss. future economic benefits, that adequate resources are available to complete the asset and that the expenditure attributable to When DSM’s share in the loss of an associate exceeds the the asset can be reliably measured. Development expenditure is carrying amount of the associate, including any other amortized over the asset’s useful life. receivables, the carrying amount is reduced to zero. No further losses are recognized, unless DSM has responsibility for Property, plant and equipment obligations relating to the associate. Property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less depreciation calculated on a straight-line basis and less any Other financial assets impairment losses. Interest during construction is capitalized. Other financial assets comprise other participations, other Expenditures relating to major scheduled turnarounds are receivables and other deferred items. capitalized and depreciated over the period up to the next turnaround. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 141 Other participations comprise equity interests in entities in which cost formula, in which case the weighted average cost method DSM has no significant influence; they are accounted for as is used. The cost of intermediates and finished goods includes available-for-sale securities. These other participations are directly attributable costs and related production overhead measured against fair value, with changes in fair value being expenses. Net realizable value is determined as the estimated recognized in Other comprehensive income (Fair value reserve). selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the A significant or prolonged decline of the fair value of an equity estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs interest below cost represents an impairment, which is necessary to make the sale. Products whose manufacturing cost recognized in the income statement. On disposal, the cumulative cannot be calculated because of joint cost components are fair value adjustments of the related other participations are stated at net realizable value after deduction of a margin for released from equity and included in the income statement. If a selling and distribution efforts. reliable fair value cannot be established, the other participations are recognized at cost. The proceeds from these other Current receivables participations and the gain or loss upon their disposal are Current receivables are measured at amortized cost, which recognized in the income statement. generally corresponds to nominal value, less an adjustment for bad debts. Loans and long-term receivables are measured at fair value upon initial recognition and subsequently at amortized cost, if Current investments necessary after deduction of a value adjustment for bad debts. Deposits held at call with banks with a remaining maturity The proceeds from these assets and the gain or loss upon their between 3 and 12 months are classified as current investments. disposal are recognized in the income statement. They are measured at amortized cost. Proceeds from these deposits are recognized in the income statement. Impairment of assets When there are indications that the carrying amount of a nonCash and cash equivalents current asset (an intangible asset or an item of property, plant Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and equipment) may exceed the estimated recoverable amount and deposits held at call with banks with a maturity of less than (the higher of its value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the three months at inception. Bank overdrafts are included in possible existence of an impairment loss is investigated. If an current liabilities. Cash and cash equivalents are measured at asset does not generate largely independent cash flows, the nominal value. recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs. In assessing the value in use, the Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value Non-current assets and disposal groups (assets and liabilities using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market interest relating to an activity that is to be sold) are classified as ‘held for rates and the risks specific to the asset. sale’ if their carrying amount is to be recovered principally through a sales transaction rather than through continuing use. When the recoverable amount of a non-current asset is less than The reclassification takes place when the assets are available for its carrying amount, the carrying amount is impaired to its immediate sale and the sale is highly probable. These conditions recoverable amount and an impairment charge is recognized in are usually met as from the date on which a first draft of an the income statement. An impairment loss is reversed when agreement to sell is ready for discussion. Non-current assets there has been a change in estimate that is relevant for the held for sale and disposal groups are measured at the lower of determination of the asset’s recoverable amount since the last carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Non-current impairment loss was recognized. assets held for sale are not depreciated or amortized. For the sake of clarity, non-current assets and disposal groups that will All financial assets are reviewed for impairment. If there is be contributed to joint ventures are reported separately from objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more other assets and liabilities held for sale. events after initial recognition, an impairment loss is recognized in the income statement. Impairment losses for goodwill and Discontinued operations other participations are never reversed. Discontinued operations comprise those activities that were disposed of during the period or which were classified as held Inventories for sale at the end of the period, and represent a separate major Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable line of business or geographical area that can be clearly value. The first in, first out (FIFO) method of valuation is used distinguished for operational and financial reporting purposes. unless the nature of the inventories requires the use of a different Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 142 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity time-proportion basis using the effective interest method. DSM’s ordinary shares and cumulative preference shares are Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive classified as Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity. The price paid for payment is established. repurchased DSM shares (treasury shares) is deducted from Royal DSM Shareholders’ equity until the shares are canceled or Government grants reissued. Dividend to be distributed to holders of cumulative Government grants are recognized at their fair value if there is preference shares is recognized as a liability when the reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all Supervisory Board approves the proposal for profit distribution. related conditions will be complied with. Cost grants are Dividend to be distributed to holders of ordinary shares is recognized as income over the periods necessary to match the recognized as a liability when the Annual General Meeting of grant on a systematic basis to the cost that it is intended to Shareholders approves the profit appropriation. compensate. If the grant is an investment grant, its fair value is initially recognized as deferred income in Other non-current Provisions liabilities and then released to the income statement over the Provisions are recognized when all of the following conditions expected useful life of the relevant asset by equal annual are met: 1) there is a present legal or constructive obligation as amounts. a result of past events; 2) it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will settle the obligation; and 3) a reliable Share-based compensation estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options on the date on which the options are The probable amount required to settle long-term obligations is granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes discounted if the effect of discounting is material. Where model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the of the DSM share. The costs of these options are recognized in passage of time is recognized as interest costs. However, the the income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the interest costs relating to pension obligations are included in vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity pension costs. in the case of equity settled options or Other non-current liabilities in the case of cash-settled options (Share Appreciation Borrowings Rights). No expense is recognized for options that do not Borrowings are initially recognized at cost, being the fair value of ultimately vest, except for options whose vesting is conditional the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Subsequently, upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting, borrowings are stated at amortized cost using the effective irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, interest method. Amortized cost is calculated by taking into provided that all other performance conditions are met. account any discount or premium. Interest expenses are accrued and recorded in the income statement for each period. Performance shares are granted free of charge and vest after three years on the achievement of previously determined targets. Where the interest rate risk relating to a long-term borrowing is The cost of performance shares is measured by reference to the hedged, and the hedge is regarded as effective, the carrying fair value of the DSM shares on the date on which the amount of the long-term loan is adjusted for changes in fair value performance shares were granted and is recognized in the of the interest component of the loan. income statement (Employee benefits costs) during the vesting period, together with a corresponding increase in equity. Other current liabilities Other current liabilities are measured at amortized cost, which Emission rights generally corresponds to the nominal value. DSM is subject to legislation encouraging reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions and has been awarded emission Revenue recognition rights (principally CO2 emission rights) in a number of Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the jurisdictions. Emission rights are reserved for meeting delivery significant risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the obligations and are recognized at cost (usually zero). Revenue is buyer. Net sales represent the invoice value less estimated recognized when surplus emission rights are sold to third parties. rebates and cash discounts, and excluding indirect taxes. When actual emissions exceed the emission rights available to DSM, a provision is recognized for the expected additional costs. Royalty income is recognized in Other operating income or in Net sales on an accrual basis in accordance with the substance of the relevant agreements. Interest income is recognized on a Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 143 Exceptional items Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset and Exceptional items relate to material non-recurring items of presented net when there is a legally enforceable right to set off, income and expense arising from circumstances such as: and the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. write-downs of inventories to net realizable value or of property, plant and equipment to recoverable amount, as well Financial derivatives as reversals of such write-downs The group uses financial derivatives such as foreign currency acquisition costs incurred and integration costs in the first year forward contracts and interest rate swaps to hedge risks after a business combination associated with foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations. non-recurring inventory value adjustments related to business Financial derivatives are initially recognized in the balance sheet combinations at fair value including transaction costs and subsequently restructurings of the activities of an entity measured at their fair value on each balance sheet date. releases of provisions Changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement disposals of property, plant and equipment unless cash flow hedge accounting or net investment hedge disposals of associates or other financial assets accounting is applied. book results on discontinued operations onerous contracts Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives designated and litigation settlements qualifying as cash flow hedges are recognized in Other comprehensive income (Hedging reserve) to the extent that the To provide a better understanding of the underlying results of the hedge is effective. Upon recognition of the related asset or period, exceptional items are reported separately if the liability the cumulative gain or loss is transferred from the aggregate amount of the event or project exceeds € 10 million. Hedging reserve and included in the carrying amount of the hedged item if it is a non-financial asset or liability. If the hedged Income tax expense item is a financial asset or liability, the cumulative gain or loss is Income tax expense is recognized in the income statement transferred to profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of financial except to the extent that it relates to an item recognized directly derivatives designated and qualifying as net investment hedges within Other comprehensive income or Shareholders’ equity. are recognized in Other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective and the change in fair value is caused by Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income changes in currency exchange rates. Accumulated gains and for the year, using tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, losses are released from Other comprehensive income and are and any adjustment to tax payable in respect to previous years. included in the income statement when the net investment is Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the disposed of. Changes in the fair value of financial derivatives expected tax consequences of temporary differences between designated and qualifying as fair value hedges are immediately the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base. recognized in the income statement, together with any changes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates in the fair value of the hedged assets or liabilities attributable to and under the tax laws that have been enacted or substantially the hedged risk. enacted at the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax assets are realized or the deferred Pensions and other post-employment benefits tax liabilities are settled. Deferred tax assets, including assets For defined benefit plans, pension costs are determined using arising from losses carried forward, are recognized to the extent the projected-unit-credit method. Actuarial gains and losses are that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available recognized in Other comprehensive income in the period in against which the deductible temporary differences and unused which they occur. Prepaid pension costs relating to defined tax losses can be utilized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are benefit plans are capitalized only if they lead to refunds to the stated at nominal value. employer or to reductions in future contributions to the plan by the employer. Prepaid pension costs that do not meet this Deferred taxes are not provided for the following temporary recoverability criterion are charged to Other comprehensive differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, the initial income in the period in which they occur and are recognized as recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting effects of the asset ceiling. Payments to defined contribution nor taxable profit, and differences relating to investments in plans are charged as an expense as they fall due. subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 144 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Effect of new accounting standards applied from 1 January 2013 onwards and will have a limited The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and IFRIC impact on DSM’s financial position and performance, which is have issued new standards, amendments to existing standards explained in more detail in note 24: Post-employment benefits. and interpretations, some of which are not yet effective or have not yet been endorsed by the European Union. DSM has IFRS 9, 'Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement', introduced standards and interpretations that became effective applies to the classification and measurement of financial assets in 2012. The adoption of these standards and interpretations did and financial liabilities as defined in IAS 39. The standard not have a material effect on the group's financial performance represents the first phase in the work of the IASB to replace IAS or position. 39. Since the standard has not yet been endorsed by the European Union, it is uncertain when it needs to be applied by The following new or amended standards became effective in DSM. The uncertainty with respect to the subsequent phases of 2012. the project makes it impossible to quantify the impact of the new standard on DSM’s financial position or performance. The amendment to International Accounting Standard (IAS) 12, ‘Income Taxes’, clarifies the determination of deferred tax on IFRS 10, 'Consolidated Financial Statements', establishes a investment property measured at fair value. DSM holds no single control model that applies to all entities, including special investment property and the amendment had no impact on purpose entities. DSM is in the process of verifying which entities DSM’s financial position or performance. meet the new criteria for control and therefore have to be consolidated. The standard will be applied for annual periods The amendment to IFRS 7, 'Financial Instruments: Disclosures beginning on 1 January 2014 and is not expected to have a – Enhanced Derecognition Disclosure Requirements', requires material impact on DSM’s financial position or performance. additional disclosures about financial assets that have been transferred but not derecognized. Furthermore, the amendment IFRS 11, 'Joint Arrangements', removes the option to apply requires disclosures about continuing involvement in proportionate consolidation for joint ventures and mandates the derecognized assets. The amendment had no impact on DSM’s use of the equity method for jointly controlled entities that meet financial position, performance or disclosures because such the new definition of a joint venture. The introduction of this new transfers did not occur in 2012. standard will change DSM’s financial position and reported performance because the equity method will replace Effect of forthcoming accounting standards proportionate consolidation for these entities. Information on The following new standards and amendments to existing joint ventures that are affected is provided in note 28: Interests standards are not yet being applied by DSM. in joint ventures. The standard will be applied for annual periods beginning on 1 January 2014. The amendments to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of Items of Other Comprehensive Income’, changes the grouping of items IFRS 12, 'Disclosure of Involvement with Other Entities', provides presented in other comprehensive income into items that will be disclosure requirements with respect to interests in subsidiaries, reclassified (or ‘recycled’) to profit or loss at a future point in time joint arrangements, associates and structured entities. It is the and items that will never be reclassified. The amendment affects complement of the two new standards discussed in the presentation only and has no impact on DSM’s financial position preceding paragraphs and will be applied at the same time as or performance. It becomes effective for annual periods these standards. beginning on or after 1 July 2012, and will therefore be applied from 1 January 2013 onwards. IFRS 13, 'Fair Value Measurement', becomes the single source of guidance in IFRS for all fair value measurements. The standard Various amendments to IAS 19, ‘Employee Benefits’, have been becomes effective for annual periods beginning on 1 January introduced that, among other things, result in the removal of the 2013. The impact of this standard on DSM’s financial position corridor mechanism, a change in the concept of expected and performance is being assessed but is not expected to be returns on plan assets and in the presentation of interest material because the standard further clarifies requirements that expense and return on plan assets in financial income and already exist. expense. DSM voluntarily adopted the option to recognize actuarial gains and losses in Other comprehensive income from New IFRIC interpretations are not expected to have a material 2006 onwards and is therefore not affected by the removal of effect on the consolidated financial statements. the corridor mechanism. The new presentation and measurement requirements for the benefit expense will be Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 145 Consolidated statements Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 9,131 9,131 9,131 Cost of sales 4 (6,719) (29) (6,748) (6,748) Gross margin 2,412 (29) 2,383 2,383 Marketing and sales (952) (952) (952) Research and development (381) (2) (383) (383) General and administrative (492) (60) (552) (552) Other operating income 80 3 83 83 Other operating expense (32) (106) (138) (138) 4 (1,777) (165) (1,942) (1,942) Operating profit 635 (194) 441 441 Interest costs 5 (102) (102) (102) Other financial income and expense 5 8 8 8 Share of the profit of associates 2 2 2 Profit before income tax expense 543 (194) 349 349 Income tax expense 7 (96) 45 (51) (51) Profit for the year 447 (149) 298 298 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of Total 447 (149) 298 298 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 10 10 10 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 437 (149) 288 288 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 437 (149) 288 288 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 427 (149) 278 278 Earnings per share (in € ) (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share): Basic 1.68 1.68 Diluted 1.67 1.67 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 146 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated income statement for the year ended 31 December 2011 x € million Notes Continuing operations Discontinued Total Before Exceptional Total operations exceptional items items (note 6) Net sales 9,048 9,048 145 9,193 Cost of sales 4 (6,479) (48) (6,527) (98) (6,625) Gross margin 2,569 (48) 2,521 47 2,568 Marketing and sales (882) (882) (10) (892) Research and development (378) (378) (3) (381) General and administrative (474) (13) (487) (6) (493) Other operating income 71 13 84 112 196 Other operating expense (40) (29) (69) (1) (70) 4 (1,703) (29) (1,732) 92 (1,640) Operating profit 866 (77) 789 139 928 Interest costs 5 (99) (99) (99) Other financial income and expense 5 17 140 157 157 Share of the profit of associates 3 3 3 Profit before income tax expense 787 63 850 139 989 Income tax expense 7 (147) 25 (122) (7) (129) Profit for the year 640 88 728 132 860 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of 111 111 (111) Total 640 199 839 21 860 Of which: Profit attributable to non-controlling interests 46 46 46 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 594 199 793 21 814 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 594 199 793 21 814 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 584 199 783 21 804 Earnings per share (in € ) (see note 17 Earnings per ordinary share): Basic 4.06 4.86 Diluted 4.03 4.82 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 147 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income x € million Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal reserves Actuarial Other controlling gains and interests losses 2011 Change in Dutch pension plan 765 (765) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 47 47 10 57 Related income tax expense 6 6 6 Change in Actuarial gains and losses (41) (41) (41) Related income tax expense 10 10 10 Change in asset ceiling 1 1 1 Related income tax expense Change in Fair value reserve (85) (85) (85) Related income tax expense 20 20 20 Change in Hedging reserve (120) (120) (120) Related income tax expense 24 24 24 Other comprehensive income (108) 735 (765) (138) 10 (128) Profit for the year 814 814 46 860 Total comprehensive income (108) 735 49 676 56 732 2012 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (28) (28) 1 (27) Related income tax expense 1 1 1 Change in Actuarial gains and losses (133) (133) (133) Related income tax expense 33 33 33 Change in Fair value reserve (8) (8) (8) Related income tax expense Change in Hedging reserve (22) (22) (22) Related income tax expense 13 13 13 Other comprehensive income (44) (100) (144) 1 (143) Profit for the year 288 288 10 298 Total comprehensive income (44) (100) 288 144 11 155 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 148 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December x € million Notes 2012 2011 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 8 2,793 1,786 Property, plant and equipment 9 3,811 3,405 Deferred tax assets 7 340 292 Associates 10 40 35 Other financial assets 11 141 135 7,125 5,653 Current assets Inventories 12 1,803 1,573 Trade receivables 13 1,569 1,551 Other receivables 13 230 153 Financial derivatives 23 62 50 Current investments 14 12 89 Cash and cash equivalents 15 1,121 2,058 4,797 5,474 Assets held for sale 44 30 4,841 5,504 Total 11,966 11,157 Equity and liabilities Equity 16 Shareholders' equity 5,874 5,784 Non-controlling interests 168 190 6,042 5,974 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 236 192 Employee benefits liabilities 24 388 322 Provisions 18 125 116 Borrowings 19 1,922 2,029 Other non-current liabilities 20 94 69 2,765 2,728 Current liabilities Employee benefits liabilities 24 42 6 Provisions 18 81 43 Borrowings 19 642 160 Financial derivatives 23 299 326 Trade payables 21 1,453 1,348 Other current liabilities 21 628 557 3,145 2,440 Liabilities held for sale 14 15 3,159 2,455 Total 11,966 11,157 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 149 Consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16) x € million Share Share Treasury Other Retained earnings Total NonTotal capital premium shares reserves Actuarial Other controlling Equity gains and interests losses Balance at 1 January 2011 338 489 (542) 381 (647) 5,462 5,481 96 5,577 Dividend paid (242) (242) (4) (246) Options / performance shares granted 19 19 19 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (18) 24 6 6 Proceeds from reissued shares 213 (12) 201 201 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 42 42 Repurchase of shares (357) (357) (357) Total comprehensive income (108) 735 49 676 56 732 Balance at 31 December 2011 338 489 (686) 274 88 5,281 5,784 190 5,974 Dividend paid (254) (254) (48) (302) Options / performance shares granted 18 18 18 Options / performance shares exercised / cancelled and SARs cancelled (13) 13 Proceeds from reissued shares 207 (25) 182 182 Change in DSM's share in subsidiaries 15 15 Total comprehensive income (44) (100) 288 144 11 155 Balance at 31 December 2012 338 489 (479) 235 (12) 5,303 5,874 168 6,042 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 150 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Consolidated cash flow statement (note 26) x € million 2012 2011 Operating activities Profit for the year 298 860 Income tax 51 129 Profit before income tax expense 349 989 Share of the profit of associates (2) (3) Net finance costs Before exceptional items 94 82 Exceptional items (140) Operating profit 441 928 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 500 502 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization 941 1,430 Adjustments for: (Gain) or loss from disposals (7) (201) Change in provisions 38 23 Defined benefit plans (28) (33) 3 (211) Interest received 103 103 Interest paid (196) (161) Income tax received 9 7 Income tax paid (79) (95) Other (34) 41 Changes, excluding working capital (194) (316) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 747 1,114 Changes in operating working capital: Inventories (140) (112) Trade receivables 41 (123) Trade payables 83 (25) (16) (260) Changes in other working capital (1) 28 Changes in working capital (17) (232) Cash provided by operating activities 730 882 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 151 Consolidated cash flow statement (note 26) continued x € million 2012 2011 Cash provided by operating activities 730 882 Investing activities Capital expenditure for: Intangible assets (82) (54) Property, plant and equipment (604) (423) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 36 8 Acquisition of subsidiaries and associates (1,262) (929) Cash from net investment hedge (77) Proceeds from disposal of subsidiaries and businesses 7 513 Change in fixed-term deposits 77 748 Other financial assets: Capital payments and acquisitions (12) (3) Change in loans granted (19) 3 Proceeds from disposals 3 221 Cash from / used in investing activities (1,856) 7 Financing activities Capital payments non-controlling interests 15 Loans taken up 30 35 Repayment of loans (114) (50) Change in debt to credit institutions 60 74 Issue of commercial paper 300 Dividend paid (210) (155) Proceeds from reissued shares 90 111 Repurchase of shares (357) Cash used in financing activities 171 (342) Change in cash and cash equivalents (955) 547 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 2,058 1,453 Exchange differences relating to cash held 18 58 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 1,121 2,058 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 152 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 1 General information Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. The preparation of financial statements requires estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. The policies that management considers to be the most important to the presentation of the financial condition and results of operations are discussed in the relevant notes. The same holds for the issues that require management judgments or estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Management cautions that future events often vary from forecasts and that estimates routinely require adjustment. Areas of judgment that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognized in the financial statements relate to the categorization of certain items as 'exceptional', the identification of cash generating units and the classification of activities as 'held for sale' and 'discontinued operations'. Key assumptions and estimates that need to be made by management relate to the useful lives of non-current assets (notes 8 and 9), the establishment of provisions for retirement and other post-employment benefits (note 24), the recognition and measurement of income taxes (note 7) and the determination of fair values for financial instruments (note 23) and for share-based compensation (note 27). Estimates are based on historical quoted market prices, experience and assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. Exchange rates The currency exchange rates that were used in preparing the consolidated statements are listed below for the most important currencies. 1 euro = Exchange rate at balance sheet date Average exchange rate 2012 2011 2012 2011 US dollar 1.32 1.29 1.29 1.39 Swiss franc 1.21 1.22 1.21 1.23 Pound sterling 0.82 0.84 0.81 0.87 100 Japanese yen 1.14 1.00 1.03 1.11 Chinese renminbi 8.29 8.24 8.11 9.00 Presentation of consolidated income statement From 2010 onwards DSM has presented expenses in the consolidated income statement in accordance with their function. This allows the presentation of gross margin on the face of the income statement, which is a widely used performance measure in the industry. The composition of the costs allocated to the individual functions is explained below. Cost of sales encompasses all manufacturing cost (including raw materials and energy) related to goods and services captured in net sales. They are measured at their actual cost based on FIFO, or weighted average cost. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 153 Marketing and sales relates to the selling and marketing of goods and services, and also includes all costs that are directly related to the sale of goods, but that are not originated by the manufacturing of the goods (e.g. freight). Research and development consists of: research, which is defined as original and planned investigation undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding; development, which is defined as the application of research findings or other knowledge to a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved materials, devices, products, processes, systems or services before the start of commercial production or use. General and administrative relates to the strategic and governance role of the general management of the company as well as the representation of DSM as a whole in the financial, political or business community. It also relates to business support activities of staff departments that are not directly related to the other functional areas. Segment reporting Since 2011 DSM has presented business segments and geographical information in accordance with the strategy DSM in motion: driving focused growth. Geographical information is provided for Western Europe, Eastern Europe, North America, Latin America, Asia and rest of the world, with separate specifications for the Netherlands, China, India and Japan. Information on the activities, products and services of the segments is available in the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 154 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2 Change in the scope of the consolidation Acquisitions 2012 On 22 June 2012 DSM obtained control of Kensey Nash Corporation by acquiring 100% of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of Kensey Nash have been consolidated by DSM and reported in the segment Innovation Center. The acquisition will strengthen and complement DSM’s biomedical business, one of the Emerging Business Areas of DSM. Kensey Nash is a US based, technology-driven biomedical company, primarily focused on regenerative medicine utilizing its proprietary collagen and synthetic polymer technology. Kensey Nash has annual sales of approximately USD 90 million and employs about 325 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Kensey Nash needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of Kensey Nash amounted to € 128 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from the skills and knowledge of the workforce, sales synergies in relation to the opportunities for cross-selling and certain fixed cost synergies that are unique to DSM. On 18 July 2012 DSM obtained control of Ocean Nutrition Canada (ONC) by acquiring 100% of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of ONC are consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition expands DSM’s Nutritional Lipids growth platform. ONC is a leader in fish-oil derived Omega-3 fatty acids for dietary supplements, highly complementary to DSM’s acquisition of Martek in 2011. ONC has annual sales of approximately CAD 190 million and employs about 415 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of ONC needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. Goodwill paid for the acquisition of ONC amounted to € 238 million. The goodwill primarily resulted from the skills and knowledge of the workforce, sales synergies in relation to the opportunities for cross-selling and certain operating and variable cost synergies that are unique to DSM. On 18 December 2012 DSM obtained control of Fortitech, Inc. by acquiring 100 % of the shares. From that date onwards the financial statements of Fortitech are consolidated by DSM and reported in the Nutrition segment. The acquisition strengthens DSM’s Human Nutrition and Health business, by expanding the company’s value chain presence and adding additional capabilities. Fortitech has annual sales of approximately USD 270 million and employs about 520 people. In accordance with IFRS 3 the purchase price of Fortitech needs to be allocated to identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. This so-called purchase price allocation together with the conversion of the financial statements to IFRS has not been completed and therefore the consolidation is based on the unadjusted balance sheet of Fortitech. Once the purchase price allocation is completed the value of assets and liabilities will be adjusted and the final goodwill will be determined. Sales and profit of Fortitech in the period between the acquisition and the end of the year 2012 were immaterial for DSM as a result of the limited number of working days that remained and the impact of the holiday period. Up to one year from the acquisition date the initial accounting for business combinations needs to be adjusted to reflect additional information that has been received about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date and would have affected the measurement of amounts recognized as of that date. As a result of such adjustments the values of assets and liabilities recognized may change in the one year period from the acquisition date. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2012 on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 155 Kensey Nash Ocean Nutrition Fortitech, Inc. Other Total 2012 acquisitions Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 18 136 114 1 1 35 19 286 Property, plant and equipment 45 55 57 63 53 53 30 33 185 204 Other non-current assets 3 2 4 4 7 6 Inventories 12 16 35 47 38 38 14 16 99 117 Receivables 25 12 41 49 29 29 8 8 103 98 Cash and cash equivalents 29 29 10 10 8 8 47 47 Total assets 132 250 143 283 133 133 52 92 460 758 Non-controlling interests Liabilities Non-current liabilities 5 39 5 48 5 5 1 15 93 Current liabilities 71 72 84 84 46 46 5 5 206 207 Non-controlling interests and liabilities 76 111 89 132 51 51 5 6 221 300 Net assets 56 139 54 151 82 82 47 86 239 458 Acquisition price (in cash) 216 390 474 120 1,200 Acquisition price (payable) 51 (1) 13 2 65 Consideration 267 389 487 122 1,265 Goodwill 128 238 405 36 807 Goodwill available for tax purposes (included in the above) 32 32 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items 3 2 1 2 8 Contingent liabilities included in fair value The acquisition of Kensey Nash contributed € 35 million to net sales in 2012. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 67 million. The acquisition contributed € 14 million to EBITDA. Kensey Nash related exceptional items amounted to € 8 before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). The acquisition of ONC contributed € 60 million to net sales in 2012. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 131 million. The acquisition contributed € 15 million to EBITDA. ONC related exceptional items amounted to € 20 before tax (see note 6: Exceptional items). Other acquisitions comprise Verenium, Cilpaz & Laba, the cultures and enzymes business of Cargill and Oatwell. Together, the acquisitions in 2012 contributed € 103 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2012, additional net sales would have been approximately € 253 million (excluding Fortitech). The acquisitions in 2012 contributed € 26 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 53 million (excluding Fortitech) if they had all occurred on 1 January 2012. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 156 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2011 In February, DSM acquired 100% of the shares of Martek Biosciences Corporation (Martek), for a total consideration of € 789 million. The goodwill of € 337 million primarily results from the know-how of the employees, the ability to retain these employees and DSM specific synergies, notably the ability to cross-sell Martek's technology through the DSM network. Before acquisition Martek had annual sales of approximately USD 450 million and employed about 600 people. In consolidation, a part of the additional Martek sales was offset by the shift of ARA sales from DSM Food Specialties to Martek from external sales to internal supplies. The acquisition of Martek contributed € 284 million to net sales. If the acquisition had occurred on 1 January 2011, additional net sales would have been approximately € 335 million. The acquisition of Martek contributed € 88 million to EBITDA. Martek related exceptional items amounted to € 46 million before tax (for further information on exceptional items see note 6: Exceptional items). DSM acquired a 51% stake in AGI Corporation of Taiwan in July 2011, through a subscription for newly issued shares combined with a public tender offer, for a total consideration of € 41 million. Before acquisition AGI had annual sales of around € 100 million and employed more than 300 people. In October, DSM acquired a majority share of 91.75% in Shandong ICD, High Performance Fiber Co., Ltd., based in Laiwu, China. Shandong ICD is a manufacturer of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene and employs about 300 people. The acquisitions in 2011 contributed € 316 million to net sales. If all acquisitions had occurred on 1 January 2011, additional net sales would have been approximately € 400 million. The acquisitions in 2011 contributed € 90 million to EBITDA; this would have been approximately € 109 million if they had all occurred on 1 January 2011. The impact of all acquisitions made in 2011 on DSM's consolidated balance sheet, at the date of acquisition, is summarized in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 157 Martek AGI Taiwan Shandong ICD Other Total 2011 acquisitions Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair Book Fair value value value value value value value value value value Assets Intangible assets 124 243 10 11 15 5 24 140 292 Property, plant and equipment 150 131 37 45 34 34 29 31 250 241 Other non-current assets 10 10 4 4 1 14 15 Inventories 75 88 13 13 8 8 1 1 97 110 Receivables 55 55 29 29 3 3 2 2 89 89 Cash and cash equivalents 60 60 11 11 1 1 72 72 Total assets 474 587 94 112 56 60 38 60 662 819 Non-controlling interests 19 26 4 4 23 30 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 45 79 10 16 1 1 56 96 Current liabilities 48 56 39 43 1 1 6 6 94 106 Non-controlling interests and liabilities 93 135 68 85 5 5 7 7 173 232 Net assets 381 452 26 27 51 55 31 53 489 587 Acquisition price (in cash) 789 41 48 61 939 Acquisition price (payable) 30 5 35 Consideration 789 41 78 66 974 Goodwill 337 14 23 13 387 Goodwill available for tax purposes (include in the above) 5 5 Acquisition costs recognized in exceptional items 7 7 Contingent liabilities included in fair value Other acquisitions comprise C5 Yeast Company, Vitatene, the premix unit of Fatrom and Volgaplast. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 158 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Disposals 2012 There were no material disposals in 2012. 2011 In the second quarter of 2011 DSM completed the sale of DSM Elastomers (Keltan®) to LANXESS for € 338 million on a cash and debt-free basis. In view of the disposal the related activities are reported as discontinued operations and comparatives have been re-presented. The impact of the deconsolidation of these activities on the DSM financial statements is presented in the following table: Assets Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment (132) Other non-current assets (5) Inventories (84) Receivables (50) Cash and cash equivalents (40) Total assets (311) Non-controlling interests 5 Liabilities Non-current liabilities (2) Current liabilities (37) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (34) Net assets at fair value (277) Consideration, net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt 387 Book profit 110 Income tax 1 Net book profit 111 Before disposal the business was classified as assets and liabilities held for sale. The impact of the disposal on the cash flow statement is presented in the following table: 2011 Net cash provided by operating activities (14) Net cash used in investing activities (3) Net cash used in financing activities 0 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (17) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 159 In the third quarter of 2011 DSM completed the formation of the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture, which has been consolidated on a 50% proportionate basis from 1 September 2011 onwards. As a consequence of the transaction 50% of the assets and liabilities of DSM's Anti-Infectives business were effectively sold to the joint venture partner. DSM continues to account for the assets and liabilities that are retained in the business on the basis of existing book values. In view of DSM's continuing involvement with the business the related activities remain part of continuing operations. The impact of the 50% disposal is presented in the following table: Assets Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment (72) Other non-current assets (17) Inventories (41) Receivables (67) Cash and cash equivalents (17) Total assets (214) Non-controlling interests (4) Liabilities Non-current liabilities (26) Current liabilities (92) Non-controlling interests and liabilities (122) Net assets at fair value (92) Consideration, net of selling costs, translation differences and net debt 166 Impairment (62) Book profit 12 Income tax 17 Net book profit 29 Before disposal the business was classified as assets/liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 160 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Assets and liabilities held for sale 2012 DSM stopped actively trying to dispose of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business of DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria) in 2012 and this business is no longer classified as ‘assets/liabilities held for sale’. The activities were re-integrated into the Pharma Cluster and reported in that segment from the first quarter of 2012 onwards. Comparative information for the previous period has not been adjusted. In view of the agreements reached regarding the sale of DEXPlastomers and parts of Euroresins, these businesses were reclassified as held for sale. Before reclassification these activities were reported under Corporate Activities and DSM Resins & Functional Materials, respectively. 2011 In view of the expected disposal of the Maleic Anhydride and Derivatives business of DSM Pharmaceutical Products in Linz (Austria), this business was classified as held for sale. Deconsolidation 2012 There were no material deconsolidations in 2012. 2011 As a result of the divestment of DSM Elastomers, DSM's interests in Sitech Manufacturing Services C.V., Sitech Utility Holding Beheer B.V. and Sitech Utility Holding C.V. were also reduced. At the end of June DSM only retained significant influence on the financial and operating policy decisions of these companies and therefore consolidation was terminated. The remaining investments in these entities were recognized at their fair value at the time when consolidation was terminated and accounted for in accordance with the equity method. The impact of the derecognition on the balance sheet and on the result was immaterial. Other changes 2012 There were no material changes in the percentage of ownership of subsidiaries in 2012. 2011 In 2011 the following changes in DSM's share in subsidiaries occurred without impacting the classification of the participations. DSM share Old New1 Sitech Services B.V. 77% 70% Sitech Manufacturing Services Beheer B.V. 77% 70% Sitech IAZI B.V. 77% 70% Sitech Site Services B.V. 77% 70% 1 All as a result of the disposal of DSM Elastomers Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 161 3 Segment information Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2012 ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 3,667 726 2,772 1,596 102 268 9,131 9,131 Supplies to other clusters 85 39 25 448 3 1 (601) Supplies 3,752 765 2,797 2,044 105 269 (601) 9,131 9,131 EBITDA 793 39 280 129 (38) (94) 1,109 1,109 Operating profit 613 (19) 146 97 (63) (139) 635 635 Exceptional items (85) (19) (40) (11) (39) (194) (194) Operating profit including exceptional items 528 (38) 106 86 (63) (178) 441 441 Depreciation and amortization 177 49 128 30 24 43 451 451 Impairments 3 9 6 2 1 2 23 23 Impairments in exceptional items 23 25 1 26 26 Additions to provisions 30 25 24 3 40 122 122 Share of the profit of associates 1 1 2 2 R&D costs3 151 12 105 12 66 35 381 381 Wages, salaries and social security costs 657 187 338 75 53 326 1,636 1,636 Financial position Total assets 5,157 1,051 2,174 964 559 2,061 11,966 11,966 Total liabilities 1,324 333 666 446 75 3,080 5,924 5,924 Capital employed at year-end 4,122 766 2,026 447 507 216 8,084 8,084 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 1,193 72 109 214 303 89 1,980 1,980 Share in equity of associates 3 2 10 2 10 27 27 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 21.6 5.4 10.1 8.1 12.1 12.1 Workforce4 Average in fte 9,208 3,281 5,359 1,444 622 3,012 22,926 22,926 Year-end (headcount) 9,489 3,314 5,354 1,474 668 3,199 23,498 23,498 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Costs of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis. 5 Including the reversal of previously recognized impairment losses for € 12 million at DSM Sinochem Parmaceuticals. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 162 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Business segments1 Continuing operations DisconEliminaTotal Nutrition Pharma PerformPolymer InnoCorpo2 EliminaTotal tinued tions 2011 ance Intermevation rate tions operaMaterials diates Center Activities tions Financial performance Net sales 3,370 677 2,752 1,820 60 369 9,048 145 9,193 Supplies to other clusters 68 21 21 435 4 23 (571) 1 6 (7) Supplies 3,438 698 2,773 2,255 64 392 (571) 9,049 151 (7) 9,193 EBITDA 735 36 293 380 (57) (91) 1,296 29 1,325 Operating profit 577 (8) 162 339 (69) (135) 866 29 895 Exceptional items (51) 22 (33) (15) (77) 110 33 Operating profit including exceptional items 526 14 129 339 (69) (150) 789 139 928 Depreciation and amortization 155 44 121 25 11 41 397 397 Impairments 3 10 16 1 3 33 33 Impairments in exceptional items 62 10 72 72 Additions to provisions 6 30 24 9 69 69 Share of the profit of associates 2 1 3 3 R&D costs3 146 14 107 13 63 35 378 3 381 Wages, salaries and social security costs 597 179 319 67 34 322 1,518 11 1,529 Financial position Total assets 3,826 1,104 2,085 835 255 3,052 11,157 11,157 Total liabilities 1,115 294 601 417 23 2,733 5,183 5,183 Capital employed at year-end 3,015 800 2,013 387 174 173 6,562 6,562 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 950 87 258 81 40 84 1,500 2 1,502 Share in equity of associates 2 2 8 3 7 22 22 EBITDA / net sales (in %) 21.8 5.3 10.6 20.9 14.3 14.4 Workforce4 Average in fte 8,051 3,174 5,454 1,376 348 3,417 21,820 21,820 Year-end (headcount) 8,329 3,324 5,599 1,439 383 3,150 22,224 22,224 1 For a description of the types of products and services of each segment please refer to the Review of business in the Report by the Managing Board. Supplies from DSM Polymer Intermediates to DSM Engineering Plastics were executed at cost. Transfers between other segments were fairly limited and were generally executed at market-based prices. 2 Corporate Activities also includes costs for regional holdings, corporate overhead and share-based compensation. 3 R&D costs relate to the functional area Research and development and exclude R&D costs included in the functional areas Costs of sales and Marketing and sales as well as R&D expenditure capitalized. 4 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 163 Geographical information Continuing operations The Rest of Eastern North Latin China India Japan Rest of Rest of Total 2012 NetherWestern Europe America America Asia the lands Europe world Net sales by origin In € million 3,046 2,655 119 1,628 309 939 95 118 172 50 9,131 In % 34 29 1 18 3 10 1 1 2 1 100 Net sales by destination In € million 605 2,684 538 1,819 671 1,323 163 317 783 228 9,131 In % 7 29 6 20 7 14 2 3 9 3 100 Total assets 3,613 2,556 109 3,554 347 1,187 90 134 310 66 11,966 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 226 129 2 127 6 174 3 2 33 13 715 Carrying amount 1,568 1,406 30 2,676 53 672 18 36 119 26 6,604 Workforce at year-end1 6,007 6,305 438 4,724 978 3,449 541 146 746 164 23,498 2011 Net sales by origin In € million 3,151 2,601 91 1,505 247 987 118 78 228 42 9,048 In % 35 29 1 17 3 11 1 0 3 0 100 Net sales by destination In € million 662 2,689 514 1,692 589 1,438 167 299 793 205 9,048 In % 7 29 6 19 7 16 2 3 9 2 100 Total assets 4,184 2,594 93 2,342 269 1,121 72 150 273 59 11,157 Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditure 154 114 4 86 5 148 1 0 10 4 526 Carrying amount 1,445 1,266 29 1,723 25 539 12 39 97 16 5,191 Workforce at year-end1 6,205 6,398 334 3,650 824 3,423 481 146 627 136 22,224 1 The workforces of joint ventures have been included on a proportionate basis DSM has no single external customer that represents 10 percent or more of revenues and therefore information about major customers is not provided. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 164 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 4 Total costs Other operating income In 2012 total operating costs of continuing operations before exceptional items amounted to € 8.5 billion, € 0.3 billion higher 2012 2011 than in 2011, when these costs stood at € 8.2 billion. Total operating costs in 2012 included Cost of sales to an amount of Continuing operations before € 6.7 billion (2011: € 6.5 billion); gross margin in % of net sales exceptional items stood at 26% (2011: 28%). Release of provisions 3 16 Gain on assets, activities, scrap, Employee benefits costs waste material, emission rights, royalties and licenses sold 27 15 Insurance benefits 8 14 2012 2011 Claims 11 7 Earn-out payments 5 4 Continuing operations before Sundry 26 15 exceptional items Wages and salaries 1,398 1,310 Total 80 71 Social security costs 213 189 Pension costs (see also note 24) 125 125 Share-based compensation (see Other operating expense also note 27) 25 19 Total 1,761 1,643 2012 2011 Continuing operations before Depreciation, amortization and impairments exceptional items Additions to provisions 1 8 Loss from the disposal or closure 2012 2011 of assets and activities 1 1 Exchange differences 7 9 Continuing operations before Costs of financial instruments 7 5 exceptional items Earn-out payments 5 Amortization of intangible assets 111 83 Damages 9 12 Depreciation of property, plant Sundry 2 5 and equipment 340 314 Impairment losses 23 33 Total 32 40 Total 474 430 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 165 5 Net finance costs 6 Exceptional items 2012 2011 2012 2011 Continuing operations before Cost of sales: exceptional items Impairments of property, plant Interest costs and equipment and business Interest expense 107 100 activities (25) (10) Capitalized interest during Other costs (4) (38) construction (6) (2) (29) (48) Interest charge on discounted Research and development: provisions 1 1 Impairment of intangible assets Other costs (2) Total 102 99 (2) General and administrative: Other financial income and Impairment of Property, Plant expense and Equipment (1) Interest income (12) (18) Other costs (59) (13) Exchange differences 4 4 (60) (13) Result from other securities 1 (4) Other operating income: Sundry (1) 1 Release of provisions 3 Book gain on disposals 12 Total (8) (17) 3 12 Other operating expense: Net finance costs 94 82 Additions to provisions (106) (28) Other costs (106) (28) In 2012 the interest rate applied in the capitalization of interest during construction was 5% (2011: 5%). Operating profit (194) (77) Other financial income and expense 140 Total, before income tax expense (194) 63 Income tax expense 45 25 Profit for the year (149) 88 Reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of 111 Net result from exceptional items (149) 199 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 166 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2012 2011 The exceptional items in 2012 are listed below: The exceptional items in 2011 are listed below: The impairments of property, plant and equipment and The impairments of property, plant and equipment and business activities in Cost of sales mainly relate to DSM business activities in Cost of sales relate to DSM Resins (see Nutritional Products, DSM Pharmaceutical Products and DSM also Other operating expense). Sinochem Pharmaceuticals. Also included is the reversal of an Other costs in Cost of sales and General and administrative impairment at DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals of € 12 million. mainly relate to the acquisition of Martek and include the For further information see note 9 Property, plant and acquisition costs (€ 13 million) and non-recurring costs related equipment. to value adjustments of inventories (€ 33 million). Other costs in Cost of sales mainly relate to restructuring Legal claims have been included under other costs in Cost of costs. sales (€ 5 million) and Other operating expense (€ 5 million). Other costs in General and administrative relate to acquisition The book profit on disposals relates to the establishment of and integration costs (€ 34 million) and restructuring costs the DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals joint venture. For further (€ 25 million). information see note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation. Additions to provisions relate to the costs of restructuring, as A restructuring program of € 28 million within DSM Resins has part of the Profit Improvement Program (€ 95 million) and to been included under Cost of sales (€ 5 million) and Other legal costs (€ 11 million). For further information see note 18 operating expense (€ 23 million). For further information see Provisions. note 18 Provisions. Other financial income and expense relates to the book profit before tax on the sale of the Danisco shares (€ 140 million). For further information see note 11 Other financial assets. The reclassification of the net result from activities disposed of relates to the result from the disposal of activities. This consists of the book profit after tax on the disposal of DSM Elastomers For further information see note 2 Changes in the scope of consolidation. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 167 7 Income tax in % 2012 2011 The income tax expense on the total result was € 51 million, which represents an effective income tax rate of 14.6% Domestic income tax rate 25.0 25.0 (2011: € 129 million, representing an effective income tax rate of 13.1%) and can be broken down as follows: Tax effects of: Deviating rates (5.6) (4.9) Tax-exempt income and non2012 2011 deductible expense (5.6) (0.5) Other effects 3.8 (0.9) Current tax expense: Current year (87) (84) Effective tax rate continuing Prior-year adjustments 5 4 operations 17.6 18.7 Discontinued operations 0.3 (82) (80) Exceptional items (3.0) (5.9) Deferred tax expense: Total effective tax rate 14.6 13.1 Originating from temporary differences and their reversal (10) (50) Prior-year adjustments 11 (8) The balance of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Change in tax rate 6 4 increased by € 4 million owing to the changes presented in the Change in tax losses and tax table below: credits recognized 24 5 31 (49) 2012 2011 Total (51) (129) Balance at 1 January Deferred tax assets 292 326 Of which related to: Deferred tax liabilities (192) (155) The result from continuing operations before exceptional Total 100 171 items (96) (147) The result from exceptional Changes: items continuing operations 45 25 Income tax expense in income The result from discontinued statement 31 (49) operations (7) Income tax expense in other comprehensive income 47 60 Acquisitions and disposals (78) (77) The effective income tax rate on the result from continuing Change in scope of operations before exceptional items was 17.6% in 2012 consolidation 2 (2011: 18.7%). This decrease was mainly caused by a different Exchange differences 4 (7) geographic spread of results and the application of preferential Reclassification to held for sale tax regimes in countries where DSM is operating. The tax rate for continuing operations for 2013 will be at about the same level Balance at 31 December 104 100 as 2012. The relationship between the income tax rate in the Netherlands and the effective tax rate on the result from Of which: continuing operations is as follows: Deferred tax assets 340 292 Deferred tax liabilities (236) (192) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 168 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In various countries DSM has taken standpoints regarding its tax position which may at any time be challenged, or have already been challenged, by the tax authorities because the authorities in question interpret the law differently. In determining the probability of realization of deferred tax assets and liabilities these uncertainties are taken into account. The deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to the following balance sheet items: 2012 2011 Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax Deferred tax assets liabilities assets liabilities Intangible assets 30 (170) 34 (112) Property, plant and equipment 22 (266) 32 (254) Financial assets 2 (2) 2 (3) Inventories 56 (34) 53 (30) Receivables 10 (18) 2 (20) Other non-current liabilities 46 (2) 41 (2) Non-current provisions 81 (5) 58 (8) Non-current borrowings 4 Other current liabilities 73 (5) 49 (6) 320 (502) 275 (435) Tax losses carried forward 286 260 Set-off (266) 266 (243) 243 Total 340 (236) 292 (192) No deferred tax assets were recognized for loss carryforwards amounting to € 91 million (2011: € 103 million). Unrecognized loss carryforwards amounting to € 32 million will expire in the years up to and including 2017, (2011: € 40 million up to and including 2016), € 29 million between 2018 and 2022 (2011: € 26 million between 2017 and 2021) and the remaining € 30 million between 2023 and 2027 (2011: € 37 million between 2022 and 2026). The valuation of deferred tax assets depends on the probability of the reversal of temporary differences and the utilization of tax loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets are recognized for future tax benefits arising from temporary differences and for tax loss carryforwards to the extent that the tax benefits are likely to be realized. In the Netherlands tax losses may be carried forward for 9 years. For the entities in the Dutch tax consolidation, losses will start to expire in 2019. Other foreign tax loss carryforwards primarily exist in the US and Austria. US tax losses will start to expire in 2024. Austrian tax losses can be carried forward for an indefinite period of time. DSM has to assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable profit. Deferred tax assets are reduced if, and to the extent that, it is not probable that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will be realized. In the event that actual future results differ from estimates, and depending on tax strategies that DSM may be able to implement, changes to the measurement of deferred taxes could be required, which could impact on the company’s financial position and profit for the year. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 169 8 Intangible assets Total Goodwill Licenses Under Development Other and patents construction projects Balance at 1 January 2011 Cost 1,605 855 158 53 23 516 Amortization and impairment losses 535 164 87 2 282 Carrying amount 1,070 691 71 53 21 234 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 54 5 49 Put into operation (23) 23 Acquisitions 679 387 21 271 Disposals and deconsolidations 2 (32) 31 (2) 5 Amortization (83) (6) (1) (76) Impairments (7) (7) Exchange differences 56 34 2 4 16 Other reclassifications 15 2 1 12 716 421 (8) 62 (3) 244 Balance at 31 December 2011 Cost 2,393 1,281 134 115 22 841 Amortization and impairment losses 607 169 71 4 363 Carrying amount 1,786 1,112 63 115 18 478 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 82 1 76 5 Put into operation 32 (59) 1 26 Acquisitions 1,093 807 1 7 278 Disposals and deconsolidations Amortization (111) (11) (1) (99) Impairments (19) (1) (4) (9) (5) Exchange differences (44) (31) (1) (1) (11) Reclassifications to held for sale Other reclassifications 6 1 18 1 (14) 1,007 776 36 9 6 180 Balance at 31 December 2012 Cost 3,519 2,052 185 131 28 1,123 Amortization and impairment losses 726 164 86 7 4 465 Carrying amount 2,793 1,888 99 124 24 658 Over the past few years DSM has acquired several entities in business combinations that have been accounted for by the purchase method, resulting in recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets. The amounts assigned to the acquired assets and liabilities are based on assumptions and estimates about their fair values. In making these estimates, management consults independent, qualified appraisers if appropriate. A change in assumptions and estimates could change the values allocated to certain assets Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 170 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM and their estimated useful lives, which could affect the amount or timing of charges to the income statement, such as amortization of intangible assets. The breakdown of the carrying amount of goodwill at year-end 2012 is as follows: Acquisition 2012 2011 Cash generating unit Functional Year of Currency acquisition Fortitech1 405 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2012 Martek 352 360 DSM Nutritional Products USD 2011 NeoResins 358 358 DSM Resins & Functional Materials EUR 2005 Ocean Nutrition 227 DSM Nutritional Products CAD 2012 Catalytica 166 170 DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. USD 2001 Kensey Nash 123 DSM Biomedical USD 2012 The Polymer Technology Group 66 68 DSM Biomedical USD 2008 Pentapharm 32 31 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2007 Culture and enzymes business of Cargill 23 DSM Food Specialties EUR/USD 2012 Shandong ICD 23 23 DSM Dyneema CNY 2011 Novamid 15 17 DSM Engineering Plastics JPY 2010 AGI Corporation 17 15 DSM Resins & Functional Materials TWD 2011 Syntech Far East 10 10 DSM Resins & Functional Materials HKD 2005 Zhejiang Zhongken Biotechnology 10 10 DSM Food Specialties CNY 2010 C5 Yeast Company 9 9 DSM Bio-based Products & Services EUR 2011 Crina 8 8 DSM Nutritional Products CHF 2006 DSM Japan Engineering Plastics 6 6 DSM Engineering Plastics EUR 2003 Fatrom 5 5 DSM Nutritional Products RON 2011 Other acquisitions 33 22 Total 1,888 1,112 1 Goodwill related to the acquisition of Fortitech is a preliminary amount based upon the purchase price minus the book value according to US GAAP The annual impairment tests of goodwill are performed in the fourth quarter. The recoverable amount of the cash generating units concerned is based on a value-in-use calculation. The cash flow projections for the first five years are derived from DSM’s business plan (Corporate Strategy Dialogue) as adopted by the Managing Board. Cash flow projections beyond the five year planning period are extrapolated taking into account the growth rates that have been determined to apply for the specific cash generating unit in the Annual Strategic Review. The key assumptions in the cash flow projections relate to the market growth for the cash generating units and the related revenue projections. DSM Nutritional Products, DSM Resins & Functional Materials and DSM Pharmaceuticals, Inc. are three cash generating units to which significant amounts of goodwill are allocated. The growth assumptions for these cash generating units are based on the growth of the global food and feed markets, the demand for advanced coating resins that is influenced by growth in the building and construction markets and the growth of the American market for pharmaceutical custom manufacturing services, respectively, and range between 0% and 5%. From 2012 onwards the DSM Innovation Center is split into two separate cash generating units: DSM Biomedical and DSM Bio-based Products & Services. The goodwill of both Kensey Nash and the Polymer Technology Group (PTG) is allocated to DSM Biomedical, which therefore is the fourth cash generating unit to which a significant amount of goodwill is allocated. Growth in this cash generating unit is dependent on developments in the market for medical devices. The pre-tax discount rate is between 7.5% and 11.5% (2011: between 7.5% and 14%) depending on the risk profile of the cash generating unit. The terminal value for the period after ten years is determined with the assumption of no growth. A stress test was performed on the impairment tests of the cash generating units. This showed that the conclusions of these tests would not have been different if reasonably possible adverse changes in key parameters had been assumed. The value-in-use of Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 171 cash generating units with significant amounts of goodwill clearly exceeds their carrying amount. The market capitalization of DSM at 31 December 2012 amounted to € 8,307 million (31 December 2011: € 6,502 million) and was clearly above the carrying amount of net assets, providing an additional indication that goodwill is not impaired. The other intangible assets are listed in the following table: 2012 2011 Cost Amortization Carrying Of which Of which amount acquisitionacquisitionrelated related Application software 195 (143) 52 10 5 Marketing-related 63 (13) 50 50 49 Customer-related 305 (60) 245 245 154 Technology-based 496 (225) 271 236 169 Other 64 (24) 40 25 1 Total 1,123 (465) 658 566 378 Total 2011 841 (363) 478 378 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 172 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 9 Property, plant and equipment Total Land and Plant and Other Under Not used buildings machinery equipconstrucfor operating ment tion activities Balance at 1 January 2011 Cost 6,684 1,749 4,323 199 386 27 Depreciation and impairment losses 3,741 803 2,769 147 1 21 Carrying amount 2,943 946 1,554 52 385 6 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 474 4 34 3 433 Put into operation 59 178 22 (259) Acquisitions 241 84 111 6 40 Disposals (4) (1) 6 1 (10) Deconsolidations (1) (1) Depreciation (314) (62) (238) (14) Impairment losses (98) (6) (89) (1) (2) Exchange differences 73 19 34 1 19 Reclassification from held for sale 108 18 95 (5) Other reclassifications (15) (8) (7) Other changes (2) (2) 462 114 131 10 207 Balance at 31 December 2011 Cost 7,651 1,943 4,867 221 593 27 Depreciation and impairment losses 4,246 883 3,182 159 1 21 Carrying amount 3,405 1,060 1,685 62 592 6 Changes in carrying amount: Capital expenditure 633 21 34 5 573 Put into operation 136 423 34 (593) Acquisitions 204 97 92 1 14 Disposals (23) (20) (3) Deconsolidations Depreciation (340) (68) (256) (16) Impairment losses (42) (10) (29) (1) (2) Impairment reversals 12 12 Exchange differences (25) (8) (13) (4) Reclassification from held for sale (7) (1) (3) (3) Other reclassifications (5) 1 3 (3) (6) Other changes (1) 2 (3) 406 148 262 20 (24) Balance at 31 December 2012 Cost 8,265 2,155 5,271 252 570 17 Depreciation and impairment losses 4,454 947 3,324 170 2 11 Carrying amount 3,811 1,208 1,947 82 568 6 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 173 Property, plant and equipment includes assets acquired under comprised ten individual cash generating units. On the basis of finance lease agreements with a carrying amount of € 4 million this new cash generating unit structure and the business plan for (31 December 2011: € 7 million). The related commitments are the joint venture agreed between DSM and Sinochem an included under Borrowings and amount to € 4 million impairment test was performed. It was determined that the (31 December 2011: € 7 million). The total of the minimum lease carrying value of certain cash generating units exceeded their payments at the balance sheet date amounts to € 4 million value in use and therefore an impairment charge of € 62 million (31 December 2011: € 7 million) and their present values to was recognized. Subsequently DSM contributed the impaired € 3 million (31 December 2011: € 6 million). assets of DSM Anti-infectives (reported in the Pharma segment) to the joint venture. Overview of minimum lease payments in time: 10 Associates 2013 1 2014-2017 3 2012 2011 After 2017 Balance at 1 January 35 25 Total 4 Changes: In 2012 an impairment on Property, plant & equipment of € 42 Share of profit 2 5 million was recognized. This mainly related to an impairment of Capital payments 4 1 € 18 million at DSM Nutritional Products and an impairment of Dividend received (1) (1) € 7 million at DSM Pharmaceutical Products. Furthermore an New loans 4 impairment of € 6 million was recognized in a cash generating Disposals unit of DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals which was more than Consolidation changes 1 off set by reversals of previous impairments in three other cash Reclassification to held for sale 0 generating units of € 12 million. In all cases the recoverable Transfers (1) amount was determined on the basis of the value in use the Exchange differences 1 assets or cash generating units. Balance at 31 December 40 35 In 2011, on balance an impairment of € 98 million was Of which loans granted 13 13 recognized. This mainly related to an impairment at DSM AntiInfectives of € 62 million, at DSM Fibre Intermediates of € 14 million and an impairment at DSM Dyneema of € 7 million. In the DSM's share in its most important associates and the financial context of the formation of the joint venture with Sinochem, information on all associates on a 100% basis is disclosed in note management determined that DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals 29: Interests in associates. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 174 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 11 Other financial assets Total Other Other Other participations receivables deferred items Balance at 1 January 2011 270 207 43 20 Changes: Charged to the income statement (15) (8) (7) Acquisitions 15 2 12 1 Capital payments 6 6 Earn-out payments related to disposals 0 0 Disposals (222) (222) Consolidation changes 15 15 Loans granted 12 12 Repayments (4) (4) Exchange differences 1 2 (1) Transfers (6) (12) 6 Changes in fair value 54 54 Reclassification from held for sale 8 8 0 Other changes 1 2 (1) Balance at 31 December 2011 135 47 70 18 Changes: Charged to the income statement (13) (3) (3) (7) Acquisitions 2 2 Capital payments 8 8 Earn-out payments related to disposals Disposals (3) (3) Consolidation changes Loans granted 9 9 Repayments (1) (1) Exchange differences (3) (1) (2) Transfers 18 (17) 35 Changes in fair value (8) (8) Reclassification from held for sale Other changes (3) (1) (3) 1 Balance at 31 December 2012 141 42 54 45 Other participations relate to equity instruments in companies whose activities support DSM’s business and which can be quoted or unquoted. In Other participations an amount of € 31 million is included that relates to equity instruments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably (2011: € 30 million). These instruments are therefore measured at cost. The disposal in 2011 within Other participations relates to the sale of the shares in Danisco, which resulted in a profit of € 140 million before tax, which was reported as an exceptional item. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 175 12 Inventories 13 Receivables 2012 2011 2012 2011 Raw materials and consumables 533 473 Trade receivables Intermediates and finished goods 1,320 1,143 Trade accounts receivable 1,544 1,536 Deferred items 26 19 1,853 1,616 Receivables from associates 22 16 Adjustments to lower net 1,592 1,571 realizable value (50) (43) Adjustment for bad debts (23) (20) Total 1,803 1,573 Total 1,569 1,551 Other receivables The carrying amount of inventories adjusted to net realizable Income taxes receivable 42 24 value (before reclassification to held for sale) was € 161 million Other taxes and social security (2011: € 159 million). contributions 18 15 Government grants 21 Changes in the adjustment to net realizable value Loans 41 11 Other receivables 103 94 Deferred items 5 9 Balance at 1 January 2011 (50) Total 230 153 Additions charged to income statement (90) Utilization / reversals 99 Exchange differences (1) Deferred items comprise € 31 million (2011: € 28 million) in Other (1) prepaid expenses that will impact profit or loss in future periods. Balance at 31 December 2011 (43) The increase in government grants mainly related to DSM Food Additions charged to income statement (57) Specialties. The increase in loans was partly caused by the joint Utilization / reversals 50 financing with local government of an innovation campus in the Exchange differences Netherlands. Other DSM has a deferred receivable of € 39 million excluding accrued Balance at 31 December 2012 (50) interest (2011: € 39 million) from Sinochem Group (the joint venture partner in DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals) that is due when the new Yushu factory is ready for commercial full production which is included in other receivables. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 176 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM With respect to trade accounts receivable that are neither 15 Cash and cash equivalents impaired nor past due, there are no indications that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. An aging overview of trade receivables related to commercial transactions amounting 2012 2011 to € 1,411 million (2011: € 1,367 million) is provided below. The remaining balance reported as trade receivables amounting to Deposits 75 920 € 133 million (2011: € 169 million) is excluded from this analysis Cash at bank and in hand 1,034 1,122 because it principally concerns reclaimable VAT and accruals Payments in transit 4 2 that are not related to the payment behavior of customers. Bills of exchange 8 14 Aging overview Total 1,121 2,058 in % 2012 2011 Cash at year-end 2012 was not being used as collateral (same Neither past due nor impaired 84 86 as in 2011). It was restricted for an amount of € 5 million (in 2011: 1-29 days overdue 12 11 € 2 million). 30-89 days overdue 2 1 90 days or more overdue 2 2 The changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts receivable are as follows: Balance at 1 January 2011 (18) Additions charged to income statement (5) Deductions 4 Acquisitions (1) Exchange differences 0 Balance at 31 December 2011 (20) Additions charged to income statement (11) Deductions 8 Acquisitions Exchange differences Balance at 31 December 2012 (23) 14 Current investments 2012 2011 Fixed term deposits 12 89 Total 12 89 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 177 16 Equity 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 5,974 5,577 Net profit 298 860 Net exchange differences (26) 63 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (100) (31) Net asset ceiling related to defined benefit obligations 1 Dividend (302) (246) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 182 201 Repurchase of shares (357) Other changes 16 (94) Balance at 31 December 6,042 5,974 After the balance sheet date the following dividends were declared by the Managing Board: 2012 2011 Per cumulative preference share A: € 0.23 (2011: € 0.23) 10 10 Per ordinary share: € 1.50 (2011: € 1.45) 253 237 Total 263 247 The proposed final dividend on ordinary shares is subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders and has not been deducted from Equity. Shareholders will be provided with the opportunity to receive dividends in cash or in the form of ordinary shares. For a description of the rules of profit appropriation and of the statutory rights attached to preference shares B, see page 218 . Share capital On 31 December 2012 the authorized capital amounted to € 1,125 million (2011: € 1,125 million), distributed over 330,960,000 ordinary shares, 44,040,000 cumulative preference shares A and 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B. All shares have a nominal value of € 1.50 each. The changes in the number of issued and outstanding shares in 2011 and 2012 are shown in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 178 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Issued shares Treasury shares Ordinary Cumprefs A Ordinary Balance at 1 January 2011 181,425,000 44,040,000 14,957,368 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,568,018) Repurchase of shares 9,000,000 Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,221,738) Balance at 31 December 2011 181,425,000 44,040,000 18,167,612 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2011 (18,167,612) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2011 163,257,388 44,040,000 Balance at 1 January 2012 181,425,000 44,040,000 18,167,612 Reissue of shares in connection with share-based payments (3,049,509) Repurchase of shares Dividend in the form of ordinary shares (2,377,191) Balance at 31 December 2012 181,425,000 44,040,000 12,740,912 Number of treasury shares at 31 December 2012 (12,740,912) Number of shares outstanding at 31 December 2012 168,684,088 44,040,000 The average number of ordinary shares outstanding in 2012 was 165,543,091 (2011: 165,566,944). All shares issued are fully paid. The cumulative preference shares A have been classified as equity because there is no mandatory redemption and distributions to the shareholders are at the discretion of DSM. On 31 December 2012 no cumulative preference shares B were outstanding. Share premium Of the total share premium of € 489 million (2011: € 489 million), an amount of € 112 million (2011: € 114 million) can be regarded as entirely free of tax. Treasury shares On 31 December 2011 DSM possessed 18,167,612 ordinary shares (nominal value € 27 million, 8.1% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 37.75. As at 31 December 2011, 6,919,350 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 11,248,262 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011. On 31 December 2012 DSM possessed 12,740,912 ordinary shares (nominal value € 19 million, 5.7% of the share capital). The average purchase price of the ordinary treasury shares was € 37.61. As at 31 December 2012, 3,869,841 of the total number of treasury shares outstanding were held for servicing management and personnel share-option rights. The remainder, 8,871,071 shares, is the balance of shares that were purchased under the company's share buy-back program in 2007 and 2008 and shares that were reissued as stock dividend in 2011 and 2012. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 179 Other reserves in Shareholder's equity Total Translation Hedging Reserve for Fair value reserve reserve share-based reserve compensation Balance at 1 January 2011 381 218 75 39 49 Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (116) (116) Release to income statement (4) (4) Disposals (139) (139) Fair-value changes of other financial assets 54 54 Exchange differences 47 47 Options and performance shares granted 19 19 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (18) (18) Income tax 50 6 24 20 Total changes (107) 53 (96) 1 (65) Balance at 31 December 2011 274 271 (21) 40 (16) Changes: Fair-value changes of derivatives (44) (44) Release to income statement 22 22 Disposals Fair-value changes of other financial assets (8) (8) Exchange differences (28) (28) Options and performance shares granted 18 18 Options and performance shares exercised/cancelled (13) (13) Income tax 14 1 13 Total changes (39) (27) (9) 5 (8) Balance at 31 December 2012 235 244 (30) 45 (24) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 180 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 17 Earnings per ordinary share Continuing operations Discontinued Total in € operations Before Exceptional Total exceptional items items 2011 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 584 199 783 21 804 Basic earnings 3.53 0.53 4.06 0.80 4.86 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.67 0.67 (0.67) Basic earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 3.53 1.20 4.73 0.13 4.86 Diluted earnings 3.50 0.53 4.03 0.79 4.82 Impact of reclassification of net result from activities disposed of 0.66 0.66 (0.66) Diluted earnings after reclassification of the net result from discontinued operations to exceptional items 3.50 1.19 4.69 0.13 4.82 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.40 Dividend for the year 1.45 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 165,567 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,068 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 166,635 2012 Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares (in € million)1 427 (149) 278 278 Basic earnings 2.58 (0.90) 1.68 1.68 Diluted earnings 2.56 (0.89) 1.67 1.67 Dividend distributed in the period (including stock dividend) 1.48 Dividend for the year 1.50 Average number of ordinary shares outstanding (x 1000) 165,543 Effect of dilution due to share options (x 1000) 1,345 Adjusted average number of ordinary shares (x 1000) 166,888 1 Reconciliation to profit for the year is provided in the consolidated income statement Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 181 18 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions increased by € 47 million. This is the balance of the following changes: Restructuring Environmental Other long-term Other provisions Total costs and costs employee termination benefits benefits Balance at 1 January 2011 28 35 41 22 126 Changes in 2011: Additions 31 2 2 34 69 Releases (8) (4) (5) (17) Uses (13) (3) (2) (11) (29) Acquisitions 4 1 5 Exchange differences 1 0 0 0 1 Reclassifications 3 1 4 Total changes 14 (1) 1 19 33 Balance at 1 January 2012 42 34 42 41 159 Of which current 16 4 4 19 43 Changes in 2012: Additions 99 1 10 12 122 Releases (2) (1) (3) Uses (51) (5) (3) (23) (82) Acquisitions 1 1 Exchange differences 1 1 Reclassifications 5 3 8 Total changes 52 (1) 7 (11) 47 Balance at 31 December 2012 94 33 49 30 206 Of which current 62 6 4 9 81 In cases where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures expected to be required to settle the obligation. The discount rate used is based on swap rates for various terms, increased by 75 to 100 basis points depending on those terms. The balance of provisions measured at present value increased by € 1 million in 2012 in view of the passage of time and changes in the discount rate. The provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits mainly relate to the costs of redundancy schemes connected to the dismissal and transfer of employees and costs of termination of contracts. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The provisions for environmental costs relate to soil clean-up obligations, among other things. These provisions have an average life of more than 10 years. The provisions for other long-term employee benefits mainly relate to length-of-service and end-of-service payments. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 182 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Several items have been combined under Other provisions, for example onerous contracts and legal fees. These provisions have an average life of 1 to 3 years. The additions to the provisions for restructuring costs and termination benefits in 2012 mainly relate to the restructuring projects in connection with the Profit Improvement Program. 19 Borrowings 2012 2011 Total Of which Total Of which current current Debenture loans 1,734 1,729 Private loans 320 135 308 11 Finance lease liabilities 4 1 7 4 Credit institutions / commercial paper 506 506 145 145 Total 2,564 642 2,189 160 In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year-end 2012 of € 1,962 million, of which USD 150 million of a shortterm nature (31 December 2011: € 1,962 million, of which none of a short-term nature), clauses have been included which restrict the provision of security. The documentation of the € 300 million bond issued in November 2005, which was increased by € 200 million in September 2008, the documentation of the € 750 million bond issued in October 2007 and the documentation of the € 500 million bond issued in March 2009 include a change-of-control clause. This clause allows the bond investors to request repayment at par if 50% or more of the DSM shares are controlled by a third party or if the company is downgraded below investment grade (< BBB-). In December 2012 Moody's confirmed their A3 credit rating for DSM but upgraded the outlook from stable to positive. Standard & Poor's upgraded DSM's credit rating in 2010 from Ato A with a stable outlook, which was reconfirmed in 2012. At 31 December 2012, there were no borrowings with a remaining term of more than five years (31 December 2011: € 744 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 183 The schedule of repayment of borrowings (excluding debt to The average effective interest rate on the portfolio of borrowings credit institutions and commercial paper) is as follows: outstanding in 2012, including financial instruments related to these borrowings, amounted to 4.3% (2011: 4.3%). 2012 2011 A breakdown of debenture loans is given below: 2012 15 2013 137 130 2012 2011 2014 543 537 2015 618 607 EUR loan 4.00% 2005-2015 490 488 2016 and 2017 760 755 EUR loan 5.25% 2007-2017 745 744 After 2017 EUR loan 5.75% 2009-2014 499 497 Total 2,058 2,044 Total 1,734 1,729 A breakdown of the borrowings by currency (excluding debt to All debenture loans have a fixed interest rate. credit institutions and commercial paper) is given in the following table: The original amount of € 300 million of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries. This 2012 2011 original amount of the loan was pre-hedged (cash flow hedge) in 2005 by means of a forward starting swap, which led to a lower EUR 1,753 1,752 effective fixed interest rate of 3.66%. The loan increase of USD 231 240 € 192 million (after discount and fair value adjustments), was CNY 48 36 swapped to floating rates in August 2009 by means of an interest Other 26 16 rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.54% per annum Total 2,058 2,044 was locked in for the remaining life time. The effective interest rate for the increase now amounts to 3.67% (2011: floating at 2.17% above 1 month Euribor until unwinding of fixed-floating On balance, total borrowings increased by € 375 million owing swap). to the following changes: As in 2011, at year-end 2012 the 5.25% EUR loan 2007-2017 was swapped into CHF for an amount of € 325 million to hedge 2012 2011 the currency risk of net investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries. In 2006 and 2007 the loan had been partly preBalance at 1 January 2,189 2,097 hedged (cash flow hedge) by means of forward starting swaps, leading to a lower effective fixed interest rate of 4.89% for the full Loans taken up 35 41 loan. Repayments (114) (50) Changes in fair value (13) Of the € 500 million 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 € 300 million Acquisitions/disposals 103 2 was swapped to floating rates in September 2009 by means of (De)consolidations 14 an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). In August 2011 the swap Changes in debt to credit to floating was unwound and an interest advantage of 1.31% per institutions/commercial paper 361 54 annum was locked in for the remaining life time. The effective Exchange differences (10) 10 interest now amounts to 5.1% for the whole loan (2011: until Reclassification from held for sale 15 unwinding of swap floating part at 3.48% above 1 month Euribor Other changes 19 and 5.88% on fixed part). Balance at 31 December 2,564 2,189 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 184 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM In November 2010 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an 20 Other non-current liabilities intended refinancing in 2014 of the 5.75% EUR loan 2009-2014 at a 10 year interest rate of 3.42% excluding DSM spread. 2012 2011 In November 2011 pre-hedge contracts were concluded for an intended refinancing in 2015 of the 4% EUR loan 2005-2015 at Investment grants 49 10 a 10 year interest rate of 3.20% excluding DSM spread. At yearDeferred items 40 50 end 2012 the fair value of the pre-hedge contracts amounted to Other non-current liabilities 5 9 € 112 million negative (year-end 2011 € 27 million negative), which is recognized in the hedging reserve. Total 94 69 A breakdown of private loans is given below: The increase in investment grants is mainly relating to DSM Food Specialties. The decrease in deferred items mainly relates to the 2012 2011 amortization of interest rate swaps. CNY loan floating 2008-2014 36 36 21 Current liabilities (12 months) USD loan 5.51% 2003-2013 114 117 USD loan 5.61% 2003-2015 114 116 2012 2011 Other loans 56 39 Trade payables Total 320 308 Received in advance 41 29 Trade accounts payable 1,374 1,300 Notes and cheques due 19 3 The fixed interest rate of the 5.51% USD loan 2003-2013 was Owing to associates 19 16 swapped into a floating rate by means of an interest rate swap (fair value hedge). During 2005 this interest rate swap was Total 1,453 1,348 unwound. The gain from this transaction is recognized in income over the remaing life of the bond, leading to an effective fixed Other current liabilities USD interest rate of 4.29% for the loan. This 5.51% USD loan Income taxes payable 55 42 was assigned as a net investment hedge to hedge the currency Other taxes and social security risk of net investments in USD-denominated subsidiaries. contributions 54 59 Interest 51 47 The currency component of the 5.61% USD loan 2003-2015 Pensions 5 4 was swapped into euros (cash flow hedge). The resulting EUR Investment creditors 141 106 liability was swapped into CHF to hedge the currency risk of netOther liabilities 318 292 investments in CHF-denominated subsidiaries (net-investment Deferred items 4 7 hedge). Total 628 557 DSM’s policy regarding financial-risk management is described in note 23. 22 Contingent liabilities and other financial obligations The contingent liabilities and other financial obligations in the following table are not recognized in the balance sheet. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 185 23 Financial instruments and risks 2012 2011 Policies on financial risks Operating leases and rents 76 84 General Guarantee obligations on behalf of The main financial risks faced by DSM relate to liquidity risk and associates and third parties 158 156 market risk (comprising interest rate risk, currency risk, price risk Outstanding orders for projects and credit risk). DSM’s financial policy is aimed at minimizing the under construction 15 10 effects of fluctuations in currency-exchange and interest rates Other 10 21 on its results in the short term and following market rates in the long term. DSM uses financial derivatives to manage financial Total 259 271 risks relating to business operations and does not enter into speculative derivative positions. DSM's financial policy, including policies and processes for managing capital, is discussed more Guarantee obligations are principally related to value added tax extensively on page 110 of the Report by the Managing Board. and duties on the one hand and to financing obligations of associates on the other. Most of the outstanding orders for Liquidity risk projects under construction will be completed in 2013. Property, DSM has two committed credit facilities: one of € 400 million plant and equipment under operating leases primarily concerns maturing in April 2013 and one of € 500 million refinanced in catalysts, buildings and various equipment items. September 2011 and maturing in September 2016. The latter had an extension option in 2012, which was utilized, bringing the The commitments for operating leases and rents are spread as maturity to September 2017. In 2013 there is a second extension follows: option (to extend the final maturity by another year). Together, the facilities amount to a total of € 900 million (2011: € 900 million). Furthermore, DSM has a commercial-paper program 2012 2011 amounting to € 1,500 million (2011: € 1,500 million). The company will use the commercial-paper program to a total of not 2012 18 more than € 900 million (2011: € 900 million). The agreements 2013 16 14 for the committed credit facilities neither have financial covenants 2014 12 11 nor material adverse changes clauses. On 31 December 2012 2015 11 10 no loans were taken up under the committed credit facilities. 2016 and 2017 11 3 DSM has no derivative contracts to manage currency risk or After 2017 26 28 interest rate risk outstanding under which margin calls by the counterparty would be permitted. Total 76 84 Floating-rate and fixed-rate borrowings and short-term monetary liabilities analyzed by maturity are summarized in the Litigation following table. Borrowings excluding credit institutions are DSM has a process in place to monitor legal claims periodically shown after taking into account related interest rate derivatives and systematically. in designated hedging relationships. DSM manages financial liabilities and related derivative contracts on the basis of the DSM is involved in several legal proceedings, most of which are remaining contractual maturities of these instruments. Therefore related to the ordinary course of business. DSM does not expect the remaining maturities presented in the following table provide these proceedings to result in liabilities that have a material effect an appropriate understanding of the timing of the cash flows on the company's financial position. In cases where it is probable related to these instruments, and amounts are not expected to that the outcome of the proceedings will be unfavorable, and the differ from those reported. Financial assets are not linked to financial outcome can be measured reliably, a provision has financial liabilities in order to meet cash outflows on these been recognized in the financial statements and disclosed in liabilities. note 18: Provisions. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 186 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Fixed-rate Floating-rate Short-term Subtotal Interest Cash at1 Total cash borrowings borrowings monetary payments redemption out 2011 liabilities Within 1 year 11 4 2,050 2,065 95 2,160 Within 1 to 2 years 121 9 130 93 223 Within 2 to 3 years 499 38 537 68 2 607 Within 3 to 4 years 605 2 607 56 12 675 Within 4 to 5 years 11 11 36 47 After 5 years 744 744 30 6 780 Total 1,980 64 2,050 4,094 378 20 4,492 2012 Within 1 year 121 16 2,587 2,724 95 2,819 Within 1 to 2 years 505 38 543 69 2 614 Within 2 to 3 years 618 618 57 9 684 Within 3 to 4 years 1 9 10 37 47 Within 4 to 5 years 751 751 30 5 786 After 5 years Total 1,996 63 2,587 4,646 288 16 4,950 1 Difference between nominal redemption and amortized costs Interest rate risk DSM’s interest rate risk policy is aimed at minimizing the interest rate risks associated with the financing of the company and thus at the same time optimizing the net interest costs. This policy translates into a certain desired profile of fixed-interest and floatinginterest positions, including cash and cash equivalents, with the floating-interest position in principle not exceeding 60% of net debt. On 31 December 2012, DSM had no outstanding fixed-floating interest rate swaps other than the pre-hedges for refinancing in 2014 and 2015, respectively (see note 19). The following analysis of the sensitivity of borrowings and related financial derivatives to interest rate movements assumes an immediate 1% change in interest rates for all currencies and maturities from their level on 31 December 2012, with all other variables held constant. A 1% reduction in interest rates would result in a € 6 million pre-tax loss in the income statement on the basis of the composition of financial instruments on 31 December 2012 as floating-rate borrowings are more than compensated for by floatingrate assets (mainly cash). The opposite applies in the case of a 1% increase in interest rates. The sensitivity of the fair value of financial instruments on 31 December 2012 to changes in interest rates is set out in the following table. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 187 2012 2011 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in interest of: amount to change in interest of: +1% (1%) +1% (1%) Current investments 12 12 89 89 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 1,121 2,058 2,058 Short-term borrowings (642) (646) 1 (1) (160) (160) Long-term borrowings (1,922) (2,142) 63 (66) 2,029 (2,239) 80 (85) Interest rate swaps (fixed to floating and prehedges) (112) (112) 90 (104) (27) (27) 77 (91) Currency risk It is DSM’s policy to hedge 100% of the currency risks resulting from sales and purchases at the moment of recognition of the trade receivables and trade payables. In addition, operating companies may – under strict conditions – opt for hedging currency risks from firm commitments and forecasted transactions. The currencies giving rise to these risks are primarily USD, GBP and JPY. The risks arising from currency exposures are regularly reviewed and hedged when appropriate. DSM uses average-rate currency forward contracts, currency forward contracts, spot contracts, and average-rate currency options to hedge the exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. At year-end, these instruments had remaining maturities of less than one year. To hedge intercompany loans, receivables and payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiaries, DSM uses currency swaps or forward contracts. Only for some larger internal loans with a total notional amount of € 1,482 million, hedge accounting is applied for these instruments. On 31 December 2012, the notional amount of the currency forward contracts was € 3,458 million (2011: € 3,358 million). In 2012 DSM hedged USD 919 million (2011 USD 812 million) of its projected net cash flow in USD in 2013, of which USD 379 million against EUR and USD 540 million against CHF by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of USD 1.28 per euro and CHF 0.94 per US dollar, respectively, for the four quarters of 2013. In 2012 DSM also hedged JPY 5,100 million (2011: JPY 7,000 million) of its projected net cash flow in JPY in 2013, of which JPY 4,000 million against Swiss franc and JPY 1,100 million against the euro by means of average-rate currency forward contracts at an average exchange rate of JPY 83 per Swiss franc and JPY 99 per euro, respectively, for the four quarters of 2013. DSM continued the hedge, started in 2011, of projected GBP cash obligation against CHF: GBP 50 million at an average exchange rate of CHF 1.46 per British pound. These hedges have fixed the exchange rate for part of the USD and JPY receipts and GBP payments in 2013. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for these hedges. As a result of similar hedges concluded in 2011 for the year 2012, in 2012 € 25 million negative (2011: € 68 million positive) was recognized in the operating income of the segments involved in accordance with the realization of the expected cash flows. There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The currency risk associated with the translation of DSM's net investment in entities denominated in currencies other than the euro was partially hedged at year-end 2012. CHF-denominated net assets have been partially hedged by currency swaps (2012: CHF 1,061 million; 2011: CHF 1,061 million). USD-denominated net assets have been partially hedged through a USD loan (2012: USD 150 million; 2011 USD 150 million). There was no material ineffectiveness in relation to these hedges. The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in all foreign currency rates against the euro from their level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the foreign currencies against the euro. A -10% change represents a weakening of the foreign currencies against the euro. In 2012 no gains or losses relating to fair value hedges were included in Other financial income and expense (2011: € 13 million gain). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 188 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 2012 2011 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value to amount change in all exchange amount change in all exchange rates of: rates of: +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Current investments 12 12 89 89 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 1,121 56 (56) 2,058 2,058 76 (76) Short-term borrowings (642) (646) (24) 24 (160) (160) (6) 6 Long-term borrowings (1,922) (2,142) (20) 20 (2,029) (2,239) (31) 31 Interest rate swaps (112) (112) (27) (27) Cross currency swaps (53) (53) (216) 216 (104) (104) (132) 132 Currency forward contracts 14 14 29 (29) (1) (1) 66 (66) Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (113) (113) (92) 92 (117) (117) (94) 94 Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 27 27 (28) 28 (27) (27) (31) 31 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve The following analysis of the sensitivity of net borrowings and derivative financial instruments to currency movements against the euro assumes a 10% change in the USD exchange rate against all foreign currencies and the euro from the level on 31 December, with all other variables held constant. A +10% change indicates a strengthening of the USD against the foreign currencies and the euro and a -10% change represents a weakening of the USD against the foreign currencies and the euro. 2012 2011 Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value Carrying Fair value Sensitivity of fair value amount to change in USD amount to change in USD +10% (10%) +10% (10%) Current investments 12 12 89 89 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 1,121 7 (7) 2,058 2,058 3 (3) Short-term borrowings (642) (646) (13) 13 (160) (160) (1) 1 Long-term borrowings (1,922) (2,142) (13) 13 (2,029) (2,239) (26) 26 Interest rate swaps (112) (112) (27) (27) Cross currency swaps (53) (53) (184) 184 (104) (104) (126) 126 Currency forward contracts 14 14 (8) 8 (1) (1) 5 (5) Cross currency swaps related to net investments in foreign entities1 (113) (113) (117) (117) Average-rate forwards used for economic hedging2 27 27 (70) 70 (27) (27) (63) 63 1 Fair-value change reported in Translation reserve 2 Fair-value change reported in Hedging reserve Fair-value changes on these positions will generally be recognized in profit or loss, with the exception of the instruments for which cash flow hedge accounting or net-investment hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedge accounting is applied for the average rate forwards and average-rate currency options used for economic hedging; the fair value changes of these derivatives are Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 189 recognized in the Hedging reserve in equity until recognition of the related cash flows. Net-investment hedge accounting is applied for the cross currency swaps used to protect net investments in foreign entities; the fair-value changes of these derivatives are recognized in the Translation reserve in equity until the net investment is disposed of, to the extent that the changes in fair value are caused by changes in currency-exchange rates. Price risk Financial instruments that are subject to changes in stock exchange prices or indexes are subject to a price risk. At year-end 2012 price risks related to investments in securities were limited. Credit risk DSM manages the credit risk to which it is exposed by applying credit limits per institution and by dealing exclusively with institutions having a high credit rating. In September 2011 individual credit limits for financial institutions were reviewed and reduced by about 50% in anticipation of increasing exposure to credit risk as rising cash levels of DSM coincided with a still questionable stability of banks. Given this economic environment, DSM decided to invest most of its cash position in deposits with a maximum maturity of one month and with banks with a Moody's credit rating of AA3 or higher. This policy has been consistently applied since that time. At the balance sheet date there were no significant concentrations of credit risk. With regard to treasury activities it is ensured that financial transactions are only concluded with counterparties that have at least a Moody's credit rating of P1 for short-term instruments or A3 for long-term instruments. At business group level, outstanding receivables are continuously monitored by the management of the operating companies. Appropriate allowances are made for credit risks that have been identified (as listed in note 13). It is therefore unlikely that significant losses will arise in relation to receivables that have not been provided for. The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets that are recognized in the balance sheet, including derivative financial instruments. No significant agreements or financial instruments were available at the reporting date that would reduce the maximum exposure to credit risk. Information about financial assets is presented in note 10 Associates, note 11 Other financial assets, note 13 Receivables, note 14 Current investments, note 15 Cash and cash equivalents and note 23 Financial instruments and risks. Fair value of financial instruments In the following table the carrying amounts and the estimated fair values of financial instruments are disclosed: 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets Other participations 42 42 47 47 Other non-current receivables 54 54 70 70 Current receivables 1,799 1,799 1,704 1,704 Financial derivatives 62 62 50 50 Current investments 12 12 89 89 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 1,121 2,058 2,058 Liabilities Non-current borrowings 1,922 2,142 2,029 2,239 Other non-current liabilities 94 94 69 69 Current borrowings 642 646 160 160 Financial derivatives 299 299 326 326 Other current liabilities 2,081 2,081 1,905 1,905 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 190 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The following methods and assumptions were used to determine the fair value of financial instruments: cash, current investments, current receivables, current borrowings and other current liabilities are stated at carrying amount, which approximates fair value in view of the short maturity of these instruments. The fair values of financial derivatives and long-term instruments are based on calculations, quoted market prices or quotes obtained from intermediaries. The portfolio of derivatives consists of average rate forward contracts that are valued against average foreign exchange forward rates obtained from Bloomberg and other derivatives that are valued using a discounted cash flow model, applicable market yield curves and foreign exchange spot rates. All inputs for the fair value calculations represent observable market data that are obtained from external sources that are deemed to be independent and reliable. DSM uses the following hierarchy for determining the fair value of financial instruments measured at fair value: Level 1: quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value are observable, either directly or indirectly Level 3: techniques that use inputs that have a significant effect on the fair value that are not based on observable market data. The following table shows the carrying amounts of the financial derivatives recognized, broken down by type and purpose: Fair value hierarchy Assets Liabilities Total Interest rate swaps Level 2 (27) (27) Currency swaps Level 2 3 (224) (221) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 3 (251) (248) Currency forward contracts Level 2 47 (75) (28) Balance at 31 December 2011 50 (326) (276) Interest rate swaps Level 2 (112) (112) Currency swaps Level 2 16 (182) (166) Total financial derivatives related to borrowings 16 (294) (278) Currency forward contracts Level 2 46 (5) 41 Balance at 31 December 2012 62 (299) (237) During the year there were no transfers between individual levels of the fair value hierarchy. 24 Post-employment benefits The group operates a number of defined benefit plans and defined contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which are generally held in separately administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and from the relevant group companies. The group also provides certain additional healthcare benefits to retired employees in the US. Post-employment benefits relate to obligations that will be settled in the future and require assumptions to project benefit obligations. Post-employment benefit accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of post-employment benefits over the employee’s approximate service period, based on the terms of the plans and the investment and funding. The accounting requires management to make assumptions regarding variables such as discount rate, future salary increases, life expectancy, and future healthcare costs. Management consults with external actuaries regarding these assumptions at least annually for significant plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 191 Changes in these key assumptions can have a significant impact Return on plan assets and interest costs on defined benefit on the projected defined benefit obligations, funding obligations which are currently reported in EBITDA will be requirements and periodic costs incurred. reported in financial income and expense from 2013 onwards which will shift approximately € 15 million out of operating The charges for pension costs recognized in the income profit to financial income and expense. statement (note 4) relate to the following: All these changes have been taken into account for the determination of the expected costs for 2013 that are presented 2012 2011 below. Defined benefit plans: For 2013, costs for the defined benefit plans relating to pensions Pension plans 20 29 and healthcare will be € 48 million (2012 € 24 million). Healthcare plans 2 1 Other post-employment benefits 2 2 Changes in Prepaid pension costs and Employee benefits liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are disclosed in the Defined contribution plans 101 93 following overview: Total continuing activities 125 125 Discontinued activities 1 2012 2011 Exceptional items Prepaid pension costs 1 Total 125 126 Employee benefits liabilities (328) (321) Balance at 1 January (328) (320) In 2010 DSM agreed with the labor unions to change the Dutch pension plan as of 2011. The plan was converted from final-pay Changes: to average-pay and as of 1 January 2012 the pensionable age Balance of actuarial was raised from 65 to 66 years, in line with developments in the gains/(losses) (133) (41) Netherlands. The new agreement covers a period of 5 years and Balance of asset ceiling 1 obliges DSM to pay a fixed premium. In view of the fact that DSM Employee benefits costs (24) (32) has no further obligation than to pay the agreed premium, the Contributions by employer 53 65 changed plan has been accounted for as a defined contribution Exchange differences 1 (2) plan since 2011. Reclassification from/to held for sale (2) (1) On 1 January 2013 accounting for defined benefit pension plans Acquisitions / disposals (1) changed as a result of the introduction of the revised IAS 19, Other changes 3 3 ‘Employee Benefits’. Three important changes were introduced. Total changes (102) (8) The application of the corridor mechanism was abolished which means that all actuarial gains and losses had to be Balance at 31 December (430) (328) recognized in other comprehensive income immediately. This change will not impact DSM because immediate recognition Of which: of actuarial gains and losses is already applied since 2006. Prepaid pension costs The expected return on pension assets were no longer used Employee benefits liabilities (430) (328) for the determination of annual pension costs. Instead interest costs or benefits are calculated on the net balance of pension assets and liabilities. Because the expected return on plan The Employee benefits liabilities of € 430 million assets was usually higher than the discount rate this change (2011: € 328 million) consist of € 386 million (2011: € 288 million) will increase annual defined benefit pension costs for DSM by related to pensions, € 31 million (2011: € 28 million) related to approximately € 10 million. healthcare and other costs and € 13 million (2011: € 12 million) related to other post-employment benefits. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 192 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Pensions Fair value of plan assets The DSM group companies have various pension plans, which are geared to the local regulations and practices in the countries 2012 2011 in which they operate. As these plans are designed to comply with the statutory framework, tax legislation, local customs and Balance at 1 January 817 5,440 economic situation of the countries concerned, it follows that the Change in Dutch pension plan (4,699) nature of the plans varies from country to country. The plans are 817 741 based on local legal and contractual obligations. Changes: Expected return on plan assets 40 38 Defined benefit plans are applicable to certain employees in Actuarial gains/(losses) 54 (18) Germany, the UK, Switzerland, the US and Austria. The rights that can be derived from these plans are based primarily on Actual return on plan assets 94 20 length of service and the majority of the plans are based on final Contributions by employer 50 59 salary. The majority of the obligations are funded and have been Contributions by employees 12 11 transferred to independent pension funds and life-insurance Exchange differences 3 22 companies. Benefits paid (45) (36) The most important unfunded plans are in Germany and Austria. Balance at 31 December 931 817 Together they amount to € 274 million (2011: € 213 million). The changes in the present value of the defined benefit The amounts recognized in the balance sheet are as follows: obligations and in the fair value of plan assets of the major plans are listed below: 2012 2011 Present value of defined benefit obligations Present value of funded 2012 2011 obligations (1,036) (886) Fair value of plan assets 931 817 Balance at 1 January 1,105 5,543 Change in Dutch pension plan (4,524) (105) (69) 1,105 1,019 Present value of unfunded Changes: obligations (281) (219) Service costs 27 27 Interest costs 42 40 Funded status (386) (288) Contributions by employees 12 11 Effect of asset ceiling Actuarial (gains)/losses 183 20 Past service costs (8) Net liabilities / net assets (386) (288) Curtailments (1) Exchange differences 2 24 Of which: Benefits paid (45) (36) Liabilities (Employee benefits liabilities) (386) (288) Balance at 31 December 1,317 1,105 Assets (Prepaid pension costs) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 193 The changes in the net assets / liabilities recognized in the balance sheet are as follows: 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January (288) (280) Expense recognized in the income statement (20) (29) Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in Other comprehensive income during the year (129) (38) Asset ceiling recognized directly in Other comprehensive income during the year 1 Contributions by employer 50 59 Exchange differences 1 (1) Balance at 31 December (386) (288) In 2013 DSM is expected to contribute € 42 million (actual 2012: € 50 million) to its defined benefit plans. The major categories of pension-plan assets as a percentage of total plan assets are as follows: 2012 2011 Bonds 59% 61% Equities 27% 28% Property 7% 8% Other 7% 3% The pension-plan assets include neither ordinary DSM shares nor property occupied by DSM. The total expense recognized in the income statement is as follows: 2012 2011 Current service costs 27 27 Interest on obligation 42 40 Expected return on plan assets (40) (38) Past service costs (8) (Gains)/losses on curtailments (1) Costs related to defined benefit plans 20 29 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 194 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The main actuarial assumptions for the year (weighted averages) are: 2012 2011 Plans outside the1 Plans outside the1 Netherlands Netherlands Discount rate 2.80% 3.90% Price inflation 1.82% 2.03% Salary increase 2.69% 2.87% Pension increase 2.13% 2.17% Expected return on plan assets 2.25%-6.57% 2.25%-6.57% 1 In the Netherlands there is only one defined benefit plan which is immaterial for the group The assumptions for the expected return on plan assets are based on a review of historical returns of the asset classes in which the assets of the pension plans are invested and the expected long-term allocation of the assets over these classes. The 2012 assumptions are used for the determination of costs related to defined benefit plans for 2013 with the exception of the expected return on plan assets. Year-end amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligations (1,317) (1,105) (5,543) (4,942) (4,454) Plan assets 931 817 5,440 4,876 4,213 Funded status of asset/(liability) (386) (288) (103) (66) (241) Experience adjustments on plan assets, gain/(loss) 55 (18) 245 485 (1,402) Experience adjustments on plan liabilities, gain/(loss) (27) (8) 35 (40) 26 Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (157) (12) (466) (336) 106 Healthcare and other costs In some countries, particularly in the US, group companies provide retired employees and their surviving dependants with postemployment benefits other than pensions, mainly allowances for healthcare expenses and life-insurance premiums. Some of these are unfunded; in these cases, approved expense claims are reimbursed out of the financial resources of the group companies concerned. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 195 The amounts included in the balance sheet are as follows: 2012 2011 Present value of funded obligations (14) (13) Fair value of plan assets (including reimbursement rights) 7 7 (7) (6) Present value of unfunded obligations (24) (22) Funded status (31) (28) Unrecognized past service costs Net liability (Employee benefits liabilities) (31) (28) The amounts recognized in the income statement are as follows: 2012 2011 Current service costs 1 1 Interest costs 2 2 Expected return on plan assets and reimbursement rights (1) (2) Costs related to healthcare plans 2 1 The changes in the net liability for post-employment healthcare and other costs recognized in the balance sheet (Employee benefits liabilities) can be shown as follows: 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January (28) (23) Expense recognized in the income statement (2) (2) Actuarial gains/(losses) recognized directly in equity (3) (3) Benefits paid/employer contributions 1 1 Exchange differences 1 (1) Balance at 31 December (31) (28) In 2013 DSM is expected to contribute € 2 million (actual 2012: € 1 million) to its post-employment healthcare and other plans. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 196 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM The main actuarial assumptions for post-employment healthcare costs (weighted averages) for the year are: 2012 2011 Discount rate 4.10% 5.00% Price inflation 2.00% 2.75% Salary increase 3.00% 3.75% Healthcare-cost trend (initial rate)1 10.94% 11.00% Healthcare-cost trend (ultimate rate) 4.75% 4.75% 1 Initial pre-medicare trend: 11.00%; initial post-medicare trend: 7.00% The 2012 assumptions are used for the determination of post-employment healthcare costs for 2013. A one-percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following impact: One-percentageOne-percentagepoint increase point decrease 2011 Effect on the aggregate of service costs and interest costs (increase) Effect on defined obligation (increase) (2) 2 2012 Effect on the aggregate of service costs and interest costs (increase) Effect on defined obligation (increase) (2) 2 Amounts for the current and previous periods are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Defined benefit obligations (38) (35) (29) (28) (43) Plan assets (including reimbursement rights) 7 7 6 6 8 Funded status of asset/(liability) (31) (28) (23) (22) (35) Experience adjustments on plan assets / liabilities (loss) (1) 2 (1) 1 Gain/(loss) on liabilities due to changes in assumptions (4) (2) (1) 1 (2) Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 197 25 Net debt The development of the components of net debt is as follows: 2012 2011 Borrowings: Non-current borrowings 1,922 2,029 Current borrowings 642 160 Total borrowings 2,564 2,189 Current investments (12) (89) Cash and cash equivalents (1,121) (2,058) Financial derivatives, assets (see also note 23) (62) (50) Financial derivatives, liabilities (see also note 23) 299 326 Net debt 1,668 318 26 Notes to the cash flow statement The cash flow statement provides an explanation of the changes in cash and cash equivalents. It is prepared on the basis of a comparison of the balance sheets as at 1 January and 31 December. Changes that do not involve cash flows, such as changes in exchange rates, amortization, depreciation, impairment losses and transfers to other balance sheet items, are eliminated. Changes in working capital due to the acquisition or disposal of consolidated companies are included under Investing activities. Most of the changes in the cash flow statement can be traced back to the detailed statements of changes for the balance sheet items concerned. For those balance sheet items for which no detailed statement of changes is included, the table below shows the link between the change according to the balance sheet and the change according to the cash flow statement: 2012 2011 Operating working capital Balance at 1 January 1,776 1,424 Balance at 31 December 1,919 1,776 Balance sheet change 143 352 Adjustments: Exchange differences 20 (27) Changes in consolidation (including acquisitions and disposals) (169) 33 Reclassification from / to held for sale (2) (121) Transfers / non cash value adjustments 24 23 Total change in perating working capital according to the cash flow statement 16 260 In 2012 the operating working capital of continuing operations, before reclassification to assets held for sale was € 1,936 million, which amounts to 20.7% of annualized fourth quarter net sales (2011: 20.2%). Besides the business impact this increase was due to acquisitions, changes in consolidation and an exchange rate effect. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 198 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 27 Share-based compensation Under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, performance based and non-performance based stock options or Share Appreciation Rights (SARs) are granted to senior management. Such a grant takes place on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options and SARs. Since 2011 only stock options have been granted, and Share Appreciation Rights are no longer used as share-based compensation. Stock Options and SARs have a term of eight years and are subject to a vesting period of three years. After this three-year period one third of the stock options and SARs (non-performance-related) will vest and two thirds of the stock options and SARs that are performance based will become exercisable in whole, in part, or not at all, depending on the total shareholder return (TSR) achieved by DSM in comparison with a peer group. Non-vested performance based stock options and SARs will be forfeited. If employment is terminated prior to the vesting date, specific rules regarding vesting and forfeitures apply. The exercise of stock incentives is regulated. Since 2010 only performance shares have been granted to the members of the Managing Board (no longer stock options). Performance shares vest after three years upon the realization of a predefined performance measure. The performance schedule is the same as that for stock options. All stock options and performance shares are settled by physical delivery of DSM shares, while SARs are settled in cash. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 199 Overview of stock options and Share Appreciation Rights for management Year of issue Outstanding In 2012 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Expiry date at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) 2011 price (€ ) expired 2012 date (€ ) 2004 124,275 (113,725) 41.99 (10,550) 2.97 17.90 2 Apr. 2012 2005 246,228 (211,953) 42.51 (1,875) 32,400 6.15 29.05 8 Apr. 2013 2006 668,831 (278,931) 43.77 (5,000) 384,900 8.95 38.30 31 Mar. 2014 2007 1,078,392 (381,516) 43.69 (3,125) 693,751 7.69 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 1,491,526 (621,800) 43.28 (3,125) 866,601 5.73 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 20091,2 2,801,313 (1,042,951) 43.22 (862,287)3 896,075 2.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 1 2,921,763 (135,450) 42.94 (186,875) 3 2,599,438 6.07 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 20111 3,214,438 (196,000)3 3,018,438 9.60 46.20 2 May 2019 2012 3,304,813 (24,000)3 3,280,813 6.88 40.90 15 May 2020 2012 Total 12,546,766 3,304,813 (2,786,326) 43.23 (1,292,837) 11,772,416 Of which vested 4,104,602 3,382,177 at 31 Dec. at 31 Dec. 2010 2011 2011 Total 13,215,892 3,286,038 (3,059,315) 44.68 (895,849) 12,546,766 Of which vested 4,379,866 4,104,602 1 Stock options will partly vest, and may therefore be immediately exercised, upon termination of employment in connection with retirement or early retirement. The remaining term to exercise stock options or SARs after their vesting as a result of retirement or early retirement is limited to three years (the remaining term to exercise in the case of regular vesting is five years). 2 Based on TSR performance, the stock incentives tied to performance granted in 2009 did only partially vest; the remaining part has been forfeited. 3 Number of forfeited options included: (2009) 862.287, (2010) 174.875, (2011) 184.000 and (2012) 24.000. Certain employees in the Netherlands are entitled to employee stock options that are granted on the first day on which the DSM stock is quoted ex-dividend following the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. The opening price of the DSM stock on that day is the exercise price of the stock options. Employee stock options can immediately be exercised and have a term of 5 years. Overview of stock options for employees Year of issue Outstanding In 2012 Outstanding Fair value Exercise Exercise at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Average Forfeited/ at 31 Dec. on grant price (€ ) period 2011 price (€ ) expired 2012 date (€ ) until 2007 137,314 (117,937) 42.74 (19,377) 4.27 33.60 Mar. 2012 2008 128,643 (48,174) 43.00 (1,665) 78,804 3.27 29.79 Mar. 2013 2009 147,014 (39,507) 42.85 (2,058) 105,449 2.31 21.10 Mar. 2014 2011 602,305 (28,295) 574,010 10.35 46.20 May 2016 2012 636,810 (40,565) 44.99 (16,440) 579,805 6.79 40.90 May 2017 2012 Total 1,015,276 636,810 (246,183) 43.18 (67,835) 1,338,068 2011 Total 974,067 694,490 (483,203) 43.30 (170,078) 1,015,276 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 200 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Based on the 2009 result, no employee option rights were granted in 2010. Measurement of fair value The costs of option plans are measured by reference to the fair value of the options at the date at which the options are granted. The fair value is determined using the Black-Scholes model, taking into account market conditions linked to the price of the DSM share. Stock-price volatility is determined on the basis of historical volatilities of the DSM share price measured each month over a period equal to the expected option life. The costs of these options are recognized in the income statement (Employee benefits costs). The following assumptions were used in the Black-Scholes model to determine the fair value at grant date: 2012 2011 Management options Risk-free rate 0.80% 2.79% Expected option life in years 6 6 Nominal option life in years 8 8 Share price 40.9 46.2 Exercise price 40.9 46.2 Volatility 28% 26% Expected dividend 3.55% 2.92% Fair value of option granted 6.88 9.6 Employee options Risk-free rate 0.25% 2.11% Expected option life in years 2.5 2.5 Nominal option life in years 5 5 Share price 40.9 46.2 Exercise price 40.9 46.2 Volatility 34% 40% Expected dividend 3.55% 2.92% Fair value of option granted 6.79 10.35 In the costs for wages and salaries an amount of € 25 million is included for share-based compensation (2011: € 19 million). In the following table the share-based compensation is specified: 2012 2011 Stock options 17 18 Share appreciation rights 7 0 Performance shares 1 1 Total expense 25 19 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 201 28 Interests in joint ventures DSM’s share in its most important joint ventures (joint ventures with a net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) is disclosed below: Company Location Country DSM interest 2012 2011 DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals, Ltd.1 Hong Kong CN 50% 50% DEXPlastomers V.o.F. Heerlen NL 50% 50% Percivia LLC Wilmington US 50% 50% POET-DSM Advanced Biofuels LLC Sioux Falls US 50% 1 The joint venture was started on 1 September 2011 The financial data of all joint ventures are included in the consolidated financial statements according to the method of proportionate consolidation. DSM’s interests in the assets and liabilities, income and expense of all these joint ventures, before reclassification to held for sale, are disclosed below (on a 50% basis): 2012 2011 Non-current assets 201 130 Current assets 232 207 Non-current liabilities (32) (37) Current liabilities (182) (154) Net assets 219 146 Net sales 254 112 Expenses (284) (106) Net profit (30) 6 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 202 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM 29 Interests in associates DSM’s share in its most important associates (associates with a net asset value higher than € 25 million on a 100% basis) is disclosed below: Company Location Country DSM interest 2012 2011 Xinhui Meida DSM Nylon Chips Co., Ltd. Guangzhou CN 25% 25% Investments in associates are accounted for by the equity method. The following table provides summarized financial information on all associates on a 100% basis. 2012 20111 Non-current assets 79 77 Current assets 145 176 Non-current liabilities (48) (43) Current liabilities (92) (159) Net assets 84 51 Net sales 460 443 Net result 5 1 Before reclassification to held for sale 30 Related parties Koninklijke DSM N.V. is the group holding company that is listed on the NYSE Euronext stock exchange in Amsterdam. The financial statements of the company are included in the chapter Parent company financial statements. In the ordinary course of business, DSM buys and sells goods and services to various related parties in which DSM has significant influence. Transactions are conducted under terms and conditions that are equivalent to those that apply to arm's length transactions. In 2011 significant transactions with Sitech Manufacturing Services C.V. occurred. This unit was consolidated until the second quarter of 2011 and became associate as of July 2011 (see note 2). Transactions and relationships with related parties are reported in the table below. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 203 20121 20111 Sales to related parties 147 135 Purchases from related parties 266 249 Loans to related parties 13 13 Receivables from related parties 23 33 Payables to related parties 40 20 1 Relates to continuing operations of DSM and includes the full year DSM has provided guarantees to third parties for debts of associates for an amount of € 85 million (2011: € 85 million). Other related-parties disclosure relates entirely to the key management of DSM, being represented by the company's Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The total remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditures and other commitments and excluding costs related to long term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 6.5 million (2011: € 5.5 million). This includes fixed annual salary including other items to the amount of € 3.2 million (2011: € 3.1 million), short-term incentives to the amount of € 2.2 million (2011: € 2.0 million), and pension expenditure amounting to € 0.4 million (2011: € 0.4 million). In 2012 the costs included an amount of € 0.7 million in respect of the non-recurring Dutch crisis levy. For further information about the remuneration of the members of the Managing Board see note 10 to the financial statements of the parent company. Members of the Supervisory Board received a fixed remuneration (included in General and administrative) totaling € 0.5 million (2011: € 0.3 million). Further information about the remuneration of Managing Board members and Supervisory Board members and their share option rights is given in the report by the Supervisory Board, from page 122 onwards. 31 Service fees paid to external auditors The service fees recognized in the financial statements 2012 for the service of Ernst & Young amounted to € 2.7 million (2011: € 3.2 million). The amounts per service category are shown in the following table. Total service fee Of which Ernst & Young Accountants LLP (Netherlands) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Audit of the financial statements 4.8 4.4 2.2 1.9 Other assurance services 0.5 1.3 0.5 1.3 Total assurance services 5.3 5.7 2.7 3.2 Tax services 2.1 1.9 Sundry services 0.5 0.4 Total 7.9 8.0 2.7 3.2 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 204 Consolidated financial statements Summary of significant accounting policies Consolidated statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 205 Parent company financial statements Balance sheet at 31 December of Koninklijke DSM N.V. x € million Notes 2012 2011 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 2 424 411 Property, plant and equipment 3 18 10 Financial assets 4 12,336 12,118 Deferred tax assets 114 91 Other non-current assets 2 5 12,894 12,635 Current assets Receivables 5 131 135 Cash and cash equivalents 41 40 172 175 Total 13,066 12,810 Shareholders' equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 6 Share capital 338 338 Share premium 489 489 Treasury shares (479) (698) Other reserves 429 274 Retained earnings 4,809 4,567 Proft for the year 288 814 5,874 5,784 Non-current liabilities Provisions 7 1 2 Borrowings 8 1,848 1,962 1,849 1,964 Current liabilities Provisions 7 1 Borrowings 8 414 Financial derivatives 262 181 Other current liabilities 9 4,667 4,880 5,343 5,062 Total 13,066 12,810 Income statement x € million 2012 2011 Share in results of subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates (after income tax expense) 406 868 Other income and expense (118) (54) Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 288 814 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 206 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 1 General Unless stated otherwise, all amounts are in € million. The Parent company financial statements are the financial statements of Koninklijke DSM N.V., which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the Netherlands. The accounting policies used are the same as those used in the consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the provisions of article 362-8 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. In these separate financial statements investments in subsidiaries are accounted for using the net asset value. The balance sheet presentation is aligned with the consolidated financial statements in order to enhance transparency and facilitate understanding. In conformity with article 402, Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, a condensed income statement is included in the separate financial statements of the parent company. A list of DSM participations has been filed with the Chamber of Commerce for Limburg (Netherlands) and is available from the company upon request. The list can also be downloaded from the company’s website. Information on the use of financial instruments and on related risks for the group is provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements of Royal DSM. 2 Intangible assets The carrying amount of intangible assets mainly comprises goodwill on the acquisition of NeoResins in 2005 (€ 358 million), Crina in 2006 (€ 8 million) and Pentapharm in 2007 (€ 32 million). 3 Property, plant and equipment This item mainly relates to land and buildings and corporate IT projects. Capital expenditure in 2012 was € 9 million (2011: € 2 million), while the depreciation charge in 2012 was € 1 million (2011: € 1 million). The historical cost of property, plant and equipment as at 31 December 2012 was € 57 million (2011: € 48 million); accumulated depreciation amounted to € 39 million (2011: € 38 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 207 4 Financial assets Total Subsidiaries Other loans Share in equity Loans Balance at 1 January 2011 11,383 11,055 315 13 Changes: Share in profit 868 868 Dividend received (593) (593) Capital payments 553 553 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (31) (31) Net asset ceiling 1 1 Intra-group transfers 81 81 Change in Fair value reserve (65) (65) Change in Hedging reserve (48) (48) Exchange differences 67 67 Disposals (94) (94) New loans 2 2 Transfers (6) (6) Balance at 31 December 2011 12,118 11,794 315 9 Changes: Share in profit 406 406 Dividend received (557) (557) Capital payments 442 442 Net actuarial gains/(losses) (100) (100) Change in Fair value reserve (7) (7) Change in Hedging reserve 62 62 Exchange differences (23) (23) New loans 1 1 Transfers (6) (6) Balance at 31 December 2012 12,336 12,017 315 4 5 Receivables 2012 2011 Receivable from subsidiaries 113 92 Loans to subsidiaries 8 Other receivables / deferred items 18 35 Total 131 135 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 208 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements 6 Shareholders' equity 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 5,784 5,481 Net profit 288 814 Exchange differences, net of income tax (27) 53 Net actuarial gains/(losses) on defined benefit obligations (100) (31) Net asset ceiling related to defined benefit plans 1 Dividend (254) (242) Repurchase of shares (357) Proceeds from reissue of ordinary shares 182 201 Other changes 1 (136) Balance at 31 December 5,874 5,784 For details see the consolidated statement of changes in equity (note 16). Legal reserve Since the profits retained in Koninklijke DSM N.V.'s subsidiaries can be distributed, and received in the Netherlands, no legal reserve for retained profits is required. In Shareholders' equity an amount of € 245 million (2011: € 273 million) is included for Translation reserve, -€ 29 million (2011: -€ 21 million) for Hedging reserve and -€ 24 million (2011: -€ 16 million) for Fair value reserve. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 209 7 Provisions The total of non-current and current provisions decreased by € 2 million compared to 2011. This is the net effect of the following changes: Environmental costs Other provisions Total Balance at 1 January 2011 3 3 6 Changes in 2011: Additions Uses (1) (1) Releases (2) (2) Total changes (1) (2) (3) Balance at 31 December 2011 2 1 3 Of which current 1 1 Balance at 1 January 2012 2 1 3 Changes in 2012: Additions Uses (1) (1) (2) Releases Total changes (1) (1) (2) Balance at 31 December 2012 1 1 Of which current 8 Borrowings 2012 2011 Total Of which current Total Of which current Debenture loans 1,734 1,729 Private loans 228 114 233 Commercial paper 300 300 Total 2,262 414 1,962 At 31 December 2012, there were no borrowings with a remaining term of more than 5 years (31 December 2011: € 744 million). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 210 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements The repayment schedule for borrowings (excluding commercial 9 Other current liabilities paper) is as follows: 2012 2011 2012 2011 Owing to subsidiaries 4,585 4,781 2013 114 117 Other liabilities 38 57 2014 499 497 Deferred items 44 42 2015 604 604 2016 and 2017 745 744 Total 4,667 4,880 2018 through 2022 Total 1,962 1,962 Contingent liabilities Guarantee obligations on behalf of affiliated companies and third parties amounted to € 199 million (31 December 2011: In agreements governing loans with a residual amount at year€ 178 million). Koninklijke DSM N.V. has declared in writing that end 2012 of € 1,962 million, of which € 114 million of a current it accepts several liabilities for debts arising from acts-in-law of nature (31 December 2011: € 1,962 million, of which none of a a number of consolidated companies. These debts are included current nature), clauses have been included which restrict the in the consolidated balance sheet. provision of security. More information on borrowings is provided in note 19 (Borrowings) to the consolidated financial statements. 10 Remuneration of the members of the Managing Board Remuneration The remuneration of the members of the Managing Board is determined by the Supervisory Board within the framework of the remuneration policy as approved by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders. More details about the remuneration policy are included in the Report by the Supervisory Board from page 122 onwards. The remuneration and related costs (including pension expenditure and other commitments and excluding costs related to long term incentives) of the current members of the Managing Board amounted to € 6.5 million (2011: € 5.5 million). Total costs for DSM in 2012 included € 0.7 million in respect of the non-recurring Dutch crisis levy, which is a payment to the Dutch tax authorities based on salaries paid to executives that does not benefit the executives privately. The remuneration of the individual current members of the Managing Board and the related amounts of crisis levy were as follows: x € thousand Salary including other items Short-term incentive Pension expenditure Crisis levy 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Feike Sijbesma 9571 847 657 684 124 110 255 Stefan Doboczky 554 601 279 n.a. 81 49 72 Nico Gerardu 551 532 431 464 81 75 195 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 551 532 424 444 81 75 101 Stephan Tanda 554 559 412 452 81 75 75 Total 3,167 3,071 2,203 2,044 448 384 698 1 Including a one time payment in 2012 with respect to 25 years of service Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 211 Outstanding and exercised stock incentives The following table shows the stock incentives of the individual members of the Managing Board and the rights exercised. Overview of stock options Year of issue Outstanding at In 2012 Outstanding at Average share Exercise Expiry date 31 Dec. 2011 Exercised Forfeited/ 31 Dec. 2012 price at price (€ ) expired exercise (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 2005 7,500 (7,500) 40.51 29.05 8 Apr. 2013 2006 15,000 15,000 38.30 31 Mar. 2014 2007 22,500 22,500 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 28,125 28,125 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 37,500 (18,750) 18,750 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 Total 110,625 (7,500) (18,750) 84,375 Of which vested 73,125 84,375 Stefan Doboczky 2008 9,375 (9,375) 40.83 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 36,000 (24,000) (12,000) 40.83 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 2010 36,000 36,000 33.10 6 Apr. 2018 Total 81,375 (33,375) (12,000) 36,000 Of which vested 9,375 Nico Gerardu 2005 18,000 (18,000) 43.14 29.05 8 Apr. 2013 2006 15,000 15,000 38.30 31 Mar. 2014 2007 22,500 22,500 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 (15,000) 15,000 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 Total 108,000 (18,000) (15,000) 75,000 Of which vested 78,000 75,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 2007 22,500 22,500 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 (15,000) 15,000 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 Total 75,000 (15,000) 60,000 Of which vested 45,000 60,000 Stephan Tanda 2007 22,500 22,500 33.60 30 Mar. 2015 2008 22,500 22,500 29.79 28 Mar. 2016 2009 30,000 (15,000) 15,000 21.10 27 Mar. 2017 Total 75,000 (15,000) 60,000 Of which vested 45,000 60,000 Since 2010 the Managing Board has been granted performance shares instead of stock options. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 212 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Overview of performance shares Year of issue Outstanding In 2012 Outstanding Vested as of Year of Share price at 31 Dec. Granted Exercised Forfeited / at 31 Dec. 31 Dec. vesting at date 2011 expired 2012 2012 of grant (€ ) Feike Sijbesma 20051 2,000 2,000 2,000 2008 29.05 20061 4,000 4,000 4,000 2009 38.30 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.60 20081 7,500 7,500 7,500 2011 29.79 20091 10,000 (5,000) 5,000 5,000 2012 21.10 2010 28,500 28,500 33.10 2011 24,000 24,000 46.20 2012 31,000 31,000 40.90 Total 82,000 31,000 (5,000) 108,000 24,500 Stefan Doboczky 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 Total 16,000 20,000 36,000 Nico Gerardu 20061 4,000 4,000 4,000 2009 38.30 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.60 20081 6,000 6,000 6,000 2011 29.79 20091 8,000 (4,000) 4,000 4,000 2012 21.10 2010 19,000 19,000 33.10 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 Total 59,000 20,000 (4,000) 75,000 20,000 Rolf-Dieter Schwalb 20071 6,000 6,000 6,000 2010 33.60 20081 6,000 6,000 6,000 2011 29.79 20091 8,000 (4,000) 4,000 4,000 2012 21.10 2010 19,000 19,000 33.10 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 Total 55,000 20,000 (4,000) 71,000 16,000 Stephan Tanda 20071 3,956 3,956 3,956 2010 33.60 20081 6,000 6,000 6,000 2011 29.79 20091 8,000 (4,000) 4,000 4,000 2012 21.10 2010 19,000 19,000 33.10 2011 16,000 16,000 46.20 2012 20,000 20,000 40.90 Total 52,956 20,000 (4,000) 68,956 13,956 1 The shares of the series 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009 have vested and have been delivered to the individual Board members. The retention period expires in the fifth year after the year of vesting or at termination of employment if this occurs earlier. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 213 Shares In addition to the performance shares granted under the DSM Stock Incentive Plan, the current members of the Managing Board have themselves invested in DSM shares. At year-end 2012 the current members of the Managing Board together held 64,556 shares (year-end 2011: 60,056) in Koninklijke DSM N.V. Loans The company does not provide any loans to members of the Managing Board. 11 Remuneration of the members of the Supervisory Board The total remuneration (annual fixed fee and annual committee membership fee) of the members of the Supervisory Board amounted to € 0.5 million (2011: € 0.3 million). The remuneration of the individual members of the Supervisory Board was as follows: in € Annual fixed fee Committee fee Other costs Total 2012 2011 Rob Routs, chairman from 28 April 2011 64,602 12,333 1,250 78,185 59,268 Ewald Kist, deputy chairman 46,401 12,333 4,804 63,538 51,845 Victoria Haynes (from 11 May 2012) 31,923 6,666 9,938 48,527 n.a. Pierre Hochuli 46,401 13,500 1,250 61,151 48,255 Eileen Kennedy (from 11 May 2012) 31,923 3,333 9,938 45,194 n.a. Pauline van der Meer Mohr (from 28 April 2011) 46,401 12,333 4,804 63,538 37,544 Claudio Sonder 46,401 13,500 7,250 67,151 48,255 Tom de Swaan 46,401 16,167 4,804 67,372 53,678 Cor Herkströter, chairman until 28 April 2011 20,750 Total 360,453 90,165 44,038 494,656 319,595 Total 2011 245,010 58,668 15,917 319,595 At year-end 2012 the members of the Supervisory Board held no shares in Koninklijke DSM N.V. (same as in 2011). Heerlen, 18 February 2013 Heerlen, 19 February 2013 Managing Board, Supervisory Board, Feike Sijbesma, CEO/Chairman Rob Routs, Chairman Rolf-Dieter Schwalb, CFO Ewald Kist, Deputy Chairman Stefan Doboczky Victoria Haynes Nico Gerardu Pierre Hochuli Stephan Tanda Eileen Kennedy Pauline van der Meer Mohr Claudio Sonder Tom de Swaan Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 214 Parent company financial statements Notes to the parent company financial statements Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 215 Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the of the entity's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating Financial Statements the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, To the Shareholders and the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained Report on the financial statements is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit We have audited the accompanying financial statements 2012 opinion. of Koninklijke DSM N.V. (hereafter: Royal DSM), Heerlen. The financial statements include the consolidated financial Opinion with respect to the consolidated financial statements statements and the company financial statements. The In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true consolidated financial statements comprise the consolidated and fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 balance sheet as at 31 December 2012, the consolidated December 2012, its result and its cash flows for the year then income statement, the consolidated statement of ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes Standards as adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 in equity and the consolidated cash flow statement for the year of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. then ended, and notes, comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The Opinion with respect to the company financial statements parent company financial statements comprise the company In our opinion, the company financial statements give a true and balance sheet as at 31 December 2012, the company income fair view of the financial position of Royal DSM as at 31 December statement for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a 2012 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with summary of the accounting policies and other explanatory Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. information. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Management's responsibility Pursuant to the legal requirement under Section 2:393 sub 5 at Management is responsible for the preparation and fair e and f of the Dutch Civil Code, we have no deficiencies to report presentation of these financial statements in accordance with as a result of our examination whether the Report by the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Managing Board as set out on page 10 to page 122 , to the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance with Code, and for the preparation of the Report by the Managing Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the information as Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b-h has been annexed. Code. Furthermore management is responsible for such internal Further we report that the Report by the Managing Board as set control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation out on page 10 to page 122 , to the extent we can assess, is of the financial statements that are free from material consistent with the financial statements as required by Section misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 2:391 sub 4 of the Dutch Civil Code. Auditor's responsibility Eindhoven, February 19, 2013 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of P.J.A.M. Jongstra, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 216 Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Independent Assurance Report on The main procedures that we have performed with respect to Sustainability Information the Sustainability Information are: To the Supervisory Board and shareholders of Royal DSM assessing the suitability of the reporting principles used and its consistent application; Engagement reviewing the design and existence of systems and processes We have reviewed the Sustainability Information in the for information management, internal control and processing accompanying Integrated Annual Report 2012 of Koninklijke of the qualitative and quantitative data in the Sustainability DSM N.V. (hereafter Royal DSM). The Sustainability Information Information, at corporate level; comprises the following sections DSM in motion: driving focused interviews of relevant staff at corporate level responsible for growth, Growth driver: Sustainability, Stakeholder engagement, the reported information on specific issues including People in 2012 and Planet in 2012 (hereafter ’the Sustainability sustainability strategy, employee engagement survey, ECO+ Information‘), as included in the Report by the Managing Board and safety; on page 10 to page 122 in the Integrated Annual Report 2012. reviewing, on a test basis, whether the qualitative information is supported by sufficient evidence; Responsibility reviewing the environmental data submitted by all sites for The Managing Board of Royal DSM is responsible for the central aggregation, together with an assessment of the preparation of the Sustainability Information, stakeholder quality of the data validation process at corporate level; engagement and the selection of material topics in accordance reviewing the people data submitted by all Business Groups with the criteria applied. The decisions made by management in for central aggregation, together with an assessment of the respect of the scope of the Integrated Report and the internal quality of the data validation process at corporate level; reporting guidelines are set forth in the section entitled Reporting reviewing the results of procedures performed as part of the policy in the Integrated report from page 110 . Our responsibility Operational Audits at key Royal DSM sites in 2010-2012 with is to provide limited assurance that the Sustainability Information respect to Sustainability Information carried out by the is correctly presented in accordance with the criteria applied. Corporate Operational Audit department of Royal DSM; reviews on the results of people and environmental data trends Criteria applied and the explanations provided in the Sustainability Information Royal DSM applies the G3 guidelines of the Global Reporting and discussed these with management at corporate level; Initiative supported with the internal reporting guidelines as media and internet searches on environmental, safety and described in the Reporting Policy from page 110 . It is important social issues relating to Royal DSM, to obtain information on to view the performance data in the context of these criteria. We relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period; believe that these criteria are suitable in the view of the purpose evaluating the overall view presented in the Sustainability of our assurance engagement. Information and reviewing it against the GRI application level declared by Royal DSM in the letter of the Chairman from page Procedures performed 6. We conducted our engagement in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards 3410N, Assurance Engagements We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is with respect to Sustainability Reports. This requires that we sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform procedures to obtain sufficient and appropriate evidence to Conclusion substantiate our conclusion. Procedures to obtain limited level Based on our assurance procedures performed to obtain limited of assurance are less extensive in relation to both the risk assurance on the Sustainability Information, nothing came to our assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability control, and the procedures performed in response to the Information is not, in all material respects, correctly presented in assessed risks, than those for a reasonable level of assurance accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) of and therefore less assurance is provided. the Global Reporting Initiative and the internal reporting criteria as described from page 110 . Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 217 Other Profit appropriation We also report, to the extent of our competence, that information on sustainability in other sections of the Integrated Annual Report According to article 32 of the Articles of Association of Koninklijke is consistent with the Sustainability Information. DSM N.V. and with the approval of the Supervisory Board, every year the Managing Board determines the portion of the net profit Eindhoven, 19 February 2013 to be appropriated to the reserves. For the year 2012 the net profit is € 288 million and the amount to be appropriated to the reserves has been established at € 25 million. From the subsequent balance of the net profit (€ 263 million), dividend is first distributed on the cumulative preference shares B. At the end of 2012 no cumprefs B were in issue. Subsequently, a 4.348% dividend is distributed on the cumulative preference shares A, based on a share price of € 5.29 per cumulative preference share A. For 2012 this distribution amounts to € 0.23 per share, which is € 10 million in total. An interim dividend P.J.A.M. Jongstra, Ernst & Young Accountants LLP of € 0.08 per cumulative preference share A having been paid in August 2012, the final dividend will then amount to € 0.15 per cumulative preference share A. The profits remaining after distribution of these dividends on the cumulative preference shares A (€ 278 million) will be put at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the provisions of Article 32, section 6 of the Articles of Association. The Managing Board proposes a dividend on ordinary shares outstanding for the year 2012 of € 1.50 per share. An interim dividend of € 0.48 per ordinary share having been paid in August 2012, the final dividend would then amount to € 1.02 per ordinary share. If the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders makes a decision in accordance with the proposal, the net profit will be appropriated as follows: in € million 2012 2011 Net profit 288 814 Profit appropriation: To be added to the reserves 25 567 Dividend on cumprefs A 10 10 Interim dividend on ordinary shares 80 74 Final dividend distributable on ordinary shares 173 163 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 218 Other information Independent Auditor's Report on the Financial Statements Independent Assurance Report on Sustainability Information Profit appropriation Special statutory rights Important dates Special statutory rights On 31 December 2012 the board of the Foundation was composed as follows: DSM Preference Shares Foundation The DSM Preference Shares Foundation was established in Gerard Kleisterlee, chairman 1989. Cees Maas, vice-chairman Mick den Boogert By virtue of DSM's Articles of Association, 375,000,000 cumulative preference shares B can be issued. The listing Important dates prospectus of 1989 stated that if, without the approval of the Managing Board and Supervisory Board, either a bid is made for the ordinary shares or a significant participation in ordinary Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shares is built up, or such an event is likely to occur, then these The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders is to be held at the DSM preference shares B may be issued, which shares shall have the head office in Heerlen (Netherlands) on Friday, 3 May 2013 at 14.00 same voting rights as the ordinary shares. hours. Under an agreement entered into in 1999, and subsequently Important dates amended, between the DSM Preference Shares Foundation and Publication of first-quarter results Thursday, 2 May 2013 DSM, the Foundation has the right to acquire such preference Ex-dividend quotation Tuesday, 7 May 2013 shares (call option) to a maximum corresponding to 100% of the Publication of second-quarter capital issued in any form other than preference shares B, less results Tuesday, 6 August 2013 one. Publication of third-quarter results Tuesday, 5 November 2013 Annual report 2013 Wednesday, 26 February 2014 The objective of the Foundation is to promote the interest of DSM, and the enterprise maintained by DSM and all parties connected therewith, whereby influences that would threaten the continuity, independence or identity, contrary to the aforementioned interests, are resisted to the maximum extent possible. The purpose of the agreement with the Foundation is, among other things, for the Foundation to allow DSM the opportunity to determine its position, for example with regard to a possible bidder for DSM shares or a party or parties tempting to obtain (de facto) control, to examine any plans in detail and, to the extent applicable, to look for (better) alternatives. Preference shares B will not be outstanding longer than necessary. As soon as there are no longer any reasons for the preference shares B to remain outstanding, the Managing Board will convene a General Meeting of Shareholders and recommend the cancellation of the preference shares B that are still outstanding. The Foundation acquired no preference shares B in 2012. The DSM Preference Shares Foundation is an independent legal entity within the meaning of article 5:71, first paragraph, under c of the Dutch Act on Financial Supervision (Wet op het financieel toezicht). Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 219 DSM figures: five-year summary Balance sheet x € million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Assets Intangible assets 2,793 1,786 1,070 1,053 1,200 Property, plant and equipment 3,811 3,405 2,943 3,477 3,641 Deferred tax assets 340 292 326 322 392 Prepaid pension costs 1 282 137 Associates 40 35 25 18 19 Other financial assets 141 135 270 233 176 Non-current assets 7,125 5,653 4,635 5,385 5,565 Inventories 1,803 1,573 1,340 1,359 1,765 Receivables 1,799 1,704 1,477 1,410 1,632 Financial derivatives 62 50 134 88 86 Current investments 12 89 837 7 4 Cash and cash equivalents 1,121 2,058 1,453 1,340 601 4,797 5,474 5,241 4,204 4,088 Assets to be contributed to joint ventures 317 Other assets held for sale 44 30 287 25 Current assets 4,841 5,504 5,845 4,229 4,088 Total assets 11,966 11,157 10,480 9,614 9,653 Equity and liabilities Shareholders' equity 5,874 5,784 5,481 4,949 4,633 Non-controlling interests 168 190 96 62 62 Equity 6,042 5,974 5,577 5,011 4,695 Deferred tax liabilities 236 192 155 115 122 Employee benefits liabilities 388 322 297 298 314 Provisions 125 116 93 103 190 Borrowings 1,922 2,029 1,992 2,066 1,559 Other non-current liabilities 94 69 33 49 65 Non-current liabilities 2,765 2,728 2,570 2,631 2,250 Employee benefits liabilities 42 6 24 26 33 Provisions 81 43 33 102 82 Borrowings 642 160 105 138 734 Financial derivatives 299 326 219 61 179 Current liabilities 2,081 1,905 1,789 1,638 1,680 3,145 2,440 2,170 1,965 2,708 Liabilities to be contributed to joint ventures 104 Other liabilities held for sale 14 15 59 7 Current liabilities 3,159 2,455 2,333 1,972 2,708 Total equity and liabilities 11,966 11,157 10,480 9,614 9,653 Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 220 DSM figures: five-year summary Income statement x € million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Net sales 9,131 9,193 9,050 7,866 9,297 Operating profit plus depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) 1,109 1,325 1,278 917 1,357 Operating profit (EBIT) 635 895 838 443 903 Net finance costs (94) (82) (93) (113) (102) Income tax expense (96) (155) (185) (83) (196) Share of the profit of associates 2 3 5 (4) (3) Net profit before exceptional items 447 661 565 243 602 Net profit from exceptional items (149) 199 (40) 93 (31) Profit for the year 298 860 525 336 571 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests (10) (46) (18) 1 6 Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. 288 814 507 337 577 Dividend on cumulative preference shares (10) (10) (10) (10) (10) Net profit available to holders of ordinary shares 278 804 497 327 567 Key figures and ratios Capital employed1 8,084 6,581 5,468 5,673 6,558 Capital expenditure: Intangible assets and Property, plant and equipment 715 528 427 472 587 Acquisitions 1,265 974 49 (5) 152 Disposals 46 742 377 287 27 Depreciation, amortization and impairments 474 430 440 474 454 Net debt 1,668 318 (108) 830 1,781 Dividend 263 247 234 205 204 Workforce at 31 December, headcount 23,498 22,224 21,911 22,738 23,591 Employee benefits costs (x € million) 1,761 1,655 1,566 1,532 1,465 Ratios1 ROCE in % 8.9 14.3 15.0 7.2 14.4 Net sales / average capital employed 1.29 1.53 1.62 1.29 1.48 Current assets / current liabilities 1.53 2.24 2.42 2.14 1.51 Equity / total assets 0.50 0.54 0.53 0.52 0.49 Gearing (net debt / equity plus net debt) 0.22 0.05 (0.02) 0.14 0.28 EBIT / net sales in % 7.0 9.7 9.3 5.6 9.7 Net profit / average Shareholders' equity available to holders of ordinary shares in % 5.0 14.9 10.0 7.2 11.9 EBITDA / net finance costs 11.8 16.2 13.7 8.1 13.3 1 Before reclassification to held for sale Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 221 Information about ordinary DSM shares per ordinary share in € 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Core earnings 2.78 3.66 2.97 1.52 3.72 Net profit before exceptional items 2.58 3.66 3.27 1.44 3.64 Net profit 1.68 4.86 3.03 2.01 3.45 Cash flow 4.82 7.89 5.62 6.05 6.20 Dividend: 1.501 1.45 1.35 1.20 1.20 Interim dividend 0.48 0.45 0.40 0.40 0.40 Final dividend 1.02 1.00 0.95 0.80 0.80 Pay-out including dividend on cumulative preference shares as % of net profit before exceptional items 58 39 38 84 36 Dividend yield (dividend as % of average price of an ordinary DSM share) 3.7 3.6 3.8 4.8 3.9 Share prices on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam (closing price): Highest price 46.29 46.82 42.85 34.84 41.27 Lowest price 36.33 30.54 30.43 16.93 15.76 At 31 December 45.79 35.85 42.61 34.46 18.33 (x 1000) Number of ordinary shares outstanding: At 31 December 168,684 163,257 166,468 163,037 162,227 Average 165,543 165,567 164,047 162,364 164,196 Daily trading volumes on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam: Average 823 1,028 995 1,270 1,783 Lowest 225 191 85 75 152 Highest 2,720 3,512 3,629 4,376 5,894 1 Subject to approval by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 222 DSM figures: five-year summary Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 223 Explanation of some concepts and ratios PEOPLE United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights Absenteeism On 10 December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Absenteeism at DSM is determined by calculating the total Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of absence due to illness in hours as a percentage of the total Human Rights. Following this historic act, the Assembly called number of available working hours. The total number of available upon all Member countries to publicize the text of the Declaration working hours is calculated by multiplying the average actual and ‘to cause it to be disseminated, displayed, read and workforce in FTEs for the period in question by the number of expounded principally in schools and other educational hours corresponding to one FTE (52 weeks multiplied by the institutions, without distinction based on the political status of ‘normal’ number of hours per week, not taking into account leave countries or territories.’ of absence and holidays). PLANET FI Biofuel Frequency Index: a way to measure for safety performance. The A fuel which is derived from renewable organic resources, as number of accidents of a particular category per 100 employees distinct from one which is derived from non-renewable resources per year. such as oil and natural gas. LWC-rate DSM own Carbon footprint The LWC-rate DSM own is the number of lost workday cases The impact of a certain activity in terms of the emission of nonper 100 DSM employees in the past 12 months: renewable CO2 to the atmosphere. LWC-rate = 100 * (number of LWCs (past 12 months) / average effective manpower (past 12 months)) Circular economy Circular economy refers to an economy that is restorative and in People+ which materials flows are of two types, biological nutrients, DSM’s People+ strategy will deliver measurably better solutions designed to reenter the biosphere safely, and technical nutrients, to improve the lives of people. The company has defined a new which are designed to circulate at high quality without entering People+ framework based on broad stakeholder analyses. The the biosphere throughout their entire lifecycle. dimensions of health, comfort and well-being, working conditions and community development have been identified as CO2 distinct and instrumental categories to measure People+ impact Carbon dioxide, a gas that naturally occurs in the atmosphere. at product level. Based upon the stakeholder input DSM has It is part of the natural carbon cycle through photosynthesis and designed a measurement tool, which will be further developed respiration. It is also generated as a by-product of combustion. in collaboration with The Sustainability Consortium, customers Carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas. and other stakeholders. Cradle to Cradle® REC-rate DSM all A holistic economic, industrial and social framework that seeks The REC-rate DSM all is the number of recordable injuries per to create solutions that are not only eco-efficient but also 100 DSM employees and contractor employees in the past 12 essentially waste free throughout their lifecycle. months: REC-rate = 100 * (number of RECs (past 12 months) / average Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) effective manpower including contractor employees (past 12 COD is an indicator of the degree of pollution of wastewater by months)) organic substances. SHE ECO+ Safety, Health and Environment. ECO+ solutions are products and services that, when considered over their whole life cycle, offer clear ecological United Nations Global Compact benefits (in other words, a clearly lower eco-footprint) compared A strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to to the mainstream solutions they compete with. These ecological aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally benefits can be created at any stage of the product life cycle − accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, from raw material through manufacturing and use to potential reenvironment and anti-corruption. use and end-of-life disposal. ECO+ solutions, in short, create more value with less environmental impact. The qualification ECO+ is based upon internal expert opinions where various Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 224 Explanation of some concepts and ratios impact categories are evaluated. For a growing number of N products these expert opinions are supported by Life Cycle Nitrogen. A mostly inert gas constituting 78% of the earth’s Assessments. atmosphere, nitrogen is present in all living organisms. Eco-efficiency N2O Eco-efficiency is a concept (created in 1992 by WBCSD) that Nitrous oxide. A gas that is formed during combustion. When refers to the creation of more goods and services while using emitted to the environment, it contributes to global warming. less resources and creating less waste and pollution throughout their entire life cycle. DSM applies the concept to its ECO+ NOx program. In the context of DSM’s SHE targets, eco-efficiency Nitrogen oxides. These gases are released mainly during relates specifically to the reduction of emissions and energy and combustion and cause acidification. water consumption, relative to the production volumes of DSM’s plants. Renewable resources A natural resource which is replenished by natural processes at Greenhouse-gas emissions (GHGE) reduction over volume a rate comparable to, or faster than, its rate of consumption by related revenue (VRR) humans or other users. The term covers perpetual resources The GHGE definition is according to the Kyoto Protocol and such as solar radiation, tides, winds and hydroelectricity as well includes carbon dioxide (CO2), methane, nitrous oxide (N2O), as fuels derived from organic matter (bio-based fuels). sulfur hexafluoride, hydrofluorocarbons and perfluorocarbons. VRR is net sales adjusted for changes in selling prices, exchange SO2 rates and the impact of acquisitions and divestments. GHGE/ Sulfur dioxide. This gas is formed during the combustion of fossil VRR is one of the ratios in the Long-Term Incentive part of the fuels and cause acidification. Managing Board remuneration and relates to a three-year period. VOC Volatile organic compounds. The term covers a wide range of GRI chemical compounds, such as organic solvents, some of which The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) has developed Sustainability can be harmful. Reporting Guidelines that strive to increase the transparency and accountability of economic, environmental, and social PROFIT performance. The GRI was established in 1997 in partnership General with the United Nations’ Environment Programme. It is an In calculating financial profitability ratios, use is made of the international, multi-stakeholder and independent institution average of the opening and closing values of balance sheet items whose mission is to develop and disseminate globally applicable in the year under review. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. These Guidelines are for voluntary use by organizations for reporting on the economic, The financial indicators per ordinary share are calculated on the environmental, and social dimensions of their activities, basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding products, and services. (average daily number). In calculating Shareholders’ equity per ordinary share, however, the number of shares outstanding at LCA year-end is used. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) identifies the material, energy and waste flows associated with a product or process over its entire In calculating the figures per ordinary share and the ‘net profit as life cycle to determine environmental impacts and potential a percentage of average Shareholders’ equity available to improvements; this full life cycle approach is also referred to as holders of ordinary shares’, the amounts available to the holders ‘Cradle to Grave’. It is also possible to assess a partial life cycle of cumulative preference shares are deducted from the profits of a product or process with the most common type being and from Shareholders’ equity. ‘Cradle to Gate’ which assesses the environmental impacts of a manufacturing process without accounting for use phase or end Capital employed of life impacts. There are many different environmental impact The total of the carrying amount of intangible assets and categories that can be assessed using LCA; at DSM the property, plant and equipment, inventories, trade receivables standard approach is to evaluate the carbon footprint and other receivables, less trade payables and other current and eco-footprint. liabilities. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 225 Capital expenditure This includes all investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the acquisition of subsidiaries and associates and related cash flows. Cash flow Cash flow is net profit plus depreciation, amortization and impairments. Core earnings Core earnings represent profit or loss from continuing operations excluding exceptional items and excluding amortization of intangible assets recognized from the application of purchase accounting for business combinations. Disposals This includes the disposal of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment as well as the disposal of participating interests and other securities. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) EBITDA is the sum total of operating profit plus depreciation and amortization. Earnings per ordinary share Net profit attributable to equity holders of Koninklijke DSM N.V. minus dividend on cumulative preference shares, divided by the average number of ordinary shares outstanding. Operating working capital The total of inventories and trade receivables, less trade payables. Return on capital employed (ROCE) Operating profit as a percentage of weighted average capital employed. Total shareholder return (TSR) Total shareholder return is capital gain plus dividend paid. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 226 List of abbreviations ADR American Depositary Receipts HNH Human Nutrition & Health AFM Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets HPO Hydroxylamine phosphate oxime ANH Animal Nutrition & Health IAS International Accounting Standards APA Aminopenicillanic acid IASB International Accounting Standards Board API Active pharmaceutical ingredients ICCA International Council of Chemical Associations ARA Arachidonic acid IFRIC International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committee BIO Biotechnology Industry Organization IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards BMI Body mass index ILO International Labor Organization BMM BioMedical Materials IOF International Osteoporosis Foundation BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China IP Intellectual property CEFIC Conseil Européen des Fédérations de l'Industrie Chimique IUCN International Union for the Conservation of Nature (European Chemical Industry Council) KPI Key performance indicator CEP Certification of suitability to the monograph of the European LCA Life cycle assessment Pharmacopoeia LTI Long-Term Incentive cGMP Current Good Manufacturing Practice LWC Lost workday case CMO Contract manufacturing organization NGO Non-governmental organization CMP Corporate Multi-year Plan Responsible Care NIP DSM's Nutrition Improvement Program COA Corporate Operational Auditing department NOC*NSF Dutch Olympic Committee COD Chemical oxygen demand NPS Net Promoter Score CRA Corporate Risk Assessment NYSE New York Stock Exchange CSR Corporate Social Responsibility OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development DAI DSM Anti-Infectives PDN Stichting Pensioenfonds DSM Nederland DBA DSM Business Academy PJ Petajoule DEP DSM Engineering Plastics PSI Process safety incident DFI DSM Fibre Intermediates PUFA Polyunsatured fatty acid DFS DSM Food Specialties R&D Research & development DHA Docosahexaenoic acid REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of DNCC DSM Nanjing Chemical Co., Ltd. Chemical substances DNP DSM Nutritional Products ROCE Return on capital employed DPC DSM Pharma Chemicals SAM Sustainable Asset Management DPP DSM Pharmaceutical Products SAR Share appreciation rights DSP DSM Sinochem Pharmaceuticals SHE Safety, Health and Environment EBA Emerging Business Area SSC Semi-synthetic cephalosporins EBIT Earnings before interest and taxes (Operating Profit) SSP Semi-synthetic penicillins EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization STI Short-Term Incentive ECP-EPN Electronic Commerce Platform Netherlands TDC Total direct compensation EPAA European Partnership for Alternatives to Animal Testing TJ Terajoule ERDF European Regional Development Fund TSR Total shareholder return FDA The US Food and Drug Administration UHMwPE Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene FIFO First in, first out USAID United States Agency for International Development FTE Full-time equivalent USDA United States Department of Agriculture GAIN Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition VNCI Association of the Dutch Chemical Industry GDP Gross domestic product VOC Volatile organic compound GHG Greenhouse gas VRR Volume related revenue GHGE Greenhouse-gas emissions WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development GHS Globally Harmonized System WEF World Economic Forum GMP Good Manufacturing Practice WFP United Nations World Food Programme GPS Global Product Strategy GRI Global Reporting Initiative Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 227 Photographs by Bart Koetsier The photographs1 in this 2012 Integrated Annual Report were made by Bart Koetsier from Hollandse Hoogte Photo Agency in Amsterdam. They were shot on locations in Europe, Asia and North America. Being portraits of scientists working for DSM and people whose lives have been positively affected by DSM products or solutions, the photographs capture the company’s brand promise of Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ Bart Koetsier graduated with honors from the Amsterdam Photo Academy in 2009. His photographs have appeared in leading newspapers in the Netherlands and Belgium. In January 2013 he was nominated for the prestigious Dutch Silver Camera award for photo journalism and won second prize in the category Portraits. The portraits in this annual report are part of DSM’s extensive art collection, which currently comprises approximately 700 works. The collection supports and reinforces DSM’s strategy and image by connecting to major themes such as innovation, sustainability and high growth economies. The aim of the DSM Art Collection is to bring DSM employees worldwide into contact with contemporary art, and to offer them an inspiring work environment. The portraits are currently being exhibited at the DSM offices in Shanghai (CN), Heerlen (NL) and Sittard-Geleen (NL). 1 With the exception of the photograph on page 11. Bright Science. Brighter Living. 2012 www.dsm.com 228 Royal DSM Bright Science. Brighter Living.™ DSM has transformed itself into a leading Life Sciences and milk – in turn driving demand for DSM’s food and feed products. Materials Sciences company that is active in health, nutrition and Food security (access to nutritious food for all people at all times) materials and creates value for its customers by helping them is one of the main themes to which DSM is contributing. provide solutions to the world’s great challenges. DSM uses its bright science to create brighter lives for people today and At the same time, a focus on healthy and active aging is driving generations to come by providing the ingredients to develop demand for fortified foods and supplements. And finally, an aging innovative, more sustainable, healthier, more nutritious and population means increased healthcare spending, which DSM better performing products. addresses through its engagement in preventive health and services to pharmaceutical companies. DSM has a very strong starting position to realize its ambitious growth targets as set in its strategy for the period till 2015, all Performance and sustainability are key drivers impacting based on its strong global market position (with about 38 percent demand in DSM’s Materials Sciences markets, where the of its total sales of € 9.1 billion coming from high growth company is accelerating the transformation toward the economies), its unique technological knowledge as a basis for production and use of materials that are lighter, healthier, safer, innovation, its strong track record in sustainability, its very solid stronger and more durable and that have lower environmental balance sheet, and the experience and expertise of its 23,500 footprints throughout their value chains than traditional materials. people. Bringing DSM’s Life Sciences and Materials Sciences DSM believes that its continued success will be driven by competences together offers cross-fertilization opportunities creating shared value for all stakeholders, now and in the future. allowing further advances. This cross-fertilization is managed It creates sustainable shared value by innovating in ways that through DSM’s Emerging Business Areas. A thorough allow its customers to provide better People, Planet and Profit understanding of how advanced materials can be used in the solutions to the challenges facing society, the environment and human body to strengthen or replace body parts and accurately end-users. In this way, DSM’s customers derive value from being deliver medicines is driving DSM’s biomedical materials able to offer end-users improved products. Society and the business. By merging its broad biotechnology capability with its planet derive value from the impact of more sustainable, longermaterials businesses, DSM is able to find renewable solutions lasting, safer, healthier and more nutritious alternatives. DSM for the post fossil age by creating bio-based materials and and its shareholders derive value from stronger growth and building blocks and by actively working to create commercially profitability. viable cellulosic biofuels that do not compete with the food value chain. What's more, DSM’s employees feel engaged and motivated through the contribution they make to a better world and the While DSM continues to meet the needs of customers in the success this creates for the company in which they work. In mature markets of North America and Western Europe − which short, DSM is a multi-stakeholder-oriented company with a triple remain central to its core business – the company’s investment bottom line (People-Planet-Profit) creating value for its focus is increasingly on the high growth economies such as Asia, customers, shareholders and employees as well as society at Central and Eastern Europe, and Latin America. In these markets large. DSM expects 70 percent of its growth up to 2015. DSM consequently is becoming steadily more international, enabling As a global company, DSM is actively engaged in addressing the it to bring a global perspective to the challenges of all its same key trends that face all its stakeholders: meeting changing customers. In addition to achieving sustainable, innovative demands arising from global shifts in demographics and organic growth, DSM will continue to take advantage of technology, mitigating the impact of climate change while opportunities to acquire exciting businesses and to partner with searching for new forms of energy and trying not just to feed but others to the benefit of all its stakeholders. And finally, the also to improve the health of a growing population. company will continue to improve its shareholder returns, supported by its solid dividend policy. In DSM’s Life Sciences markets, these trends manifest themselves through the related impacts of increasing personal In short, after having transformed itself into a Life Sciences and wealth, urbanization and expanding life expectancy. Materials Sciences company, DSM now focuses on further growing the company through an integrated strategy, using four Urbanization drives the consumption of processed foods and the growth drivers: High Growth Economies, Innovation, need for a more efficient food chain, while rising wealth translates Sustainability and Acquisitions & Partnerships. into increased demand for proteins from meat, fish, eggs and Questions about or feedback on this report can be addressed to: Royal DSM P.O. Box 6500 6401 JH Heerlen The Netherlands T +31 (0)45 578 8111 E media.relations@dsm.com www.dsm.com For the printing of this report 100% biological ink was used, and the use of solar energy saved over 1020 kg of CO 2 and 1060 kWh of electricity.
