United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress July 2013 Table of Contents 1 Letter from Our President and CEO 2 Human Rights 4 Labor 6 Environment 8 Anti-Corruption UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Letter from Our President and CEO I am pleased to submit Sigma-Aldrich’s first Communication on Progress and to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. While we realize that the many social and environmental challenges facing society today are greater than any one organization, we are committed to making a positive difference within our sphere of influence. A year after signing the Global Compact, we have made progress integrating the Compact and its principles into our strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. Much of this progress has been led by our Global Citizenship department, which is focused on environmental sustainability, social responsibility and fiscal accountability. Through their efforts, we have taken steps to reduce our impact on the environment, to increase our commitment to the communities where our employees live and work and to continue operating honestly and ethically. We have also introduced new policies and refreshed old policies. For example, we released our first Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) in 2012 and are presently sending it to our suppliers. Our SCOC informs suppliers of our expectations for conduct, which were created using principles from the Global Compact and the International Labor Organization. We are also taking steps to update our Business Conduct Policy to reflect the changing marketplace. We signed the Global Compact because we believe that supporting human rights, labor standards, environmental sustainability and ethical behavior is not just our duty; it also makes good business sense. I am proud of the progress we have made and we will keep working to integrate these principles throughout the Company. I look forward to continuing Sigma-Aldrich’s work with the UN Global Compact and to creating lasting change in our communities. In addition to the Communication on Progress, you can read more about our commitment to the Global Compact Principles in our most recent Global Citizenship report. Sincerely, Rakesh Sachdev Sigma-Aldrich President and CEO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1 Human Rights PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 5 OUR COMMITMENT Philanthropically, Sigma-Aldrich supports Sigma-Aldrich’s commitment to protecting organizations that work to protect human human rights is integrated throughout rights. For example, as a science company we strongly believe that all children, regardless of the organization. From the way we treat where they live, their gender or socio-economic Employees averaged five hours of our employees to our expectations for Sigma-Aldrich suppliers, we do not tolerate status should be exposed to the awe-inspiring training on topics in safe operations, world of science. That is why we support human rights abuses. This commitment is organizations such as Girlstart, an Austin, Texas, Business Conduct Policy training and codified within our Business Conduct Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC). based community STEM (Science, Technology, harassment training. Engineering and Math) program dedicated to Our commitment to human rights also extends empowering and equipping girls especially into the communities where our employees those from lower socio-economic levels with There were no grievances related to live and work. Sigma-Aldrich actively works to the tools needed to succeed in STEM fields. human rights filed in 2012. identify organizations whose mission is to break Girlstart develops and implements a range down social barriers and to ensure all individuals of innovative, research-based education and have basic human rights. mentorship programs designed to promote girls’ early engagement and academic success OUR ACTIONS in STEM. Giving Breakdown Product donations Maintaining our corporate integrity is the OUR PLAN FOR THE FUTURE Cash donations responsibility of all of our employees. We uphold a dedication to corporate ethics on a In the coming year, we will work to protect daily basis and use our Business Conduct Policy human rights within our Company, with our as a guide. Our Business Conduct Policy helps suppliers and by partnering with innovative 2010 2011 2012 our employees achieve the highest degree of organizations in the communities we live and personal and professional conduct by assisting work in the following ways: • Continued roll-out of SCOC $186,000 $1,196,989 $873,941 them when there are questions about a $670,793 $1,051,000 business situation. Our Business Conduct Policy • Revised Business Conduct Policy explicitly highlights key policies such as equal • Expansion of affinity networks opportunity, harassment, discrimination and ethical business practices. • Continued support of community programs Giving Breakdown by Category working to protect human rights 38% Civic In support of our commitment to conducting 33% STEM business in an ethical, safe and respectful 27% Research manner, a series of in-depth training modules 2% Economic Development were developed for all of our employees. Employees averaged five hours of training per person on topics including safe operations and the Business Conduct Policy. SCOC Timeline Beyond our walls, we hold our suppliers to 2010 similarly high standard in regard to human Project Scoping rights. In 2012, we launched our Supplier Code of Conduct which informs suppliers of our 2011 expectations. We are currently working across the organization to fully implement the policy. 2012 Reporting The SCOC outlines the standards we hold suppliers to in the following areas: 2013 • Labor Impact • Environmental Performance & Management 2014 • Health & Safety Practices Improvement • Compliance with Laws 2015 • Ethics • Fiscal Responsibility COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 3 Labor PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 4 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR COMMITMENT WIL was launched at our headquarters in St. Louis, but quickly expanded throughout the Recordable Injury Rate (RIR) world. WIL aims to enhance our corporate Number of injuries Without question the continued driver of growth at Sigma-Aldrich is our employees. diversity development opportunities, providing We strongly believe that every employee has another forum for colleagues to network and the right to work in an environment that is share experiences helping them to enhance respectful and free of discrimination. It’s our their own work experiences and the experiences employees who bring new ideas, who execute of their colleagues. The WIL network creates them on a daily basis and who respond to our an atmosphere that encourages women to customers’ needs to deliver best in class service. be in the “driver’s seat” in regard to cultivating leadership skills, exploring new experiences and Sigma-Aldrich does not discriminate against increasing personal contacts. any employee, applicant, customer, supplier or other business associate on the basis of race, Recognizing the need for an African American Sigma-Aldrich RIR Industry Average creed, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, employee resource group, Sigma-Aldrich age, national origin, disability or military status. launched the Black Leadership Network (BLN), We work to provide equal opportunity to all employees, applicants and business associates a pilot employee resource group for African Serious Injury Rate (SIR) American supervisors in St. Louis. BLN’s Serious injury = three or more days lost work based on merit. objectives are to deliver unique and relevant opportunities for professional development, Safety is also an integral part of Sigma-Aldrich’s career planning and networking. The strategic value system. We are committed to providing priority of BLN is to develop and advance African a safe working environment for all employees American talent. and we are proud of our record with respect to safety. Accordingly, employees are expected to perform their work safely and in compliance Safety with all applicable occupational health and To improve safety across the organization, we’ve safety regulations, as well as governmental instituted a near miss policy and encourage and industry standards for protection of the employees to report all near miss instances. environment. Company policies and practices These reports are then used to create risk have been established to provide guidance in assessments for manufacturing, packaging and these areas and should be strictly followed. distribution areas at all of our sites. We work to identify risks in these key areas before injuries 400 or incidents occur, taking proactive steps to OUR ACTIONS eliminate and manage those risks. Similar to our stance on human rights, we work In 2012, 84% of our sites met our near miss reporting goal. Another proactive step we take to ensure laws related to labor are followed at is our Corporate EH&S Audit program, which Approximately 400 of our U.S. Sigma-Aldrich and are followed by our suppliers. We use both the SCOC and the Business reviews site conformance with regulatory employees participated in professional requirements and our Corporate EH&S Principles Conduct Policy to reiterate our commitment to that go beyond general compliance. The indevelopment training sessions these principles. depth audits review site practices, procedures, We work to foster an environment that makes training and document retention. Our large sites Sigma-Aldrich a great place to be. That is are audited every three years, with the tier two accomplished by investing in our employees sites being audited every five years. through training, tuition reimbursement, broad benefit packages, maintaining a safe workplace, providing consistent performance feedback and OUR PLAN FOR THE FUTURE promoting an environment that is diverse and Over the next year, we will work to protect labor collaborative. related concerns within our Company and at our suppliers in the following ways: Affinity Groups • Continued roll-out of SCOC In keeping with Sigma-Aldrich’s commitment to • Revised Business Conduct Policy diversity and inclusion we have also created two • Continued focus on safety affinity groups, Women in Leadership (WIL) and the Black Leaders Network (BLN). • Expanded affinity groups COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 5 Environment PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT OUR COMMITMENT Chemistry. This focus drives improvement in our four key environmental initiatives of waste GC1015 Goals In 2010, we launched our Global Citizenship generation, emissions, water use and energy Initiative (GC1015) as a way to be more use. By working on reformulating our products Waste transparent and to meet the high expectations we are able to find new ways to manufacture 20% Intensity Improvement for environmental sustainability and social products, while minimizing our environmental responsibility. The GC1015 goals include impact. These reductions help us to decrease the amount of waste we generate and the raw six goals related to sustainability and the materials that we use. By finding new methods Emissions environment and one related to the community. to reduce the amount of manufacturing time 20% Intensity Improvement We are committed to reaching these goals as a corporation in order to minimize our impact on needed to make a product, we can decrease the environment. the amount of energy we use to make products, thus decreasing our need for electricity or natural gas helping to decrease carbon Water As part of our GC1015 Initiative, we are emissions. We’ve also been working to minimize 30% Efficiency Improvement enhancing the transparency of our supply chain and working with our partners to operate the amount of water needed in manufacturing. responsibly. We have already distributed our Another driver of our progress is our strong SA7 supply chain questionnaire to our top 100 suppliers, representing about 20% of our history of process improvement and individual Energy significant supplier base, and upon receiving “green” champions throughout the Company. 10% Efficiency Improvement their responses, we will have completed the Our employees drive increased awareness on first part of our goal for the “Top 100 Suppliers,” a number of issues including removing single who receive more than one-third of our direct pass water systems. By systematically reworking Supply Chain spend with suppliers. We will continue to survey single pass water systems at our DeKalb facility Top 100 suppliers surveyed by 2012 a larger group of suppliers and still plan to have in St. Louis over the past three years, SigmaAldrich has saved more than 1.5 million cubic Top 200 suppliers surveyed by 2015 the top 200 suppliers, at a minimum, surveyed by the end of 2015. Our goal is not just to survey meters of water or more than 400,000,000 our suppliers, but to encourage dialogue and gallons of water. Greener Alternative Products action to create active social and environmental 25% increase in sales of our 2,563 improvement. At the heart of our progress are our people brilliants scientists, inquisitive engineers and Alternative Products passionate employees, all working together to OUR ACTIONS make sure we continue to enable science to Team Sigma-Aldrich improve the quality of life. Team Sigma-Aldrich in all countries with It’s said that you value what you measure. operations To ensure we have a full picture of our environmental footprint, we have implemented OUR PLAN FOR THE FUTURE 4.0 volunteer hours per employee a global environmental management system to track all of our environmental data across the Over the next year, we will work to reduce Company. We are now armed with valuable our impact on the environment within our data and are able to strategically review the Company and at our suppliers in the following greatest reduction opportunities in our global ways: operations. • Implementation of global recycling programs • Initiating our energy efficiency plan including With these new tools, we have made progress the installation of solar panels at our on our GC1015 goals. We are consistently headquarters asked how we make these gains; we see it as • Expanding the SCOC putting together the pieces of a large puzzle. One of the main drivers for Sigma-Aldrich’s • Developing a greener alternatives R&D year over year performance is a focus on Green pipeline COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 7 Anti-Corruption PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 8 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Resources specialists and all managers who make OUR COMMITMENT hiring, compensation, promotion, termination No significant fines for non-compliance and other decisions affecting employees should At Sigma-Aldrich, we strive to be the trusted global partner-of-choice for our customers by be familiar with applicable equal employment with laws or regulations considering building on our proven foundation of trust, opportunity laws, other employment laws and the provision and use of our products service and innovation. The only sustainable way the Company’s human resources policies. Indeed, to achieve this goal is to set a high standard for even though it is not always apparent, nearly all behavior, along with unquestioned integrity. of us require some degree of familiarity with laws Sigma-Aldrich had no incidents that affect our business. Continued honest and ethical business conduct of antitrust, anti-competitive or is a cornerstone of our “One Company” values. Constant respect for people means we treat The management team is required to participate monopoly practices in 2011. every individual we interact with around the in annual training on corruption and the Business 100% world with the utmost dignity. Conduct Policy. This training is meant to remind the management team of the responsibility they Our commitment to ethics in business includes a have to set an example for all employees and special emphasis on candor. We must be truthful the importance of safeguarding the business by in all communications with one another, with operating with a focus on compliance and the Sigma-Aldrich analyzes both of our our customers and with governmental agencies. Business Conduct Policy. business units (Research and SAFC) We must keep complete and accurate business records. Only by being honest and forthcoming Should a conflict arise between the laws of the for risks related to corruption. 100% will our Company earn the respect and trust countries in which we operate, or between any Company policy or directive and any law or of our business units are analyzed it needs to successfully carry on its business operations. regulation, the conflict is immediately reported for risk related to corruption and are to the General Counsel. Conflicts related to safety or compliance are immediately reported to the prioritized by geographic location. Employees are expected to conduct business in compliance with all laws, rules and regulations Vice President of Safety and Compliance. It is of the countries in which they conduct business not the Company’s intent to issue any policy or on behalf of the Company. These laws and directive that could violate any law or regulation. regulations include those related to antitrust Whenever we have any doubt about our legal and competition, boycotts, accounting and obligations or the appropriateness of our conduct financial reporting standards, import and export in any situation in which we may find ourselves, regulation, foreign currencies, sales and Value we are expected to ask our supervisor or the Added Taxes, income taxes, employment, safety, Legal Department for instruction or advice. the environment, food and drug regulation and insider trading laws. We are also adding clarity in the Business Conduct Policy to explicitly callout that charitable contributions and sponsorships are included OUR ACTIONS in our anti-corruption and bribery policy. That policy will be reviewed and presented at the A single violation by even one employee next governance meeting, which will happen can cause great harm to our Company’s in August. The document will be made public reputation and our ability to operate as well shortly thereafter. as compromising the work of many others. Additionally, law enforcement agencies are Similar to our stance on human rights, labor and increasingly enforcing laws by prosecuting not the environment, we work to ensure laws related only corporations, but also their employees, to anti-corruption are followed at Sigma-Aldrich seeking to subject them to heavy penalties, fines and by our suppliers. We use the SCOC, Business and jail terms. Conduct Policy and whistleblower policy to reiterate our commitment to these principles. Every employee is expected to be familiar with the basic legal requirements that apply to his or her duties on the job. For example, OUR PLAN FOR THE FUTURE sales representatives and marketing managers are expected to know basic rules regulating Over the next year, we will continue to operate marketing practices and antitrust principles, in an ethical manner free of corruption and other such as the prohibition against price fixing and improper business practices in the following the rules governing restrictions on dealers and ways: distributors. Production managers are expected • Revised Business Conduct Policy to know the environmental and safety rules that • Continue to operate in an ethical manner, apply to their manufacturing operations. Human adhering to all pertinent laws and regulations COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 9 3050 Spruce Street, St. Louis, Missouri 63103 sigma-aldrich.com
