Daiwa Securities Group CSR Report 2013 Building a Sustainable Society What we can do What will the world be like when these babies become adults? The precious faces of these infants–all children of Daiwa Securities Group executives and employees–express our hopes for the future. At the Daiwa Securities Group, we are determined to take responsibility as individuals and to do our part as a company to create a sustainable society living in happiness and in harmony with an unspoiled Earth. CSR Report 2013 Message from the CEO The Daiwa Securities Group has opened a new chapter in its securities and banking services, strengthen the earnings history as a “new” Daiwa Securities through the merger of its capacity of the asset management business, enhance offerings two securities subsidiaries. In addition, the Group concentrated for high net worth individuals, strengthen coverage of the on returning to profitability by pursuing management middle market, and rebuild the wholesale business. efficiencies during the fiscal year, based on “Turnaround” as As a result of these initiatives, we fulfilled our commitment a major theme in the first fiscal year of “Passion for the Best” to return to profitability in the first fiscal year of the Medium2014, the three-year Medium-Term Management Plan that Term Management Plan, with net operating revenues of ¥417.3 began in April 2012. billion, ordinary income of ¥95.1 billion, and net income of The business environment was challenging, especially in the ¥72.9 billion. first half of the fiscal year, with the TOPIX marking a new post“Growth” is the main theme for FY2013, the second year bubble low in June 2012 amid prolonged economic stagnation. of the Medium-Term Management Plan. A dynamic shifting After a new Japanese government administration was launched of household financial assets, Japanese people moving funds from mid-November, however, the economy reached a turning from their savings accounts into investments, is anticipated point as the unusually strong yen corrected and weak stock to transpire. The Daiwa Securities Group will focus all of its prices began to recover. This turnaround picked up momentum energies on channeling this potential flood of risk money to the toward the end of 2012, spurring a foreign investor-led rally corporate and public sectors, as it contributes to the recovery in Japanese equity markets, which had been languishing with and revitalization of the Japanese economy. Moreover, the rock-bottom stock prices, to levels last seen before the Lehman Group will continue to work to solve global issues, such as Shock in 2008. The strength of this rally is better understood climate change and the eradication of poverty in emerging in terms of daily trading value on the First Section of the Tokyo countries, through the provision of innovative financial products Stock Exchange, which had been around ¥1 trillion last year, and services. but surpassed ¥2 trillion in the first three months of 2013. The Daiwa Securities Group is advancing toward a new stage Among international equity markets, namely in the United of growth while continuing to create corporate value and States, the Dow Jones Industrial Average reached a historical contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. We would high on expectations for an economic recovery stemming from not be able to accomplish this without the support of our improvements in the unemployment rate and housing market stakeholders, and would like to express our deep appreciation statistics. Equity markets in Germany and other major countries for their continued support. were also buoyant. In this business environment, the Daiwa Securities Group Takashi Hibino remained focused on reducing fixed costs and increasing President and CEO organizational efficiency, and executed distinct strategies Daiwa Securities Group Inc. to create a unique business model with synergies between 1 Message from the Chairman Guided by “building trust” as one of its core corporate Grounded in these ideals, our employees and executives work principles, the Daiwa Securities Group believes that its public with passion in an environment that the Daiwa Securities Group mission is to contribute to social and economic development has created that allows them to fully apply their abilities and through its involvement in financial and capital markets. talents. We are in a position to considerably strengthen our The trust that is placed on us by our customers and society competitiveness as a corporate group with the establishment of is the source of our sustainable growth. Our employees and a gender-neutral framework that enables employees to focus on executives accept their responsibilities with pride and integrity their careers, and we aim to provide a higher dimension in the as they work in the financial and capital markets, and as this work-life balance. high level of dedication becomes palpable to our stakeholders, While nurturing a corporate culture of high transparency, a sturdy bond of enduring trust is formed. accountability, and solidarity, we will work to initiate and Corporate governance is also a key element of sustainable accelerate the shift from savings into investments, and corporate growth. The Daiwa Securities Group has instilled a assertively propose products with social returns in addition strong sense of ethics and professionalism in its employees and to investment returns. We are confident that these and other executives through insight into its corporate principles, and, initiatives to contribute to society via investment activities will from this basis, the Group has strengthened governance by lead to greater corporate value. We will forge a path toward welcoming outside directors who bring a wealth of experience sustainable growth for the Daiwa Securities Group. from a variety of fields, such as human rights and labor, legal affairs, finance, and accounting. Shigeharu Suzuki Chairman of the Board Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 2 CSR Report 2013 Editorial Policy The Daiwa Securities Group has been publishing this report Contents annually since 2002 with the aim of clearly disclosing our CSR activities, which are intended to support the creation of a 1 Message from the CEO/ sustainable society. We also use this opportunity to evaluate the Message from the Chairman company’s current status and the challenges it is facing. In “CSR Report 2013“, we aim to explain in good faith 3 Editorial Policy our activities about environment, society and governance 4 Daiwa Securities Group Profile (ESG) along with annual report 2013. We also aim to view an integrated report that contemplates further enhance non5 Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles financial information. and Key Issues We wish to convey to many stakeholders that the way money Management Report is used is key to resolving society’s problems such as climate change and poverty. 6 Social Responsibilities of the Financial Service We post our “CSR report 2013“ only in the website by PDF, 11 CSR Management since we published an annual report 2013 which contains essential parts of our ESG activities. This CSR report is edited 12 CSR Issues: Performance and Targets based on the guidelines of the global reporting initiative (GRI) 15 Management and ISO26000. Corporate Governance Compliance Scope of Report Risk Management Intended Readership This report is intended for Daiwa Securities Group’s stakeholders, IT Governance, Disclosure, which primarily include customers, shareholders and investors, and Information Security executives and employees, as well as business partners, government agencies, non-profits (NPOs, NGOs), local Social Report communities where Daiwa Securities has offices, educational 21 Relationship with Customers institutions, and the families of executives and employees. Scope of Reporting 23 Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors This report basically covers the principal companies of the Daiwa 24 Relationship with Executives and Employees Securities Group. The report does not, however, include all data from the Group’s principal companies on items reported; the 28 Human Rights Initiative information is selected based on the respective companies’ size and type of business. Each set of numerical data specifies the 29 Relationship with Society scope of coverage. Environmental Report Period Covered by Report Fiscal 2012 (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013). The report also 33 Environmental Initiatives includes information on events and activities carried out prior to fiscal 2011, as well as those scheduled to take place during fiscal Economic Report 2013. 35 Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Date of Publication October 2013 (The previous report was published in October 36 Third-party Opinion / Response to Third-party Opinion 2012; the next report is planned for October 2014). 37 Third-party Evaluations Inquiries: Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 38 G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index Corporate Communication Department, CSR Group Tel: +81-3-5555-1111 (main) 46 CSR Related Data E-mail: daiwacsr@daiwa.co.jp 50 Glossary Website: http://www.daiwa-grp.jp/english/csr/ 3 CSR Report 2013 ■ Daiwa Securities Group Profile Corporate Data Description of the Daiwa Securities Group’s Businesses ● Name Daiwa Securities Group is a financial service company and operates in such fields Daiwa Securities Group Inc. as Retail, Global Markets, Global Investment Banking, Asset Management and ● Head Office GranTokyo North Tower Investment as its core businesses. Underpinned by the strong unity of the group, we 9-1, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, provide a broad range of services. Tokyo 100-6751, Japan ● Tel 1. Retail Division 4. Asset Management Division (81) 3-5555-1111 (main) ● Established Through its domestic network of This business creates and manages December 27, 1943 (Founded 1902) 124 branches*, a call center and the stock, bond, and private investment ● President and CEO Internet, Daiwa Securities offers two trusts, and provides other investment Takashi Hibino ● Capital retail services, Daiwa Consulting management services for real estate ¥247.3 billion and Daiwa Direct, which provide investment trusts, pensions, and other ● Number of Employees (consolidated) a wide range of financial products funds. 13,426 and services as well as support for ● Number of consolidated subsidiaries 5. Investment Division customer asset management, mainly 52 ● Number of equity-method affiliates for individuals and unlisted companies. This business invests in areas such 8 as private equity, venture capital ● Shares issued and outstanding 2. Global Markets Division opportunities, business regeneration, 1,749,378,772 This business, engaged in sales monetary receivables, and real estate (As of March 31, 2013) and trading, provides brokerage of using its own funds or through the securities and other financial products formation of investment funds. mainly for institutional investors. 6. Others 3. Global Investment Banking The Daiwa Securities Group provides Division information via research reports This business offers support for and other documents, management corporations and financial institutions consulting, IT services, and other in business expansion to finance and offerings to institutional investors, capital strategies, by assisting their corporate clients, financial institutions, financing activities. and public organizations in Japan and overseas. * As of June 30, 2013 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Wholesale Retail Asset Management Investment Others Global Markets Global IB Daiwa Asset Daiwa Corporate Daiwa Next Daiwa Securities Co. Ltd. Management Investment Co., Ltd. Bank, Ltd. Co. Ltd. Daiwa Institute Daiwa Securities of Research Daiwa SB Holdings Ltd. Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Limited SMBC Principal Investments Ltd. Investments Co. Ltd. Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Daiwa Real Estate Daiwa PI Daiwa Capital Markets Asia Holding B.V. Asset Management Daiwa Institute of Partners Co. Ltd. Co. Ltd. Research Business Innovation Ltd. Daiwa Securities Daiwa Capital Markets America Holdings Inc. Business Center Co. Ltd. Daiwa Property Co., Ltd. 4 CSR Report 2013 ■ Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues The Daiwa Securities Group’s mission is to contribute to the development of society and the economy through daily operations, including wealth management for investors and support for the financial strategies and other aspects of corporations and public institutions. Deepening the bond of trust we share with our stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, employees and society, is essential to the accomplishment of our mission and sustainable growth together with society. Key Issues for Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles of the Daiwa Securities Group To achieve its corporate principles and realize a sustainable society, the Group seeks to initiate even more effective CSR activities. Based on the Building trust requests and opinions we have received from our stakeholders thus far, we The trust and approval of customers forms the very foundation of the have addressed the following key issues: Daiwa Securities Group. The Group will always place the needs of customers first, and strive to develop the advanced, specialized skills to offer them the most attractive products and services of any securities group. 1. L everaging financial capabilities to contribute to a sustainable society Placing importance on personnel The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in the capabilities of its employees. The Group will promote the creativity of employees by offering them a challenging and self-directed working environment that encourages their abilities and appropriately 2. D  eveloping sound financial and capital rewards their contributions. markets for the next generation Contributing to society The Daiwa Securities Group will seek to benefit the economy and society through the development of healthy financial markets. In Human resources are the key to addressing these issues. We believe keeping addition to scrupulously observing both regulations and internal each and every one of our executives and employees motivated and proud of policies, the Group will strive to maintain a high sense of morality their work is essential for tackling these key issues. and duty, endeavoring to continue contributing to the sustainable growth of the societies in which we operate. Maintaining healthy earnings results In addition to these two CSR issues, the Group The Group will always seek to develop healthy business operations strives to create a rewarding workplace in which and to increase corporate value for the benefit of shareholders. By providing customers with attractive products and services, the Daiwa our executives and employees can take pride. Securities Group will seek to generate strong profits and healthy returns for shareholders. To achieve its corporate principles, the Daiwa Securities Group anchors its CSR activities in these goals. Daiwa Securities Group Stakeholders ● Investors Customers ● Issuers We are committed to improving customer satisfaction For private corporations, public institutions and other by offering products and services that meet the needs entities seeking to raise funds through equity, debt, or of individual investors, institutional investors, and other sources, we propose optimal solutions from a potential investors who are considering investing Investors Issuers wide range of financing options and provide full-scale in the future. support, from planning to execution. ● Business Partners Shareholders We maintain fair relationships with all our business partners and work together to create a ● Shareholders Business To earn the confidence of our shareholders, Shareholders Partners sustainable society. we aim to provide fully transparent information disclosure, and meet their Daiwa Securities ● Government expectations by continually creating value. Group We fulfill our tax obligations and offer policy suggestions to create a better society. Government Society yees’ Famil plo i Em es ● Employees NPOs/ ● NPOs/NGOs Employees NGOs We collaborate with NPOs and NGOs in such fields as We are endeavoring to create a financial and economic education and disaster relief. workplace where our employees, Local We reflect social values in our management through who create added value for all other stakeholders, are fully motivated Employees Communities active dialogue. and can find satisfaction in their ● Local Communities work and lives. Our employees’ As members of their local communities, our branches and overseas families are also important offices promote community-based efforts. stakeholders. 5 CSR Report 2013 Management Report Social Responsibilities of the Financial Service Approach and Basic Stance The mission of the financial service companies is to contribute to the development of society and the economy through daily operations that help build investors’ wealth and support financial strategies across the private and public sectors. We at the Daiwa Securities Group consider strong, trusting relationships with customers, shareholders, employees and society–as expressed by our corporate principles are indispensable to the ongoing fulfillment of this mission and continuous growth. ■ Role and Social Responsibilities of the Financial shape their policies. The Group pursues business activities Service consistent with the UN Global Compact. Further, in line with the United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) the The financial service company such as Daiwa Securities Group Group is endeavoring to develop products and services that plays a vital social role by building a bridge between, on the help resolve social issues. one side, the need of companies to raise capital or the need of governments to finance public work projects, and on the other Principles for Financial Action Toward a Sustainable side, the need of individual and institutional investors, pension Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st funds, and others for efficient investment. Century) On the fund-raising side, the Group provides advice and The Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century were assistance in implementation for companies raising money drawn up by a committee comprising representatives from a for capital expenditures and R&D, as well as for national range of Japanese financial institutions that was tasked with governments, local governments, international institutions and drafting a Japanese version of Principles for Environmental public corporations seeking to raise funds for public works Financial Action. This was based on a recommendation issued projects. It does so by underwriting marketable securities such by the Japanese environment ministry’s Central Environment as stocks and bonds, and by creating other securitized products. Council with the objective of promoting environmental On the investment side, the Group provides appropriate finance. Signatory institutions endeavor to embed ESG into investment information and advice tailored to each customer’s their activities to the extent that their business context allows. situation and goals. The Group was involved in the It offers a comprehensive and diverse line-up of financial establishment of these principles from instruments and services to meet the various needs of individual the drafting stage to laying out the and institutional investors as well as pension funds. Financial final framework. The Daiwa Securities services industry has a social responsibility and plays a key role Group and Daiwa Asset Management of creating a flow of money in the economy mainly through signed up in November 2011. financial and capital markets, not unlike stimulating circulation Our Impact Investment Initiative, of blood. In this manner, the industry helps industries, “Shaping the future by Impact countries, regions and other communities achieve a sustainable Investing”, was selected as one of development while paying close attentions to human rights, good practice at the 2nd general labor and environmental issues. meeting in March 2013. ■ Mission for Financial Institutions Towards ■ Daiwa Securities Group Initiatives Solving the Global Social Issues Impact Investment Bonds The business sector plays an important role more than ever Impact Investing differs from SRI in that it places emphasis on before in enhancing the sustainability of society. Financial investments directly affecting society. It is a way to allocate institutions have a social mission to make the most of their core assets solely to activities targeted at resolving social issues capacities to contribute to sustainable social development. At such as poverty and environmental issues, in combination with the Daiwa Securities Group, we believe that our role is not only generating financial returns. to maintain and develop an equitable and dynamic financial As a financial institution, we have supported the resolution market, but also to reflect a socially conscious perspective in of problems in society by offering various types of Impact finance and facilitate the flow of money to build sustainable Investment bonds. societies. We promoted six issues ¥72.1 billion, of Impact Investment On the basis of this philosophy, the Daiwa Securities Group Bonds in fiscal 2012. Among them, we have engaged in is a signatory to UNEP FI PRI and the Carbon Disclosure inaugural “Agri Bonds“ Uridashi by Rabobank of Netherlands. Project (CDP) fulfilling this role a member of the international This was the first Impact Investment Bond issued by a private community. financial institution. The second issuance took place in February In January 2010, the Daiwa Securities Group became the 2013 as a result of the first successful tranche. first Japanese securities company to sign the United Nations Cumulative offerings of Impact Investment bonds in Japan Global Compact (GC) a platform to help companies that have amounted to some ¥697.2 billion at the end of March 2013, committed to sustainable and responsible business practices of which ¥450.2 billion, or 65%, was arranged by the Daiwa 6 Securities Group (Source: Daiwa Securities). and Osaka and Branch Seminar in Hiroshima and Nagoya. The forum theme was “You are united with the world through World Bank Group / Daiwa Securities Group international cooperation” in Tokyo. President of JICA gave a Impact Investment Forum key-note speech. And panel discussion was conducted among a “Green Bond” is one of the bonds issued by the World Bank. vice president of JICA, representatives of an NPO and academia We arranged it for Japanese retail investors for the first time regarding a safe and secure society. in 2010. Its proceed is lent to “Green Project” through World The forum theme was “You are united with the world Bank to the prevention of global warming. This time, we through social contribution bonds” at the Osaka Forum. arranged it again in accordance with IMF/World Bank Meeting We invited panelists from regional company and academia (October 2012). During the same period, we hold an Impact to discuss about international contributions and sustainable Investment Forum for Japanese retail investors in collaboration business model. with the World Bank Group. Main theme was “Toward solving Global Issues such as climate change and poverty”. World Bank Achievement of the 50th issueandce of World Bank and International Finance Corporation (IFC) addressed their “Green Bonds” initiatives at the Forum. World Bank “Green Bonds” issuance reached a total of 52 when the Bank issued three “Green Bonds” in October 2012. JICA Impact Investment Forum Daiwa Securities as a sole lead manager arranged for those JICA Bond was issued to retail investors in December 2012 Green Bonds. We have arranged 16 Green Bonds as a lead again after its successful issuance in December 2011. Along manager so far. World Bank raised USD3.5 billion through 52 with bond issuance, we hold Impact Investment Forum in Tokyo Green Bonds with 17 different currencies. Daiwa Securities Group’s History of SRI Funds and Impact Investment Bonds Share in net assets of SRI funds in Japan Daiwa Securities ● Daiwa Microfinance Fund ¥68.4 billion*1 (end-March 2013) ● Daiwa Nippon Support Fund 21％ 2013 ● Daiwa Energy ● Daiwa/Blackrock Green New Technology Fund Energy Fund (limited open-type ● Next-Generation fund) ● Russell Global Environmental Business Fund ● “Eco Business Japan Stocks 2012 Total ¥331.6 billion*2 Environmental Open” Technology Fund 2011 ● Six Asset Balance ● Global ● Vaccine Bonds Fund (distribution Environment 2010 ● Agri Bonds type) Equity Fund ● Six Asset Balance ● Global Fund (growth type) Environment ● Daiwa Eco Fund Foreign Bond 2009 ● JICA Bonds ● Microfinance Bonds Balance Fund ● Green Bonds ● JICA Bonds ● Agri Bonds ● Daiwa SRI 2008 ● Ecology Bonds ● Water Bonds ● Global Eco Fund ● Vaccine Bonds Growth Fund ● DC Daiwa ● Poverty Reduction Bonds for Latin America 2007 Course A SRI Fund ● Global Eco and the Caribbean Growth Fund Course B Sold (redeemed) 2006 ● Ecology Bonds (2 times) Share in cumulative sales ● Microfinance Bonds (IFC) of Impact Investment bonds ● Education Bonds for Africa for individual investors ● Poverty Reduction Bonds for Latin 2004 America and the Caribbean Daiwa Securities ● Microfinance Bonds (EBRD) ¥450.2 billion*1 (end-March 2013) ● Water Bonds 2001 ● World CO2L Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds ● Green World Bank Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds 65％ ● Microfinance Bonds (IFC) ● CO2L Bonds ● Vaccine Bonds Total ¥697.2 billion*1 *1 Based on Daiwa Securities *2 Based on Daiwa Fund Consulting Co., Ltd. 7 IFFIm transaction cited as among 25 most influential in January and February 2013, office efficiency training was Since we arranged Vaccine Bonds first time in Japan in 2008, conducted for Central Bank employees. our total arrangement of the bonds reached ¥125.0 billion as The Daiwa Securities Group will continue to harness its of March 2013. The amount is over one third of the total fund collective strengths to help cultivate a capital market in raising by IFFIm through Vaccine Bonds. In a financial magazine, Myanmar going forward. “Euro Week”, Vaccine Bonds have been elected to one of the 25 most influential and Social Contribution notes. IFFIm Vaccine ESG IR Meeting Bonds is regarded as the forerunner of impact investment which With the increase of financial institutions to sign the PRI, fund market size is now several billion U.S. dollars in Japan today. managers and analysts who specialize in responsible investment has been born. As an initiative to promote responsible Participation in the Impact Investment by regional investment, we are planning and arranging ESG IR meetings. banks Three meetings had been conducted as of January 2013. It In support to efforts to contribute to global warming through has received high marks from both issuers, investors who investment, The Chugoku Bank purchased a “World Bank participated in the meetings in order to understand deeply the Green Bond”. The Chugin Securities, a subsidiary of the Bank, is corporate value from ESG perspective. CSR and IR section of the selling a Green Bond with Daiwa Securities in the same period. company becomes the main speaker, and gave a question and The Bank also donate a portion of revenues obtained from answer session with investors. selling the bond to an NPO. Daiwa Asset Management ESG investment promotion Daiwa Microfinance Fund: system Lending to microfinance institutions (MFIs) The Daiwa Asset Management, in order to achieve the The “Daiwa Microfinance Fund” was launched in March 1, commitment to ESG investment as a signatory member of the 2011 in order to support MFIs in developing countries by direct 21st century financial principles and PRI, we have a system lending in local currencies as well as to pursue financial returns that places fund managers to promote ESG investment in an DWM Asset Management Inc., provides portfolio management organized manner. In the company evaluation by analysts, we advisory service to the fund. DWM is a company that specializes have implemented the non-financial data valuation with an in microfinance industry. The fund is lending to 25 MFIs as of emphasis on the point of view of governance as well as financial February 2013. valuation. We are actively promoting ESG investment when selecting external managed contractors, we check and monitor Support for Cultivating a Capital Market in Myanmar the ESG investment policies and initiatives of contractors. In Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. (DIR), Tokyo Stock Exchange addition, the engagement with investee companies through Group, Inc. (currently, the Japan Exchange Group), and the meetings with management and voting, we encourage them to Central Bank of Myanmar concluded a memorandum of promote ESG initiatives. We have been implementing internal understanding pertaining to cooperation toward establishing a trainings and seminars on ESG investment. securities exchange and supporting the cultivation of a capital market in Myanmar in May 2012. A major component of the Daiwa Asset Management established investment policy memorandum is the establishment of a securities exchange against cluster munitions producers in 2015. This is expected to provide companies in Myanmar Since the implementation of the Oslo Convention on Cluster with additional fund-raising opportunities while facilitating Munitions in August 2010, Daiwa Asset Management, as an investors’ wealth and support for financial strategies. In the asset management company operating in a signatory country, ensuing period, DIR has put in place a variety of measures has followed the principles outlined below when investing in or aimed at providing genuine support. In addition to providing otherwise dealing with cluster munitions producers. recommendations to government officials, DIR has held 1. Do not include the securities of cluster munitions producers seminars in Myanmar, and taken steps to accept trainees. in active funds. Promptly sell those already included. Cooperation is also being provided to JICA’s Myanmar 2. In exercising voting rights associated with shares issued economic reform support survey. This initiative is designed to by cluster munitions producers, vote in favor of any put forward policy proposals and promote human resource shareholder proposals to withdraw from, or scale down, development to enhance policy proposal capabilities recognized cluster munitions production. as essential in bringing about definitive economic expansion in Myanmar. Together with the Japan Exchange Group, DIR is Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Funds responsible for providing training in connection with capital SRI funds evaluate and select potential component stocks and markets. Support also takes the form of policy proposals bonds for their social and environmental efforts, ethics, and advanced by specialists throughout the Group in each of the other nonfinancial performance, as well as the level of sales economic and financial fields. and profit. These include eco-funds, for which nonfinancial Working in conjunction with several Japanese companies, criteria are limited to environmental performance or which steps have been taken to invest exclusively in companies operating environmentprovide a cloud computing related businesses. Investing in such funds enables investors operating environment to the to indirectly support countries and firms actively engaged in Central Bank of Myanmar as environmental conservation efforts and CSR activities via the a part of efforts to enhance financial market. efficiency. Operations came Total net assets held in the Daiwa Securities Group’s SRI funds online in December 2012. In stood at ¥68.4 billion at the end of March 2013 (Source: Daiwa the same month, and again Signing Ceremony Securities). 8 Daiwa SB Investments signed the PRI financing system, financial support system, a new regional Daiwa SB Investments has signed the PRI. Whilst we have been industrial recovery model through Fund. This briefing session keen to ensure that we fulfill our “duty to maximize profit with was arranged by Miyagi prefecture, government financial a long-term perspective for the beneficiaries” meaning that institutions, and fund companies. we endeavor to improve our investment performance, we have concluded that utilizing the framework of PRI would contribute ■ Value Chain Management to our efforts to ameliorate our investment decisions. We set up the ESG committee and rules to enhance our capacity to Approach, Basic Stance and Promotion system evaluate and analyze ESG issues of companies. For Securities firms, bonds and shares to be sold to investors Young Global Leaders selected from Daiwa Securities (customers) are core financial products. We believe it is Satoru Yamamoto has been elected to one of the “Young indispensable to build and maintain a transparent and fair Global Leaders 2012”. He engaged in expansion of Impact value chain to investors from companies and organizations Investment Initiatives of Daiwa Securities Group and involved which issue securities for a formation of a sustainable society. in many projects such as the launch of the “Micro finance To do this, we have established a proper promotion system to Bond”, He made a significant contribution to the expansion be able to provide investors better quality financial products of impact investment. Young Global and services with consideration to environment, society and Leaders elected and awarded by the governance. For example, for issuers seeking to raise funds, World Economic Forum are from private Due Diligence Department examines the issuers rigorously in companies in regions around the world, accordance with the rules for the underwriting of the securities government agencies, academia, media, self-regulatory rules of the Japan Securities Dealers Association non-profit organizations and the arts and its manuals. and culture community. He is working The relevant departments work together; propose improvement on issues related to the public interests measures to the issuers if necessary. Fund raisings are carried for a brighter future. Daiwa Securities out through this process of vigorous checking system. Satoru Yamamoto The Group is a signor of the 21st century financial principles. We observe and comply with investment securities and Fund to support the non-listed companies in the investment banking guidelines. affected areas (Daiwa Corporate Investment) The Daiwa Corporate Investment launched “The Great East • Financial Services Agency “Guidelines for disclosure of Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support small business corporate information” investment limited partnership“ along with Aomori Bank, • Financial Instruments Exchange “Securities Listing Organization for Small & Medium Enterprises and Regional Regulations” and “Enforcement Rules for Securities Listing Innovation, JAPAN, 77 Bank, Bank of Iwate, Ltd., and Toho Regulations” Bank, Ltd. Through the supply of risk money in a flexible • Financial Instruments Exchange “Preparation Guidelines for manner for unlisted companies in the affected region from the Report on Corporate Governance” this fund, the fund supports a new growth, entrepreneurship, • Expert committee on environment and finance under the recovery and reconstruction from the disaster, new business Central Environmental Council “Toward Green Finance, a new development, employment, restructuring of business, role for the financial sector in building a low carbon society” or inheritance, etc. We are intended to contribute to the (June 2010) sustainable development and reconstruction of the affected • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) areas. The Daiwa Corporate Investment founded the Tohoku • Responsible Property Investment (RPI) Branch in order to operate this fund, the use of an extensive • Japan Securities Dealers Association “Self-regulatory Rules network of the Group, as well as aim to tight cooperation and (Articles of Association and others)” regional financial institutions and the Organization the Daiwa • The Investment Trusts Association, Japan “Self-regulatory Corporate Investment will continue to support recovery and Rules (Articles of Association and others)” reconstruction from the disaster. • Japan Securities Investment Advisers Association “SelfIn addition, in November 2012, the company made a regulatory Rules (Articles of Association and others)” presentation to those in Ishinomaki and Sendai, Miyagi • Japan Securities Dealers Association “Undertaking Social Prefecture, targeting small and medium-sized enterprises Contribution Activities within the Securities Industry (Basic in Miyagi prefecture. The presentation explained various Concepts)” (September 2009) • Japan Securities Dealers Association “Securities Industry’s Action Plan for Environmental Issues” (February 2008) Maruya Goyo fisheries immediately Maruya Goyo fisheries processing after the 3.11 disaster plant under reconstruction 9 Value Chain Management Issuers Financing Investment Investor Capital Expenditure Financial and capital markets Research and Company Equities Individual Development Issue Return investors Equities Bonds M & As National/Local Bonds government Funds Investment Public works, Investment Institutional International etc. organizations trust investors Securities company Public corporation Securitized Derivative assets securitized products Funding needs Asset management needs 10 CSR Report 2013 Management Report CSR Management Approach and Basic Stance Daiwa Securities Group Management Vision is to become Asia’s leading financial services firm possessing and leveraging a solid business platform in Japan. In order to achieve the vision, we strive for active stakeholder dialogue and employees awareness of ESG in the day-to-day operations. We aim to further penetration of CSR mind among employees, we will continue to strengthen our ability to respond to our CSR key issues. ■ CSR Promotion System Toward the achievement of our vision and a sustainable society, and departmental liaison meetings, thus promoting awareness officers and employees are committed to the implementations of CSR throughout branches and departments across Japan of corporate principles in its day-to-day business. We are and major overseas sites and building systems for cooperation. promoting the PDCA (planning, implementation, evaluation and The section also organizes improvement) cycle that each department recognizes issues of dialogues on various CSR their own and reviews their challenges and achievements every issues with opinion leaders year, then set targets for the following year. We disclose these in the broader society and issues and challenged results and next year targets in our CSR posts them on the CSR report annually. website of Daiwa Securities The CSR section of the Corporate Communication Group Inc. as “CSR Department at Daiwa Securities Group Inc. compiles Dialogue” (only selected information in external and internal meetings and actively dialogues are available in CSR Dialogue holds dialogues to ensure that feedback from a wide range English). of stakeholders is reflected in the Group’s activities. As well as through CSR lectures during the Group’s new hire training, information on CSR is shared in department head meetings CSR Promotion System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Foundations President and CEO Stakeholders Daiwa Securities Health Foundation Dialogue Executive officers Customers Daiwa Securities Foundation Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation (UK) Shareholders Dialogue Business partners Government CSR Promotion Group, Corporate Communication Department NPOs / NGOs Local communities Group companies Dialogue Departments within Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 11 CSR Report 2013 ■ CSR Issues: Performance and Targets Rating indicates self-evaluation of fiscal 2012 results: ◦ = success (significant), ◦ = success (moderate), △ = additional effort needed, × = not achieved. Key Issue 1 Leveraging Financial Capabilities to Contribute to a Sustainable Society Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Sold ¥72.1 billion of Impact Investment bonds (across six securities) ◦The 2008 Vaccine Bond named “one of the 25 most influential socially responsible Develop and sell SRI and Impact Investment bonds” by Euro Week ◎ Promotion of SRI and Impact Investments products ◦Our Impact Investment initiative is recognized as a good practice in the Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century ◦Published the first edition of “Industry Trends and Market Leaders in New Energy at a Glance“ Enhance provision of CSR and SRI ◦Ongoing publication of valuable information through ESG News website; Launch of ○ Provision of expanded CSR and SRI information information the ESG Square ◦Offered on-demand Impact Investment Seminars Continue to provide reconstruction ◦Commenced giving of grant by the Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan program Continuation of reconstruction support for the assistance for the Great East Japan ◦Selected the first recipients of Great East Japan Earthquake Small and Mid-Sized ◎ Great East Japan Earthquake Earthquake Enterprise Reconstruction Support Fund Key Issue 2 Developing Sound Financial and Capital Markets for the Next Generation Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Sponsored university lectures (including Keio Business School) Contribute to economic and financial Contribute to improved economic and financial ◦Welcomed students and teachers from junior and senior high schools for corporate △ education education study (seven groups) ◦Hosted a forum for individual investors coinciding with the IMF/ World Bank Annual Meeting Hold seminars and forums for customers (at Host forums and seminars for retail customers ◦Hosted large symposiums in Tokyo and Osaka for the new JICA bond issue ◎ least three) (five or more) ◦O ffered Finance Classroom for Beginners (with sign language and closedcaptioning) CSR Management Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 Hold dialogues with specialists on specific Topic-specific dialogues with experts in their ◦Presented four “Understanding CSR through Dialogues“ discussions ○ themes fields Strengthen relationships between related Building stronger internal bonds between the ◦Cooperation in CSR efforts through our core business △ departments and sections within the Group Group's related departments Corporate Governance Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Reviewed and reevaluated business continuity plans (BCP) Strengthen crisis management system for ◦Reinforced Group awareness of crisis management and readiness; conducted ○ Strengthening crisis management in disasters disasters business continuity and post-disaster safety confirmation exercise ◦Saved energy in both summer and winter through power reduction in each power Continue efforts to reduce electricity provider region ○ Efforts to reduce power consumption consumption ◦Continued to achieve ongoing energy savings even in off-peak periods as well 12 Compliance Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Implemented systems integration for internal rules and programs following our merger and made provisions for inspections Provision and reinforcement of corporation◦Improved marketing procedures for complex and newly introduced products at both Build effective and efficient internal control wide internal controls; building awareness the corporate sales and retail branch levels ◎ systems for “new” Daiwa Securities of high standards of professional ethics and ◦Reinforced international and domestic information security structures, including the compliance designation of a global information security policy, and a transition to prior review of outgoing email messages ◦Efforts to install longer-horizon oriented sales through improved guidance from the headoffice led to a dramatic decline in the number of “flipping“ Further increases in sales service quality; full Further improve customer marketing and ◦Improved marketing for older customers, including the addition of family approval ◎ adoption of business from the customer's solicitation systems to the existing system of approval by superior and reinforcement of rules for older perspective customers concerning use of agents ◦Improved legal compliance systems within bank agency operations, including the provision of internal control officers and compliance officers to the Banking Business Office (currently Bank Business Division) and improved connections Raise the quality of internal control systems between related divisions through feedback from voluntary inspections and reviews Establishment of sound information security ◎ through inspection ◦Improved efforts to reject organized crime through the adoption of Japan Securities policy and systems to exclude anti-social forces Dealers Association's Organized Crime Referral System and the consolidation of databases of criminal syndicates from Daiwa Securities Group Inc. and the former Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Implement the improvement measures set out in the Group’s press release dated July 27, 2012, in a swift and steady ◦August 7, 2012 press release: “Report on Corporate Information Management manner (Investigation Committee’s Systems“ ◎ — Investigation Report on the Securities ◦Implemented all countermeasures to prevent relapse and Exchange Surveillance Commission’s Recommendations and Daiwa’s Improvement Measures) Information Disclosure Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Shared clear and concrete information with stockholders, investors and the media concerning the introduction of the “new“ Daiwa as well as progress reports on midFocus on conveying information on the term management plans using management strategy briefings and other venues Improved communication of business “new” Daiwa Securities Inc. and the “new” ◦In addition to changing the contents of financial statements due to the ◎ strategies and results in the second year of the mid-term management plan inauguration of the “new“ Daiwa, expansion of data explaining the factors behind mid-term management plan any increases or decreases in results to improve investor understanding of our financial situation ◦Beginning this fiscal year, the compilation of a combined annual report that Implement cost reductions and optimization integrates the functions of the existing annual report and CSR report of the Daiwa ◎ Improved website functionality regarding IR tools Securities Group and Daiwa Securities Disclosure Journal; simplified the Group newsletter to improve its readability and reduce redundant costs of production ◦Improved the reader-friendliness and visual appeal of the individual stockholder investor relations publication “Business Report“, and upgraded the selection of products in the shareholder reward program while cost efficiency in mind Implement IR activities that appeal to Greater responsiveness of IR activities to ◦Improved communication with institutional investors through large meetings at DIC ◎ investors’ every need diverse investor needs Tokyo and small meetings with domestic institutional analysts, including both the corporate CEO and IR meetings in North America, Europe and Asia (where stock holdings are comparatively low) Relationship with Customers Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Organized seminars on national and international market conditions at each sales branch on the fifth day of every month; offered relevant seminars when markets fluctuated ◦Welcomed 6,136 participants to Daiwa New Year’s Investment Forums held at all Post-sales service ◎ Active Post-Sale Follow Up branches nationwide ◦Responsive presentation of information on an ongoing basis via our website, including day-to-day market reports and fund reports from issuing and management companies 13 Relationship with Executives and Employees Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 ◦Continued improvement of internal training systems for young employees ◦Implemented the new tutoring system for employees in their second years of employment (introduced in 2013) ◦Expanded opportunities for promotion for young employees to increase motivation Human Resource Development by strategic Human Resource Development by strategic ◎ promotion and appointments promotion and appointments ◦Increased number of female employees at management levels (190 as of the end of fiscal 2012) ◦Increased numbers of female employees seeking improved career paths (750 employees have transferred to career-track positions in the four years from Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2012) ◦Continued development and training of global professionals ◦566 employees hold CFP certification The pursuit of a high standard of professional Demand high levels of specialist skills to ◦1,446 employees hold the CMA (Chartered Member of the Securities ○ ® competence to meet the trust of our merit customers’ trust Analysts Association of Japan) customers ◦941 employees sat for the TOEIC examination internally; 1,593 of our employees hold TOEIC scores of 730 or higher ◦Promoted family-friendly measures, including family visits to the workplace (4,296 families visited), support for child care leave (453 employees took advantage) and encouragement to leave the office before 7 p.m. ◦Developed deeper awareness about our fringe benefit programs ◦Distributed a questionnaire on support for balancing work and child rearing to Create a working environment conducive all employees to build a better understanding of employee needs and uses of Improvement of the office environment in to high levels of motivation among all our programs ○ which all employees will continue working employees with high motivation ◦Increased the numbers of employees who took advantage of our workplace relocation program (106 people as of March 31, 2013) ◦Expanded our Senior Advisors program to encourage veteran employees ◦Made revisions to our programs allowing reemployment of all employees who request it following recent revision of Japanese labor laws Relationship with Society Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 Raise awareness of volunteering–including Building volunteer consciousness among earthquake relief work–among staff and ◦Publication of volunteer activities and events on our internal website (67 in total) ◎ employees and improving communication of strengthen dissemination of appropriate volunteer information information Strengthen coordination with employee ◦Continuation of ongoing dialogues with employee unions unions ◦Table for Two program products and meals instituted in the Toyocho Center ○ — Promote programs that the whole Group Building Cafeteria (March 2013) and vending machines installed at the Head Office can get involved in building (February 2013) Enhance systems to enable employees to get ◦Collaboration with employee unions toward the introduction of Volunteer Leaves △ Promotion of Group-wide action programs involved in voluntary work continued Environmental Initiatives Targets for Fiscal 2012 Results for Fiscal 2012 Rating Targets for Fiscal 2013 Further exploit energy data management ◦Continued the expansion of energy data management systems and accumulation CO2 emissions reduction by 1% compared with ○ system of data, including billing statements as documentary data the previous year (domestic consolidated basis) as a part of the Group’s ongoing compliance with the Law Concerning the Rational Use of ◦Reduced power consumption significantly by contracting some operations to Energy and Tokyo’s environmental protection Strengthen energy conservation efforts outside data centers and conducting strategic review of systems and operations at ◎ ordinances the Daiwa Institute of Research Continuation of the “Cool Biz“ program as part of energy saving initiatives 14 CSR Report 2013 Management Report Corporate Governance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group clearly separates the supervisory and executive functions of management to create a highly transparent and objective corporate governance system. The Group is pursuing a management structure that improves the efficiency of head office operations and maximizes synergies between the Group companies. Under this structure, employees responsible for head office functions also perform similar roles for securities subsidiaries, in addition to the corporate executive officers of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. ■ Features of the Corporate Governance System In 1999, the Daiwa Securities Group became the first listed discuss the composition of the Board of Directors and its effect Japanese company to adopt a holding company structure. Since on corporate governance, the basic policy for nominating then, we have been pursuing a highly transparent and objective candidates for directorships, and the selection of these corporate governance system that maximizes synergies candidates. The Nominating Committee selects candidates for between Group companies while showcasing the independence directorships in light of the Group’s selection standards for the and unique expertise of each Group member. appointment of directors. These standards include criteria that In June 2004, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. made a transition ensure the independence of outside directors. to a “Committee System” of corporate governance and The Audit Committee met 12 times during FY2012. The accelerated the decision-making process by transferring a committee evaluated the activities of directors and corporate substantial portion of authority from the Board of Directors executive officers, audited documentation including financial to corporate executive officers. In addition, we strengthened statements and business reports, and prepared an audit report the supervisory functions of management by increasing the for the period under review. number of outside directors and establishing the Nominating The Compensation Committee met five times in FY2012 to Committee, Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee. discuss compensation policy and determine the compensation The representative directors of the major Group companies also of each director, and also studied a Group-wide incentive plan serve as corporate executive officers of the holding company, aimed at improving consolidated earnings results. thereby allowing them to efficiently implement individual The Board of Directors met 10 times during FY2012, and business strategies based on Group strategies. outside directors had a 90% record of attendance. The Nominating Committee met three times in FY2012 to Corporate Governance System at Daiwa Securities Group Shareholders’ Meeting Nominating Committee, 6 members Audit Committee, 4 members Compensation Committee, 5 members Board of Directors, 12 members (including 4 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) (including 3 outside directors) (including 5 outside directors) Nominates directors for Audits the activities of directors Sets policy for compensation of Basic management policy selection, or recommends and corporate executive officers, directors and corporate executive dismissal audits business reports and officers, and determines financial statements, and compensation amount for each prepares audit reports Group Risk Management Overseas Management Executive Management Disclosure Committee Group IT Strategy Committee Committee Committee Committee, 14 members Group-wide business strategy Gathers information on the system Determines scope of consolidated Prepares original IT investment Makes decisions on issues and management issues, and current situation of risk financial reports, scope of evaluation of budget, evaluates and monitors IT related to the management of important financial matters management, and sets policy and internal control reports and disclosure of investments overseas offices and other strategy regarding risk management important information operations abroad Group Internal Audit Committee Representative Executive Officer Makes decisions on issues relating to the internal audit system and the verification of internal control activities Web Report on Corporate Governance (available only in Japanese) 15 ■ Executive Compensation More Closely Linked ■ Supervisory function to Performance The Board of Directors consists of 12 directors, including five Compensation for directors and corporate executive officers outside directors* of whom one is a female director. The Board is determined by the Compensation Committee. It generally of Directors determines key management policy and supervises has three components; basic compensation, performanceexecutive duties. In order to perform this supervisory role based compensation, and stock-price-linked compensation. from multiple viewpoints in accordance with the demands of Comprehensive criteria used in calculating performance-based society, the policy for selecting new board members states that compensation include consolidated ordinary income and ROE, candidates must have a strong sense of ethics and demonstrate as well as other factors such as which of the management goals initiative and leadership. Additionally, outside directors are outlined in the Medium-Term Management Plan have been experts in such fields as management and accounting. In met. addition, the supervisory function of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. is reinforced by the Audit Committee and the Office of ■ Internal Control System and Internal Audit the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee, which consists of a majority of outside directors,* plays a pivotal role in the In recognition that management is responsible for maintaining supervision of executive duties. The Audit Committee is assisted an effective internal control system to ensure the sound and by the Office of the Audit Committee, which is an independent proper execution of business, the Group, under the main department. initiative of Daiwa Securities Group Inc., has established a system for managing the Group’s major business risks. The * Outside directors as defined by Article 2-15 of Japan’s Companies Act. Group also maintains this internal control system for ensuring “business effectiveness and efficiency”, “reliable financial ■ Preventing conflict-of-interest transactions reporting,” “compliance with laws related to business between group companies activities,” and “asset preservation”. On April 1, 2013, a portion of the Compliance Department was split off into a Conflict-of-interest transactions between group companies newly established Compliance Control Department with the can occur in situations such as intra-Group trading. The Daiwa aim of strengthening internal control systems through greater Securities Group applies rules regarding conflicts of interest specialization and efficiency in compliance-related control stipulated by Japan’s Companies Act to Executive Committees functions. as well as Board meeting. Conflicts of interest within the Group The Internal Audit Department verifies the internal control are prevented through a rule prohibiting an executive officer system. This department, established independently from from voting when he or she is also the director of an interested all other departments and reporting to a full-time corporate group company. executive officer, ensures internal audits to act as an important function of raising Group value through the creation of sound and efficient internal controls. The department’s internal auditing plans and the results of internal audits are reported to and approved by the Group Internal Audit Committee, which is directly under the control of the CEO of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Those are also reported to the Audit Committee. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. seeks to raise corporate value by effectively conducting internal audits, and implements risk-based internal audits primarily through its Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department pays special attention to certain aspects of Group internal auditing activities, including the internal control systems at Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd. and the Group’s overseas business offices as a global financial instruments firm, the internal control systems at Daiwa Next Bank, Ltd. as a bank, the status of Group-related businesses, and the status of controls at the parent over Group companies. The Internal Audit Department collaborates with the internal auditing section of each Group company within the context of holding periodic meetings, monitoring activities, and performing audits. It also formulates policies that apply to all Group internal audits, plans risk-based audits, and monitors these activities. The Internal Audit Department maintains communications with the Audit Committee and accounting auditor, making any necessary adjustments to ensure that audits are performed efficiently. The Audit Committee on occasion asks the Internal Audit Department to conduct an audit. 16 CSR Report 2013 Management Report Compliance Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group’s corporate principles identify “building trust” and “contributing to society” as among the most important goals of our business operations. We believe that compliance is necessary to “build trust.” The goal of the Group’s compliance activities is not merely to “comply with laws and regulations,” but to earn the trust of customers, the market, and society. ■ The Daiwa Securities Group’s Approach to ■ Compliance Initiatives at Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd. Compliance Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd. is taking measures, under the The Daiwa Securities Group is constantly taking steps to compliance program, to ensure the effective operation of its educate and train executives and employees to uphold external internal control system in order to ensure strict compliance with regulations, exercise self-discipline and appropriate conduct, laws and regulations. and thereby maintain high ethical standards to fulfill its role In FY2012, the Daiwa Securities Group worked to build more in society. We aggressively conduct compliance training effective and efficient internal management systems, further programs for our employees. These programs commence improve customer solicitation and sales systems, and make as soon as employees join the Group and continue through qualitative improvements through an overhaul of internal regularly scheduled training sessions throughout their career, management systems. thus ensuring that every employee is aware of, and thoroughly For FY2013, the Company decided to create the following understands, compliance issues. As the Group pursues new three compliance programs aimed at deepening understanding business ventures in areas where the regulatory structure is still of the “true meaning” of internal rules, in moving towards incomplete, employees are trained to approach all matters with achieving its management targets. The Company will strive to strong self-discipline and legal awareness, refer to existing legal bolster its internal management systems further. precedents whenever possible, and always adhere to accepted 1. Program for upgrading and reinforcing Company-wide social norms of proper behavior. internal management systems, and for fostering better In FY2012, Group companies continued to hold training awareness of professional ethics and compliance issues related to insider trading regulations. 2. P rogram for further improving quality of marketing, and On April 1, 2013, compliance functions were divided firmly establishing customer-oriented sales into the Compliance Control Department, which oversees 3. P rogram for building robust information management compliance controls throughout the Group, and the Compliance systems and system for eradicating antisocial forces Department, which is in charge of supporting compliance related to the business operations of Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd. This new structure enhances the specialization and efficiency of compliance functions and will lead to a more robust Group compliance system. Initiatives the Group took to eliminate any and all relations with corporate racketeers and other antisocial groups involved collecting information on their increasingly sophisticated methods by working in close contact with mainly police organizations and legal experts, and enhancing the Group’s various outward procedures for scrupulously severing contact with such undesirable groups. As a result, a system of cooperation among Group companies to perform checks preventing the outflow of funds to antisocial forces is now in place. Web Basic Policy on Avoiding Any Involvement with Criminal Elements (available only in Japanese) 17 CSR Report 2013 Management Report Risk Management Approach and Basic Stance While the Daiwa Securities Group pursues profitability and growth, it also recognizes the importance of accurately identifying, evaluating, and effectively controlling the various risks associated with its business operations. Our objective is to steadily improve corporate value by maintaining a sound financial base and profit structure by properly balancing risks and returns and by implementing effective risk control and management. ■ Risk Management Policy ■ Types of Risks The Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has established “The Rule The Daiwa Securities Group faces various risks in the course of Risk Management” governing all activities by the Group of its business activities. The Group therefore believes that it is companies to manage risk in order to ensure that they conform important to properly identify, evaluate, and manage these risks to the following basic policies: in order to maintain healthy financial and earnings structures. 1. M anagement’s proactive involvement in risk management. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. engages in risk management to 2. Implementing a risk management system commensurate clearly identify risks based on the respective Group company’s with the nature of such risks in the Group’s management. business characteristics and risk profile. The types of risks that 3. U nderstanding comprehensive risk based on integrated risk have been deemed important to manage include market risk, management and strengthening capital adequacy. credit risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, and reputation risk. 4. C larifying the risk management process. Limits are set for each type of risk so as to control risk within an amount suitable for the management strength of the Group. Risk Management System Daiwa Securities Group Inc. Group companies Nominating Committee Daiwa Securities Board of Directors Audit Committee Daiwa Capital Markets Europe Executive Management Compensation Committee Daiwa Capital Markets America Committee Policy formulation and instruction Representative Executive Group Internal Audit Daiwa Capital Markets Hong Kong Officer Committee Daiwa Asset Management Group Risk Management Committee Reporting Daiwa Office Investment Corporation CRO Daiwa Corporate Investment Comprehensive risk management structure Discussion and reporting Daiwa PI Partners Risk Management Department Daiwa Securities SMBC Operational risk Principal Investments Market Credit Liquidity Risk Risk Risk Operations Systems Information Compliance Legal Human Physical Daiwa Next Bank Risk Risk Security Risk Risk Resources Asset Risk Risk Risk Other Group companies 18 ■ Risk Management System ■B  usiness Continuity Plan The Board of Directors of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has In envisioned emergencies to its sales branches or head approved “The Rule of Risk Management”. This rule defines office/head office functions and/or data center due to social basic policies related to risk management, the types of risk infrastructure shutdowns caused by earthquakes, fires, that are necessary to be managed, and the executive and storm and flood damage, and abnormal weather, as well as department for each major risk. Each subsidiary conducts serious outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as new strains risk management suitable for the risk profile and size of each of influenza, the Daiwa Securities Group drew up a business business in accordance with these basic policies related to risk continuity plan (BCP) prioritizing important operations* to be management. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. monitors the system restored or continued in the event of a natural disaster, in order and situation of its subsidiaries’ risk management. Also, the to keep the financial market functioning and protect customers’ Group Risk Management Committee, as a sub-committee of economic activities. the Executive Management Committee of Daiwa Securities In accordance with this plan, the Group will ensure the safety Group Inc. receives reports about risk exposures obtained of customers and Group executives and employees and protect via the aforementioned monitoring of subsidiaries and issues assets while continuing to pursue vital operations based on the concerning their risk management system and discusses and public-interest of its business as a financial services firm. resolves them. In addition, major Group companies regularly Specifically, the Group has promoted the digitization of data hold risk management committee meetings in order to necessary for its business operations to establish a state-of strengthen their risk management. the-art business continuity system in the financial industry. Equipped with Japan’s highest-level backup center, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has already completed the installation of thin client technology. This enables the Group to easily switch to the alternate system in case of emergencies at the headquarters. We thereby can continue vital operations through a substitute office location. * Prioritized operations to be restored or continued: 1. M  arket settlement of securities transactions contracted but not yet delivered 2. Payment operations 3. N  ew orders from customers to sell or to liquidate long positions on margin transactions for the products below ○ Domestic listed equities ○ MRF (money reserve funds), MMF (money market funds), mediumterm government bond funds ○ Japanese government bonds for individual investors ○ Cash deposits 19 CSR Report 2013 Management Report IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group aims to provide customers with high-value-added products and services quickly, precisely, and reasonably priced. To this end, it uses IT strategically. As an active participant in the financial and capital markets, the Group possesses information resources, including personal information. In order to protect these information resources from outside threats, the Group is working to maintain and improve the level of its information security. ■ IT Governance System ■ Measures for Maintaining Information Security The Group has established the Group IT Strategy Committee as In order to fulfill its social responsibility as an active participant a subcommittee of the Executive Management Committee. This in the financial and capital markets, as well as gain the committee deliberates and makes decisions on such issues as trust of customers, the Group has adopted a full spectrum budgets for IT investment and the allocation of IT functions. IT of information security policies at companies throughout investment budgets are drawn up after projects are rigorously the Group to ensure that important personal information screened based on necessity, and funds are prioritized for received from customers and all other information resources investment budgets that contribute to the achievement of are managed in a secure and appropriate manner. Among Group management targets and business strategies. the organizational measures that we have adopted is the The Group IT Management Committee, which serves as Information Security Group Minimum Standard, which dictates a prior consultation mechanism for the Group IT Strategy the basic rules that all companies in the Group must adopt Committee, was established as a venue for executive officers to for handling information. In addition to introducing these discuss investment themes common to all Group companies. information security rules at each company, we have appointed a “Chief Information Security Officer” at each Group company ■ Disclosure System to oversee information management activities. A variety of technical and structural measures have also been introduced to The Daiwa Securities Group has formulated the Disclosure enhance security and ensure that Group information resources Policy, which outlines the Group’s basic approach to are managed appropriately, such as office automation through information disclosure and strives to provide information that is the use of thin client technology and high-security access fair, prompt, and appropriate. controls at the data center. The online trading systems of Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd. employ highly advanced encryption Daiwa Securities Group Disclosure Policy technology for data transmission and for user ID verification, thereby ensuring that clients are able to use the system safely • The Daiwa Securities Group will disclose important financial, social and securely. and environmental information about the Group (“Management■ Efforts to Enhance the Level of Information related Information”) in a prompt, fair and appropriate manner, so that our stakeholders, (including shareholders, investors and the communities we operate in) may understand and maintain Security realistic expectations of the Daiwa Securities Group. • The Group will comply with the Financial Instruments and The Group has put in place a self-assessment scheme for Exchange Act and other laws and ordinances related to securities employees in order to maintain and build upon the current transactions and the various rules of the financial instruments level of information security across the Group as a whole. exchanges on which our stock is listed. Each Group company has formulated further initiatives • The Group will strive to disclose information fairly, in terms of tailored to meet the information security needs of the both content and timing. products and services they offer. Additionally, in recognition • The Group will utilize various communication channels including of the importance of human factors in effective information presentations, telephone conferences, the Internet and printed security systems, the Group has introduced training programs materials to disclose information in a manner that is easy for to educate all executives and employees in the basics of investors to comprehend. • The Group will keep in mind its responsibility to set an example for information security. The programs are offered periodically as other listed corporations, in terms of disclosure, and will strive to group training sessions, as well as through e-learning. promote healthy markets. • To ensure that these policies are implemented properly, the Group has established “Disclosure Regulations” which include guidelines for disclosing management-related information and standards for establishing a “Disclosure Committee”. 20 CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationship with Customers Approach and Basic Stance Daiwa Securities Group understands that customer trust is the foundation of our business, and our focus is always on finding ways to deliver genuine customer satisfaction. We have adopted the idea of “hospitality” to enhance our existing concept of customer service. We aim to have the most satisfied customers in the financial services industry. ■ Building Deeper, Stronger Trust with Customers Accessible Services for Diverse Customers Appropriate Explanations for Customers When Daiwa Securities renovates existing sales branches or plans new branches, it works to ensure that its branches are accessible We aim to build customer satisfaction through quality services, to a wide range of customers, including measures such as built on understanding customer needs quickly and proposing reducing the number of steps and installing wide counters. the best solutions for each customer. Providing faithful and The company also provides necessary explanations through appropriate explanations is one just aspect of that service. written communication and introduces its internet banking Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law went into services to customers with hearing difficulties. effect in September 2007. The law prohibits “solicitation that is improper in light of a customer’s knowledge, experience, Daiwa’s Point Program financial situation and objectives”. Daiwa Securities’ approach is rooted in this law, but as a part of our hospitality-based Daiwa’s Point Program awards customers with points based on service, we work to deliver explanations that go beyond legal their transactions. These points can be exchanged for products requirements when explaining the financial products we offer. or used to make charitable donations. Daiwa Securities launched When selling Impact Investment products aimed at addressing the Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Support social issues, including Vaccine Bonds and Water Bonds, Daiwa program through the Daiwa’s Point Program on March 18, 2011. Securities explains to our customers how their investments Donations from the program are used by the designated NPO, contribute to society, deepening their understanding of these Japan Platform, to support those who suffered from the disaster. Impact Investments. Improving In-Branch Customer Service Quality Active Post-Sale Follow Up A great variety of customers visits Daiwa Securities’ sales branches. Completing the sale of a product is only the beginning of a This means that employees interacting with customers need securities company’s relationship with the customer. Follow up not only specialized knowledge of the market and financial is a key element in building the relationship of trust with the products, but polished service skills with an emphasis on customer customer. This is especially true when the value of a product attentiveness as well. declines after purchase and customers feel dissatisfied and At Daiwa Securities, our goal is to provide quality customer apprehensive. Daiwa Securities works to reinforce trust in its services with a spirit of hospitality. In addition to group training, customer relations and to alleviate customer apprehension the company gives regular check-up tests on an ongoing basis through appropriate explanations and proposals. using its internal e-learning system. Staff from Daiwa Securities’ head office performs on-site checks to provide guidance to Informing Customers through Seminars and through drive greater improvements in quality. our Website In addition to regularly scheduled investor seminars held on ■ Working to Incorporate Customer Voices the 5th of every month to provide information on domestic and overseas markets, Daiwa Securities holds timely follow-up Call Center Initiatives seminars to address pronounced market fluctuations. Across all branches, over 5,000 people between August and October The 480 telephone service representatives at Daiwa Securities’ 2012 attended 236 follow-up seminars on investment trusts Call Centers take orders, explain products and handle queries and foreign currency markets. The Notice Box for users of the about required procedures and requests for sales literature. online trading section of the Daiwa website presents videos on The Call Center is one of the main channels supporting the portfolio management as well as trends and forecasts for trust company’s business model, which is driven mostly by the Daiwa funds and exchange rates. Consulting and Daiwa Direct transaction channels. Call Center employees have direct contact with customers and play a Follow Up Services for Impact Investment Products critical role not only as transaction channels but also customer Daiwa Securities provides customers who purchase Vaccine support and marketing. Their role gives them access to direct Bonds with activity reports released by the bond issuer, customer feedback that can lead to improved operations. In IFFIm. The company believes that it is important to provide order to maintain and improve call center operations to meet information on how customers are contributing to society by the demand for high-quality service, Daiwa Securities Group providing information on how the money invested in Impact provides training and regular level checks for all telephone Investment products is used to combat social issues. service representatives. 21 The Center uses questions and other input from customers to Calls Received at the Customer Support Contact Center analyze data and identify the causes of any identified problems. The Center provides feedback and information to Daiwa ■ Inquiries ■ Complaints FY Securities’ head office and sales branches as part of our work 2008 76％ 24％ 4,616 on improved services and customer interaction and increased 2009 77％ 23％ 4,144 customer satisfaction. Improvements to the service level of our interactive voice 2010 80％ 20％ 4,224 response (IVR) system were made at the end of October 2011 82％ 18％ 5,119 2012 to strengthen competitiveness and operating efficiency. 2012 83％ 17％ 5,436 These have improved the detail of the automated service 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 and shortened the per-call time of the telephone service calls representatives. Efforts to Improve Telephone Customer Service Quality Strengthening BCP at our Call Center From April to December 2012, Daiwa Securities took part in Until August 2011, all call center functions were located at a a telephone customer service competition* organized by the single site in Tokyo (Koto Ward). Some of these functions have Japan Telecom Users Association, a Public Interest Incorporated now been transferred to our Osaka branch building. Of our Foundation, taking the competition as a chance to significantly 480 service points, 450 are now located in Tokyo and 30 are improve Call Center service quality by receiving quality located in Osaka. In the event of an emergency, we are now evaluations from a third-party. In pursuit of high marks in the capable of accepting orders at the new Osaka call center as competition, we encourage our Call Centers to work constantly well as at sales branches. Splitting our call center functions to improve customer service and verbal skills; we believe this will across multiple sites improves our ability to manage operational help strengthen the capacities and motivation of our telephone risks. We also anticipate that the Osaka call center will be able service representatives. Improving the level of remote service to take over some of the functions of the Tokyo facility in the provided by service representatives at the Call Center also helps event of electricity shortages in the Kanto area (Tokyo and its bring about increased customer satisfaction. Daiwa Securities surroundings). is proud of the employee who represented our company at the event and went on to receive second place in the Japan-wide Calls Received at the Customer Support Contact Center tournament. Daiwa Securities’ Customer Support Contact Center also * Japan Telecom Users Association Telephone Customer Service Competition: handles customer feedback directly. The Contact Center works This competition is a forum for companies to compare their telephone customer service with others and to increase customer satisfaction while to respond promptly and appropriately to customer complaints improving the verbal quality of their customer handling. At the yearly and shares this input with Daiwa Securities’ sales branches competition, participating companies test the results of their many hours of and head office to avoid repeat problems. In fiscal 2012, the accumulated telephone customer-service training and preparation as a part of Contact Center received 5,436 calls – roughly 300 more than efforts to improve customer service and verbal skills. Nationwide, over 10,000 the preceding fiscal year. This rise was due to a large increase in people compete in this well-recognized event. calls concerning accounts and documentation due to improving market conditions in the second half of the fiscal year. The Web Japan Telecom Users Association (Public Interest number of complaints held steady from previous years. Incorporated Foundation) (available only in Contact Center employees appreciate the value of customer Japanese) feedback and will continue to work on improving customer service. Daiwa Securities’ Systems for Utilizing Customer Feedback Customers Questionnaire postcards Telephone Opinions, comments and requests available at branches Customer Support Contact Center Business Process Planning & Improvement Improvement Improvement Administration Department Sales branches Management Departments in charge Gathering customer feedback at each branch, to be shared by all branches (weekly) Improvement All sales branches 22 CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group works hard to advance communication with shareholders and other investors. As part of the ongoing shift from savings to investments, we believe that increasing the number of individual investors is a part of the Daiwa Securities Group’s social responsibility, and we will work hard to provide stockholders and investors with improved communications and information that is easy to understand. ■ Breakdown of Shareholders reports for shareholders. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. will continue to strive to make its communications even more As of March 31, 2013, 41.1% of Daiwa Securities Group’s accessible and precise for shareholders. shareholders were foreign investors, up 1.5 points from the end of the previous fiscal year. The percentage of individual Questionnaire for Shareholders investors decreased 2.2 points over the same period to 22.4%. The Daiwa Securities Group regularly distributes a questionnaire Breakdown by Investor Type (as of March 31, 2013) to shareholders at the end of September, coinciding with distribution of rewards under our Shareholder Rewards Other Individuals 66,399 Program, to gather and incorporate their views in management in Japan thousand shares 392,401 and IR activities. The findings of these questionnaires are 3.8% thousand shares utilized for improving our business operations while leading to 22.4% improvements such as higher satisfaction with the shareholder Foreign investors 718,989 reward program. thousand shares 41.1% September 2012 Shareholder Rewards Questionnaire Contents Financial Q. Please list your age. Other corporations institutions Q. When did you first purchase our shares? in Japan in Japan 78,595 492,993 Q. Why did you choose to buy stock of Daiwa Securities? thousand shares thousand shares Q. What sorts of disclosure and corporate communication would you like to see 4.5% 28.2% enhanced in the future? Q. Are there any products you would like the shareholder reward program? Web Stock Information ■ Shareholder Reward Program ■ Dividend Policy In September 2010, we improved our shareholder reward Daiwa Securities Group Inc. aims to continuously provide program while keeping utilizing the catalog format. improved value for shareholders, including distribution of Shareholders who qualify for rewards at the end of March profits. In principle, dividends are paid semiannually (at and September have multiple reward options to choose such the middle and end of the fiscal year) at a payout ratio as charitable donations, quarterly journal and the Daiwa’s of approximately 30% based on consolidated financial Point Program, in addition to the traditional local and regional performance. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. also actively seeks specialties. At the end of March, we also offer a calendar to ways to increase returns to its shareholders, including share shareholders who wish for it. buybacks when it has sufficient accumulated capital to pursue further growth. Web Investor Relations Information ■ Communication with Investors and Shareholders The general meeting of shareholders is an opportunity for direct interaction with shareholders, and we have many shareholders to attend it. 2,082 shareholders attended the 76th regular general meeting of shareholders, held on June 26, 2013. We are also working to create new communication opportunities, including telephone conferences on the day of quarterly earnings announcements, spring and autumn management strategy briefing sessions, one-on-one meetings with analysts and investors, and by taking part in Daiwa Investment Conferences (in Tokyo, Hong Kong and New York). In addition, we are further developing information disclosure on our IR web sites and publishing annual reports and business 23 CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationship with Executives and Employees Approach and Basic Stance The Daiwa Securities Group believes that maximizing the motivation of our executives and employees will improve customer satisfaction and consequently enhance shareholder value. We have instituted a variety of programs to help not only our executives and employees, but also their families and friends, to feel a sense of job satisfaction and share a feeling of pride to be part of the Group. The Group distributes Daiwa Spirit to our employees, a booklet about what it means to be a Daiwa professional. The booklet was developed to express our corporate principles and the philosophy and mindsets nurtured as our corporate culture since the foundation of the Group. Our hope for Daiwa Spirit is that it will enhance employees’ sense of unity and togetherness and thereby increase the Group’s overall cohesiveness. ■ Hiring Initiatives extended period (there are currently about 150 employees in the program). Hiring Approaches and Trends Daiwa also offers the Daiwa Masters’ Program for highly motivated and skilled employees to continue their contributions The Daiwa Securities Group would like all of its employees to after retirement age. This system allows qualified employees work with high motivation and loyalty from their first days with to work till the end of their extended retirement age as late as the company until retirement. We bring on all of the new college 65. Those who are not qualified for existing re-employment graduates we recruit, including those with disabilities, as full, regular programs, but who still wish to participate, are also able employees. We believe that helps develop a sense of trust and pride to work until the prescribed age. For employees who show in the company and a sense of solidarity with their colleagues for remarkable achievement after re-employment, there is a new hires. In April 2013, 523 new employees were welcomed to possibility of further contract renewal even after the prescribed the Group. age. Providing an environment in which diverse individuals can thrive and perform to their full potential enables the recruitment of Recruitment of People with Disabilities highly skilled employees. We are endeavoring to attract and secure personnel who will be able to perform on the global stage to help The Daiwa Securities Group currently has approximately 180 follow through on the Group’s strategy to strengthen our business employees with disabilities working in a wide range of capacities at in Asia. Group headoffice, in sales branches and in call centers. The Group first began recruiting new graduates with Fairness in Hiring disabilities as full, regular employees (general office staff) in fiscal 2008. In fiscal 2011, we broadened recruitment into The Daiwa Securities Group has published its Guidelines for Fair the career-track, regional career-track and customer service Hiring, composed of three fundamental principles for ensuring employment streams. We have also been actively expanding fair hiring practices: recruitment opportunities by holding briefings about the 1. U tmost respect for the rights of the applicant. company for new graduates, participating in career expos and 2. E ligibility for all individuals who meet the hiring conditions. implementing job placement support for university students 3. M aking all hiring decisions based on a fair and objective with disabilities. evaluation of the applicant’s ability, aptitude and motivation. We work to support career advancement for people with disabilities after they have entered the company as Web Fairness in Hiring (available only in Japanese) well, creating, for example, opportunities for these existing employees to enter the career-track and regional career-track Recruitment of University Graduates employment streams. In fiscal 2011, we began hiring recent university graduates who ■ Human Resource Development and Skills had finished school within the preceding three years. As part of Development building a diverse workforce, we have implemented year-round hiring, to ensure that such graduates are able to start work Employee Training Approaches and Trends shortly after receiving tentative job offers, regardless of their prior work experience. These recruits receive the same training We consider human resources to be the cornerstone of our as new graduates. company’s competitive strength. Daiwa Securities is committed to building human resources to become the sort of professional Supporting Active Veteran Employees organization capable of fulfilling the corporate vision of “a top class Asian financial services group with a strong and Daiwa Securities has created a Senior Advisor System as an secure foundation in Japan”. In particular, we believe that the opportunity for veteran employees to put their many years of time when new graduates are just entering the company and experience to use. Senior Advisors are dispatched to a region getting their start as employees and members of society is a of their choosing to offer community-based consulting over an critical period for establishing a solid foundation of learning. 24 The varied curricula of our training programs ensure not only Daiwa Securities also understands that financial planner that employees acquire the fundamental knowledge needed credentials (AFP and CFP) and securities analyst qualifications for their careers, but also that they learn about and adopt the are core qualifications for the financial sector. The Group aims to Group’s corporate philosophy and commitment to corporate have all employees acquire at least one of these credentials and social responsibility. is particularly keen to achieve the highest number of employees Our employees must have a firm understanding of corporate in the industry with the Certified Financial Planner (CFP) ethics and compliance in order to ensure the development certification (the level above Affiliated Financial Planner (AFP)). of sound financial and capital markets–an issue that Daiwa Daiwa Securities provides generous support including subsidies Securities Group considers an important part of its corporate for acquiring credentials so that employees can enhance their social responsibility. We offer regular training on information specialized skills as professionals. security and compliance to reinforce this understanding. Intra-Group Job Postings and the Career Path Change Systems Education and Training Systems Daiwa Securities has instituted a Career Path Change System The Daiwa Securities Group provides training tailored to that enables non-career-track employees to transfer to careeremployees at each level, founded on the shared policies of track and regional career-track positions. In the four years from the Group. Each Group company provides its own training, FY2009 to FY2012, 750 people have moved to career-track and reflecting the skills required within the company’s areas of other positions through the system. focus. However, the Group also strives to foster ties across We have also instituted a system of intra-Group job postings Group companies and a feeling of solidarity by expanding for employees with skills and the desire to realize their potential joint training sessions within the Group, while also improving to open new career paths. Since the year 2000, 904 employees administrative efficiency. have applied and 146 have succeeded. One example is the advanced training for selected managers offered through programs such as the Daiwa Management Evaluations Systems Academy and Daiwa Leadership Program. The Group also provides combined training for mid-level employees to develop At the Daiwa Securities Group, we believe that a fair and wellbusiness skills including programs to enhance coaching, accepted evaluation system is an indispensable part of keeping negotiation, communication and logical thinking skills. our employees highly motivated in their jobs. Managers within Daiwa Securities has implemented the Daiwa Basic Program, the group are subject to multifaceted evaluations given by a two-year intensive educational program for new hires. After their subordinates and other relevant departments. The system joining the Group, new hires study to build their knowledge of seeks to improve the managerial quality and productivity of the industry and group products as well as skills in matching the entire Group by assessing the day-to-day job performance customers with products and in business protocols through of management and providing managers with direct feedback Annex Learning under full-time instructors. After this, the new from subordinates and associated staff. The comprehensive employees are partnered with employees of similar age but evaluation system also takes into account compliance-related with more experiences at their places of work in a tutoring performances. system that provides one-on-one guidance for day-to-day We are working to design an evaluation system that motivates business operations and offers the best fitting training for each employees at every stage of their careers, from entry and midemployee’s level. level to veteran employees, and encourages them to reach for In the 2013 fiscal year, we are working to better training the next stage in positions with greater responsibilities. systems and environments for young employees, including the expansion of our Annex Learning system to include the regional ■ Initiatives to Create a Pleasant Workplace career-track employees and the extension of the tutoring Environment system to include second year employees as well. The Group has also worked to spur the motivation of Encouraging Work-Life Balance young employees through the introduction of new career advancement opportunities beginning in the third year of One of the Daiwa Securities Group’s targets is to achieve a employment. high standard of work-life balance. The Group is committed to promoting and creating work styles that offer employees a Support for Employees Earning Credentials better balance between their private and professional lives, and we are working to create an environment where both men and The Daiwa Securities Group strives to improve employee English women can work in a variety of ways. skills to adapt to continuing globalization and to shifting corporate Not only do we seek to establish systems that enable diverse strategies emphasizing Asia. We help employees raise their work styles, but we also work to change employee awareness TOEIC scores and work to offer accessible test support systems by ensuring employees regularly leave the office before 7 p.m., that apply to all employees, including e-learning platforms. In encouraging them to take their paid holidays and welcoming addition, we offer group training focused on improving practical family visits to the workplace. English skills as well as recommending subsidized e-learning We have also introduced a system that goes beyond legal opportunities and English conversation schools for intermediateminimums to make child or elder care and work mutually level and advanced learners. Staff members across the Group compatible. A questionnaire on support for balancing child are offered an opportunity every month to take the TOEIC exam. rearing and work was distributed to all group employees in In fiscal 2012, 941 Group employees took advantage of these fiscal 2012 to better understand how these systems are used opportunities to take the test. and what employees would like to see improved to aid in the 25 building of a more livable and pleasant work environment. To consultation services. There are also psychiatrists and clinical support employees returning to work after parental leave and psychotherapists available to offer mental health consultations. to ensure a smooth transition back into the workplace, we Because of these efforts, the Group has achieved a high level arrange for discussions between the returning employee and his of employee health awareness and 99% of employees receive or her supervisors before returning to work. regular health checkups. When the Group gave presentations We will continue to develop initiatives aimed at attracting on these results at symposiums held by the Ministry of the motivated and skilled employees capable of building an Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Metropolitan successful enterprise. Government, other companies showed great interest in our approach. Encouraging Women to Succeed Mental Health We are trying to cater better to the interests of our female employees by introducing thriving female employees as role Daiwa Securities Group’s Health Support Promotion models in internal publications and providing opportunities for Department was established in August 2006 to help employees cross-company communication with the aim of increasing the maintain and manage their mental and physical health. The number of women in management positions. Health Support Promotion Department has two certified clinical Our internal Work-Life Balance website includes a forum psychologists on staff to provide consultations to support where female executives and department, office and branch Group executives and employees, as well as their families. We managers make themselves available to address some of the have also established arrangements with outside specialists questions and concerns from female employees. As the number so that Group personnel and their families can receive prompt of female role models has increased, career planning for women attention. in the Group has become easier and the number of women We also arrange for occasional talks in all branches and setting their sights on improved careers by transferring to the departments to broaden awareness of mental health issues and career-track and regional career-track positions has greatly offer strong support for employees’ mental health. increased in the last few years. In total, approximately 750 employees transferred to the career track in the four years from ■ Communication fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2012. The number of women in executive and managerial positions continues to increase every year. Communication with Executives and Employees Continuing to expand the ranks of female managers and developing female leaders who will someday steer Japan’s We believe that communication with executives and employees financial industry will continue to be an important goal for is vital to the creation of a healthy and functioning workplace Daiwa Securities Group. environment. Our communications programs include regular interviews with the Personnel Department and semi-annual Initiatives to Improve Employee Health self-assessment questionnaires. We also regularly conduct a questionnaire survey on work-life balance. This unfiltered input The Daiwa Securities Group considers employee health an from our employees and executives helps us re-examine our indispensable asset for both the company and society. Our programs and enhance ongoing improvements efforts. Personnel Departments, General Health Development Center and health insurance associations work closely together to Communication Among Employees improve employee health. The Group has set up an online system for employees to In October 2007, Daiwa Securities introduced a program for confirm results and analysis from regular health checkups and supporting club activities. This program was created to help full medical checkups online. The Group also uses internal employees enjoy their time off and to deepen their friendships communications to educate employees on health information. with colleagues, building more opportunities to share a sense of Company wellness programs also include a walking program, camaraderie and solidarity. It is also intended to support worka smoking cessation program and programs encouraging life balance and facilitate a fuller social life for employees. The employees to undergo cancer exams as well as targeted program was expanded and enhanced in fiscal 2009. Under programs for female employees encouraging breast cancer and this program, employee groups that meet certain conditions uterine cancer exams and vaccination relevant to some forms are recognized as Daiwa Clubs and Daiwa Circles, which receive of cervical cancer. Beginning in fiscal 2009, employees whose subsidies to cover some of their activity costs. As of March health checks found problems will find a follow-up confirmation 2013, 18 clubs and four circles are active in the Group. form (known as a “yellow paper”) enclosed with the results of the regular health checkup, to ensure that they seek further Relationship with Employee Unions medical advice. Those employees are required to visit a medical facility within two weeks and submit the completed form to The questionnaires conducted by the employee’s union among one of the Group’s General Health Development Centers with its members have given the Group greater opportunities the doctor’s comments. As a result, the majority of employees to learn about the opinions of its employees and improve with such findings in their medical exams now visit medical communication. Employee union membership in 2012 was facilities. 6,490. The Daiwa Securities Group has established General Health Development Centers at the main Group offices. Doctors at the in-house Centers provide medical services, while staff industrial physicians and health nurses provide general health 26 Initiatives for Families We work to ensure that families share in our executives’ and employees’ pride to be part of the Group. Since fiscal 2008, we welcome employees’ families to the workplace on family visit day to give family members a better understanding of our company and their jobs. In fiscal 2012, 4,296 family members participated in this program. Other systems for supporting our employees’ families include family day leave and the extension of mental health support to employee families. 27 CSR Report 2013 Social Report Human Rights Initiative Approach and Basic Stance In light of our Corporate Principles and the United Nations Global Compact, we aspire to further improve our corporate culture, which emphasizes respect for human rights in our basic principles, and improve human rights awareness activities. We will continue to implement initiatives relating to recruitment, human resources, and the workforce to ensure that our systems are fair and free from discrimination or prejudice. seeks to address social integration and other human rights issues Basic Policy for Initiatives Addressing Human Rights from the perspective of industry and is composed of 125 and Social Integration Issues companies (mostly headquartered in Tokyo) with over one million employees (as of March 2013). Federation members work to (1) T he Daiwa Securities Group supports and complies with the protection of human rights as advocated internationally and improve their human rights and awareness programs through does not infringe on human rights within the limits of its mutual research and communication. influence. (2) T he Daiwa Securities Group educates and instructs Group ■ Initiatives in Fiscal 2012 employees with accurate information on human rights and social integration issues. Immediately following the induction ceremony in April 1, 2012, (3) A t the same time, the Group views human rights and social 365 new employees attended a group training program. The integration issues as our own problem, not somebody else’s program sought to not only instill a fundamental problem and fosters a sensitivity that enables empathy with understanding of human rights in the new members of the the pain of others. Group but also ensure that they all understood and (4) W e provide an equitable working environment that values appreciated why our company places such great value on people and is free of discrimination. human rights. An expanded training program on the (5) E ach employee is a member of society unburdened by understanding and appreciation of human rights from a variety prejudice. of standpoints was held in July. The program included middle Specific Efforts management level employees (445 people) as well as 143 (1) W e highly value the human rights of every stakeholder and employees from the management level (department chairs and our staff will always address clients, local communities and vice chairs). A contest to draft a Group-wide Human Rights their members with great awareness of human rights. and Awareness Slogan promoting broader and deeper (2) W e work to ensure that our hiring and recruiting, personnel understanding of human rights was held from October to evaluations and labor management practices are always fair. December. The contest was held among Group employees, (3) T he Group is continually improving internal human rights executives and their families, with the winning slogans education and awareness programs, including regular training featured in the Group magazine. Our Human Rights Week and feedback and response loops. program (November–December) encouraged multifaceted reflection on human rights. All Group employees and May 18, 2011: Human Rights Awareness Promotion Committee executives viewed films on human rights and then adjourned to Human Rights Awareness Workshops for group discussions within their divisions. New films with new themes are shown ■ Human Rights Education and Awareness every year. In 2012, The Internet and Human Rights was selected as the theme to reflect the rapid increase in the In 1984, Daiwa Securities Group Inc. set up a Human Rights violation of individual rights via the Internet. In 2012, 11,630 Awareness Promotion Committee with the objective of extending people viewed the video and our company culture and its core principle of respect for human 9,997 executives and rights. The committee is currently chaired by the head office employees took part in the director in charge of HR, with the head of HR as deputy chair, workshops. along with six division leaders including the heads of the In a new training initiative, compliance control division, the communications division and the 168 Group chief sales managers general affairs department—all active in pursing the committee’s attended a one-hour lecture on goals. Outside of the committee, all Group managers (at the human rights by Péter Frankl. New Employee Training office, division or branch level) act in a promotional role, working in line with the Committee’s plans and programs to ensure that employees correctly understand and acknowledge human rights and social integration issues through education and awareness activities. The Committee revised and released the Group’s Basic Policy for Initiatives Addressing Human Rights and Social Integration Issues in May 2011. Daiwa Securities Group has been a member of the Industrial Federation for Human Rights, Tokyo, since 1998. The Federation 28 CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationship with Society Approach and Basic Stance Good corporate citizenship means working together with the local community and engaging in consistent collaboration with NPOs and NGOs to foster sustainable development. We group our diverse corporate citizenship initiatives into four key categories. 1. Education and research activities in economics and finance 2. ESG/CSR and Encouraging Volunteerism among executives and employees 3. Support for Culture and the Arts 4. Assistance to area communities inside and outside of Japan through foundations and NPOs ■ 1. E  ducation and Research Activities in the Fields of Economics and Finance Capitalizing on its accumulated financial and economic as well as teachers. We believe that economic and financial expertise to make public contributions, the Daiwa Securities education is important in helping young people build the Group engages in business-academia collaborations and capacity to shape the world. supports programs for junior and senior high school students Economic and Financial Education Sustainable Development of the Japanese Economy in the 21st Century Educational institutions Research institutions Understanding of social Improve economic and Develop financial Disclose research results Commercial and business and economic principles financial knowledge specialists Create practical applications application of research results Elementary/junior/high Intellectual property (IP)/ Undergraduate students Graduate students Researchers school students patents Support teachers Provide or endow classes Provide or endow classes Joint research University-launched ventures Participate in classes Dispatch instructors Dispatch instructors Research support and IP headquarters Group Employee Cooperation Joint programs with Junior Achievement Japan (Public Interest Incorporated Association) (1) F inance Park ( 2)Council for Economic Education Japan (CEE-Japan) Junior Achievement Japan established a Finance Park in CEE-Japan was established in January 2009 to provide Shinagawa, Tokyo in June 2005 and another in Kyoto in January economic education training for schoolteachers. The Daiwa 2007 with the goal of providing a space where junior and Securities Group is CEE-Japan’s main sponsor, providing both senior high school students can develop and practice lifethe inaugural funding and ongoing support, together with planning skills. The Daiwa Securities Group provides funds for seven other influential companies. As of March 31, 2013, 1,450 Junior Achievement’s simulated shops and offices as well as teachers have participated in workshops and forums, including personnel support. the trial run in 2009. In fiscal 2012, 2,401 young people took part in programs at the Shinagawa Finance Park and 5,320 participated at the Kyoto Finance Park. Finance Park 29 Cooperation with KidZania Employees and Executives Involved in Corporate KidZania is a theme park built around simulated career Citizenship Activities, Donation and Recycling Initiatives experiences for children. Daiwa presents the Securities Group employees and executives participate in a wide Consulting Pavilions in both the Tokyo and Koshien KidZania range of corporate citizenship activities including local locations. At the Pavilion, children act as securities company and international exchanges and charity events. In fiscal consultants and do field research in neighboring pavilions 2012, 82 employees voluntarily participated in corporate including interviews about congestion and hot-selling products, citizenship activities on the weekends or after work. Re-use in response to consultations from their investor customers. The and recycling activities generated ¥176,164 for donation. consultant experience then asks the children to think about the best investments to recommend to their customers based on ■ 3. Support for Culture and the Arts their findings and finally to help their customers to make their investments. The Daiwa Securities Group provides ongoing support for a wide range of cultural and artistic activities. The Group has Web KidZania Activity Introduction: Securities Company been the special sponsor of the Mainichi Shimbun Central (available only in Japanese) Contest for Book Review Painting for nineteen years, a tradition that began with the sixth contest. The contest aims Financial Planning Classroom for Beginners (with sign to encourage reading and improve children’s reading skills language and written interpretation) by awarding prizes for drawings that express the reader’s Daiwa offers seminars on understanding financial planning and impressions of a book. Prizes are awarded by age group to basic economic knowledge elementary, junior and senior high school students. The winning (with sign language and written drawings from 2012 were exhibited at 10 Daiwa Securities interpretation) as a component branches. of our CSR initiatives. From Since 2005, the Group has also been supporting traditional 2013 to 2014, a series of five Japanese cultural activities, including sponsorship of the seminars are planned, one top title matches in Shogi and Go (Japanese chess and the every three months, each with game of Go), the Meijin Title Match (Shogi) and the Honinbo a different theme. Financial Planning Classroom for Tournament (Go). Beginners Web Financial Planning Classroom for Beginners ■ 4. Assistance to communities on both the local (available only in Japanese) and the international level through foundations and NPOs ■ 2. P roviding ESG/CSR topics and Encouraging Volunteerism among executives and employees Daiwa Securities Health Foundation (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) In addition to economic, financial and ESG information, our The Daiwa Securities Health Foundation was established in public and internal websites provide information on independent 1972, in commemoration of the Group’s 30th anniversary, volunteer projects planned and/or managed by the Group as well to support medical research. Since 1973, the Daiwa as collaborative activities performed with NPOs and community Securities Health Foundation has supported 30 outstanding groups. In our work to encourage as many of our people to research projects focusing on improved health, medical care participate in corporate citizenship initiatives as possible, we and welfare for middle-aged and older people. Since its will seek ongoing collaborations with external organizations, founding, it has disbursed ¥30 million every year, composed strengthen internal communications on volunteering and of 30 separate grants of ¥1 million each. Fiscal 2012 marked volunteer opportunities and continue to pursue increased the 39th year of this program, with a cumulative 1,072 opportunities for executives and employees to engage. recipients having received ¥1,057 million in total. CSR Dialogues Web Daiwa Securities Health Foundation (available We have been engaged in an ongoing series of dialogues on only in Japanese) CSR with specialists from a range of fields, focusing especially on economy, finance and ESG. The Group has organized over 40 Daiwa Securities Foundation (Public Interest dialogues since the first was conducted in 2004. Please visit our Incorporated Foundation) website for details (Only selected dialogues have been translated The Daiwa Securities Foundation was established in 1994 to into English). We held four CSR Dialogues over the course of fiscal commemorate the Group’s 50th anniversary. The Foundation 2012 on a series of contemporary issues. provides grants for volunteer activities in the fields of welfare and medicine to fulfill its mission of using corporate profit to return a contribution to society. As of fiscal 2012, the Foundation has Volunteer Awards given a cumulative total of ¥586 million in Volunteer Activities Daiwa Securities issues the President’s Award to recognize Grants to 2,541 organizations. outstanding achievements by executives and employees. The Since fiscal 2011, the Foundation has focused primarily on Group also introduced the Volunteer Award in fiscal 2007, organizations and groups involved in volunteer work responding which is given twice a year to employees and groups involved to the Great East Japan Earthquake. It has distributed ¥58.31 in volunteer initiatives and activities that provide ongoing million in Disaster Volunteer Activities Grants among 127 support to communities. organizations. Web Daiwa Securities Foundation (available only in Japanese) 30 Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation (Chartered in the UK) Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program The Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation is a UK charity In May 2012, Daiwa Securities Group established its Great East established in 1988 in part with contributions from Daiwa Japan Earthquake Relief Assistance program. The program Securities, for fostering closer ties between Britain and Japan. donates a portion of management fees from the Daiwa Nippon Principal activities include: Support Fund Vol. 3–Phoenix Japan to local designated NPOs (1) A warding grants to individuals, institutions and through Japan NPO Center’s Japan Earthquake Local NPO organizations working to promote ties between the UK Support Fund. The Fund supports NPOs working in the affected and Japan areas to help people reconstruct their lives and communities. (2) E nabling British and Japanese students and academics to In 2012, the first year of the program, a total of ¥31 million was further their education by providing opportunities for joint distributed to seven different recipients (including a ¥1.5 million research and supporting exchanges and other bilateral grant for joint training). initiatives (3) A warding Daiwa Scholarships for British graduates to Web Daiwa Securities Phoenix Japan Program (available study Japanese and undertake work assignments in Japan only in Japanese) (4) O rganizing a year-round calendar of events to improve understanding of Japan in the UK Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program The Foundation’s Tokyo Office provides local assistance to The Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program provides grants to Japanese Daiwa Scholars (students from the UK), administers grant NPOs working in fields involving human security. The program applications from Japan and collaborates with other institutions supports resource and capacity development for designated promoting Anglo-Japanese relations. The Daiwa Scholars NPOs by subsidizing personnel and training program costs. program has accepted 147 UK students since its establishment. The program is operated in collaboration with the designated The Foundation has to date awarded grants for 2,615 projects, NPO Civil Society Initiative Fund and sponsored by donations with overall funding, including other grants and seminars held from the management fees of the Daiwa SRI Fund. In 2012, at the London headquarters’ Japan House totaling around the Daiwa SRI Fund continued its support for the Big Issue ¥3,481 million (as of March 2013). Foundation designated NPO. Grants Awarded: 26 projects (16 new grants and 10 ongoing) Web Daiwa Anglo-Japanese Foundation to 35 staff across 16 groups, totaling ¥45.8 million (as of March 2013). Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund We established the Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Web Daiwa SRI Fund Grant Program (available only in Reconstruction Fund on March 9, 2005, to provide recovery Japanese) assistance to regions affected by the December 26, 2004 Sumatra Earthquake and Indian Ocean Tsunami. Beginning 3keys Program in fiscal 2005, this fund has provided long-term support for In 2012, Daiwa Securities Group began offering support to the recovery, disbursing ¥10 million annually for a ten-year period 3keys Program, a designated NPO working to improve learning for a total of ¥100 million. Established as a part of the Asian opportunities in child protection facilities. The program, which Community Trust (ACT), the Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami also receives some funding under the Daiwa SRI Fund, helps to Reconstruction Fund provides grants to local NPOs in the three foster greater confidence and ambition in children. hardest hit countries: Indonesia, Sri Lanka and India. These efforts offer assistance across four fields: mental health care Kopernik Program for children, implementation and utilization of microfinancing, Kopernik is a US-based NPO established in 2009 with the goal provision of educational opportunities for children and sharing of improving quality of life and reducing poverty in developing and dissemination of tsunami disaster prevention knowledge countries; its Japan operations were activated in 2010. Kopernik has and exchange and cooperation activities among those who developed a program to enable contributors in developed countries suffered. Asian Community Center 21 (ACC21, a designated to go online and donate to NPOs in developing countries or areas NPO) functions as the executive office for ACT, undertaking of their own choosing by selecting needed products such as simple program selection and activity monitoring, while the Sumitomo water purifiers and solar lamps. Kopernik shares details of recipient Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., acts as fund custodian. Both NPO activities supported by the donation on its website to ensure organizations are leveraging their skills and capacities to provide transparency. Some of the Daiwa Eco Fund and Russell Global better assistance. The Fund’s objective is to provide long-term Environmental Technology Fund’s donations to Kopernik are used to recovery assistance measures rather than offering temporary cover the organization’s administrative costs. Products and recipients donations, and it utilizes financial systems to provide assistance are selected in light of their consistency with the principles of these through charitable trusts, microfinance and other avenues. In funds. addition, ACC21’s oversight and monitoring makes it possible to make a detailed assessment of the aid activities. Web Kopernik Program (available only in Japanese) Web Daiwa Securities Group Tsunami Reconstruction Fund (available only in Japanese) 31 Social Business College Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co., Ltd. Hong Kong The Daiwa Securities Group helped to create the Social Business Ltd. First Class Program College as a space to examine sustainable business models Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Hong Kong established a CSR and finances for social businesses. Since October 2010, the panel in 2012, as a forum for interested members to discuss and program has held seminars in alternate months in association promote CSR initiatives. with Music Securities Inc. The final seminar in the two-year The panel composed of employees and executives discussed program was held in September 2012. The seminar welcomed ways that the company can make new contributions to society Music Securities CEO Masami Komatsu and played host to lively and selected “Children and Education” as its focus. The panel discussions on the topic of “Social Business: Examining 21st wants to contribute toward addressing the issues of poor access Century Business.” to formal education and a lack of teachers and school facilities that burden many countries in Asia. Web Social Business College The program was given the name “First Class,” and is currently being advised by intermediary aid groups to assess Table for Two Program their needs. Plans are underway to involve our employees in the The Daiwa Securities Group contributes to the Table for Two project on a voluntary (TFT) Program. The program is organized by Table for Two, an basis in the future. internationally designated NPO, and aims at tackling “food imbalance”: the recognition that developed countries are suffering from obesity and lifestyle diseases while hunger persists in developing countries. 23 vending machines in the Group’s Tokyo Head Office were stocked with healthy drinks in February 2013; the purchase of one of these drinks makes an automatic donation of ¥10 to the charity. The Toyocho Center Building employee cafeteria, used by employees of the Daiwa Securities Business Center, also began participating in the program in March 2013. When customers order an item from the TFT menu, or purchase their meals with a TFT card, a ¥20 donation is made to pay for a school lunch in a developing country. 32 CSR Report 2013 Environmental Report Environmental Initiatives Approach and Basic Stance The natural environment is the very foundation of human life, so protecting it is essential to sustainable societies. We strive to help resolve environmental issues through our financial capabilities in the development of products that can reduce environmental burden, and also by making investments that help to make environmental technologies and infrastructure more widely available. We are working to establish a system that efficiently collects data on Daiwa's environmental impact. We are also focused on raising employees' environmental awareness to empower them to reduce environmental burden in daily business operations. ■ Environmental Management Environmental Vision The Group is dedicated to protecting the precious global Each company in the Group adopts and implements an environment and preserving it for future generations by environmental management policy. Every other month, a leveraging financial capabilities. representative from each Group company attends meetings of the Environmental Management Council to share data, Environmental Principles ideas and views on environmental issues. This Council, and the The Group recognizes the importance of environmental principles such as the effort to combat global warming, Group as a whole, is constantly seeking ways to improve and recycling and reuse of raw materials, and preserving biodiversity, implement environmental management systems. in order to create a sustainable society for the 21st century. The The Group compiles and reports quantitative data on its Group pledges to contribute to solving environmental issues environmental impact each year, including details such as through its business as a financial service company and to energy and water consumption, CO2 emissions, paper usage, constantly seek new ways to reduce its environmental impact as waste disposal and recycling volume. a responsible corporate citizen. Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd.’s strives Basic Environmental Policies to run its operations environmental friendly and complies with 1. M  ake positive environmental contributions through our ISO14001. core business activities We shall seek to develop and provide financial products and services that promote a low-carbon, recycling-oriented and ■ Carbon dioxide emissions symbiotic society. Energy consumption at the Daiwa Securities Group’s 2. Implement an environmental management system We shall implement an environmental management system domestic offices (on a carbon dioxide emissions basis) and constantly seek new ways to improve environmental fell by 17.4% in fiscal 2012 compared with the previous activities. In addition, we shall support environmental year as a result of initiatives to conserve energy. Electricity education and publicity efforts, while promoting consumption at overseas offices fell by 14.3% from the environmental protection efforts by employees. previous fiscal year. (see CSR Related Data>Environment for 3. T ake steps to save natural resources, reduce energy details) consumption, and promote biodiversity We shall continue to progress in our efforts to reduce the use of natural resources and energy, and seek ways to improve ■ Other Environmental Impacts materials-and energyefficiency (including efforts to improve business efficiency). We shall also take steps to reduce Volume of Copy Paper / Forms used water use and reduce, reuse and recycle other materials to contribute to a more environmentally friendly society. We facilitated the transition to a paperless office by appointing Furthermore, considering the importance of biodiversity, we shall seek a symbiotic relationship with the environment and an employee to be in charge of the paperless transition at use safe, clean methods of materials procurement. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. As a result of these endeavors, the 4. P romote environmental communication volume of copy paper used fell about 8.1% from the previous Working in concert with business partners, the local fiscal year. Moreover, about 32.9% (based on monetary value) community, NGOs and NPOs, we shall actively disseminate of the copy paper used consisted of Green Procurement information about environmental issues, and communicate Network (GPN) compatible products. our concern for the environment to customers and society at large. 5. S trictly observe environmental regulations We shall always endeavor in environmental assurance, observing environmental laws and regulations in addition to the Group’s environment policies. (May 22, 2012) Takashi Hibino Daiwa Securities Group Inc. President and CEO 33 e-Member Services (Daiwa Securities) ■ Information dissemination Daiwa Securities offers its customers the e-Member service, Dissemination of ESG Reports by Daiwa Institute of Research which allows them to receive document transmissions (including account balance statements and transaction reports) electronically The Daiwa Institute of Research carries out research in areas instead of in paper format. In general, these electronic records are such as renewable energy, emissions trading, SRI, and corporate maintained for five years and can be accessed at any time. They governance. It publishes the findings commentary via its can also be saved locally to the client’s computer or printed out. quarterly research review and on its website. The ESG News Members who have applied for the e-Member service are section of the website specifically devoted to topics our analysts offered benefits, including no management fees on domestic find worthy of attentions. As of the end of March 2013, the stock trading accounts and no transaction fees on deposits and Daiwa Institute of Research had published 59 articles on issues withdrawals made via internet. relating to ESG. The paperless system not only saves natural resources but also adds to customer convenience. Web DIR>Research>ESG (available only in Japanese) ■ Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impact ■ Environmental Products and Services Energy-Conscious Building Facility Renewals Our Impact Investment products are part of our contribution to solving global environmental issues. These products offer Daiwa Securities sales branches use equipment certified under customers opportunities to contribute to solving social and the Top Runner standards when building facilities (including airenvironmental issues through bond investments and investment conditioning, electric substation equipment and water supply/ trusts. sewage facilities) are installed or replaced, to ensure reduced Impact Investment bonds handled during fiscal 2012 included environmental impact. The Top Runner standards are stipulated Agri Bonds and Green Bonds. We offered a total of 38.8 billion under the Japanese Act on the Rational Use of Energy to establish yen worth of these bonds, primarily to retail investors. We also criteria for energy saving products that manufacturers will strive underwrite Impact Investment bonds aimed at institutional to meet. The certification is intended to spur manufacturers to investors. produce higher levels of efficiency than are available in commercial Our investment trust products focusing on environment products today. include the Daiwa SRI Fund and the Daiwa Eco Fund. Installation of Building Specific Heat Sources ■ Climate Change Initiatives (Shinjuku Maynds Tower) Daiwa Securities Group promotes public-private partnerships Building specific heat sources were installed and put into use in to mitigate climate change through the Group’s core business June of 2012 in the Shinjuku Maynds Tower building (owned by functions. Daiwa Office Investment Corporation and operated by Daiwa We are working to help raise funds needed for climate Estate Asset Management). These heat sources will allow the change countermeasures in developing countries. Specifically, building to produce a portion of its air-conditioning cooling we are marketing the Green Bonds and Water Bonds issued by water, which is otherwise provided by the district heating the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank and helping and cooling company. This change has a potential to reduce redirect Japanese risk-taking funds toward renewable energy annual CO2 emissions by an estimated 833 tons (compared to a and water infrastructure projects in developing countries. We single tower with over 7,000m2 of floor area). The installation are also developing our own mega-solar energy generation company, ESCO services, provides ongoing maintenance and project to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. On a guarantee of reduced energy consumption. With these March 19, 2013, the Japan Securities Dealers Association changes, the Shinjuku Maynds Tower is expected to achieve the published its “Action Plan for Environmental Issues from Fiscal Phase 1 CO2 reduction targets under the Tokyo Metropolitan 2013”. The plan calls for all member securities dealers to reduce Ordinance on Environmental Protection. their per square meter electricity consumption in all business functions by 10% from 2009 levels by the year 2020. We have Joining a Green Purchasing Network adopted this goal as a component of our ongoing efforts to (Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management) reduce our environmental impact. Daiwa Real Estate Management joined a green purchasing network and enacted Green Procurement Guidelines in April 2012 to promote the procurement of products with lower environmental burdens. 34 CSR Report 2013 Economic Report Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders ■ Revenues in the Economic Report Revenue Breakdown in the Economic Report in fiscal 2012 Non-operating income Extraordinary gains For the purpose of this Economic Report, revenues represent ¥14,500 million ¥9,753 million the total of all revenues received by the Daiwa Securities 2.6% 1.8% Group (consolidated) in fiscal 2012—operating revenues, non-operating income and extraordinary gains. In fiscal 2012, operating revenues accounted for 95.6% of revenues. Operating revenues ¥525,411 million 95.6% ■ Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders Economic value for the purpose of this Economic Report is Shareholders calculated as revenues minus interest expenses (less interest In fiscal 2012, the Group paid an interim dividend of ¥3 per paid to our stakeholders), other operating expense, the share and a year-end dividend of ¥12 yen per share, for a total cost of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses annual dividend of ¥15 yen per share. (less personnel costs, taxes, and expenditure for corporate citizenship activities), non-operating expenses (less interest Creditors paid), and extraordinary losses. The Group pays interest to creditors. Executives and Employees Government The distribution of economic value to executives and employees According to the Daiwa Securities Group’s financial accounting, is the figure for personnel expenses (including reserves for the tax amount paid is the sum of current income taxes, salaries and bonuses, as well as welfare program benefits deferred income taxes, and other taxes and duties including and social insurance contributions). Daiwa has built a fair consumption tax. compensation system that is highly acceptable to all, in order to improve employee motivation and maximize the value provided Minority Shareholders to all stakeholders. This is the profit and loss returned to the minority shareholders of the Daiwa Securities Group companies. Society Regardless of the ups and downs of the business cycle, we aim to provide stable funding for our corporate citizenship activities. See “CSR Related Data>Corporate Citizenship Initiatives and Expenditures” in the “Relationship with Society” section for a breakdown of these expenditures. Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders in FY2012 Minority shareholders 2.4％ Society Economic value Dividends to shareholders 0.2% ¥304,370 million 3.4% Interest expenses Government ¥23,269 million 6.0% Other operating expense Revenues in the ¥37,972 million Creditors Executives Economic Report 15.9% and employees ¥549,664 million Costs related to selling 51.5% and general administrative Internal reserves expenses 20.6％ ¥170,269 million Other expenses Revenues Expenditure ¥13,784 million 35 CSR Report 2013 ■ Third-party Opinion with concrete and direct stakeholders in the Group’s activities and for reflecting that input in CSR objectives and evaluations. I believe the Group should also give a clear indication of how the suggestions and comments in this third-party opinion piece would be reported and acted upon. Regarding due diligence, I would like Sachiko Kishimoto to see an avenue for the company’s risk management frameworks, Executive Director, which currently center on a financial perspective, to incorporate a societal impact frame of reference as well. Therefore, I Public Resources Foundation recommend the development of a due diligence framework (Public Interest Incorporated Foundation) for social responsibility to mitigate the risks of Group initiatives creating adverse impacts on society. The Daiwa Securities Group currently reports on its environmental, Relations with customers, specifically the Group’s stated social, and governance practices in two separate documents: dedication to proactive post-sale service (aftercare), are its CSR report and its Annual Report. The Group is currently very important in adapting to coming shifts in the economic considering a shift to a single integrated report in the future. I environment from savings to investing. Investor trust obviously would like give my opinion here on the contents of the CSR Report must be gained by first using appropriate guidance and solicitation 2013. practices. To further strengthen this trust, I recommend a The Group’s CSR reports are comprehensive and follow the GRI’s systematic implementation of clear explanations for market sustainability reporting guidelines and supplementary documents fluctuations and losses, as well as appropriate services for older for financial services sector businesses. They clearly and faithfully customers. describe the Group’s efforts to address the guidelines of In the Group’s relationships with its employees, I am happy to ISO26000. see the Group being proactive in the promotion of women to The CSR specifically addresses the Group’s efforts to take an management levels as well as increasing the number of employees active lead in increasing impact investment in Japan by both transferring to career-track positions. However, the ratio of underwriting and selling a variety of related bonds and hosting women in executive and management positions remains lower impact investment forums to increase public awareness. I find than the industry average, and it will be necessary to renew and these efforts to direct their financial capacities into contributions reinforce these efforts. toward sustainable society highly commendable. The Group’s The Group’s efforts to make societal contributions through newly established “Great East Japan Earthquake Small and Midthe financial system are worthy of praise, especially the Daiwa Sized Enterprise Reconstruction Support Fund” is also doing good Tsunami Reconstruction Fund public trust and its associated work by starting a program of long-term financial support for application of micro-financing and the Daiwa Securities Phoenix unlisted companies in areas still recovering from the disaster. Japan Program’s use of a portion of investment income to provide I would also like to recommend some future improvements to disaster recovery assistance. However, the level of support for enhance the Group’s specific initiatives. employee participation in volunteer activities remains weak. I would like to see the Group’s CSR management include Having a variety of socially beneficial experiences outside of work deeper dialogues with stakeholders, along with the creation of has a great influence on employee social consciousness and ethics a due diligence framework for social responsibility. Currently, in the workplace as well. I would like to see the Group pursue dialogues with stakeholders appear to be limited to the Group’s greater participation among employees in volunteer activities that “Understanding CSR through Dialogues” interviews with experts contribute to staff training and development. in relevant fields. I recommend establishing a process for dialogue ■ Response to We will revisit what ISO26000 aims for, not being satisfied with Third-party Opinion just checking boxes in producing our CSR report, and endeavor to engage in dialogues with our stakeholders to grasp better the influences our activities, both business and corporate citizenship, may have upon the society to seek appropriate measures. We believe that continuing the promotion of work-life Koichi Matsushita balance and supporting the careers of our female employees by Executive Managing Director helping them to reach management-level positions is important to building the value of our business. We are grateful for your valuable opinion on the Daiwa We are proud to continue our efforts to turn our financial Securities Group’s CSR Report 2013. Receiving and capabilities toward contributing to building a sustainable acknowledging frank opinions and honest suggestions is an society. Our Group is working to encourage employee important part of the ongoing process of understanding and volunteerism. We are implementing volunteer awards to give living up to society’s expectations in order to earn its trust and recognition to employee volunteer work Daiwa Securities respect. Group will continue to pursue new opportunities to make You suggested a system for due diligence in social responsibility. better and more diverse contributions to society. 36 CSR Report 2013 ■ Third-party Evaluations Name Evaluation Dow Jones Sustainability World The Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World) is a stock index of companies Indexes Member 2012/13 with sustainable practices selected by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. of the United States and Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) of Switzerland. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in DJSI World for 14 consecutive years. FTSE4Good Index FTSE is a subsidiary of the UK’s Financial Times and the London Stock Exchange. It develops global indexes and provides data for investment. Daiwa Securities Group Inc. has been included in the FTSE4Good, an index of socially responsible companies compiled by FTSE, for seven consecutive periods since September 2006. Certified Family-friendly Employer Shown at left is the certification symbol for family-friendly employers provided by Japan’s Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare’s based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising the Next Generation of Children. In addition to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. obtaining certification as a family-friendly employer on June 9, 2008. Daiwa Securities, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets, Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings, Daiwa Institute of Research, Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation and Daiwa Securities Business Center also received this certification. Work-Life Balance The Daiwa Securities Group has earned high praise from a range of external organizations for its initiatives to provide employees with a more supportive work environment that is conducive to work-life balance. • Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare organized in “evenly-balanced promote enterprise award” family-friendly corporate sector, “Tokyo Labor Bureau Excellence Award” (2012) • Ranked 7th in “the best 100 company for women to play an active role” Nikkei WOMAN (June 2012 issue) • The Work-Life Balance Award winner sponsored by Toyo Keizai Inc. at “the Third Diversity Management Award” (February 2012) GRESB 2012 “Green Star” The Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB) awarded its highest recognition, a Green Star, to Daiwa Real Estate Asset Management subsidiary Daiwa Office Investment Corporation. SMBC Sustainability Certification The Daiwa Ginza Building, owned by Daiwa Office Investment Corporation, was given a “gold” ranking under the SMBC Sustainable Building Assessment Loan Program (performed by Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation). The E-Space Tower received a “silver” certification. Principles for Financial Action for the Daiwa Securities Group’s Impact Investment initiatives received “Good Practices” 21st Century-Good Practices recognition in the Asset Management, Securities and Investment Banking Sector, under Principles for Financial Action Towards a Sustainable Society (the Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) promoted by the Ministry of the Environment. 37 CSR Report 2013 ■ G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index GRI Application Levels In compiling the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability Report 2013, reference was made to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines (3.1 Edition) and the Financial Services Sector Supplement (2008). The guidelines set out a series of standard levels (GRI application levels) based on regulations outlined therein that companies compiling reports may apply to ensure that their reports are compliant with GRI guidelines. We believe that the Daiwa Securities Group Sustainability Report 2013 meets the reporting standards for GRI Report Application Level B. G3.1 GRI/ISO26000 Content Index ISO26000 Item Indicator Link Core Social Responsibility Subjects & Themes Clauses 1 Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or Message from the CEO/ 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its Message from the Chairman strategy. Organizational governance 6.2 Message from the CEO/ 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Message from the Chairman CSR Management: Performance and Targets 2 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Daiwa Securities Group Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 Daiwa Securities Group Profile Organizational governance 6.2 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that 2.5 Daiwa Securities Group Profile are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Daiwa Securities Group Profile Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2.7 Daiwa Securities Group Profile beneficiaries). Scale of the reporting organization, including: ・Number of employees; ・Number of operations; 2.8 ・Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); Daiwa Securities Group Profile ・Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and ・Quantity of products or services provided. Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: ・The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and 2.9 expansions; and Daiwa Securities Group Profile ・Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Third-party Evaluations 3 Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Contents/Editorial Policy 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Contents/Editorial Policy 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Contents/Editorial Policy 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Contents/Editorial Policy Report Scope and Boundary Process for defining report content, including: ・Determining materiality; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 3.5 ・Prioritizing topics within the report; and and Key Issues ・Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 Contents/Editorial Policy suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Contents/Editorial Policy Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and 3.8 other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between CSR Related Data organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other CSR Related Data information in the report. 38 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, and the 3.10 reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature Not applicable of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement Not applicable, because there have been no 3.11 methods applied in the report. significant changes since the previous report GRI content index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. This table references GRI content Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and 3.13 Third-party Opinion Verification 7.5.3 basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider (s). 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible 4.1 Corporate Governance for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function 4.2 Corporate Governance within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 Corporate Governance governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the 4.4 Corporate Governance highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, 4.5 and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance Corporate Governance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Corporate Governance Organizational governance 6.2 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the 4.7 highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other Corporate Governance indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.8 economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. and Key Issues Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with 4.10 Corporate Governance respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Compliance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 4.11 Risk Management organization. IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.12 Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Principal Member Qualifications Nippon Keidanren Japan Securities Dealers Association Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international Work-Life Balance Promotion Model advocacy organizations in which the organization: Project by the Ministry of Health, Labour and ・Has positions in governance bodies; Welfare 4.13 ・Participates in projects or committees; The Multi-stakeholder Forum on Social ・Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or Responsibility for a Sustainable Future ・Views membership as strategic. UNEP-FI PRI CDP Global Compact Japan Network Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ・Civil society; ・Customers; Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.14 ・Employees, other workers, and their trade unions; and Key Issues ・Local communities; ・Shareholders and providers of capital; and ・Suppliers. Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. and Key Issues Daiwa Securities Group Corporate Principles and Key Issues Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by Relationship with Customers 4.16 stakeholder group. Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Relationship with Executives and Employees Relationship with Society Relationship with Customers Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Relationship with Executives and Employees Relationship with Society 39 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Message from the CEO/ Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Message from the Chairman Community involvement and development 6.8 Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Performance Indicators Economic Performance Community involvement and development 6.8 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee CSR Related Data Community involvement 6.8.3 EC1. CORE compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to Delivering Economic Value to Stakeholders Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 capital providers and governments. Social investment 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to EC2. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 climate change. EC3. CORE Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Annual Report 2013 EC4. CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. Impact is insignificant Market Presence Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our EC5. ADD Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 significant locations of operation. business Community involvement and development 6.8 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our 6.8 EC6. CORE Community involvement and development operation. business 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation Community involvement and development 6.8 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community EC7. CORE Not reported Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 at locations of significant operation. Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Indirect Economic Impacts Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Community involvement and development 6.8 Community involvement 6.8.3 Relationship with Society (2. Providing ESG/CSR Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Education and culture 6.8.4 EC8. CORE topics and Encouraging Volunteerism among benefit through commercial, inkind, or pro bono engagement. Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 executives and employees) Technology development and access 6.8.6 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Social investment 6.8.9 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.6.6 chain 6.6.7 Respect for property rights 6.7.8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Access to essential services EC9. ADD Not applicable 6.8 impacts. Community involvement and development 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.6 Technology development and access 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.9 Social investment Environmental Environmental Initiatives (Approach and Basic Stance) Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Initiatives The Environment 6.5 (Environmental Management) Performance Indicators Materials EN1. CORE Materials used by weight or volume. Not applicable EN2. CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not applicable Energy EN3. CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. CSR Related Data EN4. CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. CSR Related Data EN5. ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. CSR Related Data The Environment 6.5 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 EN6. ADD CSR Related Data reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7. ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. CSR Related Data Water EN8. CORE Total water withdrawal by source. CSR Related Data EN9. ADD Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Impact is insignificant EN10. ADD Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not reported Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas EN11. CORE Not applicable of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. The Environment 6.5 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected Protection of the environment & biodiversity, EN12. CORE Not applicable 6.5.6 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. and restoration of natural habitats EN13. ADD Habitats protected or restored. Not applicable 40 The Environment 6.5 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, EN14. ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Not reported 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats 6.8.3 Community involvement The Environment Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas 6.5 EN15. ADD Not applicable Protection of the environment & biodiversity, affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16. CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CSR Related Data The Environment 6.5 EN17. CORE Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. CSR Related Data Climate change mitigation and action 6.5.5 EN18. ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. CSR Related Data EN19. CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Impact is insignificant EN20. CORE NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Impact is insignificant EN21. CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. Impact is insignificant EN22. CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. CSR Related Data The Environment 6.5 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN23. CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms EN24. ADD of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped Not applicable internationally. The Environment 6.5 Prevention of pollution Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats 6.5.3 EN25. ADD Not applicable Sustainable resource use significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. 6.5.4 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, 6.5.6 and restoration of natural habitats Products and Services The Environment 6.5 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Environmental Initiatives (Initiatives to Reduce Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 EN26. CORE mitigation. Environmental Impact) Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 The Environment 6.5 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 EN27. CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Not applicable Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28. ADD Not applicable The Environment 6.5 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport The Environment 6.5 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29. ADD Not reported Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Overall EN30. ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Not reported The Environment 6.5 Society Labor Practices and Decent Work Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Performance Indicators Employment Daiwa Securities Group Profile LA1. CORE Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. CSR Related Data Labour Practices 6.4 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 LA2. CORE CSR Related Data region. Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime LA3. ADD (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 employees, by significant locations of operation. Balance) Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 LA15. CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Balance) Labor/Management Relations Labour Practices 6.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Relationship with Executives and Employees LA4. CORE Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 (Communication with Employees’ Union) Social dialogue 6.4.5 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Labour Practices 6.4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 LA5. CORE Not reported collective agreements. Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Social dialogue 6.4.5 Occupational Health and Safety 41 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety LA6. ADD Not reported committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Labour Practices 6.4 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workrelated Health and safety at work 6.4.6 LA7. CORE Not reported fatalities, by region and by gender. Labour Practices 6.4 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Relationship with Executives and Employees Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Community involvement and development 6.8 LA8. CORE (Creating a Workplace Supportive of Work-life workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Community involvement 6.8.3 Balance) Education and culture 6.8.4 Health 6.8.8 Labour Practices 6.4 LA9. ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Not reported Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Training and Education Labour Practices 6.4 LA10. CORE Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Not reported Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Relationship with Executives and Employees Labour Practices 6.4 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA11. ADD (Human Resources Development and Skill Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Development) Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 Relationship with Executives and Employees Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by Labour Practices 6.4 LA12. ADD (Human Resources Development and Skill gender. Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Development) Diversity and Equal Opportunity Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 LA13. CORE CSR Related Data according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Labour Practices 6.4 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant LA14. CORE Not reported Labour Practices 6.4 locations of operation. Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Human Rights Organizational governance 6.2 Human Rights 6.3 Due Diligence 6.3.3 Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights Initiative Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Performance Indicators Investment and Procurement Practices Human Rights 6.3 We have no operations in areas where there Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include Due Diligence 6.3.3 HR1. CORE are special concerns about protection of clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 human rights Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Human Rights 6.3 We have no operations in areas where there Due Diligence 6.3.3 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have HR2. CORE are special concerns about protection of Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. human rights Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights Human Rights 6.3 HR3. CORE Human Rights Initiative that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Non-Discrimination Human Rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 HR4. CORE Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Human Rights 6.3 Due Diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR5. CORE association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Civil and political rights 6.3.8 support these rights. Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Social dialogue 6.4.5 42 Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child Human Rights 6.3 HR6. CORE Our business entails no risk of using child labor labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Due Diligence 6.3.3 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Forced and Compulsory Labor Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 HR7. CORE compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or Our business entails no risk of using forced labor Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 compulsory labor. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Security Practices Human Rights 6.3 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 HR8. ADD aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. business Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 Indigenous Rights Human Rights 6.3 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 HR9. ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not applicable Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Assessment Human Rights 6.3 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/ Due Diligence 6.3.3 HR10. CORE Not reported or impact assessments. Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Human Rights 6.3 HR11. CORE Not reported grievance mechanisms. Resolving grievances 6.3.6 Society Relationship with Society (Approach and Basic Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Stance) Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Compliance Community involvement and development 6.8 Performance Indicators Local Communities Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, Impact is insignificant, due to the nature of our Community involvement and development 6.8 SO1. CORE and development programs. business Community involvement 6.8.3 Social Investment 6.8.9 SO9. CORE Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Not applicable Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or Protection of the environment & biodiversity, SO10. CORE Not applicable 6.5.6 actual negative impacts on local communities. and restoration of natural habitats 6.8 Community Involvement and development Corruption Risk Management SO2. CORE Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Fair Operating Practices 6.6 SO3. CORE Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. Compliance Anti-corruption 6.6.3 SO4. CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable Public Policy SO5. CORE Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Not reported Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 SO6. ADD Not reported Community involvement 6.8.3 institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices SO7. ADD Not applicable Fair competition 6.6.5 and their outcomes. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Compliance Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Anti-corruption 6.6.3 SO8. CORE Not applicable noncompliance with laws and regulations. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Product Responsibility IT Governance, Disclosure, and Information Security Organizational governance 6.2 Disclosure on Management Approach Relationship with Customers (Approach and Basic Fair Operating Practices 6.6 Stance) Consumer Issues 6.7 43 Performance Indicators Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 PR1. CORE improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 procedures. Consumer Issues 6.7 Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 PR2. ADD Not applicable, due to the nature of our business Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant Relationship with Customers (Accountability to Consumer Issues PR3. CORE products and services subject to such information requirements. customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7 information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 PR4. ADD Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. dispute resolution 6.7.9 Education and awareness Consumer Issues 6.7 Protecting consumers’ health & safety 6.7.4 Sustainable consumption Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer Relationship with Customers (Initiatives Make 6.7.5 PR5. ADD Consumer service, support and complaint and satisfaction. Use of Customer Views) 6.7.6 dispute resolution 6.7.8 Access to essential services 6.7.9 Education and awareness Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Relationship with Customers (Building Even Consumer Issues PR6. CORE communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 6.7 information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Consumer service, support and complaint and 6.7.6 PR7. ADD marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of Not applicable dispute resolution 6.7.9 outcomes. Education and awareness Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of Consumer Issues 6.7 PR8. ADD Not applicable customer data. Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Compliance Consumer Issues Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the 6.7 PR9. CORE Not applicable Consumer service, support and complaint and provision and use of products and services. 6.7.6 dispute resolution Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Financial Services Sector Supplement Item Indicator Link Product and Service Impact (Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure on Management Approach) FS1. CORE Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) FS2. CORE Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. Not reported Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and FS3. CORE Compliance social requirements included in agreements or transactions. CSR Management (CSR Promotion System) Process (es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies Relationship with Executives and Employees FS4. CORE and procedures as applied to business lines. (Human Resources Development and Skill Development) Relationship with Customers (Building Even Deeper Interactions with clients/investees/ business partners regarding environmental and social risks FS5. CORE Trust in Relationships with Customers) and opportunities. Relationship with Shareholders and Other Investors Product and Service Impact (Performance Indicators) Product Portfolio Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/ SME/large) and Daiwa Securities Group Profile FS6. CORE by sector. Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each FS7. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry business line broken down by purpose. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for FS8. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry each business line broken down by purpose. Audit Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies FS9. CORE Corporate Governance and risk assessment procedures. Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting FS10. CORE Not reported organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. FS11. CORE Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry Voting policy (ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting FS12. CORE Social Responsibilities of the Financial Industry organization holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. Society (Performance Indicators) Community FS13. CORE Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. Not applicable 44 Relationship with Customers (Building Even Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) FS14. CORE Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. Relationship with Society (4. Assistance to communities on both the local and the international level through foundations and NPOs) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Relationship with Customers (Building Even FS15. CORE Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. Deeper Trust in Relationships with Customers) Product Responsibility (Performance Indicators) Product and Service Labeling CSR Management (CSR Issues: Performance and Targets) FS16. CORE Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. Relationship with Society (1. Education and research activities in the fields of economics and finance) 45 CSR Report 2013 CSR Related Data Management Report Compensation Paid to Directors and Corporate Executive Officers of Daiwa Securities Group Inc. in FY2012 Directors Corporate Executive Officers Total Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Recipients Amount Amounts based on resolution of the Compensation Committee 7 persons ¥120 million 12 persons ¥807 million 19 persons ¥927 million Notes: 1. Performance-based compensation was paid in this fiscal year. 2. The above compensation amounts include a total of ¥102 million in stock acquisition rights granted as stock options to directors and corporate executive officers. 3. Compensation paid to the five outside directors totaled ¥84 million. 4. Seven directors also served as corporate executive officers; their total compensation is included in the “Corporate Executive Officers” category. Social Report Companies covered by data Consolidated: E ntire Group  aiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Holdings Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Group of 10 companies: D Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co., Ltd., Daiwa Property Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd.  aiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd., Daiwa Institute of Group of eight companies: D Research Business Innovation Ltd., Daiwa SB Investments Ltd., Daiwa Securities Business Center Co., Ltd., and Daiwa Corporate Investment Co., Ltd.  aiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd., Group of two companies: D Employees at the Daiwa Securities Group (Consolidated) (Unit: persons) As of the end of FY2011 As of the end of FY2012 Employees FA*1 Temporary employees Employees FA*1 Temporary employees Male 7,662 81 − 7,452 71 − (Career track*2) 7,076 − − 7,011 − − (Managers) 3,754 − − 3,773 − − Japan Female 4,348 166 − 4,117 122 − (Career track*2) 2,374 − − 2,360 − − (Managers) 170 − − 190 − − Japan total 12,010 247 471 11,569 193 391 Overseas 2,175 − 157 1,664 − 88 Total 14,185 247 628 13,233 193 479 *1 F inancial advisors *2 Includes regional career-track employees and specialist positions Number of New Graduates Recruited by the Daiwa Securities Group (Unit: persons) April 2011 April 2012 April 2013 Career-track employees/regional career-track Male 245 186 296 employees Female 201 168 227 Total 446 354 523 This data pertains to eight group companies Workforce Statistics (Unit: yen/years) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Average annual salary* 8.50 million 8.11 million 8.88 million Average age 37.1 39.9 40.5 Average number of years of service 12.2 13.7 14.3 This data pertains to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. only Numbers include additional posts at Daiwa Securities Co., Ltd * Average annual salary includes bonuses and other remuneration Re-employment under the Daiwa Master System (Unit: persons) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 No. of employees hired under the Daiwa Master System 58 63 61 This data pertains to two Group companies Employment Rate for Persons with Disabilities （Unit: %） As of the end of FY2010 As of the end of FY2011 As of the end of FY2012 Employment Rate for Persons with Disabilities 2.07 2.09 2.08 This data pertains to 10 Group companies 46 Achievements of Selected Participants in Management Training (Unit: persons) Daiwa Management Academy: Eligible for Department managers FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Number of trained (cumulative) 248 269 291 Daiwa Leadership Program: Eligible for Deputy general managers FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Number of trained (cumulative) 568 599 631 This data pertains to 10 Group companies Participants in Business Skill Training (Unit: persons) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Number finishing program (cumulative)* 1,916 2,469 2,862 This data pertains to eight Group companies. Three companies Daiwa Securities Group Inc., Daiwa Securities, Daiwa Securities Capital Markets is as of FY 2011. Daiwa Securities Capital Markets is integrated in Daiwa Securities in April 2012 * The number of people completing presentation training, coaching training, negotiation skills training, communication training, logical thinking training, and facilitation training Persons Earning Credentials*1 (Unit: persons) Credentials As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 Associated Financial Planner (AFP) 4,981 5,255 5,183 Certified Financial Planner (CFP) 360 452 566 Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan(CMA) 1,414 1,440 1,446 Chartered Financial Analyst (USA credential) 43 41 42 （730-990） *2 TOEIC 1,127 1,249 1,593 Overseas MBA program graduate, etc. 165 158 154 *1 This data pertains to 10 Group companies（based on declaration from employees） *2 Data as of March 2012 includes some group companies that did not conduct summary count Successful Applicants in Internal Recruiting System (Unit: persons) No. of successful Held Positions offered No. of applicants applicants M&A, SMA consultants, Analysts, internal wholesalers, Compliance, dealers, derivatives, traders, fund managers, principal finance specialists, venture capitalists, money managers, research, underwriting, Cumulative from FY2000 904 146 sale, product development, proposals and planning, investment advisors, investment information, pension consultants, etc. This data pertains to 10 Group companies Working Hours and Paid Vacation Usage Rate FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Annual regular working hours (hours) 1837.5 1822.5 1837.5 Average monthly overtime hours (hours)*1 24.0 25.1 25.7 Paid vacation usage rate (%) 54 49 48 Paid vacation usage rate (%) (including special summer vacation)*2 58 54 52 This data pertains to two Group companies *1 Figures indicate employees at the two companies who are members of the Daiwa Securities Group Employees’ Union *2 In addition to annual paid vacation, the Daiwa Securities Group offers three days of special summer vacation. These figures show 52% usage rate for annual paid vacation when special summer vacation is included in FY2012 Employee Welfare System Usage (Unit: persons) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Female 326 396 436 Number of employees taking childcare leave* Male 26 12 17 Female 5 8 8 Number of employees taking nursing care leave Male 1 0 0 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies * Employees eligible for childcare leave include non-regular employees (contract workers, part-timers, etc.) Main Initiatives for Work-Life Balance and Female Employee Support Plan Program name Program description Professional Return Plan (rehiring of sales staff) Offers opportunities for re-employment to former full-time employees who left their jobs after marriage or childbirth. Job Location Change System* Offers a position in a new location when an employee must relocate after marriage or spouse’s job transfer. Childcare leave Employees can take childcare leave until their child’s third birthday. Employees can apply for an exemption from overtime work until their child completes the third grade of elementary school. Employees Exemption from or restricted overtime work can also apply for restricted overtime work until their child completes elementary school. Daycare subsidy The company offers subsidies for daycare expenses until the employee’s child begins elementary school. The company encourages employees to take paid vacation and has introduced leave for marriage preparations or family day leave to Expanded leave system give employees a chance to spend quality time with their families. The Personnel Department keeps track of individual employees’ childcare-related schedules and notifies them of programs available at Follow-up on program use the appropriate time. Enables employees to return to work after a period of childcare leave. The return to work guidelines were revised in fiscal 2011. Daiwa Support after returning to work WLB Station, a work-life balance promotion website that focuses on various support systems related to childrearing and nursing care, provides information for employees on childcare leave and helps facilitate their smooth return to the workplace. * Number of employees using the program at Daiwa Securities as of FY2012 end, 106 (cumulative) 47 Female Employees and Managers at the Daiwa Securities Group （Unit: %） As of the end of FY2010 As of the end of FY2011 As of the end of FY2012 Percent of employees who are female 36.7 36.2 35.6 Percent of managers who are female 4.1 4.3 4.8 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies. Number of Employees’ Union Members (Unit: persons) As of the end of FY2010 As of the end of FY2011 As of the end of FY2012 Employees’ union membership 7，590 6,907 6,490 Of the eight Group companies (this does not include Daiwa Asset Management Co., Ltd., which has its own employees’ union, and Daiwa Property Co., Ltd., which has no employee union) Corporate Citizenship Initiatives and Expenditures Expenditure (Unit: ¥1,000) Type of Activity FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 1. E conomy and Finance Education Initiative (Universities, 73,249 65,435 63,525 Graduate Schools and industry-academia partnership) 2. Contributing to communities 7,464 31,053 2,328 3. Culture and Arts 410,132 269,869 272,500 4. D onation and Grant to NGOs and foundations (include 184,807 133,457 165,851 membership dues and reconstruction support) Total 675,652 499,814 504,204 Results in Economic and Financial Education Program Duration Participants Support for Finance Park June 2005–March 2013 39,185 persons Support for Japan Council for Economic Education (CEE-Japan) January 2009–March 2013 1,450 persons Sponsorship of JA’s mainstay Global Leadership Forum for elementary July 2001–March 2011 3,182 persons and junior and senior high school teachers Support for the Student Company Program (SCP) September 2003–March 2011 174 persons Environmental Report Energy Consumption FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Electricity (1,000 kWh) 109,157 93,402 76,247 Natural gas (1,000 m3) 696 582 503 Domestic offices Gasoline (kiloliters) 1,137 1,117 1,111 Heavy oil (kiloliters) 8.6 7.9 10.8 Diesel fuel (kiloliters) 0.2 0.1 0.1 Overseas offices Electricity (1,000 kWh) 13,137 15,841 13,566 This data pertains to all consolidated Group companies At overseas offices, only electricity consumption was calculated CO2 Emissions from Energy Consumption （Unit: 1,000 kg-CO2） FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Electricity 60,582 51,838 42,317 Natural gas 1,448 1,210 1,147 Gasoline 2,639 2,593 2,579 Domestic offices Heavy oil 25.7 23.7 32 Diesel fuel 0.6 0.2 0.2 Total for domestic offices 64,696 55,665 46,075 Overseas offices Electricity 7,291 8,792 7,529 Total for domestic and 71,694 64,457 53,604 overseas offices CO2 Emissions per Employee (Domestic) （Unit: 1,000 kg-CO2） FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Per employee 5.0 4.5 3.9 Number of employees in Japan 12,868 persons 12,257 persons 11,762 persons Changes in Clean Water Consumption （Unit: 1,000 kl） FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Consumption volume 188 162 130 48 Volume of Copy Paper/Forms Used (Unit: 1,000 kg) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Daiwa Securities Group Inc. 11 24 28 Daiwa Securities 325 303 374 Daiwa Securities Capital Markets 132 95 − Daiwa Institute of Research Group 77 84 59 Daiwa Asset Management 50 35 23 Daiwa Business Center 35 31 36 Daiwa SB Investments 28 28 28 Daiwa Property 3 3 3 Daiwa Sanko 3 3 1 Daiwa Corporate Investment 6 6 7 Other 22 16 20 Copy paper total 691 629 578 This data pertains to consolidated Group companies Daiwa Securities Capital Markets is integrated in Daiwa Securities in April 2012 Changes in Waste Generated and Recycling Volume FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Amount generated (1,000 kg) 751.0 601.0 361.9 Paper waste Recycling rate (%) 96 88 88 Amount generated (1,000 kg) 335.9 390.4 276.0 Non-paper waste Recycling rate (%) 33 37 43 Calculated based on the Reuse Plan for Large-Scale Buildings Used for Business, as specified by each local government Economic Report Segment Information (Unit: ¥ million) FY2012 Net Operating Revenues Ordinary Income Retail 184,415 49,251 Wholesale Division 133,109 12,034 Asset Management 43,591 19,089 Investment 17,495 14,161 Others 26,862 （4,302） Total (unadjusted) 405,474 90,234 Adjustment 11,834 4,941 Consolidated total 417,308 95,176 Due to a change in the method of classification of reportable segments from 2012, described only a single year Changes in Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders (Unit: ¥ million) Stakeholders FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Tabulation method Executives and employees 160,234 158,297 156,987 Personnel costs within selling and general administrative expenses Society 560 475 504 Expenditure for corporate citizenship activities (p48) Dividends to shareholders 10,386 10,281 10,281 Interim and year-end dividends for the fiscal year Creditors 35,642 39,082 48,471 Interest expense and interest paid on non-operating expenses Income taxes, resident and business taxes, deferred income taxes, other Government 16,755 30,980 18,296 taxes and duties Minority shareholders （6,907） （1,838） 7,203 Minority shareholder profit/loss Balance after deducting dividends for the term from net income for the Internal reserves （47,717） （49,715） 62,628 fiscal year Total economic value 168,953 187,562 304,370 Total of the above Comparison of Economic Report and Consolidated Financial Statements (Unit: ¥ million) FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Economic Report revenues 427,755 474,839 549,664 Economic Report Economic value 168,953 187,562 304,370 Consolidated financial Operating revenues 403,042 422,374 525,411 statements Net income/loss （37,331） （39,434） 72,909 This data pertains to consolidated Group companies 49 CSR Report 2013 Glossary BCP Recycle Business Continuity Plan To put or pass through a cycle again, as for further treatment Carbon Disclosure Project Reduce This project is an affiliation of institutional investors concerned about climate To bring down, as in extent, amount, or degree; diminish of off-scourings and change who demand that companies disclose information about their stance waste materials on environmental problems and initiatives addressing such problems Reuse Compliance The act or process of using again Legal compliance SRI Corporate governance Socially Responsible Investment—An investment that is considered governance The mechanism that allows for sound and efficient corporate management socially, environmentally responsible because of the nature of the business the company conducts CS Customer Satisfaction Stakeholders A person, group or organization that has interest or concern in an organization CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Thin client A technology for the storage and administration of the totality of data on a Due Diligence single server instead of having individual employees control application Duty of a firm's directors and officers to act prudently in evaluating associated software and files distributed among various terminals. This can streamline risks and negative impacts in transactions administration processes and costs while reducing operational risks ESG TSR Environment/Social/Governance Telephone Service Representative — Telephone Operator with the expertise Green procurement UN Global Compact To buy environmentally-friendly products for reducing environment load of The UN Global Compact was established in 2000 under the UN secretariat producers after an initiative launched in 1999 by then-Secretary General Kofi Annan. The membership consists of global corporate leaders who are expected to align GRI their business practices with ten principles in the fields of human rights, labor, Global Reporting Initiative—An organization dedicated to proposing and environment, and anti-corruption in their business activities, in partnership promoting common international guidelines for sustainability reports with UN agencies, labor, and civil society. Signatory members are required to implement these principles with a top management commitment IFFIm International Finance Facility for Immunisation United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) UNEP FI is a partnership between the United Nations Environment Programme, Impact Investment which is a UN organization, and financial institutions around the world. Based A form of investment which pursues financial profit while also working to on the recognition that the money handled by the financial industry has a resolve social issues such as poverty and environmental protection’ major impact on the world, this initiative pursues better ways of doing business, taking into account the environment and sustainability, and seeks to IR spread and encourage this commitment Investor Relations United Nations Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) ISO14001 The MDGs consist of eight goals that 189 representatives from UN Member A global standard for Environmental Management Systems (EMS). The goal of States, including 147 heads of state, participating in the UN Millennium the ISO14001 standard is to give the top management of any organization a Summit held in New York in September 2000, designated as 21st century goals framework for managing environmental impacts for the international community. It aims to achieve numerical goals in eight fields such as Poverty alleviation, education and public healthcare and so on by ISO26000 2015 A worldwide standard that provides guidance for social responsibility of organizations Value Chain Interlinked value-adding activities that convert inputs into outputs which, in Low Carbon Society turn, add to the bottom line and help create competitive advantage A society that carbon dioxide emissions is less Work-Life Balance Microfinance Balance between an individual's work and personal life A form of financial services for the poor entrepreneurs and small businesses lacking access to banking and related services NPO/NGO Non Profit Organization/Non Governmental Organization Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) Aims to expand investment and financing with the environment in mind, formulated as voluntary efforts of financial institutions in Japan Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) PRI is a set of six principles launched by the UNEP Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact in April 2006. This initiative asks corporate investors to incorporate ESG into their investment decisionmaking practices 50
