Sustainability Report 2012 Reader’s Guide ST at a glance Report scope and profile In 2012, ST undertook its first external Alignment with stakeholder survey. We asked a Edinburgh This Report describes our wide range of stakeholders for their GRI and the UN Lake Oswego Marlow Paris Sustainability performance in the comments on our new Sustainability Global Compact Zaventem Sophia Antipolis calendar year 2012. strategy and our 2011 Sustainability Toronto Albany Tours Geneva Report. More than 50 stakeholders This report is Longmont Bristol Prague Istanbul It covers all of STMicroelectronics prepared and Azarno accepted to participate in this survey, Santa Clara Rennes activities and sites, and it excludes presented in Coppel Crolles Tel Aviv providing valuable feedback that Castelletto Shanghai ST-Ericsson sites and activities accordance with Rousset Madrid has helped improve the content and Grenoble Greater Noida unless otherwise stated. You can find the 2006 Global Reporting Initiative Fishkill Agrate structure of this Report (see more Piscataway Shenzhen details of ST’s structure and countries (GRI) G3 Guidelines. We have selfLancaster Palermo Longgang on page 6). Scottsdale of operation in the chart on page 1. declared an A+ application level Tunis We also used outputs from the La Jolla Bouskoura Bangalore Historical information is available in following activities to develop the which has been confirmed by GRI. previous years’ reports at http://www. 2012 Report: If G3 indicators are not applicable or st.com/web/en/about_st/company_ relevant to us, we have explained this Ang Mo Kio • a review of additional stakeholder in the Indicator Index, or in the text of Calamba reports_st.html feedback (email, web requests) Catania the Report. Kirkop ST has been a signatory of the United Change in scope and • high-level benchmarking of Nations Global Compact (UNGC) competitors and companies Muar materiality recognized for their Sustainability since 2000, which commits us to approach fulfilling its ten principles. This report ST has integrated in July 2012 the describes actions we have taken Design Centers Application Processor activities from • a global review of existing and to implement these principles, and ST-Ericsson which led to the transfer anticipated legislation serves as our Communication on • A global semiconductor leader • 79 sales offices in 35 countries Technology R&D Centers of ST-Ericsson people in Grenoble Progress. • The largest European semiconductor • Advanced research and development and Paris and the former ST-Ericsson Detailed information about each company centers around the globe Front-end Manufacturing sites site in Sophia Antipolis (France). of our Sustainability priorities, as On page 71 there is an index that • 2012 revenues of $8.49B(1) about 16,000 patents Back-end Manufacturing sites Additionally, some employees in well as our corporate approach references GRI indicators, Global • Approx. 48,000 employees worldwide(1) about 9,000 patent families India already based on ST sites to Sustainability, can be found on Compact Principles and ISO 26000 Headquarters our website: http://www.st.com/ • Approx. 11,500(1) people working in R&D 12,000 people in technology, were transferred from ST-Ericsson to core subjects that are contained within 1 ST. This change in scope has been web/en/about_st/st_approach_to_ • 12 manufacturing sites design, product and system R&D this Report. • Listed on New York Stock Exchange, integrated in the safety data but not in sustainability.html the social ones as we have not been Euronext Paris and Borsa Italiana, Milan able to rebuild the data and then had Indicators and use of symbols an incomplete reporting year. We will Accessibility (1) Including ST-Ericsson, a 50:50 joint venture with Ericsson Following implementation of ST’s integrate those new sites in our 2013 Our Sustainability Report is also revised Sustainability strategy in 2011, reporting. accessible on the web in interactive we are now in a position to report on In 2011, ST completed an extensive materiality exercise involving a review PDF format at http://www.st.com/ web/en/about_st/company_reports_ performance against new objectives under each of our Sustainability Focus on a site st.html along with past reports. priorities. Progress updates for Zoom on Greater Noida (India)… of stakeholder concerns to fully align Printed copies are available on Headcount: site certifications: each objective can be found in the ST’s Sustainability strategy with its business priorities and material issues. request. “performance versus objectives” 1,447 employees ISO/TS 16949 (Quality), ISO 27001 (Information Security) and OHSAS Twenty two global sustainability tables, illustrated by the following also 502 interns & subcontractors 18001 (Occupational Health & priorities, along with related targets, Assurance symbols: Profile: Safety) were agreed by ST’s Vice Presidents Men: 1,168 (81%) and signed off by ST’s President and DNV (Det Norske Veritas) is the Women: 279 (19%) investments: CEO, Carlo Bozotti. entity that has been appointed Target achieved Average age: 32.8 years US$ 51m since 2001 in building to provide assurance services to Split by job category: Infrastructure, Test & IT Equipment In last year’s report we set out how we STMicroelectronics. In order to do exempts: 1,421 (88%), planned to embed these Sustainability so, DNV interviewed all relevant In progress non exempts: 26 (5%), priorities within our business and corporate departments and visited Site specificities: ST India has Domains of expertise: measure progress against them. three sites (Catania Italy, Calamba a rich history of providing highelectronics, embedded software, This year we are able to report The Philippines and Muar Malaysia) No Progress value platforms, SoCs (Systems on computer information systems performance against our new targets to review and validate ST’s data Chip), embedded systems, applifor the first time, providing concrete reporting process and to provide cation-specific IP (Intellectual Main activities: examples to illustrate the progress we assurance of this year’s Report. On hold Property), and reference designs VLSI Design, Embedded Software, have made and the challenges faced DNV’s assurance statement can be Application Engineering and in various application segments, across the business. found on page 72. Company’s Information System including home entertainment, ST Environment Health multimedia, telecommunications, and Safety Decalogue imaging, automotive, computer key figures: 306 Granted Patents, peripherals, and industrial control. 431 First filings; ST Designers have contributed to Campus area of approx. 72,000m² library development in leading We value your feedback You can also email us at with a built up area of approx. edge low power technologies sustainable.development@st.com We are committed to improving both our Sustainability performance and the ways we or write to us at: 53,000m² from 45nm down to 28nm. communicate with our stakeholders. We encourage contributions and debate from all Corporate Sustainable Development Group Although reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of the summary financial information for the year 2012 in this report with ST’s financial reporting, reliance should only be placed upon the stakeholders and welcome feedback on the content and presentation of this Report STMicroelectronics International NV complete financial reporting contained in ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012, as filed with the SEC on March 4th, 2013, which can be found at www.st.com. as well as suggestions for next year. Suggestions and feedback can be provided at 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles – C.P. 21 Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical facts are statements of future expectations and other forward looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities sustainable.development@st.com Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended) based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties CH-1228 Geneva – Plan-Les-Ouates that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Certain such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology Switzerland such as ‘believes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘would be’ or ‘anticipates’ or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Some of the relevant risk factors are described in ‘Item 3. Key Information – Risk Factors’ included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2012. We do not intend, and do not assume any obligation, to update any information or forward-looking statements set forth in this report to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Content Foreword by Carlo Bozotti, 2012 Company......................................................................................................... 3 President and Chief Executive Officer CEO Letter............................................................................................................... 3 This report has been prepared by: Materiality & Sustainability Strategy ................................................................. 4 2012 was an important year for ST, were also reflected in our continued focus on ISO 50001 (energy management system Director of publication: Alain Denielle Editors in chief: Mélanie Salagnat, Charlotte Yvard Governance........................................................................................................... 7 marked by our 25th anniversary and by the achieving our Sustainability priorities during certification). Financial & Extra-financial Performance......................................................10 announcement of our new strategy. It was 2012 and ensuring that our new Sustainability Editorial team: Estelle Hainry, Dominique La Mantia In addition to these environmental efforts, also another challenging year, characterized strategy, covering our people, products, the Editorial Services: Malcolm Guy, Sally Henderson (Reassurance Network) we reinforced our community involvement by a difficult economic scenario as well as by environment and the community, became Graphic designer: MARSATWORK Our People................................................................................................... 12 significant structural changes in the market firmly embedded throughout the business. approach during 2012. By adopting the Photographers: Stéphanie Joubert, San Kaung and in end-customer competitive dynamics. LBG methodology5, we are better able to Printer: ProCo-Print Recruitment, Learning & Development........................................................14 Our people and organization development evaluate the impact of nearly 400 initiatives Employee Engagement.. ..................................................................................16 Our longstanding dedication to sustainable programs are aligned with our strategy and taken worldwide by about 4,500 employees excellence helped us to deal with these business needs. In 2012, we focused on Special thanks to: Charlotte Belleudi, Monica Bianchi, Alberto Della Employee Safety.................................................................................................18 challenges and ST ended the year showing during the year. Young people and education very specific training programs to strengthen Chiesa, Ashish Kumar Chawla, Nelly Dimey, Antonio Dragotto, Karen Duhart, Labor & Human Rights.......................................................................................20 strong progress in three main areas. the competencies of our sales & marketing remain the main domain of focus of ST at Saida El Basri, Anne Foerster, Julia Genovini, Philippe Laffargue, Olivier and research & development populations. worldwide level and we will also continue to Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities. . ........................................................22 First, despite the significant cash required Leenhardt, Philippe Levavasseur, Giulia Mancini, Gérard Matheron, Florence While we focused more on leadership for our develop our community involvement in the Morel, Cosimo Musca, Pietro Palella, Antonella Redaelli, Philippe Quinio, Employee Health & Well-being.......................................................................24 by our Joint-venture ST-Ericsson and the areas of innovation and high technology, social management staff, we also reinforced the weakness of the market, we actually improved Francois Suquet, Damien Tisserand, Stacia Vigne way we develop individual career paths for welfare and charity, environmental involvement our net financial position to $1.19 billion, Our Products............................................................................................... 26 thanks to careful management of ST’s assets technical staff through the “individual path and economic development. During 2012, Thanks to: Nigel Atkins, Alessandra Asiaghi, Abu Bakar, Khalisha Banks, technical and specialists functions” process. nearly 30,000 people in developing countries Customer Satisfaction........................................................................................28 and resources. Xavier Baraton, Marc Bastianelli, Elisabeth Beronio, Taik Boon Boey, Celine At the end of 2012, this process was deployed benefited from our Digital Unify program, Berthier, Giovanna Bottani, Claude Boumendil, Carol Brighton, Philippe Brun, Innovation Management.. ................................................................................30 Second, our advances and breakthroughs across 84% of the eligible sites and employee managed by the ST Foundation, which aims at Denise Ann Buhagiar, Denis Cazala, Fabio Chelli, HC Chew, Patrick Cogez, Product Stewardship...........................................................................................32 in products and technologies in 2012 population, with a target to reach 100% by overcoming the digital divide. As a committed contributed to ST gaining market share in the end of 2013. Moreover, during the first Clara Colombo, Leah Cruz, Philippe Dereeper, Sabrina Di-Paolo, Karine Dillion, Conflict-free Minerals.........................................................................................36 supporter of the Electronic Industry Citizenship several of our targeted markets. In the Analog, half of 2012, several hundred highly skilled Edwin Dobson, Patricia Dowdy, Pascal Droulez, Maneesh Dutt, Paolo Epigrafi, Coalition, our supply chain management 2 MEMS and Sensors markets, we achieved employees from ST-Ericsson started to join ST 3 Franck Freymond, Christine Gombar, Federica Grotto, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, program remains one of our key priorities and 22% year-over-year revenue growth and saw R&D teams, helping to fuel growth in several Ulrike Leger, Claudia Levo, Francis Ann Llana, Nada Lucas, Elisabetta Marelli, The Environment.................................................................................... 38 ST’s market share in the MEMS mobile and we implement controls designed to ensure key product areas. Numerous integration Michel Masselot, Guy Monier, Evangeline Nieva, Robin Noels, Serge Palmieri, GHG Emissions from Operations.....................................................................40 handset market rise to 48%1—more than seminars and workshops were held to that we do not source minerals from conflict Sandrine Parent, Alessio Pennisi, Luc Petit, Manisha Piyush, Delphine Rabaste, Water Management.. .........................................................................................42 twice the share of our closest competitor. welcome them into ST. zones. For example, we have been able to Raimondo Rannisi, Wolfgang Reiss, Valeria Riva, Andrew Roberts, Catia Rocca, In Automotive, ST reached the milestone certify 100% of tantalum smelters through Energy Management. . .......................................................................................44 Continually enhancing our technical expertise Delphine Segura, Naginder Singh, Gautam Sinha, Alan Smith, Julie Stojic, of having more than 200 million cars in the the Conflict-Free Smelters’ Protocol. Antonio Villaflor, Roma Zaborowska Chemicals Management.................................................................................46 world equipped with ST’s leading infotainment helps us to accelerate the development of products and solutions that contribute to Safety of our employees comes first at ST. Waste Management..........................................................................................48 technologies and we established important partnerships with leading car makers such the realization of the societal trends and to A well-established safety record places ST We also would like to thank everyone who kindly agreed Transport & Logistics...........................................................................................50 our vision. Our internal Product Stewardship among the best-in-class in our industry. as Audi and Hyundai. Microcontroller billings to be quoted in this report and to provide testimony of program includes product compliance, However, unfortunately in 2012, we grew 30% year over year, while in trust and their collaboration with ST. eco-design and STAR responsible products. The Community...................................................................................... 52 data security, we were confirmed as a leading Our internal responsible products STAR experienced one employee fatality at one Secure Element vendor2. of our Chinese plants. As a result, we have Management of Sustainability in the Supply Chain..................................54 initiative, which applies to all new products strengthened even further our governance and This report has been prepared following the Business Ethics & Compliance........................................................................56 Third, at the end of 2012, we made an and classifies them into relevant environmental important strategic decision and announced programs, including an increase in field audits, GRI G3 Guidelines. It represents a balanced Local Sustainability Impacts.............................................................................58 and social categories such as energy saving our new vision and strategy to be a leader additional learning modules, and more internal and reasonable presentation of our and healthcare, identified 196 new products Partnerships in R&D and Education. . ..............................................................60 in Sense & Power and Automotive products communication to reinforce our safety culture. organization’s economic, environmental and that contribute to a more sustainable world. Public Affairs & Industry Networking................................................................62 and Embedded Processing Solutions, the key An example is our new Masterlux™ universal social performance. It also demonstrates our Looking forward to the next 25 years, ST will drivers for our growth, our new financial model lighting controller family which makes lighting commitment to the UN Global Compact, to continue to build on its strong heritage, rich and the plan to exit from ST-Ericsson after a more energy efficient, more economical, safer technical expertise and its highly skilled and which we have been a signatory since 2000. Awards............................................................................................................ 64 transition period. and more flexible. We consider as social motivated people to provide high levels of Our focus is now on five key growth products those that relate to health (insulin Carlo Bozotti sustainable excellence, in line with our vision areas: MEMS and Sensors, Smart Power, pumps, remote patient monitoring, glaucoma President and CEO New 2013 objectives........................................................................... 66 Automotive, Microcontrollers, and Application diagnosis, management and treatment, etc…) to be everywhere microelectronics make a positive contribution to people’s lives. Processors including Digital Consumer. or safety (airbags, ABS, etc…). We also We target growing markets of approximately remain on track to have 100% of our new Additional indicators & GRI statement...................... 67 devices eco-designed by 2015. US$ 140bn that are driven by secular trends Carlo Bozotti Copyright©STMicroelectronics July 2013 and societal needs: smart energy usage President and CEO All rights reserved. From the point of view of our impact The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the Indicators Index...................................................................................... 71 and the need for dramatic reduction of CO2 on the ecology, production fluctuations emissions, ubiquitous embedded intelligence greatly impacted our use of energy, water STMicroelectronics group of companies. and the humanization of technology, with and chemicals and affected our overall All other names are the property of the respective owners. Data reporting verification statement................................. 72 more intuitive man-to-machine interfaces environmental performance in 2012. All commissioned photography for a more natural, immersive and easier Nevertheless, we increased our green energy 1. IHS: MEMS H2 2012 Special Report Copyright©STMicroelectronics interaction of people with devices. This reflects purchased by 85% and improved our water Photo credits: ©Shutterstock Glossary ........................................................................................................ 73 our conviction that we can achieve our aim of 2. ABI Research 3. ISO 14064 is an international standard for calculating and recycling rate by 6%. Our 12 manufacturing being financially successful while remaining reporting carbon emissions at the organizational level sites have been certified ISO 140643 for 4. Scope 1 includes direct CO2 emissions and scope 2 includes socially responsible. scope 1 and scope 2 emissions4 based indirect CO2 emissions 5. LBG – London Benchmarking Group, is a methodology used The loyalty, commitment and expertise of our on 2012 results and three of our Front-end by companies worldwide to better assess the real value and people that helped us navigate a difficult year manufacturing sites have been certified to impact of corporate community investment to business and society company Materiality & food for thought for future sustainability end manufacturing sites, Agrate and to help define ST’s new Sustainability developments. Catania (Italy) and Rousset (France), Strategy, launched at the end of 2011. have achieved ISO 50001 (energy Under the guidance of BSR (Business As reported by our CEO in his statement, management system certification). for Social Responsibility), we sought we unfortunately experienced a fatality Sustainability Strategy Looking forward, we have chosen insight from relevant internal and external at one of our Chinese sites. We are to focus more of our resources on stakeholders to identify our most material committed at the highest level in ST to reducing the environmental impact issues and ensure alignment with our further strengthening our management of our products. This is why we have of safety to ensure this will never happen business priorities and stakeholder launched our Product Stewardship again, taking all necessary measures expectations. Program, including a target for 100% of we can to reinforce ST’s safety culture ST’s new products to be eco-designed Embedding this new Sustainability across all of our sites in 2013. Working by 2015. We will also be validating Strategy was one of our six corporate safely must remain employees’ number our methodology for product life-cycle priorities in 2012. One year on, we are Sustainability principles have been integrated into our core business one priority. assessments. now in a better position to evaluate practices and products for more than 20 years. Our company ethos We have been working now for more Our journey to find more sustainable progress and describe our performance is not only about placing our people and the environment at the than 20 years with our Environment, ways to operate as a business will against the objectives we set ourselves heart of the way we operate, but is also about constantly finding Health and Safety Decalogue as our guide continue, as constant advances in under each of our Sustainability pillars. ways to innovate and create products that improve the quality of life to enhance environmental protection and technology and thinking inspire us When compiling data for this year’s for the people who use them. reduce our manufacturing environmental and assist us in our drive for constant report we recognized that some of our impacts. We are currently in the process improvement. objectives required further definition. of reviewing our Decalogue targets to Materiality We made the decision to continue to ensure they remain challenging, realistic report on our existing indicators this year and in line with industry practices and Our top-level approach to Sustainability while developing a more expansive and norms. For 2012, GHG emissions from is set out in our Code of Conduct Interview with In 2012, as a key step in ST’s Global Interview with clearer account of performance data for all ST manufacturing sites have been and, at a more operational level, in our Tjerk Diversity and Equal Opportunities goal, Alain Denielle, next year’s Report. I personally sponsored the preparation certified under ISO 14064 (scope 1 Sustainability Strategy. We conducted Hooghiemstra, Corporate and 2) standard and three of our Fronta comprehensive materiality exercise of the ST’s Women’s Network (to be Sustainable Executive Vice officially launched in 2013) that aims Development, President, Chief to advance the career development of Group Vice Administrative female employees as part of a wider President 4 Officer 5 goal of creating a genuinely diverse and inclusive working environment. One year after the launch of ST’s new Quote Materiality Matrix How did ST’s engagement on Sustainability evolve in 2012? ST also sponsors the Global Enterprise Sustainability Strategy, I am pleased to Project, an initiative of the European report some very concrete achievements Sustainability is deep-rooted in the and improvements across all of our values of our Company and in our way Roundtable of Industrialists (ERT), in 100 Energy Management which our CEO himself is involved, sustainability pillars. The comprehensive Labor & Human rights of conducting business. Even though GHG Emissions Chemicals Management aimed at raising awareness of global materiality exercise we conducted less 2012 has been another challenging than two years ago has helped us focus from Operations Public affairs & Industry Networking business amongst secondary school year for the semiconductor industry as students, helping them to develop an clearly on our most significant challenges Farid Baddache Management of Partnerships in R&D and Education a whole and also for ST, we have been and opportunities. entrepreneurial mind-set. Within this EMEA Director, BSR (Business Sustainability in able to maintain our commitment to Waste Management program, the ERT hopes to contribute We track our performance across all for Social Responsibility) Supply Chain Sustainability and, as detailed in this report, we have yet again made some to reducing youth unemployment. areas of our Sustainability Strategy Eco-design Responsible Products Importance to stakeholders significant progress. In this same context, ST is also very using a set of robust indicators. In this “Conducting a Materiality Conflict-free Minerals much involved in raising young people’s report, you will be able to read about awareness and interest in science, the key achievements and the progress exercise is a great way to guide What would you like to highlight Employee Engagement technology, engineering and mathematics we have made against our targets but strategy, focus dialogue and in particular? also the initiatives we had to put on hold progress on the most meaningful Innovation Management (STEM). Our progress on Product Stewardship and the areas in which we have not areas of impact for ST. When I Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities in 2012 is certainly a highlight for me. How do you think ST should keep made the level of improvement we were discuss with ST customers within This program puts a focus on products moving forward? targeting. We publish our achievements or challenges in a clear and transparent the electronic sector, I can see that have a clear contribution to a more Business Ethics & Compliance Customer Satisfaction It is important to ensure the effective way in each section. how they value working with sustainable world. We go beyond the deployment of the Sustainability Strategy trustful company combining mere reduction of the impact of our Two strategic stakeholder reviews have Local Sustainability Impacts that consolidates our top priorities products on the environment. The goal played an important role in helping us future targets with KPIs showing and defines our targets. This report Transport & Logistics Recruitment, Learning & Development is to bring products on the market that highlights these core elements of the prioritize our sustainability activities in how the group is making have as their very purpose to save energy 2012; an ISO 26000 evaluation was progresses on its most important strategy in detail. Our deep conviction when used in e.g. cars, infrastructure and carried out at three of our major sites areas of impact. This is to me Employee Safety that sustainability is a cornerstone Water Management consumer devices. These new products Rousset (France), Muar (Malaysia) of our competitiveness ensures that a good way to build trust and demonstrate the enormous potential the and Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), and our we move on whatever the business constructive discussion with semiconductor industry has to protect first official stakeholder survey was 50 Employee Health & Well-Being environment and that we will keep seizing the environment. They also provide proof undertaken, which included a number of stakeholders.” opportunities to offer to the market that ST’s ability to develop, manufacture interviews with stakeholders. The very those products that help us protect the and market these products offers us valuable feedback gathered from these a strong competitive edge that will environment and save energy. initiatives has helped to confirm our 50 Influence on business success 100 contribute to the profitable future growth existing approach across all areas of our of our business. strategy and also provided us with some company ISO 26000 evaluation We undertook an ISO 26000 review Governance in 2012 to help validate our refreshed Sustainability Strategy and priorities. We selected Det Norske Veritas for this piece of work. Their methodology External stakeholder survey Employee engagement survey Our Corporate Governance We are listed on the New York Stock In accordance with criteria as reflected in evaluates employees’ perceptions of Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris and the Supervisory Board Charter (available a company’s Sustainability approach. We see stakeholder engagement as Employees have the opportunity to share Structure the Borsa Italiana in Milan. on our website), members of our Fifty employees and managers were an integral element of our Sustainability their thoughts, opinions and suggestions STMicroelectronics is a global leader Supervisory Board are carefully selected Strategy review process. In 2012, through the Company’s annual Our corporate governance policies and interviewed from three of our major in the semiconductor market serving on the basis of their specific business, manufacturing sites: Rousset (France), we conducted our first formal external employee engagement survey. For more practices are outlined in our Corporate customers across the spectrum of Sense financial, technical and/or legal expertise, Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and Muar stakeholder survey to obtain inputs that information, see pages 16-17. Governance Charter. This is available on & Power and Automotive products and prior professional experience, soundness (Malaysia). Although located in different would help develop our Sustainability our website, along with our Supervisory Embedded Processing Solutions. of judgment, ability to make analytical regions, the employees all shared Strategy and future reporting. Almost Local stakeholder engagement From energy management and savings Board Charter, in the Corporate enquiries and willingness to devote the very similar views, indicating that ST’s 170 stakeholders with an understanding Governance section at The stakeholders we engage with vary to trust and data security, from healthcare time required to adequately perform their Sustainability program is consistently of ST’s operations, including customers, http://investors.st.com. for each site, department and region. and wellness to smart consumer devices, activities as Supervisory Board members. implemented across our sites. employees, suppliers, investors, SRI ST has developed general guidelines, in the home, car and office, at work Our Supervisory Board is assisted by a analysts, government representatives, Managing Board based on feedback from our global and at play, ST is found everywhere Secretariat whose responsibilities include Responding to DNV’s recommendations, academic and R&D organizations and network of Sustainable Excellence microelectronics make a positive and ensuring the continuing education and we have: NGOs were invited to participate. In accordance with Dutch law, our coordinators and best practice innovative contribution to people’s lives. training of Supervisory Board members. Approximately one third responded. management is entrusted to the • Organized ISO 26000 training sessions principles in our Code of Conduct and I 4.4 I 4.10 I Through the survey, we also identified STMicroelectronics was formed and Managing Board under the supervision for Sustainable Excellence coordinators Sustainability Strategy. These help sites of our Supervisory Board. Mr. Carlo a small number of stakeholders who incorporated in 1987 and resulted from The Supervisory Board has determined and departments identify their most Bozotti, President and Chief Executive • Held Sustainability Strategy wished to participate in one-to-one the combination of the semiconductor the following independence criteria for important stakeholders and guide them Officer, is currently the sole member of implementation workshops with site interviews to provide more in-depth business of SGS Microelettronica (then its members, based on the evaluations through the process of engagement. managers feedback. owned by Società Finanziaria Telefonica, our Managing Board. The member of our by an ad-hoc committee: Supervisory STET, an Italian corporation) and the Managing Board is appointed for a threeBoard members must not have a material • Developed new 2013 training plans year term, as described in our Articles 6 non-military business of Thomson relationship with STMicroelectronics N.V., 7 for specific internal audiences such as of Association, which may be renewed Semiconducteurs (then owned by the or any of our consolidated subsidiaries, newcomers, Human Resources and one or more times in accordance with Sustainability Strategy feedback Sustainability Report feedback former Thomson-CSF, now Thales, a or our management. A material Purchasing experts our Articles of Association upon a nonFrench corporation). We are organized relationship can include commercial, under the laws of The Netherlands binding proposal by the Supervisory industrial, banking, consulting, legal, Board at a shareholders’ meeting and accounting, charitable or familial Quote 62% of respondents were familiar or very familiar 57% of respondents read the Report and have our corporate legal seat adoption by a simple majority of the relationships, among others, but does with ST’s Sustainability program in part or in full in Amsterdam. Our headquarters votes cast at a shareholders’ meeting not include a relationship with direct or and operational offices are managed where at least 15% of the issued and indirect shareholders. through our wholly-owned subsidiary, 47% of respondents received information about ST’s 50% of respondents found the Report outstanding share capital is present or Sustainability program through our Sustainability Report, STMicroelectronics International N.V., Information on the composition of very useful and informative represented. I 4.1 I 4.2 I 38% through emails and are located at 39, chemin du Champ the Audit Committee, Compensation des Filles, 1228 Plan-Les-Ouates, Committee, Strategic Committee and 42% of respondents rated ST as a Sustainability leader 15% of respondents read the Report Geneva, Switzerland. Our operations Supervisory Board Nominating and Corporate Governance Malcolm Guy compared with its competitors to identify examples of best practice are also conducted through our various Our Supervisory Board advises our Committee of our Supervisory Board, Director, The Reassurance Network subsidiaries, which are organized as well as the compensation of the Managing Board and supervises the (UK) and operated according to the laws members of the Supervisory Board and policies pursued by our Managing Board of their country of incorporation, and and the general course of our affairs the attendance at the meetings of our consolidated by STMicroelectronics NV. and business. Our Supervisory Board Supervisory Board are set out in our “The Reassurance Network so we felt this feedback was In this year’s Report we have undertaken Dutch Annual Report or SEC Form currently consists of nine members was employed by ST to particularly valuable. a number of actions as a direct result of “20-F”, which are available on our appointed for a three-year term, as stakeholder feedback, including: website and can be downloaded at independently research the The survey showed that ST’s resolved by our annual shareholders’ views of their key stakeholders Sustainability Report was • Prioritizing and developing content meeting by a simple majority of the votes http://investors.st.com on a range of topics relating the main method through that stakeholders viewed as the most cast at a meeting where at least 15% of important; the issued and outstanding share capital New Nominations at Supervisory to Sustainability. We were which respondents reviewed Board Level • Including a dedicated section that is present or represented. Mr. Didier interested in how people ST’s Sustainability performance Lombard has been the Chairman of presents overall performance against Ms. Martine Verluyten was appointed gained information on this with 97% finding the Report our Supervisory Board since May 2011. our objectives; as a member of the Supervisory Board topic, how useful they found useful and informative. Over Our Supervisory Board has implemented at our annual shareholders’ meeting the Sustainability Report and 75% of stakeholders rated • Better-explaining our approach to ISO criteria to assess the independence of on 30 May 2012 and has also served 26000; its members, in accordance with the which areas they felt ST ought ST as “above average” or “a on its Audit Committee since then. • Discussing additional topics identified corporate governance listing standards to focus on in terms of future leader” in this area. More than of the New York Stock Exchange. It is as being of interest to stakeholders. management input. 65% of 40 recommendations were also responsible for managing potential respondents indicated that they made as a result of stakeholder or reported conflicts of interest between were either very interested in, responses.” the Company and its Board members. or experts in, Sustainability and I 4.6 I Sustainability is one of ST’s six to the CEO and Executives Officers at expectations, in order to review and corporate annual priorities. Executive quarterly Corporate Staff Meetings. Every update the Sustainability Strategy. Vice President, Chief Administrative three to five years, a group of ST’s Vice The ST Sustainability Governance Officer, Tjerk Hooghiemstra, has overall Presidents conducts a materiality exercise, Framework is shown below: responsibility for sustainability. Part of his taking into account both ST’s business remit is to provide sustainability updates priorities and our main stakeholders’ Sustainability Governance External stakeholders Supervisory Board Corporate Ethics Committee > Supervises the policies adopted by > Provides guidance and recommendations our Managing Board and the general to ST’s executives and employees to help course of ST affairs and business them comply with ethics related policies Ms. Verluyten succeeded Mr. Tom The Internal Audit function is strictly in place ensure the head of Corporate de Waard as Chair of the Audit independent from Corporate and Internal Audit the appropriate level Managing Board Committee on 22 April 2013. Local Management: of organizational independence and > Ensures STMicroelectronics general management and the representation of the company unrestricted access to executive Ms. Janet G. Davidson was appointed The mission of Corporate Internal management and the Supervisory Board. as a member of the Supervisory Board Audit, as defined in the ST Internal Audit Charter, which is consistent This reporting approach is in line with External stakeholders External stakeholders at our annual meeting of shareholders Corporate Strategic Committee on 21 June 2013. Ms. Davidson also with the Institute of Internal Auditors standards defined by leading international > Defines ST business strategy and key annual priorities, serves on the Audit Committee and the (IIA) Standards and approved by the organizations such as The Institute of and supervises ST’s ERM process Strategic Committee of the Supervisory Chairman of the Audit Committee and Internal Auditors. 8 the CEO, is as follows: 9 Board. The audit results and the follow-up Corporate Internal Audit is an of the audit recommendations Corporate Sustainable Development Group made by the internal audit team are > Defines, deploys and monitors ST’s Sustainability Independence of the statutory independent function designed to provide Strategy and programs objective assurance and consulting regularly presented to both executive auditors and of the Corporate activity, which adds value, improves management and the Audit Committee Internal Audit Organization the ST’s operations at all levels, and of the Supervisory Board. Sustainability issues experts network evaluates and promotes compliance with > Defines objectives, KPIs and relevant The statutory auditor’s independence ST Organizations actors for deployment, ensures monitoring ST’s Standard Operating Procedures and is monitored at the highest level of Our Sustainability Governance Sales & Marketing, ST Sites Policies. Manufacturing and R&D, All activities the Company: ST manages sustainability in line with Products and Corporate at all locations Corporate Internal Audit helps ST Staff Functions Sustainable Excellence Our Audit Committee is responsible for the following international guidelines Coordinators community accomplish its objectives by bringing selecting the independent registered and standards: > Defines priorities at organization and site level, a systematic, disciplined approach to facilitates deployment and awareness public accounting firm employed to evaluate and improve the effectiveness International Labor Organization audit our financial statements, subject to of risk management, control, and Conventions, United Nations Global ratification by the Supervisory Board and governance processes. Compact Principles, United Nations External stakeholders approval by our shareholders. Our Audit Guiding Principles on Business and Committee also assumes responsibility Corporate Internal Audit is a key Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for (in accordance with Dutch law) for the component of ST’s governance Multinational Enterprises, Electronic framework and assists the Audit retention, compensation, oversight and Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Committee of the Supervisory Board termination of the independent auditor. Conduct, ISO 26000, OHSAS 18001, and the Company’s certifying officers in ISO 14001, EMAS, ISO 50001, ISO The ST ERM process combines topfour pilot organizations (representative We adopted a policy (the Policy), their fiduciary duties (Corporate Internal 14064, QC 080000. Our risk management approach agreed by our Audit Committee, for the Audit promotes a sound management down and bottom-up approaches: of each of ST’s macro organizational control structure at a cost justified by Our commitment to align with these Enterprise Risk Management’s purpose areas). The objective of this pilot pre-approval of audit and permissible standards is outlined in our Code of is to systematically, consistently and • Top-down: in 2012, a risk assessment process is to start to embed risk non-audit services provided by our the risk and exposure involved). Conduct which provide guidelines for effectively identify, evaluate and manage was conducted with executive identification, evaluation and independent auditors. Our Chief Audit & Risk Executive, informing our behavior and decisionrisks across the Company, including management. The output from this management activities within each All engagements with the external Franck Freymond, is the head of exercise was a top-down risk map and individual department’s functions making. Policies and procedures are then the set-up of effective risk mitigation auditors, regardless of size, must be Corporate Internal Audit. He reports identification of top priority risk areas. and business units at the most defined at corporate level, and endorsed action plans for identified key risks and authorized in advance by our Audit directly to the Audit Committee of Risk owners were appointed for each effective level. by our CEO, Carlo Bozotti, to ensure top priority risk areas. ST ERM applies Committee, pursuant to the Policy and its the Supervisory Board, attends all of these risk areas in order to develop effective deployment throughout the a holistic approach and has been pre-approval authorization or otherwise. Audit Committee meetings, has direct risk mitigation action plans, which will Going forward, the objectives are to Company. interactions with the Chairman of the developed / designed to comply with the be reviewed by executive management further embed ERM in the organizations In 2012, non-audit services amounted for Audit Committee throughout the year Other significant standards in terms of ISO 31000 standard. on a periodic basis. and key processes, and to bolster risk only 0.5% of the total audit fees paid to and attends executive management sustainability are our Business Conduct awareness and ultimately innovation our statutory audit firm (and pertained to quarterly meetings. The current functional and Ethics, Human Resources, Health The ERM governance and process at ST • Bottom-up: in 2012, the ERM bottomthrough informed risk-taking anticipation tax compliance services). reporting line and the practices now and Safety and Environmental Policies. are defined as follows: up process has been launched with versus reaction. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 company Financial & Operating income All taxes of the year (US$m) / EC1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and cash flow (US$m) / EC1 Operating income (198) (1,023) 476 46 (2,081) 200 Extra-Financial Net operating cash flow 648* 227** 972 (278) 34 183 150 205 100 (*) Excluding payments for mergers & acquisitions (Genesis and NXP) which totalled US$1,694m (**) Excluding net proceeds received in business combination (Ericsson Mobile Platform) which totalled US$1,137m 50 79 49 0 (34) Performance -50 ST sales by market channel* 08 09 10 11 12 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 20 20 20 2020 (%) / EC1 / 2.7 OEM 81.7 84.2 79.1 77.3 77.6 Tax expense for the year Distribution 18.3 15.8 20.9 22.7 22.4 (*) Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) are the end-customers which are directly followed by us in terms of marketing application engineering support, while Distribution customers refers to the distributors and representatives that we engage to distribute our products around the world. Net revenues by location of Dividends paid (US$m) / EC1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 segments: Sense & Power and order shipment* (%) / EC1 / 2.7 Financial performance effect and unused capacity charges of US$172 million compared to Automotive Products and Embedded EMEA 30.7 28.4 25.0 23.9 24.7 350 In 2012 overall, ST has been able US$149 million in 2011, as well as Processing Solutions. Americas 13.6 11.9 12.9 13.8 14.7 327 to improve its net financial position a one-time US$53 million charge to 300 355 This strategy includes a sharper focus on Greater China-South Asia 39.9 40.6 44.1 44.8 41.9 compared to 2011 despite the significant ST’s cost of sales due to an arbitration 250 five growth drivers: MEMS and sensors, cash used by ST-Ericsson as well as the award recorded in the first quarter 2012, Japan-Korea 15.8 19.1 18.0 17.5 18.7 Smart Power, automotive products, 200 240 impact of weak business conditions. partially offset by positive currency 212 microcontrollers, and application (*) Regions have been redefined to better take into account our activity. We have reconstructed the data since 2008 to give We were able to end the year with effects. 150 processors including digital consumer an idea of the trend. 158 significant financial flexibility and 100 We have sought to develop a competitive products. Importantly, from a financial strong cash balances while providing 10 advantage by building an integrated model perspective, we are targeting an 50 11 shareholders with the same level of dividend compared to 2011. presence in each of the world’s economic operating margin of 10% or more. A key Extra-financial performance information requests as we report 0 zones that we target: Europe, Asia, China component to achieving this objective is already many indicators but also 08 20 09 20 10 20 11 20 12 20 Net revenues for 2012 decreased 12.8% and America. An integrated presence bringing our net operating expenses to Recognition of extra-financial detail our management system or to US$8.49 billion mainly due to lower means having product development, an average quarterly rate in the range of performance through rating agencies’ approach, and document many Dividends unit volumes which were driven by a sales and marketing capabilities in each US$600 million to US$650 million by the evaluations, investor ranking and projects and initiatives. We have also significant drop in sales at our former region, in order to ensure that we are beginning of 2014. inclusion in sustainability indexes is reworked our sustainability webpages largest customer and weaker market well-positioned to anticipate and respond an important element of ST’s overall to provide more comprehensive conditions. to our customers’ business requirements. objectives. It helps us better understand descriptions of our policies and actions. our performance and identify the focus Gross profit and gross margin decreased Important decisions were made in 2012 In 2012, we maintained a strong position for further improvement. Throughout 22% to US$2.78 billion and 390 basis that are shaping a new, more focused, in most major sustainability indices and the year we receive numerous requests points to 32.8% respectively. higher-performing ST. In December 2012, were recognized by some newly created and questionnaires from rating agencies, The principal components of the gross our CEO announced a new strategic indices as shown below. Unfortunately extra-financial analysts and investors on margin decrease were negative price plan to target leadership in two product we were not included in Dow Jones a wide range of topics e.g. governance, Sustainability Index in 2012. We keep risk management, business ethics, on actively work on all sections of this social, labor and human rights, health evaluation to ensure a better description and safety, environment, community of our approach and relevant evidences involvement. to demonstrate our robustness. ST key figures / EC1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The annual Sustainability Report is Net Revenues (US$m) 9,842 8,510 10,346 9,735 8,493 designed to address the majority of Gross profit (US$m) 3,560 2,626 4,015 3,574 2,783 Gross profit as a percentage 36.20 30.90 38.80 36.70 32.80 Ethibel of sales (%) ASPI Sustainability ECPI FTSE ECPI Index series FTSE4GOOD Euronext Vigeo (UE) Index (Italy) (Italy) (United-Kingdom) (France) Net earnings (US$m) (786) (1,131) 830 650 (1,158) ST inclusion in the (Belgium) main sustainability TOTAL Earnings per share indices FTSE ECPI FTSE ECPI FTSEFTSEEuronext (0,88) (1,29) 0,92 0,72 (1,31) Ethical Ethical Ethical Euronext (diluted) (US$) ESI Excellence Italia SRI Italia SRI 4GOOD 4GOOD Vigeo Index Index Index Vigeo Europe Benchmark Leaders Europe Global Europe Market share versus Emu Euro Global Index Index index index World 120 120 TAM (%) 3.96 3.76 3.47 3.21 2.87 (Total Available Market) 2012 x x x x x x x x x x x 11 Our People 12 13 Key figures for 2012 98% 22% 72,34% workforce Increase of employees covered with regular disabled people by collective contract in total workforce bargaining Total medical services provided 71,287 medical examinations, screening tests, immunizations our people Recruitment, Learning Talent management Talent management is key in our company. The ST’s & Development company-wide Development Booster programs target our high-potential exempt employees and aim at accelerating their development, retaining and engaging them. Identified through the people review process, the selected candidates are enrolled in a two-year program including a 360° assessment, mentoring and ST is a high-technology company where engaging people is strategic a collaborative project in order to prepare ST’s future to constantly stay on the edge of the business. This is why our Human leaders. Resources strategy aims at ensuring the right level of hiring and Initiated in 2010 at corporate level for top managers, development of our people to match the company’s evolving and then expanded to regional high-level managers in requirements in terms of profiles and competencies. This strategy Quote 2011, the program was extended to middle managers plays a key role in reinforcing employees’ ability to perform better in 2012. At the end of the year, there were 135 and contributes to their evolution within the Company. Christian Bertin participants world-wide in the three deployment levels. Director of Compilation This is a promising start for this highly visible program. Expertise Center The target for 2013 is to have 250 participants enrolled. Fellow Individual career paths our Technical Staff community aims at whilst maintaining the practicality of creating value through solving technical known deployment channels. The cornerstone of career management problems, innovation, new business “When I received the is to provide employees with a clear Courses were mapped, either to the development and at recognizing our certification, I felt honored, understanding of their job positioning professional job function competencies, core business expertise and our people. and also proud to join the ST within the Company and to support their behavioral competencies or to the vertical and transversal progression. In 2013, the objective is to complete leadership model providing employees Technical staff community. This is performed through the deployment the deployment by covering all eligible with easily accessible solutions that meet ST was recognizing a software of three career paths: managerial, crossemployees and strengthening the their development needs. We reviewed expert at this level for the first 14 development of this community through existing courses and existing vendors, 15 functional/program management and time, a strong sign that things individual (Technical and Specialist assessments, networking, knowledge compared internal and external solutions and defined global volume solutions are changing, and going in the functions). sharing and the deployment of a specific training curriculum. whilst maintaining local offers when the right direction. I’d like to share Starting in 2010, one of our key cultural needs required. with all my colleagues what I objectives has been to promote and develop the individual career path Review of our learning offer By the end of 2012, the networked find very useful and interesting Employees with a formal individual taskforce delivered a learning catalogue in being part of this community: development plan (%) / LA12 2009 2010 2011 2012 (for technical functions), through the Another key objective in 2012 was the deployment of the process individual complete review of ST’s learning offer of over 2,500 courses addressing 81 First, whether they admit it Exempts 51.5 69.4 44.5 26.5 path technical and specialists functions, that focused on business needs and job functions, now constituting our or not, technicians appreciate unique worldwide reference. The offer Others 19.0 17.3 within our core business job functions used a blend of locally and globally to be recognized, that others (product design, technological was integrated into HR tools, enabling deployable solutions. understand who they are and development…), reaching key managers and employees to build A network of internal business development plans during their annual that their expertise be known milestones by 2012. stakeholders and training professionals assessments to be conducted early and visible. Internal mobility (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 After being sponsored by management, worked to define the training offered 2013, by selecting competencies to Then, ST has put in place very Job for exempts filled internally 84 48 41 42 35 candidates are evaluated; validation is across ST’s job categories, ensuring develop and then selecting from the list useful training cycles for the granted according to technical expertise alignment with the Company priorities of relevant courses. technical community. I attended (*) Number of job requests for exempt positions (JG11-18) posted internally divided by total level of knowledge, influence and number of job request for exempt positions business impact. several of them which I really appreciated. It is a fact that By the end of 2012, the process has technicians are “not always” been deployed covering 84% of the Performance against objectives eligible sites and employee population, experts in how to present or reaching almost 400 employees in ST’s communicate, how to sell their Technical Staff community. • Increase the percentage of open positions for exempts filled ideas, manage innovation and After nomination, Technical Staff by internal candidates by 5% per year (compared with a 2010 practice lobbying. Such training members have a set of rights and duties baseline), with a long term-target of 60% has taught me a lot. e.g. the right to be recognized with a • Ensure that more than 50% of employees have a development Finally, I have found it very job title linked to position level (intranet plan, linked to their annual performance profile and business card), to participate enriching to meet other experts in dedicated in training curriculum and • Increase employee retention percentage of employees with from domains completely conferences; and a set of duties e.g. to more than two years service different from mine, to confront create publications articles, patents…), • Further align ST’s learning with its business strategy to our ideas and methods and networking (inside and outside ST) and contribute to company transformation, employee productivity to see that we share the same From left to right: Delphine Segura (PLD), Frédéric Artuphel, to undertake knowledge transfer such and being an ‘employer of choice’ values, motivations and Christian Bertin, Jean-Marc Chéry as tutoring, teaching… Developing (EVP, General Manager, Embedded problems.” Processing Solutions (EPS)) More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 our people Employee Quote Here are just a few of the quotes from Engagement the many “What ST means to me” employee testimonies we received. Orio Bellezza FMT Front-end Manufacturing & Technology Employee engagement is a critical driver of organizational “It is a company that allows me performance to achieve superior business results. The feedback to develop a lot of skills in terms provided is a unique opportunity for ST to respond by making of interpersonal relationships, continuous improvements to the working environment and for dealing with people, managing managers to improve their effectiveness (defined by their relative people…” strength across key underlying competencies), identifying where and how they can act to improve business results with their team. Maria Bonaffini new direction where we can Bob Krysiak do our best” IMS Industrial and Multisegment Sales & Marketing Region Americas Sector Follow up on actions in place the company’s strategy and results. The positive progress in some areas of “The people, the technology and “ST is a big company having as Marco Cassis 36,000 employees took part in either direct management can be attributed and 2012 survey results town hall meetings or round tables the passion of the organization” goal to augment the life looking Sales & Marketing Region Japan & to the success of the various programs In our 2011 report we described our (10,000 more than in 2011). always at multicultural needs” Korea launched last year. Employees would new “leadership model” program. • Managers’ accountability for like to see more proximity to the senior Manu Khullar “Very rich in important emotions We continued to roll this out in 2012 executive team and in the area of reward CIS Company Infrastructure & David Uhlar and very good memories, and a throughout Asia Pacific, to our engagement survey results was clearly defined. They are required to and recognition. Services FMT Front-end Manufacturing lot of challenges of course” manufacturing organizations thanks analyze the detailed results of their “ST allows any individual, & Technology to “train the trainers” sessions and During 2013, we build on these results 16 workshops for managers. They were organization and site, build quantitative and while we continue our efforts on the without discrimination, to excel “The technology, innovation, Nikhil Kulshrestha 17 taught how to build efficient and effective and qualitative interpretation with programs in place, we also work towards and find their own path of success!” IBP Imaging Bi-CMOS ASIC & Silicon teams by creating a work culture of selfkey stakeholders and communicate achieving the priorities we set during growth and excellence” Phototonics confidence. For operators’ integration, regularly the status and strategy to we launched the “integration buddy their teams, and to act on the key the year to improve managers’ skills, Pascale Joulaud “Great set of people working including giving performance feedback. PQE Product Quality Excellence program”, based on mentoring and opportunities for improvements. Francesco Giannetto together to make things happen… coaching, which after implementation FMT Front-end Manufacturing “ST has new energy around a company with values I am rapidly reduced the turnover rate in our 86.75% of employees participated in Celebrating ST’s 25th anniversary the 2012 survey, an increase of 0.75% & Technology challenges and programs and proud to be a part of” Longgang (China) Back-end facility. ST reached its 25th anniversary in 2012. on last year. Performance against “ST always on the crest of the The Executive steering committee set We could not have achieved this benchmark, discretionary effort, and up at corporate level analyzes results learning and development remained milestone without the dedication of wave” at various levels in ST groups, launches the same as last year. Overall employee thousands of ST employees around the Performance against objectives workgroups based on focus points engagement (0.32 vs. 0.33 in 2011) world. We held several celebratory events Ela Mia Cadag and tracks action items initiated at shows a small decrease, but we throughout the year: PTM Packaging & Test • Annually increase the percentage of employees who ST level. We also introduced several achieved a 59% favorable score despite Manufacturing demonstrate the highest level of discretionary effort initiatives developed as a consequence • We captured the richness and diversity the survey being run during a period of of our company in a single montage • Increase ST employee engagement relative to the benchmark of employees’ feedback from the “ST is not just a company, but organizational uncertainty. This stemmed displayed at more than 70 ST sites, previous survey or to celebrate our 25th the home of excellent people” • Following engagement surveys, action plans to address key from the fact that we had announced we representing great moments in our anniversary: expectations should be defined and communicated in 100% of would unveil a new company strategy, company (see photo). • We launched the “Buy ST” program but it was not known during the survey Giuseppe Castania organizations which helps connect employees with period. The new strategy, as anticipated, • Sites organized their own events such IMS Industrial and Multisegment • Implementation of action plans should be done at 50% on an their contribution to ST tangible results was announced by our CEO after the as musical performances, special ediannual basis Sector through the publication on our intranet survey had closed. tions of site newsletters and exhibitions. of ID cards of end products using ST “I can touch the future with ST” products Employee Engagement 2012 Rating by pillar (%) • The “ST pioneers” and “What ST Otto Kosgalwies Customer focus 11 20 69 means to me” initiatives were also Day to day work 12 19 69 CIS Company Infrastructure & featured on our intranet with the aim of Services Organizational culture 12 22 66 gathering employees’ ST stories “Continuous learning, Direct manager 15 22 63 • A special 25th anniversary STAR award was created as part of the annual continuous challenges, 16 25 59 Engagement Index (all) company recognition awards continuous contacts with many Learning and development 17 25 58 • CVP’s leadership sessions were colleagues around the globe, 17 32 51 Unfavorable rooted in providing opportunities and for sure last but not least, Senior executive team Neutral for their teams to question them on ST means for me a lot of friends” Rewards & recognition 40 23 37 Favorable More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 our people Employee Safety Our sites take safety in their hands In last year’s report a Calamba employee Health at Work. ST Kirkop’s range of safety initiatives includes Emergency Response highlighted that EHS Team, Health & Safety Champions, EHS practices now radiate Steering Committee, Employee suggestion from the company scheme, Health & Safety training and Health ST is committed to ensuring the health, safety and well-being to people’s homes. In 2012, ST received Plan and Health & Counseling clinic. The site of its employees, including achievement of work-life balance, six sustainability awards in the Philippines, has now been selected to represent Malta in clearly demonstrating the maturity level the European H&S competition. safe working conditions and the mitigation of risk and danger reached by our sites and individuals in this to employees and subcontractors. “EHS weeks” are one of ST good area (see our Awards page). practices. They include safety-related We now turn to ST Kirkop (Malta), another visuals, presentations and animations for major ST site, which can pride itself of no all employees on site, as well as dedicated accident in the last five years thanks to the training sessions. Five manufacturing sites, significant involvement of Site management, including ST Kirkop together with four line managers and all teams on site. sites in Asia (see photo from EHS week in Overview of 2012 Integrating safety culture at all levels These will be monitored quarterly across ST Kirkop received 1st prize for Health and Longgang) demonstrated their commitment all major sites from 2013. To validate our Governments and corporations continue Over the years, safety has become Safety Best Practices from the national to safety by organizing this week in 2012. approach and confirm our efficiency, we to strengthen their commitment to an integral part of our company culture. Occupational Health and Safety Authority All sites showed clear success in terms of carry out corporate audits and follow-up ensuring employee safety. New laws Our sites continuously innovate to make and the European Agency for Safety and attendance and impact. visits on the ground. More than 12 audits have been passed in many countries, safety a way of life for everyone, including were conducted in 2012, bringing the total EHS information and training campaigns external contractors working on our to 20 in the past two years. This method are becoming more accessible, helping sites. While we continually strengthen increases transparency, providing a clearer to improve both employees and supply our safety management robustness, we view of issues and requirements, faster chain workers practices and awareness. also promote employee empowerment implementation of solutions and the ST has a long history in this field, and through regular communication, sharing of good practices between sites. 18 awareness and training. Indeed in 2012, 19 began certifying sites to the OHSAS we totalled an average of 4.8 hours of Severity rate (%) / LA7 / 18001 safety management standard in Dec. 9.3 EHS Training/Awareness per employee. 2002. By 2003, all manufacturing sites 8 had been awarded the standard and, with In 2012, after previously achieving 0.29 8.34 the certification of Loyang, Singapore in for two years running, we were able to 7.51 Quote 2012, we now have twenty three sites that reduce our recordable cases rate further 6 6.76 6.42 Performance against objectives have achieved OHSAS 18001. to 0.27, beating our target of 0.28. 6.10 5.5 A key element of our safety approach is This equated to a 10% decrease in 4 4.5 our dedicated ‘loss prevention’ program our on-site “domestic” Recordable 3.9 • Continuously reduce work-related injuries and illnesses rate (recordable which ensures that major sites have an Cases rate and 8% in our “industrial” 3.1 case rate) and severity rate by 5% per year appropriate level of protection against fire Recordable Cases rate. 2 2.6 • Ensure that, by 2012, ST employees have an average of four hours of and associated hazards. We are pleased to announce that we Ali Dincmen training and awareness per year on Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) A well-established safety record places maintained all our EHS Management 0 Director Business Development ST amongst the best-in-class in our Systems certifications. Within our internal 08 20 20 09 20 10 11 20 20 12 International BVC Lead Auditor industry, showing several years’ continual Loss Prevention program, 2 more sites ISO9001 / ISO20000 / ISO 27001 Severity EHS Decalogue Target: Recordable Cases rate (%) decrease of our Recordable Cases rate were rated Adequately Protected Risk. rate -10% per year 2002-2010 and -5% from 2011 / LA7 / Dec. 9.1 (see “Recordable cases rate benchmarks” While most of ST’s safety results are better than targets and improving (Recordable “The STMicroelectronics into consideration the diverse graph). However, unfortunately in 2012, Injuries / illness cost and savings (US$m) / LA7 0.5 we experienced one employee fatality at Cases rate, EHS training hours, evacuation facilities audited by Bureau workforce across the different practice drill coverage, contractor injury 10 Veritas Certification (BVC) Lead countries. 0.49 one of our Chinese plants. This fatality, rate, loss prevention achievements…), we Auditors in 10 countries, namely Furthermore, there is a clear 0.4 0.44 the first ever recorded in ST, occurred 8.9 8.9 0.39 0.40 whilst heavy equipment was being know that in the matter of safety relentless 8 8.43 8.5 China, France, India, Italy, effort on all sites to demonstrate 0.38 attention must be exerted in all situations 8.3 0.35 0.36 moved. A thorough root cause analysis Malta, Malaysia, Morocco, the commitment in relation to 0.3 was immediately carried out, resulting in and roles, at all times. 7.14 0.29 0.29 6 6.77 Philippines, Singapore and the OHSAS 18001: 2007 systems 0.27 the implementation of preventive and ST is therefore working to further embed 6.0 0.2 corrective actions on all similar sites. United Kingdom, were found compliance. We observed its safety culture overall, strengthening 4.9 5.8 We also immediately re-boosted our management leadership and deploying 4 to be extremely well controlled excellent Safety Record Systems governance and programs built to company-wide training. A program sites internally and externally on each site during the BVC 0.1 3.4 strengthen our Safety culture and addressing major risks management and 2 2.9 2.7 very impressive all with a clear Audits.The challenge is to efficiency. They contain a new matrix of emergency preparedness, and engaging 1.8 desire to exceed standards. This maintain this record. 0 38 Key Performance Indicators, more site management and teams, has been 1.66 08 09 10 11 12 0 is also reflected in the common As a result, STMicroelectronics 20 20 20 20 20 field audits, more learning modules fitted strengthened with all scheduled to site type or level of management and procedures issued. Additional KPIs have 08 20 20 09 10 20 20 11 12 20 level of commitment seen on is on the right path in becoming Recordable EHS Decalogue target: Cases rate -10% per year 2002-2010 more communication. been developed to track the efficacy of our Injuries/illness Results all sites and from all those a world class company on and -5% from 2011 cost without action It will be fully deployed in 2013. approach to improving employee safety. involved, especially taking Operational Health and Safety.” Savings: around 49.5 US$m in 20 years More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 our people Focus on dormitories Labor & for two sites In deploying and implementing the Human Rights new specification, our objective was to raise the minimum standards of living conditions in dormitories. Concrete improvements were triggered in addition to the gap assessments and related It covers all aspects related to dormitory corrective action plans. Main focus location, structure and ownership, and points for two sites: ST strives to be an employer of choice by fostering a workplace sets requirements on living conditions environment that encourages people to reach their potential. • ST Ang Mo Kio: Cleanliness and equipment; more robust and facilities; health, safety, security Ensuring that our employees are treated with respect and dignity and maintenance. It includes the integrated alarm system and fire-extinguishers; fire drills; short is a fundamental principle of how we operate and we closely management of dormitory suppliers and transportation time to work (20-30 min); quarterly meetings with support and monitor our sites and departments to ensure providers and enables us to raise the service providers. The conditions are included in work contracts minimum standards for dormitories and and documentation is widely posted in each unit in English or we meet our responsibilities in this area. also provide pleasant living places for our bi-lingual version (Chinese). employees. • ST Shenzhen: the newly built dormitory enabled to group Four of our manufacturing sites provide several previous dormitories into one location, simplifying accommodation for ST workers: From rules and guidelines to Labor and Human Rights are addressed Controlling working hours to improve the monitoring of quality and services, and related quarterly Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), Muar (Malaysia), in our Code of Conduct, which define our employees’ working conditions reporting; potable water tests are implemented on a regular concrete improvements Longgang (China) and Shenzhen (China). values and how we conduct business. To assess the conformity of each site basis; communication has been improved. The audits enabled us to identify International standards covering labor Our continuous efforts on this subject weaknesses in the management of versus specification requirements, While ST raised the bar for living conditions in dormitories, and human rights guide companies to of high concern led us to major working hours. Thus we reinforced a detailed gap analysis was performed. the challenge now is to ensure that improvements are durable. comply with sustainability legislation, breakthroughs in 2012 which enabled Some non-conformances were identified our monitoring and control by raising This is key to ensuring high level living conditions. Respecting set internal standards and promote us to better evaluate our policies and and thorough corrective action plans awareness to top management and improvement. Besides, the attention practices and to share our results more deployed through strong collaboration local specificities is one of ST’s commitments in terms of developing tools to ease sites’ overtime of media on employees’ work and transparently with customers and other between sites and corporate organizaemployee labor and human rights. 20 control. Most of our sites now closely 21 living conditions in high technology tions. Several best practaices have external stakeholders: monitor their compliance to a maximum companies and their supply chains has been identified and reinforced. By the of 60 hours worked per week, as increased progressively during recent • Significant progress was made on the end of 2012 we had closed more than required by the EICC Code. years and has been prominent in 2012. deployment of EICC risk assessment 50% of our major gaps. Management Some of our sites, ST Muar (Malaysia) Amongst our stakeholders, customers and audit of our facilities. At the end reviews are now conducted regularly and ST Calamba (the Philippines) are particularly attentive to our practices with the dormitory and service providers of 2012, 71.4% of our Back-end sites for example, where effective action and performance. Indeed several key to ensure that contractual management in Asia had been audited, showing a plans have been deployed, are now EICC Audit Program results Major customers are now deploying large responsibilities, monitoring and reporting findings satisfying level of conformity. We set demonstrating a level of compliance scope: 5 sites over 2011-2012 scale audit programs with specific requirements are met. Communication up an efficient corrective action plan close to 100%. Working hours 6 requirements that extend beyond has also been improved to raise regulation or legislation. process enabling ST to reduce risks Occupational Injury and illness 4 Ensuring employee well-being employees’ awareness of their rights. and improve performance. through dormitories management Wages and benefits 2 ST, as a signatory of the UN Global Compact and a full member of the EICC, • A Human Resource Policy was In 2012, we formalized and deployed a Emergency preparedness 2 is committed to respect its workers’ adopted and deployed by all sites, corporate procedure defining the housing Freely chosen employment 1 rights and continuously improve labor mainly to describe management standards for the building, maintenance Quote Supplier responsibility 1 conditions in its operations. responsibilities and provide further believes in providing all and management of ST workers’ 1 employees a safe and respectful Child Labor Avoidance To drive continuous improvement detail of corporate standards. It newly dormitory facilities. The specification is and to detect and correct gaps versus addresses subjects such as forced based on stringent requirements from our working environment. We are Non-discrimination 1 our commitments, we progressively labor, working hours and housing customers, on the EICC standard and on continually working to improve Hazardous substances 1 integrate guidelines such as the UN conditions. best practice within ST sites. our employee experience, Machine safeguarding 1 Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines from creating dormitory Occupational safety 1 Erich Hoch standards and instituting new for Multinational Enterprises and ISO Protection of Identity 1 Senior Vice President, Chief Supply safety controls to providing 26000 into our management systems. Fair Business, Advertising and Performance against objectives Chain Officer Jabil educational and training Competition 0 We also strongly believe that training opportunities. Food, sanitation and housing 0 and awareness are key elements of effective and sustainable implementation, • Ensure 100% of ST manufacturing sites update their EICC “Our commitment to ethical Building a sustainable Corrective action process 0 which is why we participate in several Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) on an annual basis principles and EICC standards supply chain, like all social Responsibility and accountability 0 collaborative networks (Entreprises are embedded (factored) into responsibility challenges, is an 0 • Ensure 100% of ST Asian and Back-end sites are audited every Legal and customer requirements pour les Droits de l’Homme (Companies every single sourcing decision on-going process that requires two years versus the EICC Code of Conduct and that the other Air Emissions 0 for Human Rights) and Euromed sites are proactively engaged in the EICC approach we make at Jabil. And, we trusted partners like ST who Management. Through these Business Integrity 0 collaborations, we develop learning • Ensure that all ST organizations have a continuous improvement drive our supply chain to the demonstrate their leadership Freedom of Association 0 tools and encourage the sharing of plan versus ST’s Human Resources Policy to reinforce their same standards we expect in Social and Environmental Total 22 good practice. management of social issues of ourselves. Like ST, Jabil Responsibility.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 our people Global Diversity & Achievements of the “Equal Opportunities committee” in Italy Equal Opportunities programs, professional insertion In Italy global diversity and equal the Province’s agreement. Their needs contracts, internships and recruitment opportunities are managed through the were assessed and they were provided with standard contract. In 2006, 1.2% Equal Opportunities committee, which with any necessary equipment to of people in our French workforce had has implemented some very practical help make their working lives more a disability, this figure increased to 3% and concrete initiatives, some of which comfortable. before the signature of the national are described below: ST remains committed to ensuring equal opportunities and agreement and has now reached 3.78%. • An agreement was signed with an The renewal of the agreement in March • “Fiocco in Azienda” is a project set up external nursery, to reduce the high appropriate representation of gender, age, race, disability 2013 will enable us to maintain our to provide coaching to mothers and cost of child care by offering 10-15% and nationality at all levels of the organization. dynamic approach. help them peacefully face all changes discount on fees. related to motherhood as well as • Other positive actions put in place recognize the symptoms of post natal through labor unions included depression. offering part-time roles for production • Specific agreements have been employees and improving paternity Our main improvement axes a series of associated events such as Promoting diversity in France signed with Provinces to ensure the leave. Employees can request to go internal conferences on several sites recruitment of disabled employees, part time by completing a simple ST’s strategy for equal opportunities, and news items on intranet. In France, our efforts to promote diversity Quote involving several temporary agencies. form, then submitted to HR and with a specific focus on gender equality, have been consistent over the years, was defined in 2006, taking a soft • Providing a team workspace for providing employees with opportunities At the end of 2012 the total number management; ST’s paternity benefits approach. Nowadays, we run formal the network to publish and share to access employment and maintain their of disabled employees working in ST go beyond legal requirements. Indeed equal opportunities programs. information, and start forum roles within the company by adapting Italy reached 120. In Agrate, 7 disabled Italian paternity law pays 30% of salary Ensuring equal opportunities for disabled discussions, opened to all intranet working conditions where necessary. employees were hired in Staff functions whilst ST offers 50%, if the father asks employees is another important aspect visitors. By remaining open minded and and Manufacturing areas, in line with for a 3 months or more leave. of our strategy, as well as ensuring regularly raising employee awareness continuous development of our senior We believe we are building strong through newsletters and other forms of Virginia Melba 22 22 employees. ST has made steady foundations for gender equal A. Cuyahon 23 progress in these areas but we know opportunities at ST bycreating and communication we enable to scale up innovative initiatives to achieve progress General Manager ST Calamba, Performance against objectives promoting a favorable working there is still room for improvement. and results at a faster pace. The Philippines environment and culture for women • Ensure gender equality at higher level of job grade by increasing Preparing the ST women’s network in the company. People with disabilities often do not “Equal gender career the women to men ratio by 4% for Job Grades 15 and 16 have the same access to education as opportunities in big corporations Women in business is a hot topic within Supporting female students • Ensure that all sites have a seniority plan to maintain the rest of the population. To increase the corporate world. During Q4 2012, have given women increased employability in the second part of people’s careers Looking ahead, we are aiming to their employability, we provide them an enthusiastic steering committee of promote more technical jobs to female with additional training prior to them flexibility and broader 37 women from ST locations around the • Ensure that all ST sites have disability plans to keep increasing students to ensure more employment joining ST to ensure their knowledge perspective when it comes to the percentage of disabled employees in ST world, participated to a series of working equality. In France, a national initiative, and the competencies match the job decision and policy making. groups to prepare the launch of the “ST • Ensure that hiring ratio of women to men is equivalent to the “Capital filles”, was launched in 2010 requirements. As part of the integration I pursued a career in women’s network”. The initiative came gender ratio of graduated students in partner schools and between the educational institutions and of people with disabilities, we also give engineering and worked my about as a result of the commitment universities corporations. It is an innovative program subcontracting activities to sheltered made by ST’s top management to way up in manufacturing. that aims to encourage girls in sensitive workshops. A company providing • Increase the proportion of women in leadership positions increase the number of women leaders The companies I have worked urban and rural areas to continue their administrative services has been worldwide from 9.8% to 15% by 2015 in the company. The key steps of the for in the past and today, ST studies through apprenticeship. identified whose employees will be project involved: ST promoted this tutorship project trained to note taking for punctual formal Calamba, are open to talents • Sending an email to all women in with volunteer “godmothers” from Disabled employees / LA13 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 meetings, such as assemblies. This is an and capabilities regardless of the company asking them for their several ST French sites. Each ST innovative initiative. Disabled people employed gender. More and more HR 0.89 0.95 1.01 1.05 1.28 opinion and advice on the initiative, godmother coaches and supports a as % of total workforce for example on what they would like, girl in her last school year to help her The ‘disability agreement’ has resulted programs are focused on talent Budget spent on disability what the network should do and their map out her career, fight against family’s in the recruitment of more than 130 and potential development programs (US$k) 3,489 2,321 3,567 3,597 expectations. We were delighted stereotypes and support her motivation disabled employees between 2010 and are offered to deserving to learn that 90% of women were for higher studies. and 2012 through specific training employees. ST wants to increase Gender split by category (%) / LA13 interested in a women’s network the percentage of women 70 ♂ ♂ ♂ ♂ 64.70 creation. Women in management (%) 2008 2009 2010 2011* 2012 61.83 63.62 / LA13 at executive level. Women 60 61.56 15.67 16.19 16.62 17.51 • Establishing a steering committee of should take this opportunity Women in experienced 50 37 women who addressed 5 work 13.77 13.77 management (JG15 and above) to experience diverse and streams (benchmark, governance, 40 15.49 15.49 16.51 15.95 structure, communications and Women in senior management interesting careers.” ♀ ♀ 8.02 8.9 9.91 9.56 9.79 ♀ ♀ (JG17 and above) 30 38.45 38.17 career), meeting once a month from 36.38 31.44 35.30 32.56 Women in executive management 26.11 29.45 25.90 September, increasing to once every 6.78 7.6 9.71 9.80 8.78 20 28.83 23.00 21.90 two weeks from December. (JG19 and above) Operators Women in the Supervisory Board 1 10 4.73 4.65 4.53 4.45 Non exempts • Choosing Woman’s Day 2013 to 8.66 8.75 7.81 7.82 Exempts launch the network and preparing (*) figures changed following data review 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 our people Employee Health • STart for your Heart: We organized a employees completely quit and seven employees via email, telephone or face run to mark World Heart Day, with the significantly reduced their intake. to face on any professional or personal aim of bringing everybody together, issues. • Well Woman Program: We organized promoting fitness, having fun and & Well-being for a health specialist to give a talk on • Art: TULIKA, ST India’s art group was recognizing the importance of having breast cancer and provided handlaunched to show case the creativity of a healthy heart. 200+ employees outs about symptoms and preventive our employees. Artwork is displayed in participated. Awareness was built measures. a gallery at our Greater Noida site. around “Matters of the Heart” through banners, posters and bookmarks. • Sports: We regularly run a wide range Discounted health coupons were also of sporting tournaments such as given out. volleyball, soccer, cricket and bowling. We are committed to ensuring the well-being of our employees both • Quit smoking: We held a one-day • Employee Assistance Program: The during, and outside of work, through promoting a work-life balance, session for 23 employees addicted ‘1to1help.net’ agency has been set high quality working conditions and access to healthcare. to smoking. Following the event four up to give free counseling services to ST’s approach is continuous improvement and we also propose a range of personal services at ST locations. Additional benefits of improving Quote Combining corporate programs In Italy: “Work-related stress”, a project In France: in addition to medical visits, employee well-being in collaboration with Università di Milano the “Stresslab”, a tool mentioned in and local initiatives involving interviews with a significant our 2011 report, that measures the In Italy, an initiative to increase wellMany ST initiatives are also interconnected We develop health and well-being sample of more than 500 employees to employees’ exposure to psychological being, started in 2011 as a trial and has with other sustainability priorities such as programs centrally to ensure all of our conduct in depth analyzes of stress at risks, has enabled us to go one step now been deployed across all our Italian Employee Safety, Labor & Human Rights employees are provided with the same work. further in reducing stress related issues. sites, resulting in very positive feedback or Local Sustainability & Impacts. Whilst level of care and benefits. However, we When cases of stress are identified, the • Healthy diet campaign involving the from employees and managers. 150 safety is our highest priority, next comes Amit Rathee recognize local programs are often better support of canteen suppliers. doctor immediately prescribes corrective people participating in the “Mobile Work” well-being, and in our approach on better 24 equipped to identify local health care Manager, Software Competence 25 measures to support the employee. project have been given the necessary conditions of living for our employees, requirements. We therefore continue to • Specific counseling to help managers Center ICT group Greater Noida Now, in addition to stress management, equipment to enable them to work better management and quality of promote local initiatives and have begun deal with employees with emotional (India) we are also focusing on prevention. from home via a remote connection, dormitories is a clear step forward for our to share best practices through ST’s difficulties. Our approach consolidates and maps saving them travels and commuting employees concerned. And also, even if Sustainable Excellence Coordinators • Various campaigns in collaboration individual results and risks associated “As an employee working at network, encouraging global deployment. time. We have also found that work and not yet measurable, we have first signs with external health authorities about with specific categories including sociomanagement quality has improved as a that favoring a healthy way of life for our Greater Noida (India), I really smoking, osteoporosis risk; physical professional, seniority or work area, appreciate the employee health At corporate level result of having better defined tasks and employees also starts to positively impact exercise, prevention of breast cancer so that we can identify and implement thus better focused employees. on their families whose awareness is and well-being programs being The Health Plan launched by our CEO, and large-scale flu vaccinations. preventive actions. Carlo Bozotti, to ensure all employees increased. run by the Human Resources • Medical fund for all employees (a labor In India: World Health & Safety Day: department on our site. In my receive the same level of medical care union agreement). We dedicated a full day in April to wherever they are based in the world, opinion a healthy employee is • Subsidized company and public common health concerns. Talks were has again reached its target. We offer always more productive and a wide range of medical services transportation for employees. given on spine, headaches, ergonomics Health Plan Medical examinations efficient. Having personally to employees from general medical and physiotherapists then assessed • Facilities for cyclists, such as changing employees at their workstations, advising attended programs like examinations to tests relevant to rooms and showers. Exam type 2008 2009 2010* 2011 2012 them on correct seating postures and ‘Complete health checkup’, specific roles, such as blood analyses, Medical Examinations 36,022 50,295 69,180 70,480 60,216 bio monitoring, X rays, screening, exercises. ‘Employee Assistance Program’, Check up with a physician 14,057 20,687 32,472 34,604 immunization, etc. After two peak years, 35,689 ‘sports’ and many other such the total number of services we offer our Blood analyses (including biomonitoring tests**) 9,287 12,287 17,344 15,954 11,986 programs, I sincerely want to employees remains high: our employees Chest X rays 3,788 7,205 9,763 8,881 5,624 thank and congratulate ST as have made 71,000 visits to our medical Colorectal cancer immuocult test 754 851 523 966 310 an organization. Our HR team services. In parallel, we launched a has really proved time and campaign to equip all ST sites with a Performance against objectives Electrocardiograms 5,019 5,257 5,728 5,497 4,682 time again, that people are defibrillator. Now, 98% of our population Mammography 1,160 1,138 1,080 1,094 1,026 is covered. assets and that at ST life is really Pap smear tests 1,487 2,084 1,691 1,586 1,572 • Ensure 100% of employees have benefited from the health ‘AUGMENTED’.” At site level plan by the end of 2013 Prostate cancer screening 470 786 579 813 412 We believe that tackling health and • Expand and promote the well-being services offered to Screening test 9,028 11,923 10,958 13,097 8,837 well-being issues on many different employees at ST sites to facilitate day-to-day life fronts is also the best way to increase Immunization 3,121 4,347 3,505 3,019 2,234 • Promote employees’ health and well-being through local performance. Our sites offer multiple Total services provided 48,171 66,565 83,643 86,596 71,287 initiatives and campaigns on the following aspects: sport services and support to employees on all practices, tobacco, overweight & obesity, blood pressure, kinds of health, hygiene, comfort at work (*) 2010 results slightly modified in 2011 after adjustments communicated by some sites. cholesterol and home life related issues. Here are (**) These tests are dedicated to employees working in manufacturing areas (and especially on some specific maintenance operations). some examples: More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 Our Products 26 27 Key figures for 2012 82% 100% ST has reached the objective of of products of ST Tantalum on-time delivery in kunits are suppliers use to committed ECOPACK®2 conflict-free smelters date of involved suppliers and subcontractors have 100% completed the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence Survey on Conflict-free Minerals Our Products Customer How does ST evaluate • Demand Management with Forecast accuracy measurements • Asset utilization and responsiveness trough cycle time and manufacturing its customer performance? Satisfaction flexibility KPI’s ST has formalized a process to manage • Cascade feedback to the relevant We focus on simplifying processes external and internal feedbacks in order to stakeholders in the Company through our Speed and Agility Initiative continuously improve its performance and with the aim of maintaining our supply • Determine and agree with the customer consequently customer satisfaction and chain competitiveness and responding milestones to reach scores, targets and loyalty. Every ST employee is involved in to the Time To Volumes requirement of relevant improvement actions the semiconductor industry. this process: ST is committed to ensuring its products meet customer expectations • Monitor improvement action plans until in all respects, all along the product life cycle, from conception Internal feedback: Satisfaction index targets are reached. to delivery and post-sales, including service and appropriate ST has defined and monitors a set of management of quality. All score cards are normalized according to internal indicators which provide an accurate the five areas of excellence and periodically and factual measurement of customer reported to ST’s executive management of satisfaction. These indicators represent the Company. our customers’ major areas of interest, for example, number of customer complaints, External market feedback: failure analysis cycle time, percentage of Customer Perception Survey ST’s approach to customer The certification of an Automotive of Conduct to specifications and letters customer returns and just-in-time figures. satisfaction microcontroller to the ISO 26262 to review and approve or audit requests. Quote In addition to the feedback methods Functional Safety standard by the EXIDA External customer feedback: mentioned above, every two years ST also Since its inception commitment to certification body is one example of our Supply Chain governance Customer scorecard performs a “Customer Perception Survey” customer satisfaction has been one of commitment to provide our customers to assess and benchmark its overall 2012 has been a year of focus on Supply It is the duty of each ST account manager to: ST’s core company values.This culture with high quality products. Chain governance. In May 2012, Alberto performance as perceived by geographical evolved from our early Total Quality and • Collect the feedback of his customers Lives depend on microcontrollers Della Chiesa was appointed Group markets and industry domains as well as Environment Management programs following the rating system in place at when they are used in automotive and Vice President of the Company Supply to identify the new market trends. The and now forms a foundational pillar other safety applications. Where safety Chain Management reporting to Otto the customer if any (Customer score survey is also structured around our five 28 of our Sustainable Excellence strategy. 29 measures like software countermeasures Kosgalwies, Executive Vice President, card, frequency, form, ...) or ST system Listening to our customers, fulfilling Member of the Corporate Strategic Fabio Gualandris areas of excellence. We analyze the survey or failure alerts exist, both in automobiles otherwise Executive Vice President for Product results in detail and implement appropriate their needs and expectations and and at systems level, product analysis Committee, Company Infrastructures and building strong partnership with them and validation are necessary to ensure Services (CIS). Quality Excellence ST Geneva • Identify positive points and major area improvement actions. helps both ST and our clients maintain functional safety. The ISO 26262 (Switzerland) of improvements In the same year we reinforced the competitiveness and jointly explore new Functional Safety standard guarantees Supply Chain Governance where all business opportunities. to our customers that safety features will “Quality is a priority throughout organizations pertaining to the supply We define our approach to customer work reliably throughout the product’s chain are represented. The following ST. We work hard every day Performance against objectives entire life time. satisfaction using the following five areas priorities were agreed: to meet and exceed customer of excellence: By achieving this certification ST • Forecasting & Demand Management: expectations. Our goal is • Just in Time on Committed Date at 90% demonstrates its ability to create safe and • Innovation and R&D optimizing forecasts, processes, KPIs to provide our customers • Just in Time on Requested Date at 65% reliable products as measured against and tools competitive solutions that are • Business Excellence the most rigorous of safety standards. • Reduce customer complaints per million units by 5% by Q4 It is vital for the future of our company • Fragmentation: reinforcing links the best, safest and most reliable • Supply Chain 2012 compared with a 2011 baseline that we are able to produce technology between all organizations along in the industry.” • Quality that both meets safety standards and production flows and capacity contributes towards making lives safer. and assets management On time delivery to customer request On time delivery to ST commitment • Sustainability Baseline 100 in December 31, 2007 Baseline 100 in December 31, 2007 • Inventory Model & Asset utilization: ST quality strategy & roadmap Customers’ sustainability reviewing and aligning inventory policy 140 110 demands to customers’ portfolios and market 130 Our quality strategy sets the directions needs 120 for reaching our goal and is elaborated We are continually providing our 105 around seven fundamental pillars: customers with information regarding • Planning processes: continuing to 110 customers, change management, our Sustainability management systems, shorten and simplify processes to 100 product and technology development, activities and performance. increase their effectiveness 90 100 manufacturing and supply chain, people, In 2012 we received more than 700 • Organization & People: optimizing the 80 business processes, tools and indicators Sustainability customers’ demands at organization and flow to become agile 70 and economical value. Our approach 95 corporate level. 72% were concerning and fast 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 also includes the development of stateour approach to Environment Health and Delivery date in line of-the-art programs and processes We also implemented common key with customer request Safety aspects and 28% concerning for improving quality, combining performance indicators (KPI) throughout 90 Social and Ethics. innovative approaches and continuous the entire supply chain covering: improvement. It is supported by a These customer demands can be • Customer satisfaction with Just In Time detailed roadmap for strategy execution very diverse, from questions linked to 85 Requested Date and Committed Date 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 with clear ownership, timelines and our practices and products, general resources for achieving targets. sustainability surveys, signature of Code Delivery date in line with ST commitment More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 Our Products Innovation Focus on technological innovation breakthroughs in 2012 Management FD-SOI: shaking up the industry with manufactured on bulk silicon wafers. business units and central departments, innovative semiconductor technology FD-SOI (Fully Depleted Silicon on ST has been able to develop and launch Insulator) technology is a major cutting-edge Industrial Drives and Moore’s Law—the observation that the breakthrough in the pursuit of electronic Automotive IGBT (Insulated-Gate Bipolar number of transistors on a chip doubles circuit miniaturization. It enables Transistor) Drivers. about every two years—has driven the production of highly energy-efficient The manufacturing technology and the semiconductor industry over the past 50 devices with the dynamic body-bias level of feature integration achieved years to shrink the size of the transistors, allowing instant switch to highby the IGBT Drivers are unique in the Innovation Management at ST is a three-part process which which are essentially miniature on/off performance mode when needed and market. The breakthrough comes from involves; creating an environment that fosters the generation of switches. The increase in the number of a return to a very-low-leakage state for a high voltage galvanic isolation which, transistors in a product as a result of their ideas; ensuring company-wide implementation of our technology the rest of the time. FD-SOI can operate thanks to the embedded digital interface, size reductions have given consumers and product development processes, sanctioned by formal well at low voltage with superior energy allows the microcontroller to directly a plethora of new and more exciting maturity steps, rigorously managing the various phases of product efficiency versus traditional CMOS (on control the power stage of the application features at a lower-cost. In parallel, development. these new features are able to operate bulk substrate). while monitoring any faults with the digital at speed allowing phones for example diagnosis. The integration of important In 2012, ST successfully prototyped to respond to commands, by keypad, safety, protection and diagnosis features commercial products designed in 28nm touchpad, and now voice. makes the system more compact, more FD-SOI technology, finally demonstrating reliable, and less costly than other As transistors shrink to nano-scale to the market the full potential of this In 2012, despite a challenging business projects. HIT provides general-purpose solutions. Standardizing electronics: a key dimensions, where approximately technology, which was conceived over environment, we have continued with facilities and management of the joint Once fully tested in December 2013, our implementation plans and have laboratory. During the early stages of this ingredient to open innovation 450 transistors can fit within the a decade ago by ST research fellows. this technology should benefit multiple undergone major internal restructuring partnership, the joint lab will focus on diameter of a human hair, physics ST was awarded the Corporate Award New technology and product on markets such as Industrial, Power within certain businesses. Below are smart-sensor applications. ST has is challenging the traditional high2012 by the Institute of Electrical Galvanic Isolation conversion, Automotive and Home / 30 some examples that illustrate our donated its advanced iNEMO®1 speed and low-power advantages of 31 and Electronics Engineers Standards Consumer segments. journey towards excellence in Innovation development tools supported by planar CMOS (Complementary Metal As a result of a successful CompanyManagement. Association for its contribution to the a software platform. Oxide Semiconductor) technology, wide program involving teams from development and progress of electronic The integration of multiple sensors and electric standards. ST takes an New Ventures entity will invest in innovation with processing capabilities and dedicated software in a single device is active role in many standardization Quote Performance against objectives initiatives at several electronics industry ST has created its own investment fund a significant leap forward in functionality associations as part of ST’s active to promote innovation in selected startand performance for a wide variety participation in technology/IP eco• Increase creativity: Number of patents for fundamental innovations up companies that are working in new of applications, including Gaming, systems. Participating in these initiatives filed per year technologies that are relevant to ST’s Human Machine Interface, Robotics, is a fundamental pre-requisite to being Portable Navigation Devices, and Patient able to leverage open innovation and • Increase efficiency of product business while not necessarily at its core today e.g. health, cleantech and smart Monitoring. collaborative R&D in our industry. • Increase R&D partnerships: % of R&D spending incurred via infrastructures. In addition to financial partnerships or external IP sourcing returns, this initiative also provides ST For more information on Partnerships in Philippe Magarshack R&D and Education, see pages 60-61 Executive Vice-President with valuable insight into emerging technologies, products and services. and head of Design Enablement the semiconductor industry It is an ongoing process that and Services ST Crolles (France) diversified and specialized along relies on an increasingly open ST patents filed 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Partnerships are critical its value chain. innovation model with our Total 485 589 739 602 516 to innovation “IP Sourcing: a key stepping The ultimate phase in this trend partners and suppliers: stone towards open innovation. relates to so-called “design ST benefits from the dedicated In July 2012, ST and the Harbin Institute of Technology (HIT), one Innovation activity (incl. ST-Ericsson)*** 2010 2011**** 2012 IPs”, or blocks of circuitry skill set and the larger R&D Until recently, most semiconductor of China’s most renowned national Median age of immature projects (months) 17 15 17 implementing well-defined investments that a broad market companies were vertically universities, announced the opening % of immature projects* younger than 1 year (value) 29 42 29 functions e.g. connectivity, reach allows; they benefit in of a joint laboratory to encourage integrated-designing, fabricating, % of projects* maturing within year (value) 29 35 29 processing, graphics rendering return from early debug and innovation in electronics. Its aim is packaging and testing their % of Open Innovation** in R&D (value) 20 21 18 or video compression. A modern performance tuning provided to to support the study, research and own chips using internally development of innovative and emerging chip contains hundreds of such our selected partners by ST. (*) immature project: product development project, defined in accordance with IFRS criteria, measured in asset value, not yet at developed software design blocks, making their design In December 2012, ST organized electronics applications e.g. medical, Maturity 30 at the end of the year power management and multimedia (**) open innovation: aggregate spending towards external R&D technology licensing partners, in % of total R&D + licensing tools, manufacturing processes no longer practical for a single a very successful “Happy IP spending convergence. (***) In July 2012, part of the development activities of ST-Ericsson was transferred to ST. In December 2012, ST announced its and equipment. This is no company at reasonable cost Days” event where hundreds ST contributes various products, intention to exit from ST-Ericsson. As a consequence, some R&D projects were terminated, or substantially modified in scope. longer the case: as the cost and Multiple write-offs and write-downs were recorded in our books, materially impacting the performance metrics for 2012 for the and risk. Sourcing those blocks of ST engineers were exposed including samples and technical documentation, as well as training to aggregate ST consolidated perimeter (****) 2011 figures changed following data review. skills required for designing via collaboration therefore to, and could interact with, educate students in the design and and manufacturing complex becomes a basic necessity the latest innovations from our development of innovative electronics semiconductors increased, for successful chip design. partners on site.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 Our Products Product Product Compliance Stewardship Complying with applicable legislation and Declaration format definition was adopted, our customers’ requirements regarding in-house IT tools developed, and our EHS and the social and ethical impacts of quality management system database Performance ST is committed to reducing the impact of its products on the our products is a fundamental component was upgraded. ST has aligned its quality environment, continually improving their performance to enhance Quote of our sustainability program. ST annually and marketing systems with the demands against objectives the quality of life of end-users. We developed our Product reviews its banned, exempted and of the new standard and customers can declarable substances against applicable access our latest product information on Stewardship framework to gain a deeper understanding of the • ECOPACK®2: regulations and agreed customer the ST website4. societal and environmental impact of our products in order to 90% of new packages requirements, and deploys it along our implemented in ECOPACK®2 continuously enrich our product portfolio, exploring new and supply-chain. Internally, ST has developed Hazardous Substances Process by the end of 2012 innovative sustainable solutions. strategic programs to ensure we remain compliant: Management (HSPM) 80% of products in Arnel Villaroman ECOPACK®2 by the end To strengthen our hazardous substances Package development senior ECOPACK® management with a focus on product, of 2012 manager, Corporate Packaging ST has decided to align its processes The voluntary ECOPACK® program • Start tracking products & Automation, ST Calamba ST product stewardship STAR responsible products (The Philippines) started in 2000 to remove polluting and with the IECQ5 QC 080000 Hazardous eligible for ECOPACK®3 Substances Process Management System (halogen-free and no RoHS approach In 2011, ST launched a taskforce hazardous substances from our products. Requirements (HSPM) standard. We meet all applicable requirements exemption) Since the development of its to enable the tracking and effective “The rules of the game to be such as REACH and RoHS, developing in 2012 communication of products that have A working group, co-sponsored by our environmental strategy in the early 1990s, solutions that eliminate RoHS chemical a contribution to sustainability. successful in business slowly Corporate Sustainable Development and • Start alignment of ST has been fully committed to reducing compounds from our manufacturing lines 32 emerge in favor of resource Corporate Product Quality departments, ST packing materials to 33 any negative effects of its activities and and products. its products on people and the planet as Expected benefits and energy efficient products In 2012, we went a step further to remove is currently defining the steps and actions ECOPACK® levels 2 and necessary to progressively align ST’s 3 in 2012 a whole. Our product stewardship program and services. At ST Calamba, halogens, enabling us to reach the ST’s Product Stewardship program management systems to the HSPM provides quantitative and qualitative data we want to be a leader in ECOPACK®3 level. requirements. We aim to ensure that our brings our approaches under a single creating sustainable products about the sustainable value and benefits • ECOPACK®1: Compliant with the processes and management systems, framework to reduce the impact of of our products. We expect to continue that address the needs of Restriction of Hazardous Substances from product design and development our products on the environment and to grow revenue and market share on our customers, by proposing (RoHS) directive and ‘lead free’1 through to engineering, purchasing, improve the quality of life of the end-user. the back of innovation. In 2012 ST’s eco-friendly semiconductor manufacturing, warehousing and dispatch, The materiality exercise we conducted • ECOPACK®2: ECOPACK®1 + free in 2010, identified the key topics relating responsible products generated around solutions. In 2012, we achieved will be compliant, robust and effective of brominated, chlorinated and antimonyto product stewardship, including US$ 408m. ST provides detailed product with regard to hazardous substances in to manufacture only ECOPACK® oxide flame retardants eco-design, responsible products information relating to compliance with products. legislation, reduction of environmental products without the use of any • ECOPACK®3: ECOPACK®2 + free of and communication. Further on, we footprint, energy-saving and social RoHS exemptions. The constant halogens with no RoHS exemptions Conflict-free minerals refined our approach and developed an integrated product stewardship program characteristics. challenges to overcome are In 2012, ST began a packing materials 1. With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, Since 2007, ST has been complying with comprising three main components: to always anticipate markets review against ECOPACK® levels, as some exemptions are necessary mainly for the automotive legislation and customer requirements to market with regard to RoHS regulation requirements, and to find the setting a future target to ensure packing 2. IPC is an Association Connecting Electronics Industries. Visit compatibility with ST ECOPACK®2 grade prevent the use of illegal and unethically www.ipc.org Product Compliance right solutions to meet the sourced minerals from conflict areas. 3. ST adopted the IPC 1752-2 Class 6 standard in 2008 definition. 4. Visit ST Materials Declaration webpage http://www. Complying with applicable legislation and business needs with our product This topic is discussed in more detail st.com/web/en/support/materials_declaration.html?s_ searchtype=keyword our customers’ requirements regarding stewardship principles.” Material Declarations in the Conflict-free minerals section 5. IECQ = International Electro-technical Commission Quality EHS and the social and ethical impacts on pages 36-37. Assessment System for Electronic Components of our products is the cornerstone of To provide our customers with the detailed our program. ST endeavors to anticipate Rating of the level of innovation of ST devices material composition of our devices, ST regulation by working with customers STAR in key social and environmental categories: has a material declarations program in % of ECOPACK® products in k units* Responsible e. g. health & fitness, safety & security, energy-saving. place to disclose the full chemical identity and other stakeholders to find common ECOPACK® program 2009 2010 2011 2012 Products solutions to sustainability challenges. of any product launched since 2006. We use the IPC 1752 standard to report Non ECOPACK® 2.4 1.8 1.3 0.8 Internal project to measure and reduce Eco-design the environmental footprint of new products declarable substances and material groups. ECOPACK 1 ® Eco-design Compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) directive 58.1 43.6 28.7 16.8 across the life cycle: e. g. CO2 emisssions, water. ST launched its eco-design program in As a member of the IPC working 2 and ‘lead free** 2009 with the objective of eco-designing group, ST is at the forefront of standards ECOPACK®2 39.5 54.7 70.0 82.4 100% of new products by 2015. deployment. In 2012, ST adopted the ECOPACK®1 + free of brominated and chlorinated flame retardants Baseline set to ensure compliance Our approach takes into account the with legislation and align with requirements newer and stricter version of the IPC 1752(*) Our ECOPACK® values since 2009 were reviewed in 2011 after a revision of our methodology used to estimate the annual life-cycle of our devices by evaluating Product Compliance of our stakeholders. It includes a number A standard. Anticipating an evolution, ST percentage of ECOPACK® products both in value and in volume. of individual programs (ECOPACK®, Material started to disclose the full product material the results of environmental impacts (**) With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, as some exemptions are necessary mainly for the automotive Declaration, Conflict-free Minerals, HSPM). market with regard to RoHS regulation. assessments, seeking greener options chemical composition of its devices in during product design. 20083. To achieve this, a new Material More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 Our Products Eco-Design STAR Responsible Products Energy-efficiency and eco-design are now • Will be implemented on selected Advances in semiconductor technology associated revenues from our products key consumer requirements for products. products across all ST Products Quote offer exciting opportunities to address with energy-saving characteristics. Quote ST has included the target in its EHS Groups by the end of 2013. global sustainability issues through The STAR Responsible Products Decalogue to eco-design 100% of new innovative products that address a program enables us to do this and also products by 2015. Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) diverse range of social and environmental demonstrate the wider societal value of ST is committed to design its products challenges e.g. ageing population, more our portfolio by applying an innovation by systematically taking into consideration methodology affordable and accessible healthcare. rating. Split into two main macrothe environmental impacts of the device ST has been undertaking complete categories; “Social” and “Environmental / during its whole life-cycle (raw materials, Life-Cycle Assessments since 2009 What are ‘responsible products’? Energy saving”, ST Responsible Products transportation, manufacturing, usage, covering some cutting-edge products. Michele Galatola are awarded 1, 2, or 3 STARS according Serge Palmieri end of life). Product team leader, Directorate For ST, the term ‘responsible products’ Quality management system and These assessments have resulted in the to their level of innovation. Ratings have a General Environment, European refers to the design, development, sale Sustainable Excellence coordinator development of a bespoke methodology two-year validity and capture the degree and marketing of devices that: ST’s approach to eco-design to perform LCAs on assembled devices Commission, Brussels (Belgium) of innovation on specific sustainability of Analog, MEMS and Sensors Product at the first stage of eco-design, in • Reduce energy consumption and/or characteristics. The three levels of Group, ST Grenoble (France) To successfully integrate eco-design, accordance with ISO 14040 and ISO provide new environmental solutions innovation are defined as incremental, ST has adopted a dynamic and “Since 2003, the European “To accurately identify 14044 standards. e.g. smart grid, start/stop systems, significant and breakthrough. systemic approach based on innovation, Commission has supported the responsible product converters to manage solar cells and For social products the rating is applied performance and awareness. We are Due to ST’s huge portfolio of products, consistent and coherent use of wind turbines; based on qualitative evaluation, and for characteristics, all ST Product working to integrate this methodology it is not feasible to carry out complete Life Cycle Assessment in environmental/energy savings products Groups actively participate in the into our product design and development. LCAs on them all, so ST has developed • Provide new social solutions to key European policies; the most it is based on quantitative assessment. product stewardship program, To help us reach this objective, our a screening LCA methodology that societal challenges and improve endenables us to provide a quick calculation reliable and comprehensive user quality of life e.g. all health-related In 2012, we carried out a data collection providing ST with full visibility experts have developed a decisionguiding tool that enables designers to of products’ carbon (in kg of CO2 method for calculating the and fitness products, safety and exercise to develop a dashboard of all on specific market segments, evaluate the environmental footprint of equivalent) and water footprint (in m3) of environmental performance security applications, environmental new products launched during the last products and application 34 our products within a shorter time frame1. of products, services and and social solutions for developing two years. The dashboard indicates that 35 products in the design phase. It relies fields. This knowledge drives on a complete database of environmental In order to verify and review our internal countries. 196 individual products with 250 STAR organizations. Life Cycle ratings have generated approximately innovation and is continually impacts for each stage, based on the Life methodology, ST will undergo third party Assessments help provide clear, ST’s STAR Responsible Products 30% of all new product revenue, being fed back into ST’s product Cycle Analyses we have conducted over validation with Quantis in 2013. recent years. This cross-departmental tool: reliable and comparable corresponding to approximately 7% development.” environmental performance In 2011 we developed the STAR of all ST products. • Covers all Front-end sites manufacturing Responsible Products program which data to all stakeholders, To ensure we can catalogue ST’s aims to identify, track and communicate technologies; 1.For more information and products test, visit our website on including supply chain new ST products that make a contribuResponsible Products portfolio, we are Performance • Takes into account for the calculation the most representative packages www.st.com 2. For more information, participants. The Commission’s tion to sustainability. updating our internal STAR rating system against objectives see http://ec.europa.eu/environment/eussd/smgp/ recent adoption of the package Specifically, this program aims to provide and should be soon able to automatically of Back-end manufacturing phase; classify our products. We are also • In 2012, track the percentage «Building the Single Market for detailed information about products that feature in the target growth areas of ST’s focusing on making responsible products of ‘STAR responsible products’ Green Products2» represents a in ST’s overall product portfolio strategy. an integral part of product development key step towards improving the and associated revenues and communication. way the environmental Investors are increasingly asking us to (following STAR environmental performance of products and communicate the percentage of and and social criteria) for the year Life cycle stages organizations is measured • Prepare a complete and communicated.” communications plan for responsible products in 2012 Raw materials Transport Use ST production site End of line Responsible Products category and STAR classification criteria / EN6 EN26 Number Number Environmental / Social Products Associated STAR rating of products Associated STAR rating of products Energy Saving Products in 2012 in 2012 H 1 STAR: incremental improve• Health/Medical/Fitness H 1 STAR: incremental changes • Energy saving of the ST ment versus previous generation Embedded in applications dedicated to physical 43 95 to a solution already on the market chip itself (at least in line with standard Environmental indicators Performance against objectives well-being market offering) • Safety/Security: H H 2 STARS: not just improve • Energy saving of the H H 2 STARS: significant improContributes to transportation/ car safety or safety an existing solution, add to it in 24 application thanks to the vement versus previous generation 63 • Ensure 100% of ST new products are eco-designed in general; or to personal security new ways ST chip (above standard market offering) by 2015 through deployment of: Environmental (not H H H 3 STARS: dramatic related to energy saving) • eco-design strategy • Social (general): H H H 3 STARS: solves Contributes to resources improvement vs previous • new eco-design tools Products supporting ageing population, disabilities; a problem for which there is 16 generation OR providing a 9 Climate change Water demand Freshwater Photochemical saving and environmental to improve quality of life in developing countries etc. not yet a solution on the market solution for energy saving that does eutrophication oxidant formation • product eco-labeling preservation (water, not yet exist on the market chemicals, emissions etc.) More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 Our Products Conflict-free Minerals ST is committed to complying with legislation and aligning with customer requirements relating to conflict minerals. We take careful measures to avoid procuring 3TG metals that are directly or indirectly associated with human rights violations or environmental damage in the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighboring countries. ST began to address the conflict products originate from the identified • Any identified smelters are contacted minerals issue in 2007 by requiring our conflict zones by both ST and the supplier to invite tantalum suppliers to confirm they were them to join the Conflict Free Smelter not sourcing metals from conflict areas. • have a DRC Conflict-Free Minerals (CFS) program. In fact smelters’ We now participate in the Electronic Policy engagement rate with the CFS ST has been working on conflict minerals Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and • conduct a thorough supply chain engagement is one of our internal key mapping and disclosure since 2007. Quote Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) analysis to identify and provide ST with performance indicators. If suppliers In 2012, we concentrated our efforts programs and require all our suppliers the names of smelters and refiners provide other evidence of being on mapping smelters within our supply and subcontractors to provide evidence involved in mineral processing conflict-free, we conduct a risk chain. This exercise was undertaken that they are not sourcing 3TG metals assessment to evaluate whether using the Due Diligence tool developed 36 (Tantalum, Tungsten, Tin and Gold) • disclose the country of origin and the the information received is sufficient by the EICC GeSI Extractive Working 37 through any channels that fund armed mining location of procured minerals to meet our requirements. Group. Smelters were also invited to join groups in the eastern provinces of the EICC’s Conflict Smelter Program. Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) • implement due diligence to verify In 2010 the US Congress passed Starting in 2014, ST will publish an Jérôme Roux suppliers’ compliance with its Conflict legislation, the Dodd-Frank Act, which annual conflict minerals report, in line and surrounding regions. Corporate Vice President, Global Free Mineral Policy requires manufacturers of electronics with SEC requirements. Procurement and Outsourcing Assurance of conflict-free devices to undertake due diligence on ST Ang Mo Kio BHQ (Singapore) • source 3TG metals from smelters We review each mineral (Tantalum, Tin, their 3TG supply chains, to publicly minerals who themselves have been validated disclose their conflict minerals policy Tungsten or Gold) individually due to the as using DRC Conflict-Free minerals varying levels of complexity found within ST manages conflict minerals in and to enforce conflict-free measures in “This is a challenging activity approach and continuous by a third party certified organization their procurement processes. This ruling each mineral supply chain. For Tantalum, accordance with the following legislation since our Procurement supply monitoring.We in ST are well and best practices: was adopted by the US Securities and for example, we have been able to certify • A supplier’s ability to meet these chain is wide and complex with engaged in the deployment Exchange Commission in August 2012. 100% of smelters through the Conflictrequirements is then reviewed, and • Section 1502 of the US Dodd-Frank Under the ruling, companies are required Free Smelters’ Protocol. We are still in various and numerous materials of the Conflict Free Minerals Act and its application rules from if any of them are not met we ask the to disclose their use of conflict minerals; the process of identifying smelters for the suppliers and subcontractors Program and have established the US Securities and Exchange supplier to provide us with evidence Tantalum, Tin, Tungsten or Gold, if other minerals with significant progress involved. Awareness and robust company management Commission (SEC) that corrective action plans have been made for sources of Gold (around 30% implemented. those minerals are necessary to the responsibility are the drivers systems by adopting a conflict functionality or production of a product of declared smelters are now certified). • OECD Due Diligence Guidance for we are diffusing and engaging minerals policy, defining Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals • Collected information is aggregated manufactured by those companies. In parallel, the EICC revised its Due with all the actors of that chain, systems of controls and suppliers from conflict-affected and high-risk and shared with customers when Companies are required to provide this Diligence tool at the end of 2012 to areas, for more information, see requested. disclosure annually to the SEC. relying on a collaborative risk assessment.” include a pre-defined list of smelters. www.oecd.org/daf/inv/mne/mining.htm We found this to be an extremely valuable addition that will help us to Conflict-free minerals 2012 • Working groups within the EICC accelerate the process of identification. Number of materials suppliers and subcontractors involved in the EICC-GeSI and GeSI supporting documents 168 Due Diligence survey and audit trails In order to engage all relevant Performance against objectives departments within ST, we worked on Number of suppliers and subcontractors that are associated with at least • ITRI’s Tin Supply Chain Initiative 88 defining internal roles and responsibilities one 3TG metal (involved suppliers) supporting documents and audit trails Define and deploy systems and processes to provide trustworthy with; global purchasing, wafer foundry, % (number) of involved suppliers and subcontractors that have completed 100 (88) We have developed a comprehensive compliance, finance, corporate the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey evidence that our products are conflict-free. In 2012, we will: process to provide our customers sustainable development, product Number of smelters identified in ST’s raw materials supply chain 74 with evidence to demonstrate that • Maintain EICC-GeSI Due Diligence Tool update for 100% of quality excellence and group external Number of smelters identified in ST subcontractors’ supply chain 102 our products only contain conflict-free our material suppliers, Front-end and Back-end subcontractors communication. These will be formalized minerals: in 2013. % of ST Tantalum suppliers that use conflict-free smelters 100 • Engage all the smelters identified in our supply chain to join • ST requires suppliers to: the EICC-GeSI Conflict-Free Smelter Program incurred via partnerships or external IP sourcing • sign a written commitment annually stating that no metals used in ST More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 The Environment 38 39 ST Environment involvement 12 US$ 2M invested on PFC 85% increase in our Manufacturing purchase of green sites ISO 14064 certified abatement devices energy Water recycling in 2012 vs 2011 +6% the environment GHG Emissions Achieving ISO 14064 certification of GHG from Operations emissions for all our manufacturing sites ST has a carbon neutrality roadmap that includes several pieces of work. Prompted in part by increasing ST is committed to managing and reducing its direct and indirect investor scrutiny of company GHG emissions we greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including perfluorinated commissioned third party verification of the direct and compounds (PFCs), from its manufacturing and other business indirect GHG emissions of our 12 manufacturing sites. operations, in accordance with scopes 1 to 3 of the GHG Protocol. Scope 1 and 2 as defined by the GHG Protocol, were assessed according to ISO 14064-1:2006 principles. Since the early 1990s, reducing and based on 2012 results. ST’s programs Risk management programs Comprehensive audits assessing a broad range adapting to climate change have been on scope 2 and scope 3 of the GHG of criteria including organizational and operational core elements of our environmental ST has two key programs to mitigate boundaries, infrastructure, activities, technologies, Protocol are further detailed in the Energy strategy. We have implemented a multirisks associated with climate change and processes, GHG sources and types of GHGs, were Management, and Transport and faceted approach that takes all aspects to ensure it is able to respond. Logistics pages of this Report. conducted. All of our sites achieved certification. of the value chain into consideration, Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) working with stakeholders, wherever Compensation and reforestation program plays a key role in identifying ISO 14064 certification enables us to further possible, to bring about emission and assessing climate-related risks. demonstrate to our stakeholders in a transparent To offset the remaining emissions, ST has We have also developed robust Business and consistent way ST’s robust approach to measuring reductions. developed at company level reforestation Continuity Plans (BCPs) which are and managing its GHG emissions. programs in Australia, Morocco, Texas implemented by each site to prevent Mitigation of global warming and Italy. Our internal methodology to and protect against climate change and 40 effects calculate the CO2 sequestrated by these natural disasters. 41 programs was verified in 2010 by a third Since 1995 and its first EHS Decalogue, Carbon risk assessment party, MWH. In 2012, the 9,000 ST has consistently delivered annual hectares of trees planted in 2002/03 decreases in the level of greenhouse In 2012, a climate change exposure risk have sequestrated 298 ktons of CO2, CO2 emissions: normalized values gases emitted from its manufacturing assessment was conducted at corporate activities. compensating around 53% of our direct level across all of our manufacturing Quote (kTons CO2 / production unit) / EN16 annual emissions. sites. The scope of this assessment / Dec. 3.0 Emissions At local level, our sites are very active in covered our entire value chain, enabling Baseline 100 in 1994 regional reforestation programs. 50 More than 90% of our direct emissions ST to assess, map and test assumptions ST Calamba (The Philippines) has set for direct and indirect emissions in order 40 42 result from the use of PFCs in our a target to plant 20,200 trees by 2020. 35 manufacturing processes1. to evaluate our overall carbon footprint. 30 33 37 Partnering with local associations, ST 33 ST has a carbon roadmap to help us 20 volunteers planted 5,000 native and CDP achieve direct emissions neutrality medicinal trees in 2012. In Singapore, ST Paul Simpson 10 by 2015. We have faced difficult ST annually participates in the Carbon sponsored the Singing Forest project to Chief Executive Officer, Carbon 0 economic times over recent years and Disclosure Project. On the CDP Investor, reintroduce 38 indigenous tree species Disclosure Project (CDP), 20 2008 acknowledge that our strategy needs 2009 we achieved a score of 92/100 which 2010 11 London (UK) 2012 to attract more native birds back to the to be reviewed. We are committed to ranked us 2nd in Italy and 2nd in the IT the World Semiconductor Council’s 2020 region. sector in France. Moreover, for the first Summary of net CO2 emissions climate change targets to decrease time ST was included in the CDP’s Climate “Companies that make the CDP’s (kTons) / EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN29 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 our normalized emissions by 30% from Adaptation to climate change Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI). / Dec. 3.1 / Dec. 3.2 / Dec. 3.4 Climate Disclosure Leadership a 2010 baseline. We require all new As well as reducing our impact we must Direct emissions (scope1) 536 393 551 626 561 processes and tools adopted by our sites 1. Normalized value Index have demonstrated strong also adapt to increase our resilience to Direct emissions due to PFCs (FE+BE) 493 352 519 595 527 to be equipped with abatement systems. 2. See focus page 41 internal data management climate change. 3. For more information, see Governance pages 7-9 Direct emissions due to boilers 43 41 32 31 31 ST also has an investment strategy to practices for the measurement upgrade existing equipment, providing of greenhouse gas emissions Direct emissions due to direct 3 US$ 2million for abatement devices in transportation and energy use. They are also 2012 for ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and ST Crolles (France) factories. Performance against objectives giving clear consideration Indirect emissions (purchased electricity) (scope2) 882 876 907 903 828 PFC reduction is also achieved to the business issues related Other indirect emissions (transportation*) 89 104 126 116 107 through the development of greener • Reduce absolute PFC emissions by 30% in 2020 from 1995 to climate change and their Total emissions** 1,507 1,373 1,584 1,645 1,497 manufacturing techniques, the baseline exposure to climate-related risks optimization of process recipes and Sequestration due to the implementation and opportunities. This is vital 176 215 249 277 298 the replacement of high Global Warming of reforestation projects • Offset the remaining direct CO2 emissions through reforestation to realising greater efficiencies, Potential (GWP) gases with lower or other sequestration methods, to reach carbon-neutrality of Total direct net emissions 360 178 302 349 263 or GWP-free alternatives. protecting the business from direct CO2 emissions by 2015 ST gained ISO 140642 certification of risk and capitalizing on (*) The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation and transportation of goods. its scope 1 and scope 2 emissions opportunities.” (**)Transportation emissions are integrated in the total emissions. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the environment Water Management ST is committed to reducing water use and ensuring high standards of effluent and waste water treatment, together with identifying and Recycled and reused total Consumption of water managing water-related risks and opportunities, including impacts 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (m3 per production unit): normalized values water / EN10 / Dec. 2.2 on local communities. / EN8 / Dec. 2.2 Total water used (1,000m3) 27,791 25,622 27,736 29,113 28,315 Baseline 100 in 1994 Water recycled and reused rate (%) 34.53 36.20 37.29 40.53 42.96 50 ST and its stakeholders view water conducted a preliminary evaluation using large number and diverse locations 40 48.8 46.3 Total water discharge / EN21 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 39.0 management as a critical component the World Business Council for Sustainable of suppliers and subcontractors. 41.8 Water discharge (1,000m3) 14,931 12,867 14,000 13,650 12,444 44.0 39.7 of any sustainable growth strategy. Development Global Water Tool. To overcome these challenges, 30 Identified as a key issue in the first In 2012, we complemented this ST deploys several initiatives: Treated in ST waste water treatment plant (%) 76 75 73 74 76 20 27.3 26.7 27.3 27.8 release of ST Environment Health and approach and conducted a water risk • ST has been a full member Safety Decalogue, we implemented a assessment at corporate level for all Treated in external waste of the Electronics Industry Citizenship 51 43 57 55 54 10 water strategy covering all operations, our manufacturing sites in order to water treatment plant* (%) Coalition (EICC) since 2005 and and have reduced our water footprint further analyze and test assumptions 0 assesses the performance of key (*) Part of this water has already been treated in ST waste water treatment plant, meaning that 100% of water discharge is treated by 72% since 1994. for direct and indirect water use in order whether internally, externally or both of them. suppliers and subcontractors via an 08 09 10 11 12 20 20 20 20 20 to evaluate ST’s overall water footprint. annual Self-Assessment Questionnaire1 Target Consumption 42 Water strategy and programs Partnering with Quantis, this exercise that includes questions on water of water 43 reviewed the entire value chain, from raw 3R approach: Reduce, Recycle, material production to product use and management; Quote Reuse end-of-life. • Internal knowledge-sharing to reinforce The assessment, using the Pfister water our overall risk assessment process; To maximize the use of each drop of water, ST’s conservation strategy is stress index and the Global Water Tool, • Regular engagement with stakeholders based on the 3R approach. We include identified that 42% of ST’s sites are including industrial associations and water conservation features in the design located in water stressed areas. sustainability initiatives. of our facilities, and our manufacturing Based on this study, we weighted the processes are constantly upgraded to sites’ water use by the local water stress Collaborating with local Yves Loerincik meet more stringent water reduction targets. Each site regularly monitors level to prioritize our potential risks, evaluating also quantitative impacts communities ST has a long-standing reputation for Chief Executive Officer, Quantis, Lausanne (Switzerland) Recycling 45% 1. Normalized value 2. See focus page 41 of our water its patterns of water usage and we related to human health and ecosystem engaging with communities in areas 3. For more information, see Governance pages 7-9 constantly develop innovative measures quality. ST also mitigates risk through where our operations are based. to save water by aligning the operating internal Business Continuity Plans that “Responsible water management procedures with the best equipment involve mapping risks, taking into Our sites work closely with local stakeholders to reduce water extraction and within a business’s direct at Back-end sites and processes. account local factors, and linking them consumption, and to ensure sustainable operations and supply chain Water is a crucial concern for both communities and to our measured KPIs. community development. Treatment of water discharge has become a mandatory pillar businesses. ST ensures that every site deploys a series of Supply chain water management of any sustainability strategy. measures that contribute to a sustainable management Waste water is treated in dedicated treatment plants, either located Mapping water-related risks in the supply 1. For more information, see Management of sustainability Water risks, closely linked to of water. In 2012, the company-wide EHS Decalogue in supply-chain, pages 54-55 on-site or developed in collaboration chain is a complex process due to the climate change, together with objective to reach 45% water recycling rate was almost with local authorities to remove polluting reputational and regulatory attained, due to the strong progresses recorded at Backsubstances such as fluoride, which risks are on the increase. end sites. cannot be treated by municipal plants. ST, in collaboration with Quantis, ST Kirkop (Malta) has exceeded the 45% target and both Once it has obtained a sufficient level of purity, and any risk of pollution is Performance against objectives performed a water risk ST Muar (Malaysia) and ST Shenzhen (China) reached this eliminated, it is discharged into the assessment using lifecycle target during 2012. ST Muar established a water balance natural environment. analysis in 2012, to prioritize the to evaluate the water consumption for each area of the site • Reduce water draw-down (cubic meters per production unit) and minimize wastage. Existing installations were optimized by 5% per year actions required to manage and Water risk mitigation mitigate these risks. This work with daily controls on operation and maintenance. ST Shenzhen installed additional infrastructure to modify water Water scarcity assessment • Achieve an overall Company recycling rate of 45% by 2015 needs to be updated to reflect recycling processes, adapting to changes in manufacturing the ever-changing landscape ST operates a worldwide network • Conduct a water risk and opportunity assessment for each process and associated waste water steams. of Front-end and Back-end plants. of our world. In particular ST manufacturing site by 2012 Other ST Back-end sites are currently undergoing similar In 2011, to assess and map the water should focus on water-related risks related to our operations, we risks within its supply chain.” reviews of their water management systems with a view to meeting the 45% recycling objective. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the environment Energy Green offices at ST Munich Management Examples of energy-efficiency technology, practices and strong environmental performance can be found across all of our sites, not just those manufacturing our products. At the end of 2011, 250 of our ST is committed to reducing its energy consumption and carbon Munich (Germany) sales and marketing footprint from its operations through energy efficiency and employees moved into a new premises, conservation programs, along with the purchase of CO2-free and fully equipped with the latest environmental renewable energies. To mitigate its business exposure to climate features. As well as installing geothermal energy change, ST carefully monitors and anticipates changes in the energy technology, cooling via ground water pumps and low-water consumption sanitary facilities, market. the offices were also completely refurbished to improve employee comfort. The new office has Energy strategy nance and energy consumption over a ISO 50001 certification helped ST realize a more than 50% decrease ten year period. ST Crolles (France) used Responsible energy management has of Front-end sites in energy consumption, and generate cost been a key pillar of ST’s environmental the TCOO process to select a new supplier for Uninterruptible Power Supply1 Beyond the ST Decalogue targets, we Quote savings of nearly US$ 100k in 2012 alone. strategy since our first Environment, (UPS) equipment (higher purchasing have set ourselves the challenging goal The building owner is currently undergoing the Health & Safety Decalogue was launched cost). We predict this will reduce our of achieving ISO 500012 certification of necessary steps to obtain Leadership in Energy in 1995. Our multi-faceted strategy is all Front-end sites to increase energy energy consumption by 48% over a ten and Environmental Design (LEED) certification supported by a culture of Sustainable efficiency, reduce costs and improve overall year period. by 2013. Excellence, and covers: energy performance. We plan to certify six Energy efficiency and conservation Front-end sites by July 2013. Energy sourcing Wilfried Atgé For nearly 20 years, ST has been Sites in Agrate, Catania (both in Italy) and ST’s strategy incorporates both the Energy Efficiency project manager, 44 reducing its energy usage and gaining Rousset (France) have been ISO 50001 45 generation and purchase of green energy. Industrial Services of Geneva (SIG), Our energy sourcing department moniefficiency through regular upgrades of certified since 2011. All sites achieved zero (Switzerland) tors and anticipates regulation, along its existing equipment and manufactunon-conformities. The certification process with energy needs and prices for each ring processes. In 2012, Front-end sites involved developing tools to systematically “In 2012, ST enrolled in ST joined 60 other engaged of our sites. When purchasing energy, consumed 70.4% of ST’s total energy measure the energy consumption of each piece of equipment (e.g.: buildings, chiller AMBITION NEGAWATT, an companies in the Geneva we take into account both financial and consumption. Conservation efforts at these sites during the same year and compressed dry air equipment), and energy efficiency program Canton who are helping to environmental considerations. reduced electricity consumption by 1.4%, analyze the site’s overall energy usage. developed by the SIG the reduce carbon emissions. Since In 2012, for economic reasons ST’s wind farm, located in the south of France, was equivalent to 20 GWh and US$ 2.6m. A common platform, which, includes a Geneva public utility which 2011, it is estimated that ST taken over by a major energy supplier. Efficiencies were achieved for example, documentation database, reporting tools committed the Company to Geneva has saved 12 GWh in We are committed to increasing the by improving the water cooling process and processes has been developed and the sustainable management electricity and 700 tons of CO2 amount of green energy purchased optimizing chiller performance; and also shared internally to promote best practice. of energy at its Geneva office. equivalent.” worldwide. In 2012, 7.4% of the energy by finding the optimum balance between From an initial US$ 300k investment, ST estimates that the certification process will By setting a target to reduce purchased by ST came from renewable humidity, temperature and laminar flow sources compared to 4% in 2011. ST contribute to 14 GWh of energy and US$ its electricity consumption and Direct and indirect energy consumption velocity in our clean rooms. by primary sources / EN3 / EN4 / 3.3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 also encourages sites to install gree2m in savings. greenhouse gases emissions ner energy technologies, such as solar ST sites also raise employee awareness by 6% by 2015 (2011 baseline), Breakdown of energy consumption (GWh) panels, which generated 2.1 GWh in through regular energy conservation Electricity consumption 2127 1986 2018 2058 2041 Catania (Sicily) and 50,000 kWh for both campaigns and by participating in 1. UPS provides emergency power to electrical equipment when the main power source fails. Even in off mode, they still Natural gas consumption 234 214 171 166 153 our Grenoble (France) and Geneva (Switenvironmental events. For example, consume energy. Consumption of energy (kWh per in 2012 our Singapore offices took part 2. ISO 50001 requirements include establishing, production unit): normalized values Others sources 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.77 zerland) sites in 2012. implementing, maintaining and improving energy management in Earth Day. systems. / EN4 / Dec. 2.1 Total energy consumption 2,361 2,200 2,189 2,224 2,197 Energy consumption Percentage of energy consumption due to 90.09 90.27 92.19 92.54 92.87 Production fluctuations greatly impact 80 electricity energy use, and have affected our energy 70 Breakdown of energy sources (%) performance in 2012. We acknowledge Performance against objectives 60 65.4 Green electricity purchased 2.04 2.63 5.79 8.56 7.38 that whilst ST continues to reduce its energy 50 44.0 45.8 Electricity produced by ST’s windfarm 0.92 1.03 1.09 1.13 0.00 consumption, it is becoming increasingly 49.7 41.8 40 48.5 difficult for us to make significant improve• Reduce energy consumption by 5% (per unit of production/year 47.2 47.9 Photovoltaic and thermal solar electricity 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.09 0.10 39.7 39.7 produced by ST ments and achieve our EHS Decalogue compared to the 1994 baseline) 30 51.7 targets which we set more than 15 years ago. 20 Electricity purchased from nuclear (CO2 free) 28.78 22.15 23.72 23.23 22.13 • Increase our green energy purchase up to 7% by 2012 10 Electricity purchased from fossil fuel sources 58.34 64.48 61.57 59.53 63.27 Before any new major facilities equipment is purchased it is assessed under • Formally include criteria on energy efficiency and use of CO2 0 Natural gas 9.91 9.70 7.81 7.46 6.96 the TCOO (Total Cost of Ownership) 08 09 10 11 12 emission-free and/or renewable energy as part of the evaluation/ 20 20 20 20 20 Other fuels 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.17 framework which evaluates the total cost selection process in all tenders for energy and facilities contracts in 2012 Target Consumption Total 100 100 100 100 100 of the equipment acquisition, mainteof energy More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the environment Chemicals Management Quote ST is committed to reducing and managing its environmental, health and safety risks, achieving legislative compliance and alignment with customer requirements. We base the selection, use and substitution of materials on the precautionary principle and our relevant specifications and procedures. We also aim for Steve Bishop Director, Implant Technologies Substance replacement suppliers and subcontractors to be compliant with ST’s specifications and procedures. Materials Solutions, ATMI, Suwon (Korea) at ST Calamba (The Philippines) In 2010, Potassium Chromate was was very specific, ST Calamba could not Legislation on hazardous substance • Full compliance with legal requirements Chemicals and our employees “In 2012, ATMI worked together classified as a candidate Substance benefit from other ST site experiences. management is becoming increasingly applicable to the chemical’s use; with teams at ST Crolles (France) People safety is our first concern. ST has of Very High Concern (SVHC) by the Close cooperation with the supplier was stringent. Semiconductor manufacturing to change from Carbon Dioxide • Facilities and equipment modificastrict rules regarding chemical handling to European Chemical Agency (ECHA) undertaken to substitute and completely processes require several hazardous tion according to stringent technical protect employees’ health and create a to Carbon Monoxide gas on the for future inclusion in Annex XIV of phase out Potassium Chromate from chemicals. ST considers this a key issue standards; and has worked successfully to anticipate safe manufacturing environment. In 2012, silicon wafer carbon implantation EU REACH1 regulation. Anticipating Calamba’s manufacturing lines. legislation, reduce consumption, find • Availability verification of possible ST prepared a training course to heighten process. ATMI designed a legislation, that will restrict the usage After extensive testing, to ensure that greener alternatives and to ensure that alternative materials and/or processes; the understanding and awareness of ST Vacuum Actuated Cylinder to of this substance in the next years, ST process reliability was not affected, employee health and company assets chemicals management and chemical deliver carbon monoxide had already phased out this substance a suitable alternative substance has 46 • Performance of medical checks on risk assessment processes amongst 47 are protected. Whilst we have recorded employees who may be exposed; without the risk of gas leakage. across all ST sites by 2008, with the now been approved for this particular continuous progress over the last 15 years, manufacturing, operational and product The new process decreased exception of ST Calamba site that joined process. The replacement was finalized it is becoming increasingly difficult for us • Collection of industrial hygiene data. group managers. It will be deployed to approximately 2,000 employees in 2013. contamination, maintenance ST in 2008 and which still used the in February 2012. to find additional ways to continually To further enhance our approach, ST frequency and employee chemical for an essential quality process improve our performance and meet our management systems will be progressiToday, no ST site uses Potassium exposure. This implementation on copper analysis. Decalogue targets. vely aligned with the IECQ QC 080000 Management of chemicals Chromate. ST moved beyond Hazardous Substances Process Manain ST’s supply chain has significantly improved Aligning with ST standards, the site compliance with REACH in completely Materials of concern gement System Requirements (HSPM) carbon implantation productivity prepared a detailed substitution plan in phasing out this substance. standard1. ST’s banned, exempted and declarable (increase of 7% in manufacturing 2010, identifying the possible technical management process substances list includes more than 1. Registration Evaluation and Restriction of Chemicals 1,600 substances. ST assesses the capacity plus savings of US$ solutions for replacement. As the use (EC 1907/2006) ST has an integrated and proactive Substances reduction, 50,000 per year) and gas safety strategy to manage chemicals alignment of key material suppliers and Elimination of substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) 2012 throughout its manufacturing activities replacement and elimination subcontractors with this list by requesting at Crolles.” a legal statement and evidence to Action plans completed on time for the elimination and reduction of Substances of Very and supply-chain within the ISO 14001 ST has been reducing its chemical usage 100% support compliance. Management of High Concern (SVHC) and OHSAS 18001 certification since the late 90’s by developing schemes, ensuring compliance with corporate and local reduction plans chemicals is also integrated in the which included waste treatment and Supplier Performance Evaluation (SPE) applicable regulation on chemical use recycling across all ST sites. Since 2000, conducted twice a year. Under SPE, we and product chemical content. request improvement plans if a supplier’s Consumption of chemicals this focus on chemicals usage reduction (kg per production unit): normalized values We have been working on integrating has been maintained with an overall score is below the target or does not / EN1 / Dec. 2.3 / Baseline 100 in 2000 the precautionary principle into the early percentage decrease of more than 5% meet ST standards. Performance against objectives stages of the selection of new chemicals. per year. 80 Before being introduced, chemical proTo comply with REACH legislation, ST 70 1. For more information on HSPM, see article on Product ducts are assessed against our banned, has developed a substance substitution Stewardship – Compliance, page 33 66.3 • Reduce total consumption of chemicals by 5% per year 60 55.6 exempted and declarable substances strategy and detailed roadmap for Front63.0 56.1 59.9 (weight per production unit) 50 specification. ST requires chemical risk 54.3 end and Back-end sites. To date, we 56.9 55.7 assessments to be performed at all sites have replaced 6 regulated substances. 40 54.1 63.4 • Strive towards continuous reduction and elimination of Substances before introducing any new substance. 30 of Very High Concern in our processes Chemicals (liquid, gases and solids) are Deployment of ST substances 20 screened and evaluated based on hazard specification to key supppliers 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Ensure 100% of key suppliers and subcontractors fully commit and subcontrators (%) 10 identification, engineering aspects and to ST specifications and procedures (through ST Banned personal protective equipment in order Response rate from key partners 100 100 100 100 100 0 and Exempted Substances specification). 08 09 10 11 12 to reduce the risk to the environment Full commitment from key partners 92.5 93.0 91.0 98.5 99.0 20 20 20 20 20 and employees’ health and safety. ST to ST substances specification • Strengthen our management of materials of concern in our Target Consumption of chemicals manufacturing processes through Chemical Risk Assessments procedures require the site’s Chemical Committee to ensure: 2009/2010 figures changed from previous publications following data review. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the environment Waste Waste is profitable at ST Kirkop (Malta) Implementing a comprehensive waste contributing to nearly US$ 4m in 2012. plastics, biodegradable waste, etc. Management treatment process on the Island of Malta To achieve this, they implemented locally. It then sells other manufacturing is a challenge due to strict European a thorough waste segregation and and treatment waste (scrap metals, regulations, restricted market availabilities collection process storage in secure frames, sludge, etc) to specialized and a range of waste types. ST Kirkop depots and recording waste data using contractors in mainland Europe to ensure experts have overcome these challenges an online waste management database. waste receives the best reclamation and developed innovative solutions to All waste streams are video monitored treatment possible. ST Malta’s waste manage waste streams. Since 2003, and performance is automatically management system is regularly ST is committed to continuously reducing, re-using, recycling 100% of the site waste has been inputted in to the database, enabling monitored by the Maltese Environment and managing waste streams from manufacturing sites including recycled or reused. Waste management real-time management. Where possible, and Planning Authority. hazardous substances, metals, packing, plastics and other is even turned into a profitable activity, ST Malta recycles glass, paper, resin, Landfill waste / EN22 / Baseline 71 in 1994 non-biodegradable materials. 5 Recycled waste (%) / EN22 / Dec. 6.1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 5.0 5.0 5.0 Waste recycling & reuse 89 87 89 92 91 4 4.6 Waste management, including the regulations or ST’s internal standards, canteen waste in partnering with local treatment, transportation and elimination whichever is the more stringent. We subcontractors to increase organic waste 3 3.6 of hazardous waste from manufacturing, established an integrated process for composting and recycling of cardboard, 3.3 is a strategic environmental focus for the environmental management of waste bottles and cans. In 2012, ST Grenoble 2.8 2.8 waste (tons) / EN22 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2 every ST site. covering compliance, monitoring of the (France) installed a biotechnological 2.0 2.0 quantity of waste produced each year, solution to treat liquid canteen waste, Total hazardous waste 12,756 9,391 11,365 10,415 12,624 1 Waste performance data collection and reporting, and strict and reached an abatement ratio of nearly Total waste 46,314 33,439 40,775 38,593 37,511 controls over the whole process. 100%. A cocktail of organic bacteria is 0 Since 1995, we have set ambitious added to the waste on a daily basis to 2008/2011 figures changed from previous publications following data review. We also evaluate waste storage, 08 09 10 11 12 targets in ST Environmental Health and break down and treat the effluent, saving 20 20 20 20 20 recycling, treatment and disposal of Safety (EHS) Decalogue to increase ST the equivalent of 2,000 litres of water, Target % of total waste subcontracting and waste transport Our fourth decalogue the re-use and recycling of materials, 20 tonnes of CO2 and US$ 15k per year. launched in 2010 contains 48 companies. a tightened waste target 49 dispose of waste safely and to minimize waste to landfill. In 2012, 91% of waste ST’s waste strategy covers all waste 1. Product-related waste is detailed in the product generated was recycled and re-used, streams, from operations (metals; stewardship pages 32-35 while 4.6% was sent to landfill. Whilst plastics, chemicals, etc.), surrounding Quote Total environmental benefits generated by these figures indicate the continuous progress we have made in our waste activities (offices, canteen, etc.), and Ladder Concept Synthesis of European Union Strategy for Waste Management Apendix 3 the material recycling of the ST’s thirteen sites products1. In 1999, ST introduced management performance over the last a seven-step ladder to ensure the located in the America region2 in 20123: 15 years, it is becoming increasingly appropriate end-of-life treatment for END OF LIFE TREATMENT ECONOMIC IMPACT difficult for us to find additional ways to each waste stream, based on its Prevention avoid waste 1 ++ Saving at source 01/2012 12/2012 continually improve our performance and economic value and ecological impacts. Reuse 2 + Replacement reduction meet our Decalogue targets. In 2012, our Most hazardous waste is recycled or use again for original purpose performance has been impacted by the Recycle 3 + Material recovery Shane Belvin 378 Trees 1,335 Pounds (of air) re-used and the remaining waste recover for alternative use Trees Saved Air Pollution Prevented difficulty to find a viable recycling partner is safely disposed of by authorized Recycle Product management Director, organic conversion 3a + Possible compost or methane Iron Mountain, Boston (USA) to revalorize a concentrated sulfuric acid companies. As in previous years, none (aerobic or anaerobic) waste (due to production increases and of our sites exported hazardous waste Combustion with recovery of energy 4 + Energy recovery manufacturing changes) at our Crolles in 2012, in accordance with the Basel site (France). The EHS team appointed a Incineration no recovery of energy 5 -Consumes energy “US businesses use about Convention. 6 -21 million tons of paper partner, and the site managed to reach Landfill Land consumption and contamination 155,796 67 Cubic ST’s Decalogue target in December. ST goes beyond EHS Decalogue targets every year. Iron Mountain’s Gallons Yards Water Saved Landfill Reduction To secure the process, the site is looking through initiatives to revalorize office and LEVEL OF PREFERABILITY secure shredding program for a second partner. meets ST’s request to address its paper-based information 44,513 91,252 Waste strategy destruction challenge in an Pounds KW-hours ST’s EHS Decalogue requires that all Performance against objectives Recycled Paper Electricity Saved environmentally-friendly (office grade paper) sites meet stringent national or local manner. After we securely • Reduce the generation of waste by at least 5% per year shred information, the processed (kg per production unit) materials are transported • Reduce the generation of hazardous waste by at least 5% per year to paper and tissue mills for 22 Tons 10,238 Gallons (kg per production unit) pulping. This destruction process Paper Material Weight Oil Saved provides both security and • Re-use and recycle at least 95% of waste environmental benefits by 2. US (Coppell, Santa Clara, La Jolla, Longmont, Scottsdale, Burlington, Livonia, Kokomo, Redmond and Piscataway) and Canada (Mississauga, Ottawa and Thornhill) reducing pollution, preserving 3. Full certificate available on www.st.com • Reduce landfill waste to less than 2% landfill space and saving trees, water and oil resources.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the environment Transport Optimization of road haulage in Shenzhen (China) & Logistics ST Shenzhen (China) exports an average of 1,000 tons of finished goods per quarter, filling approximately 180 freight • Deployment of smaller trucks to increase the efficiency and utilization of movements between Shenzhen and containers. To meet ST’s business and ST’s regional distribution center for sustainability objectives, the local local delivery and Chinese customers Shenzhen team has optimized its in Hong Kong, decreasing road freight ST is committed to managing the social, safety and environmental practices to ensure that manufacturing CO2 emissions by 21 tons; impacts resulting from transportation and logistics for products, operations are supported by an efficient materials and employees, considering overall efficiency transportation and logistics network. • Removal of the return load capacity and reduction of CO2 emissions. There were three mains areas of focus: from Hong Kong to Shenzhen, reducing road transportation by 3,400 km. • Optimization of the inbound dice shipment traffic with road freight In 2012, ST Shenzhen achieved a frequency being lowered from a daily CO2 road freight footprint decrease service to a three times per week. of nearly 3% while maintaining a high 2012, to reduce flight dependency Many transport initiatives are conceived This single initiative eliminated the need level of service. Driven by a continuous Product transportation for 208 trucks and 8,320 kilometers improvement mindset, the team is from Singapore to our Shanghai hub, and developed at local level, for example and logistics a re-routing plan has been agreed with of road transportation; exploring further efficiency opportunities. ST Paris (France) shares in a transport At ST, transport represents 7.2% of total the logistics provider that reduced community with other companies to CO2 emissions and we have a range of transport emissions by 2.4%. create common transportation plans. initiatives and programs to minimize both Quote our direct and indirect CO2 emissions, Packing optimization as covered by Scope 3 of the Kyoto Performance against objectives ST’s lean packing program commenced Protocol. Product transportation includes 50 in 2010, aims to optimize package 51 the transportation of semi-finished and • Reduce the carbon footprint of ST product transportation by 15% design and transportation at all manufacfinished goods between ST sites and its by 2014 turing sites to decrease logistics costs, customers, and the transfer of equipment air-freight space and CO2 emissions. during manufacturing processes. We optimize and regularly update routes ST classifies four packing levels: Prem Sharma • Ensure that all sites have a formalized mobility plan to promote alternative and greener modes of transportation and evaluate to align with business strategy, economic • 1st level: Product (reel or tray); Transport Services Deputy Manager, the benefits fluctuations and customer demand. ST, Greater Noida (India) • 2nd level: Inner box (bulk), in which the Transportation network product is packed; “To commute from home to Carbon footprint of ST product transportation* 2010 2011 2012 ST’s strategy is to explore all opportuni• 3rd level: Outer box (carton), in which ties to make direct deliveries of finished the bulk is packed; work, more than 80% of ST Transport component of ST's total C02 emissions (%) 8.1 7.4 6.9 goods from manufacturing plant to the Greater Noida’s 1,350 employees CO2 emissions due to product transportation per year • 4 level: Container (skid or pallet), in th 110.00 99.42 82.87 customers, while optimizing internal rouuse company transport every (ktCO²) which the outer box is packed. tings to minimize transportation. To reach day which is heavily subsidized. *Values reviewed in 2010 after a revision of methodology to estimate the annual carbon sequestration our 2014 target, ST is implementing Global Logistics & Warehousing OrgaTo lower pollution emissions, several options: nization (GLWO) teams continued all ST’s coaches run with Carbon footprint of ST products optimizing the third level packing, with a 2012 • Review long haul flight (>2,000km) to compressed natural gas, per mode of transportation particular focus on Asian Back-end sites. short haul flight (<2,000km) or truck, covering 46 routes that offer Air <2000km 0.11 In 2012, two new outer cartons have as they account for almost 90% of ST been designed to fit the 13” tape and reel a balance of convenience, Air >2000km 0.89 transport emissions; bulks, which accounted for 86% of the timing, cost and environmental Road 0.16 • Adopt direct shipment where manutotal non-optimized weight at the third impact. As certain roads in the Ocean 0.00 facturing origin and delivery point are level packing. outskirts of Indian main cities in the same region e.g. direct shipment from Back-end plants to our Hong ST also started to align its packing matecan be uncomfortable, we Kong distribution hub (3,000km averial with the ECOPACK® levels, to ensure have also equipped coaches Packing density reduction 2010 2011 2012 rage reduction in flight distance); a minimized environmental impact of ST’s with air suspension to improve Packing volume reduction (compared with a baseline 100.0 96.7 93.9 overall product chain1. of 100 in 2010) • Review all short haul airfreight for employees’ comfort and wellopportunities to use alternative modes Employee commuting being of women on the familyof transport, either switching to road way. Our goal is for 100% of our Employee Mobility Plan 2012 or using the Europe multi-modal At local level, many of our sites deploy employees to commute in this employee mobility programs, offering ST sites with an employee mobility plan (%) 56 network model. Short haul airfreight way, but changing people’s has the highest level of transportation alternative solutions to the use of Employees covered by a mobility plan (%) 48.09 CO2 emissions. The flight traffic for ST individual cars. Incentives are provided habits takes time. We must be Private and public buses, trains, bikes and electrical bikes, patient and continue our efforts Modes of transportation proposed in Asia represents 10% of our total to encourage employees to use the 1. For more information, see Product Stewardship/ to employees car-pooling networks, shuttles, taxi service for employees working late transportation emissions and so, in greener networks. Compliance page 33. in this area.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 The Community 52 53 ST Community involvement 400 Involvement of 100,972 initiatives 42 sites in hours have been donated during worldwide 22 countries company time Total contribution US$ 8,5 million the community Management of engage with all of our suppliers to Total number of suppliers and Medium Average encourage them to adopt ESH manageLow Risk High Risk subcontractors’ SAQ’s by level of risk Risk Score ment systems and to report on safety, Back-end Materials Suppliers 79 18 0 88.90 water, energy, waste and climate change performance. Front-end Materials Suppliers 61 22 0 83.30 Sustainability in the Subcontractors Back-end 36 6 0 89.40 Our improvement path Equipments 8 5 0 87.90 In 2012, while we continued our improveSubcontractors Front-end 8 0 0 89.00 ment path, focused on expanding the Supply Chain 192 51 0 volume of business, the areas covered Total and the number of suppliers involved in 79% 21% 0% 88.90% our sustainability management program, lower priority was given to 3 activities: green purchases, water management Suppliers SAQ’s average scores and sustainability audits. by EICC Code of Conduct section ST suppliers and subcontractors are required to commit to ST and EICC policies and standards, comply with legislation and meet Supplier Self Assessment Questionnaires results in 2012 highlighted a need for Facilities SAQ’s scoring EHS & social KPI’s customer requirements. This includes managing health, safety 2012 2012 improvements to be made to our purby main sections* (%) deployed for suppliers* and the environment, along with social and ethical aspects. chasing program, which we plan to Health & Safety section 90.2 Number of FE Materials suppliers These partnerships contribute to raising the overall levels of corporate achieve by reworking our guidelines engaged in reporting 18 responsibility across the electronic industry’s supply chains. and extending our requirements. Environment section 86.8 Number of BE Materials suppliers Labor & Ethics section 87.9 45 Our strategy for supplier audits is to engaged in reporting involve low performing suppliers, (*) Electrical energy consumption, Waste, Water Number of Key BE Subcontractors use, GreenHouse Gases emissions, Safety 24 International pressure has been rolled out to all our key suppliers. are studied, then a follow up plan is put prioritized using the following internal Recordable Rate & Severity Rate, employee plants engaged in reporting It aims to identify and resolve supplier in place to look for solutions, leveraging criteria: purchase volume; plant location; attrition, employee satisfaction Engagement on suppliers on various tools including a Pareto; type of activity; SAQ results. Concentrabased on priorities and business case issues through close monitoring and The United Nations Guiding Principles on regular supplier interactions. It consists of Progress against the follow-up plan is ting on our Back-end subcontractors, we Human Rights and ISO 26000 are driving a global evaluation which incorporates monitored and any weakness found with have been able to verify the performance companies to extend their corporate one supplier will trigger a review of all of our subcontractors for 53% of our EICC-ON results and a follow-up plan: 54 responsibility programs to cover their other similar suppliers. purchasing volume through third party 55 We provide extensive feedback and work whole supply chain. In 2012, the audits. Audits are a load we cannot easily with our suppliers to define and implement We also extended the EICC-ON Selfabsorb, so we engage our suppliers on international context, as well as laws such effective improvement plans; All the Assessment Questionnaire to include the path of certifications such as the as the Dodd-Frank Act, also caused the intensification of requirements by sections at risk and the critical questions some key equipment suppliers and we ISO14001, the OSHAS 18001, etc. customers onto ST as a supplier. Similarly, this triggered ST to increase Sharing our data controls on its own suppliers and to drive on a new platform and support them on their improvement Performance against objectives path for greater compliance, rigor and The evolution of the Labour Rights model with the release transparency, thus spreading our comQuote of the EICC Code of Conduct Version 4 was an important mitment to environmental, health, safety, • Ensure 80% of suppliers (by purchasing volume) development deployed throughout our supply chain in social and ethical standards. are involved in the EICC compliance program (annually) Q3 2012. Deploying the revision required extra bandwidth Our approach to Conflict-Free Minerals and efforts, but we consider that integrating updated and Chemical Management within the • Ensure none of these suppliers are classified “high risk” requirements and practices to all our supply chain is supply chain is described in dedicated based on Self-Assessment Questionnaires (SAQs) absolutely necessary, and it has been a satisfaction for us sections of this Report. to successfully manage this evolution. • Continuously reduce the number of non-conformances Otto Kosgalwies arising from SAQs and audits We managed the migration of our supplier database to the Supply chain sustainability Executive Vice President Company Infrastructure and Services new EICC-ON platform, with subsequent good participation management program • Ensure 100% of ST major sites deploy the EICC approach rate from our suppliers on the new tool. We sent the new ST Geneva (Switzerland) While we have continued to deploy to local suppliers code and engagement letters to our suppliers in August, sustainability management programs triggered the return of more than 240 SAQs representing to our supply chain partners, we have • Progressively deploy our Sustainable Procurement program “Sustainability has become a an important percentage of the business by market, and globally reinforced our process. to all our sites new challenge to supply chain more than 150 facilities. This corresponds to more than We have implemented new policies and competitiveness. Relationship 90% of our Front-end / Back-end materials and of 90% of specifications and increased their scope, • In 2012, deploy the Green Procurement guidelines in Italy with Customers and Suppliers as our BE subcontractors, well above our target, with the extra for example by requesting suppliers to • In 2012, deploy the “Charter for Sustainable Purchasing” well as focus on new business achievement of involving more than 90% of our foundries. provide KPIs and more visibility on their own sustainability programs. to French suppliers opportunities are the foundation Feedback was sent to suppliers through specific reports for Migrating to the EICC-ON platform has of sustainability activities. In this each plant and remediation plans were requested for any • Promote fair access to business opportunities for Small and respect, the recent creation of a identified issues. Focus was placed on higher risks, suppliers also enabled us to track our suppliers’ Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) by encouraging purchasing being supported to provide efficient mitigation plans. environmental, health safety and social structured Business Continuity departments at French sites to include SMEs in tenders performance more easily. Plan at Company level will At the end of 2012, 79% of SAQs were rated low risk, 21% Supplier Performance Evaluation the • By the end of 2012, define and deploy internal tools reinforce sustainability and medium risk. The average scoring across the three main backbone of our management process to track ST part of business with these actors strengthen our supply chain.” SAQ areas (Labor & Ethics, Environment and Health & Safety) was 88.90%, exceeding the low risk target of 85%. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the community Business Ethics Non-compliance / Ethical breaches reporting / SO4 / HR4 Number of incidents under review as of 2011 year end 5 & Compliance Incidents closed in 2012 by a formal investigation report 4 Incidents closed in 2012 after preliminary assessment 1 Number of incidents reported or identified in 2012 5 Incidents closed in 2012 by a formal investigation report 3 At ST, we are committed to conducting our business with the highest Incidents closed in 2012 after preliminary assessment 1 standards of ethics and integrity, as outlined in our company Code incidents still open as of 2012 year end 1 of Conduct. In case a situation would involve a are available in ST’s Business Conduct ted by the relevant functions depending member of the Corporate Staff, it would and Ethics Policy. on the nature of the allegation. be communicated to the Chair of the • An internal hotline which ST employees All ethical breaches reported through Business Ethics and Compliance At STMicroelectronics, we are dedicated Corporate Ethics Committee CEC who ensures that they are properly are encouraged to use if they require the Misconduct Reporting Framework, to conducting business with integrity, handled and monitored by the CEO and/ Standards treating our employees with respect, and and Misconduct Reporting or the Audit Committee of the Supervimore support to have their issue proor identified through the internal control Framework perly addressed, or if they have a sugand monitoring frameworks (including but Our company Code of Conduct sets out pursuing excellence to create sustainable sory Board. gestion about our Principles. All emails the Company’s principles in the area of economic value for all our stakeholders. not limited to reviews by our Corporate ST’s Corporate Ethics Committee Due to its composition and authority, sent to the hotline are received directly business conduct and ethics around We believe that how we carry out our (CEC) Internal Audit Organization), are duly the CEC fulfills a crucial role in providing by both the Chairman of the Corporate Integrity, People and Excellence. business is as important as what we do. assessed. The CEC was formed in 2007 and coman independent evaluation of sensitive Ethics Committee and by the CorpoThese principles are the top-level Therefore, raising the awareness of all our situations and in advising ST’s top manarate Vice President Human Resources. prises ST Executives, nominated by the The relevance, criticality and potential reference for guiding our behavior and employees through training on subjects gement accordingly. They are treated in confidence. CEO. impact of each alleged or suspected 56 decision-making and apply to all people linked to our company’s Code 57 ST Country and Regional Ethics ComST’s response framework to misconduct breach are thoroughly examined to working in ST without exception. of Conduct is critical to us. In 2012, we re-defined our CEC’s mission mittees have been formed during recent allegations was significantly revised in determine the appropriate level of Business ethics, the respect of human statement, authority and scope which years. Their roles are overseen by the 2012 and will continue to be improved remedial actions. rights, environmental responsibility and Business Ethics and Compliance were included in a revised version of the over the coming years. Misconduct a sense of responsibility to all our CEC. Training Committee’s Charter, formally approved stakeholders are a matter of personal by the CEO. Under this revised allegations are now centralized by the Fraud prevention ST’s Misconduct Reporting Chief Audit & Risk Executive. Information integrity for each of us, and compliance In 2012, we focused on developing and Charter, the CEC provides guidance and Fraud and corruption prevention are also Framework is provided at least quarterly to the Audit is mandatory. delivering three main training programs recommendations to ST management priorities for ST, assessed through a risk ST’s Misconduct Reporting Framework Committee of the Supervisory Board, focusing on: and employees to help them comply assessment conducted in 2012 by CorSome extracts from ST’s Code of the Corporate Ethics Committee and with ethics-related policies, procedures is defined in our Code of Conduct and Conduct: • Foreign Corrupt Practices Act: in this the Certifying Officers, which enables its porate Compliance, in conjunction with and principles applicable throughout the disseminated throughout the Company. course, participants were faced with recipients to follow up on the progress Corporate Internal Audit. Integrity: we will conduct our business Company. situations involving possible instances “Every employee plays his or her part in and conclusion of investigations conducwith the highest ethical standards, honor of bribery or corruption; they learned to The CEC’s roles and responsibilities how well we adhere to our Principles. our commitments, deliver on our promises, identify, recognize and deal with them. include: If you think that our Principles are be loyal and fair and stand up for what This training was created for senior ST being violated, or if you have a problem is right. • Review and update of ST’s policy applying them, please discuss with your managers. People: we will behave with openness, on Business Conduct and Ethics Manager, your site Human Resources trust and simplicity; we will be ready to • Conflicts of Interest: in this course, • Assessment of the implementation Manager, or your Site Manager.” Performance against objectives share our knowledge, encourage eveparticipants learned how to identify and of ethics and compliance programs manage potential situation of conflicts In this context, we engender a manageryone’s contribution, develop our people ment culture that enables employees to •Train 7,000 ST employees to increase awareness on key bribery of interest. This training was developed • Follow-up on ethical breaches and through empowerment, teamwork and discuss concerns relating to adherence and corruption topics (e.g. FCPA, Insider Trading, Code of Conduct, for senior ST managers. allegations training; each one of us will be committo our Principles in an open manner Conflicts of Interest) and reinforce internal controls. ted and personally involved in continuous • Company Code of Conduct: dedicated • Issuing guidance on ethical dilemmas without fear of recrimination. improvement. training on the compliance to Compa• Communicate updated whistle-blowing channels In its capacity described above, the CEC In addition, ST employees have two Excellence: we will strive for quality and ny’s Code of Conduct and its applihas responsibility for all ST business units to 1,000 employees in EMEA region in 2012 and employees whistle-blowing reporting channels at customer satisfaction, creating value cation was created and deployed to from remaining regions in 2013 along with majority-owned subsidiaries, their disposal: for all our partners; we will be flexible, emphasize that in our daily activities branches and affiliates. encourage innovation, develop our it is vital to safeguard the Company • The Company Ombudsman’s hotline, against legal and ethical risks. The CEC has the authority to address managed by a third party (KPMG) competences, seek responsibility and be 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 questions, inquiries and documentation allows all ST employees worldwide to e-signature of Business conduct accountable for our actions; we will act This training targeted various profiles and ethics policy* (%) and levels of ST employees. requests to any ST employee or execusubmit their allegations and complaints 92.00 94.50 93.90 90.30 93.40 with discipline, base our decisions on tive under its jurisdiction. Confidentiality regarding accounting, internal control facts and focus on priorities. (*) eligible population = approximately 20% of total ST population The above training modules were delivered concerns cannot be used to deny the and auditing matters. The contact All managers also sign our Business Conthrough e-learning. In total, more than 7,200 CEC access to information, except in details necessary to communicate duct and Ethics Policy annually to confirm people achieved a score of 70% or greater, situations involving a CEC member or with the Ombudsman (toll free phone on going awareness and compliance. exceeding our management target of 7,000. a member of the executive management. numbers, emails and postal addresses) More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the community Local Sustainability ST’s involvement Working with our sites, we have Social welfare and charity Impacts identified the main community donations are organized at our involvement themes and topics, sites and include: charitable event representing the five main areas where sponsorship, match funding of we seek to make a difference. employee donations, support for natural disasters etc. Young generation and education is the main area of involvement Environmental involvement In today’s world, engagement between companies and their local we identified across all ST sites. includes: events to raise energy communities is multifaceted, taking into account many diverse views Support in this area may take many awareness, recycling and other and interests. Effective engagement has the potential to benefit forms: internships/apprenticeships, environmental aspects, fund raising student visits to ST sites, student for reforestation or tree-planting many stakeholders, including local communities, government and sponsorship, supplementary teaching days, participation in environmental other areas of civil society. Within ST, community involvement forms programs, computer summer schools, conferences, sharing of good practices a central pillar of our culture with many site-based initiatives and partnerships etc. across communities etc. activities providing social and environmental support. Innovation and high technology are Economic development includes: key areas of involvement and include management networks and aspects such as design contests, committees, coaching of Small robotics’ cups, awards, training and Medium Enterprises, support Some key figures from this evaluation are development, R&D clusters etc. to start-ups etc. shown below: • Total contribution US$ 8.5 million • 400 initiatives worldwide • Involvement of 42 sites in 22 countries Quote 58 • Community investment represents 59 0,1% of 2012 turnover • 4,515 ST employees volunteered Why does ST contribute? At which level does ST contribute? Community Involvement their time In 2012, our company level focus was to • 100,972 hours have been donated International identify the initiatives being undertaken during company time Jon Lloyd Commercial Charitable gift National 1% across the Company and the ST sites • Average contribution per employee Head of LBG initiative 8% 5% 19% Performance that are involved; and also to evaluate is equal to US$ 191 our inputs to such initiatives. against objectives In order to do so, we have decided We will continue the consolidation of “LBG is used worldwide, by to become a member of the London community initiatives each year. In 2013 companies that are serious we will start to evaluate the outputs and • Support ST Benchmarking Group and adopt its about their corporate community Foundation’s initiatives methodology. impacts generated by these projects. investment, helping them We organized two classroom training assess the real value and • Formalize a company sessions for our Sustainable Excellence ST Foundation impact of corporate community Community investment Local community engagement 80% community, one in Paris for our coorSince 2003, the ST Foundation has 87 % strategy and evaluate investment to both business and its impacts dinators in Europe and the US, and one helped to reduce the digital divide (the in Singapore for our Asian contributors. society. STMicroelectronics is to gap between those who have access We also organized an additional training to modern digital technologies, and those be commended on joining LBG session by conference call to employees. who do not) in both developed and to better understand its overall What does ST support? How does ST contribute? This was a key step as the methodology developing countries through a worldcontribution, establish where was new to us and we needed to ensure wide computer literacy program, Digital Economic it is making a difference and a good understanding and appropriation Unify. As of the year to date, more than development Management of the concept. assess its impact. Since joining in Innovation and 3% costs 176,443 persons have benefited from Other 8% October 2012, STMicroelectronics high technology 1% All ST sites contributed to list their the program with the support of 3,112 8% In-kind trainers. In 2012, ST did not contribute has taken significant steps to Social welfare Cash community initiatives, we conducted 4% 31% the same exercise at corporate level financially to the Foundation but contribuapply the inputs side of the LBG and charity 6% and then validated a final list of eligible ted in other ways, by donating compumodel and so measure and Environment initiatives according to the LBG methodters and associated hardware that were report its contribution; the next 3% ology before undertaking evaluation. used to equip laboratories set up under challenge is to begin to assess This considered cash contributions, the the Digital Unify program. A network of what this contribution achieves volunteering time spent by employees, ST volunteers at our sites also provided in-kind donations and the management training in prison and with the collaboration for both the community and the Young generation costs associated with the various comof local associations for people in need. business.” and education Time 79% 57% munity projects. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the community Partnerships in Focus on local initiatives Partnerships with the academic community / S01 / EC1 Italy localization, RFID, wireless transmissions 700 659 R&D & Education and Ultra low Power devices. In 2011 ST 600 Our program, “One day in ST, one day invited selected Universities in France, 500 437 478 at school”, launched in 2010 to increase 470 Switzerland and Italy to enter. ST then students’ interest in science, reached 400 374 provided support to the teams to help maturity in 2012. It aims to educate 300 them develop their ideas. In 2012 two students on the vast array of scientific We are continually looking for opportunities to strengthen our existing relationships and develop new 200 jobs available. finalists were selected and ST worked partnerships in R&D and education. While we collaborate with our customers and competitors to There are two elements to the program: with them to prepare their projects for 100 advance application and product development, for advanced research, the cluster organization (refer 08 09 10 11 12 “One day in ST” takes groups of students submission to a sponsor. The top 10 20 2020 20 20 aged 17 to 19 to one of ST’s sites and ideas were financially rewarded, with to our 2011 report for details) with poles in France, Italy and Asia continues to work closely with R&D and fully immerses them, taking them on further contributions awarded to the educational organizations, reinforcing links, expanding scope and number of ST partnerships. In doing so, Partnerships with universities, colleges, schools: teaching programs, tours of the labs and manufacturing finalists. The winners received full support we also increase young people’s employability by providing them with access to PhDs, apprenticeships internship programs and recruitment* areas, as well as giving them technical from ST until prototype realization, as and internship experience. presentations. “One day at school” well as international ST internships on (*) In 2010, our data for partnerships with the academic community was split between partnerships for R&D purposes involves ST employees visiting schools to our French or Italian partner sites, or (research labs, long term research contracts, any R&D talk about the company and its activities grants for the sport students. In 2012, The success of our R&D clusters and academic organizations. The various programs...) and those dedicated to teaching or internship programs conducted enable ST to Quote programs and recruitment. in a very interactive way, usually to very 4 students who participated in the France receive funding or grants from European enthusiastic groups of 60-70 students Innovation Cup, including the 2 winners, In 2012 our efforts to engage with young institutions, governments or local aged 11 to 19. Twenty dedicated ST were hired by ST. The program has been people and offer educational or career authorities and to anchor the positive Students were given the opportunity to employees give their time to the project. re-launched in 2013 to 9 universities. opportunities, benefited 459 interns, impact we have at national, regional and design innovative applications using ST’s In 2012, 8 schools visited the Agrate (www.st-innovationcup.com) 303 apprentices, 74 theses (PhD) and local levels. Our key 2012 figures include: latest iNEMO evaluation board and work site and ST employees addressed over 25-30 VIE (Volontariat International en with the same advanced technology that China • ~ 98 cooperative R&D funded projects, 500 middle school students. Several ST Entreprises) recruits. We also partnered is powering the latest smart devices. carried-out at national and international Professor Antonio Strollo sites have put in place similar initiatives. ST signed a new partnership with ECPK, with 105 laboratories. level, where ST coordinated 31 R&D We also further strengthened our network They provide students with an insight 60 Dept. of Electrical Engineering ‘Ecole Centrale de Pékin’. Students are 61 For example, we are involved in a funded projects and partnered on 67. of university partnerships, creating our into the realities of work and enlarge their and Information Technology, offered opportunities to participate in a long standing partnership with CMP, a latest Joint Laboratory for Innovation in inspiration for future careers. • 40 research contracts with external University of Napoli. Universities large range of activities, from research service organization working in ICs and Electronics with the Harbin Institute of laboratories (Universities and Research Coordinator in NeaPolis Innovation in labs to industrial applications and MEMS, which are used for prototyping Technology, one of China’s most renowned Europe Centres) marketing. Two teams of students in and low volume production. Through universities. This Joint Laboratory’s initial • 53 partnerships with universities focus will be on smart-sensor applications. The ‘Innovation Cup’ is a contest created their 5th year have already chosen CMP, we provide Universities, Research “NeaPolis Innovation has The collaboration is expected to expand by ST to leverage students’ ideas and projects proposed by ST and will be able Laboratories or industrial companies • 173 student internships at ST sites proved to be a very effective with access to silicon fabrication, to power management, medical and creativity. The 2012 edition proposed to to explore various whether scientific, • ~ 20 future PhD students working part and functional collaboration multimedia areas. create an innovative electronic product at preferential prices, in quantities technological, economical or human as if time for their theses at ST sites mechanism. It has contributed (excluding mobile phone applications) compatible with research and teaching In India, ST also shared its expertise in real situation, and will learn to manage needs. Occasionally we also offer free to multiply the opportunities for and reinforced its partnerships with the using ST technology that could be used In the Naples area, the “NeaPolis their complexity. ST is offering financial fabrication. Innovation” initiative brings ST together interaction and collaboration academic community. To help drive in one of the 31 indoor or outdoor sports support to the school over a three with 5 universities and the regional between universities and ST. engineering curriculum development at selected. In 2012, 266 circuits were made for year period. This partnership could be 83 stakeholders from 23 countries. industry association, to build new Several “seed contracts” have universities and bring them up to speed ST technologies available to use included extended to the whole group of Ecoles models of collaboration which balance with industry standards and practices, ST introduced the 28 nm FD SOI, and been signed and some of a wide range of sensors, cameras, geoCentrales. now offers packages in 6 different theoretical knowledge with experience ST conducted free training programs them have resulted in the on the STM32 microcontroller family for technologies. 42 new Institutions to create more efficiency and value. This cooperation offers reciprocal advantages launch of a more challenging faculty members from partner universities received ST design kits. to students and companies. Resources research project, called or engineering institutes. In parallel, In 2012, CMP organised the European available to participants include labs, “Laboratorio di Microelettronica interns are managed through the RISE Workshop on Microelectronics Education a campus and seminars as well as della Campania”. Students (Real-Time Interning with ST Expert) Performance against objectives and celebrated its 30 year anniversary. research contracts, internships, theses program, which includes engagement ST delivered several presentations. and training delivered by university appreciated the opportunity to surveys during the internship and on its Our involvement with CMP is also visible professors and tutors. Investment in, and carry out theses and internships conclusion. In 2012, ST hired 19 of the • For the short/mid term: Ensure ongoing growth of ST’s technical in Announcements and Press articles partnerships with, local universities and on topics of great interest, 219 interns. and specialist populations recognized through the technical ladder throughout the year (http://cmp.imag.fr). other institutions help value creation at enabling them to experience (individual paths) In association with the IEEE Solid State local level, on the territory of our sites, Circuits Society, Delhi Chapter, ST also Italy what it is like to be part of a • For the midto long-term: raise young populations’ employability by which is a clear sustainability model. held workshops at our Greater Noida team in a global company. providing access to PhD, apprenticeships and internship experience The Italian cluster is active around three campus. Eminent professors and Asia Possible improvements include poles Milano, Naples and Catania. industry veterans presented lectures on Contribution to R&D programs helps ST China, Taiwan and Singapore: ST strengthening of cooperation topics of contemporary interest, providing create value for its customers and remain continued to demonstrate its leadership with SMEs, which represent an a unique platform for the semiconductor among the industry’s most innovative in sensor technology, sharing its newest important part of the productive fraternity in the national capital region of companies. It also improves ST’s ability fusion sensor with more than 700 India to participate in extensive technical ecosystem of Campania.” to attract the younger generation through students and young engineers from over discourse. its successful involvement with local R&D 60 universities across these countries. More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 the community Public Affairs & Focus on two concrete contributions… Energy@home ST’s Environment, Health and Safety • Nanoparticles: Industry Networking contribution to the SITELESC in • Benchmarking all nanoparticle Energy@home is a not for profit France importers who have completed the organization founded in July 2012 by Electrolux, Enel, Indesit Company Our EHS departments in Rousset, Tours new public declaration of substances and Telecom Italia, following a three and Crolles in France are involved in in a nanoparticle state. year collaboration. ST Italy joined the the Health & Safety and Environmental • Evaluating quantities of nanoparticles association in 2012 which now has more commissions of SITELESC, the micro and data available in order to quantify than 15 members. and nano electronics French professional emissions from material consumed ST proactively engages at a global, national and local level with This association’s mission is to develop union representing research laboratories, and to highlight treatment systems a range of stakeholders such as trade associations, industry groups and promote technologies and services component software design centers currently in place. and standard-setting bodies. This engagement contributes to ST’s delivering energy efficiency in smart equipment fitters and suppliers as well as • PFC emissions: We provided evidence enhanced competitiveness. homes, based on the interaction semiconductor manufacturers. to protect the semiconductor industry between user devices and energy The commissions facilitate sharing of from perfluorocarbon production and infrastructure. knowledge and best practice and provide importation shortage quotas in Europe, One of Energy@home’s key a platform through which companies which was based on the findings from achievements was the release of a can give legislative feedback and lobby a voluntary project we had undertaken set of technical specifications and an French and European public authorities. to reduce PFC emissions far below interoperable fully-integrated system the objective of ESIA (European Some of the commissions’ 2012 Semiconductor Industry Association) comprising smart broadband gateway, smart meter, smart plugs, smart achievements, to which ST actively Memorandum of Agreement in 2000. One of ST’s key objectives is to promote Our main objectives are to: ion in Beijing, its new VereMTB platform domestic appliances and a user interface participated, include: the electronic industry’s potential in all was used in clinical trials to accurately • REACH and Chemical Labelling • develop the competitiveness of R&D application. • Penibility: setting up an exposure countries where ST operates. Whilst and quickly identify multi-drug resistant and Packaging (CLP) regulation and advanced activities traceability datasheet to comply with implementation: The two commissions our overall company strategy remains strains of tuberculosis for correct In 2012, Energy@home started a field 62 the same across all of our locations our • strengthen ST’s position as a key treatment. In Asia, China and India have trial, involving the installation of its law 2010-1330 (9th November 2010) worked closely on evaluating 63 approach is tailored to take into account player in R&D at European and high incidences of tuberculosis and integrated system in 50 homes ST on French pension reform which the impact of REACH on the country specifics such as local culture worldwide level multidrug resistant TB (tubercle bacillus) provided the HAN (Home Arena Network) requires to define appropriate methods semiconductor industry’s activities and existing infrastructure. is a growing threat. wireless interface for the smart meter. to measure exposure level and and on authorization and restriction • obtain direct contributions to R&D R&D has become increasingly critical programs to help ST create value for ST sites also contribute to and lead some The trial is still ongoing. organize databases. procedures. for companies to ensure they remain its customers and remain among the local initiatives which help develop local ST is also involved in the steering • Running a conference on Psychosocial • A specific group was created to competitive in the semiconductor sector. industry’s most innovative companies partnerships within the semiconduccommittee, as well as in the technical Risks organized in conjunction with the analyze the impact of the inclusion of Our R&D efforts require substantial tor or electronics industries, maximize • reinforce ST’s ability to attract and employee potential and create more working groups (Standardization, Internet Social Affairs commission. AsGa III-V (Arsenide of gallium) material resources and are also dependent on involve the younger generation in local accessible resources and services. Protocol) where we use our expertise in the SVHC (Substances of Very High alliances in order to develop new R&D and academic activities and wide ranging product portfolio Concern) list and report findings to the processes, technologies and products. As we supply a broad range of products, According to Cosimo Musca, Italy R&D One such example involves Melba Cuyahon, General Manager of ST’s including RF-RadioFrequency /PLCQuote French Labor Ministry and Ecology we are required to make significant and Public Programs Director, R&D and Power Line Communication connectivity, and Sustainable Development Ministry. Calamba site in the Philippines a board investments in R&D across our product Public Affairs, we undertake significant microcontrollers and power management member of the SEIPI (Semiconductor portfolio. Many of the products that we R&D activity in Italy at both National and Electronics Industries of the Philiptechnology to help develop the Energy@ market have short life cycles, with some and European level. In 2012, in Italy, pines, Inc). One of its projects pursued home roadmap and future programs. being one year or less. We believe that ST coordinated 31 R&D funded projects in partnership with DOST (Department See more on: http://www.energy-home. we can only maintain proprietary R&D and partnered on another 67. of Science and Technology) is ADMATEL it/SitePages/Home.aspx for derivative technology investments In Asia, Francois Guibert, Executive VP, (Advanced Device and Materials Testing Andreas Wild and share R&D business models if Laboratory). The project benefits the local ENIAC joint undertaking President, Greater China & South Asia we are supported with adequate state community as well as ST by: Executive Director Region, believes that the best way ST as the ENIAC Joint Undertaking. funding. can contribute to the communities where • reinforcing and upgrading local industry In Europe, the microelectronics industry it operates and strengthen stakeholder failure analysis (FA) and materials Performance STMicroelectronics, a European must constantly adapt and innovate to relationships, is to provide leadership testing facilities; against objectives “The European nanoelectronics and global leader, brings an remain competitive. across all our areas of expertise. For this industry faces fierce global extraordinary contribution to our • providing shorter turn-around times It rests with companies to find innovative reason, ST has forged partnerships and • Strengthen our network competition and must step up its program, participating in 26 of ways to enhance their competitiveness provided expert knowledge to healthespecially for companies who cannot afford to construct their own FA and of public and industrial efforts to raise to the challenge. the 50 projects, providing almost and ensure their long-term sustainability. care, power, sensor, multimedia and characterization laboratories; affairs activities worldwide, The European response is centered 20% of the total eligible costs, embedded technologies initiatives. create and observe good We focus our R&D efforts in France and on breakthrough innovations, engaging the whole ecosystem • providing less expensive analysis sustainability practices as Italy where we can maximize existing and Through its Singapore-based subsidiary, like Fully Depleted SOI or of SMEs, research organizations (as this can be done locally instead well as efficiently manage new funding opportunities at European, Veredus Laboratories, ST has leveraged of overseas); sustainability-related risks advanced MEMS technologies and academic labs. This is a national, and local level. its Lab-on-Chip technology as a stratWe develop research and investment egic weapon in the global fight against • attracting more potential investors and opportunities. from STMicroelectronics, strong basis to secure the future country strategies in collaboration with tuberculosis. Working with the Chinese seeking a competitive business supported, among others, by European competitiveness, divisional and site management. Center for Disease Control and Preventenvironment. public-private partnerships such growth and jobs.” More performance indicators are available on pages 67 to 70 company Rousset (France) Edinburgh (UK) Awards The site received the Disability Policy award from IMS-Entreprendre pour la Cité, a French organization promoting Corporate Social Responsibility, and more NMI, a trade association of the UK Electronic Systems, Microelectronics and Semiconductor Communities, granted the NMI Young Engineer of the Year Award to December Calamba (The Philippines) specifically diversity in companies. Kevin Moore, a Senior Analogue During the 8th GKK Gawad Kaligtasan A signatory of the French Diversity Charter Designer at our at Kalusugan awards we received: since 2006, the site was recognized for Edinburgh site. Each year our sites receive external recognition for their sustainability • The 2012 DOLE Secretary’s Award of its practices in recruitment and integration practices. Here is an overview for 2012. of disabled people and for the innovative Distinction for ST sites Calamba/Manila, training program FAM (Formation for demonstrating global commitment to d’Adaptation aux Métiers). sustainability, through the deployment of The program, launched in 2008, is Occupational Safety and Health Programs, dedicated to equipping people with comprising risks assessments, training, disabilities with essential competences audits and overall quality management. Our People required for the electronics industry. November • The 2012 DOLE Award of Honor, Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) was awarded to Ms. Elizabeth Beronio, Muar (Malaysia) ST Calamba Environment, Safety April Ang Mo Kio BHQ received a Gold Health and Security Manager, by Hon. Rosalinda Italy Award at the Singapore Health Awards Dimapilis-Baldoz, Secretary of Labor and 2012. This biennial national award Employment of the Philippines. Her long the support of the EHS Committee, site ST Italy sites were awarded the National October is presented by the Health Promotion Board (HPB), to recognize organizations standing experience and expertise in implementing site environmental, safety management and employees, has resulted in numerous certifications and awards for Prize on Health and Safety in the workplace Malta with commendable Workplace Health and health management systems, with the site. from INAIL & CONFINDUSTRIA, an organization under the patronage of Promotion programs. the President of the Italian Republic, ST Malta received first prize in the Health in recognition of good methodologies and Safety Best Practices Award Muar (Malaysia) implemented. organized by the National Occupational Health and Safety Authority and the ST Muar received the Implementation European Agency for Safety and Health of Fire Prevention Program certification ST Muar’s Civil Defense Emergency Response Team was trained at Work. The award was presented by awarded by the Fire Prevention Centre and accredited by Civil Defense Department Malaysia and was praised the Minister for Health, the Elderly and Malaysia (NGO) in recognition of its for their commitment and skill in handling emergency situations. The team Community Care, Hon Dr J. Cassar and commitment to promoting fire safety of 35 undertook a number of training sessions with Civil Defense 64 dedicated to fire-fighting and rescue skills. 65 by Ms. Bogiarka Bola, Network Manager awareness amongst over 900 ST for the European Agency. employees and contractors. In December, during the Don Emilio Abello Our Products The Environment Energy Efficiency Awards: The Community December • The 2012 Outstanding award was May Crolles (France) conferred to ST Calamba by the Agrate (Italy) July March National Steering Committee for our contribution to the energy efficiency Automotive Product Group, Considered as the most prestigious Shenzhen (China) and conservation goals of the country, EHS Award was granted by Confindustria Germany R&D award in electronics in France, the Monza and Brianza to ST Agrate for its and substantial effort to mitigate climate Général Ferrié award honors an engineer commitment and performance in the EHS ST Shenzhen received the 2010-2011 change. or team whose work brought significant field, particularly in relation to the good policies We received the Supplier Quality contribution to the progress of electronics Energy Conservation Award granted by we developed and implemented that have had Excellence Award from General Motors, and its applications. In 2012 this award Shenzhen Futian District Government. a positive impact on the local industrial area. for ST APG’s Asics products (used in was granted to a team of ST (Stéphane safety applications such as airbags) which Monfray and Frédéric Bœuf) and CEAwere delivered free from defects to GM Leti researchers, for its work on Fully Worldwide in a one year period between July 2011 and July 2012. The award is Depleted Silicon-On-Insulator technology, a major technological breakthrough in June & December February November granted only to suppliers who reach this the pursuit of miniaturization of electronic Calamba (The Philippines) Singapore Singapore one year milestone. circuits. In June, Makiling Center for Mountain ST Asia Pacific Pte Ltd and ST Pte Ecosystems Recognition for Mt Makiling Ltd were certified TradeFIRST (Trade October Geneva (HQ) Tree Planting & Nurturing Project, was Facilitation & Integrated Risk-based United Kingdom awarded to the site by the MCME Director SysTem) “Premium” band by Singapore Dr. Nathaniel C. Bantayan & UP Chancellor Customs, the highest level of certification We received a 2012 • The Outstanding Energy Manager award Dr. Rex Victor Cruz, University of the in an integrated assessment framework, ST was awarded the 2012 NMI Low Top 100 Global was granted to Ronnie G. Mandigma, Philippines-Los Banos. supporting the Customs’ trade facilitation Power “Green” team award by NMI. Innovator award from whose involvement and engagement Reuters, honoring and compliance efforts. The certifications The award recognizes continued were instrumental in helping to achieve corporations and affirm ST’s firm commitment to trade commitment to sustainability and energy savings at our Calamba site. National SSWG Safety and Security institutions around the compliance and export control. “green” design. Teams from Bristol (UK), Watch Group Award was given out by the Grenoble (France) and Greater Noida world that are at the heart of innovation. • At the same event, we were given Singapore Police Force and Singapore Civil (India) were honored. Selection is based on overall patent the Hall of Fame award, granted to Defence Force in recognition of the business volume, patent grant success rate, global companies which have received three community’s efforts to the site to adopt robust reach of the portfolio and patent influence Outstanding awards. measures and be prepared for the threat as demonstrated by citations. of crime and terrorism. company Additional indicators & GRI statement New 2013 Objectives Company Enterprise Risk Management Governance Supervisory Board On a yearly basis, we review with the owners of each Sustainability priority the objectives to be reached within the year or a few years. Some 2012 objectives have been achieved, some will be discontinued Audit Committee because they are not meaningful to ST anymore and some have been revised. Please find below the new objectives set for 2013 and beyond. Quarterly or annual ERM process assurance Annual ERM review Corporate ERM function support reviews (requests for information/corrective actions) Learning: Ensure that more than 60% of employees follow at least 8-hrs Quarterly updates (priority risks / Independent Audits reviews Recruitment, Requests to investigate specific mitigation action plans) training yearly risk management topics Corporate Strategic Committee Learning & Development + Chief Audit & Risk Executive + ad hoc members Our People Development: Ensure that more than 95% of ST exempts have Specific analyses addressing Audit Committee requests their potential assessed every 2 years through ‘People Review’ process Annual top-down / corporate-level risk map Ensure that ST manufacturing sites and corporate departments Quarterly follow-up on mitigation action plans continuously improve the global scoring of ST’s EICC SAQs Ad-hoc analyses & meetings as required Ensure that our audited sites have 0 Major Non-Conformance Labor & Human Rights on the Labour and Health & Safety section Ensure all our sites deploy communication and training programs Top priorities / risk mitigation objectives Annual consolidation Bottom-up risk maps / on the EICC Code of Conduct for all their managers and employees ERM implementation objectives mitigation action plans Quarterly reporting (priority risks & action plans) Increase efficiency of product development: Reduce average age of development projects to 15 months Alerts Innovation Management Increase efficiency of product development: Increase proportion Marketing & Sales Sense & Power Our Products of projects less than 1 year old to 33% & Automotive Ecopack®3 (no RoHS exemption and Halogen free): Embedded processing 25% of new packages implemented in Ecopack®2 by the end of 2015 solutions, PTM, PQE Corporate Functions 66 66 67 Ensure 100% of new ST products are eco-designed by 2015 Product Stewardship STAR-rated Responsible Products impact on New Products Our People (24 Months window) Silicon line > = 30% Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Integrate line item for Environmentally/Socially responsible characteristics in product Brochures/Flyers across 12 products Headcount evolution by region / LA1 Employees survey Engagement rate Americas 3,210 1,802 1,701 1,176 1,158 Participation rate (%) 80 N/A 86 86 87 Asia Pacific 21,409 20,847 22,565 19,965 19,860 Rational Commitment 0,16 N/A 0,20 0,20 0,18 The Environment Europe 21,271 18,338 19,022 18,724 19,346 Emotional Commitment 0,35 N/A 0,40 0,39 0,38 Mediterranean 5,848 4,533 4,677 4,348 4,349 Discretionary Effort 0,43 N/A 0,44 0,45 0,45 By 2015, ensure that 100% of call for tenders from US$ 200k include Energy Management criteria on energy efficiency and use of CO2 emission-free and/or Total 51,738 45,520 47,965 44,213 44,713 Intent to Stay 0,34 N/A 0,32 0,30 0,25 renewable energy regarding facilities and site services Hires by job type / LA1 Career length and voluntary turnover rate / LA2 Exempt 5,224 538 3,573 2,563 2,721 % of voluntary turnover of new hires 44.87 45.54 52.67 52.08 Operators 5,502 5,984 8,193 5,154 6,833 (below 2 yrs) Non Exempt 1,163 639 1,884 1,728 1,716 % of voluntary turnover of employees 13.12 18.07 27.83 24.02 As an active member of “Charte des Relations Fournisseurs from 2 to < 5 yrs Total 11,889 7,161 13,650 9,445 11,270 Responsables” (Charter for Responsible suppliers relationships), % of voluntary turnover of employees 3.40 5.31 7.82 8.03 participate in the steering committee Worforce by employment type / LA1 from 5 to < 10 yrs (% of employees by employment contract) % of voluntary turnover of employees 1.86 2.02 1.79 1.72 Ensure fair treatment of ST suppliers: 100% of our payment terms from 10 to < 20 yrs Management Full time contract 98.04 97.88 97.85 97.74 97.43 of Sustainability to be in line with Law on the Modernization of the Economy (LME) Part time contract 1.95 2.12 2.15 2.26 2.57 % of voluntary turnover of employees 1.21 1.06 0.72 0.68 from above 20 yrs in THE Supply Chain Ensure Business ethics: 100% of Global Procurement and Outsourcing Workforce by employment contract / LA1 buyers to sign the Business Ethics letter Average turnover rate / LA2 (%) The Community (% of employees by employment contract) Regular contract 97.77 97.41 96.56 97.48 98.21 Average turnover rate 10.12 11.65 15.16 18.49 15.61 To ensure continuous improvement, implement a supplier survey and define an action plan Temporary contract 2.23 2.59 3.44 2.52 1.79 Average employee age (years) External hires in manufacturing (%) Improve the integration process between allegation reporting Average employee age 34 34 33 36 36 and investigation management Percentage of jobs filled externally 92 96 90 95 versus overall jobs filled Number of nationalities in corporate staff / LA13 Strengthen the Ethics Committee network by formalizing the links and Newcomers induction program (%) Different nationalities Business Ethics reporting lines between the Corporate Ethics Committee and regional represented in the corporate 9 7 7 7 6 & Compliance ethics committees and by communicating towards ST employees on Newcomers who participated staff this updated framework in a formal induction session 92.72 72.35 97.23 97.29 97.75 during their first year of employment* Number of nationalities in the headcount by region* In 2013, update ST anti-corruption and bribery policy, as well as our insider trading policy *e.g. Newcomers Seminar Europe 68 74 78 EPA Performance assessment (yearly) / LA12 Americas 29 26 25 Ensure evaluation of ST community involvement initiatives with a 85% Mediterranean 18 16 17 confidence rate Employees (%) N/A 78,4 78 89 93 Local Sustainability Asia Pacific 36 36 36 Exempts (%) N/A N/A 89 96 98 Impacts Launch a process to identify ST community involvement outputs *Expatriates and assignees are counted in host country. Non exempts (%) 90 and impacts Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Promotion ratio female/male by category and region / LA13 (%) Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gender breakdown by region (%) Average weekly working time in selected countries 2009 2010 2011 2012 Emissions to water*** Male 73 74 74 75 75 in 2010 (hours) Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Eutrophication (Kg P+N) 414,730 305,502 396,271 378,339 330,993 Europe Female 27 26 26 25 25 ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Exempt 6 4 15 12 20 15 25 21 Aquatic oxygen demand China 834,032 626,835 709,202 667,146 529,623 Male 76 79 79 79 78 Overtime (COD****) 3.59 5.00 5.03 11.37 Americas Non Exempt 1 2 10 10 6 13 8 7 Americas Heavy metals to water Female 24 21 21 21 22 ST standard working time 38.50 38.50 35.00 35.00 Operators N/A* N/A* 10 19 0 0 0 0 10,354 8,934 9,579 9,796 6,458 France (Kg heavy metals) Male 42 43 42 43 44 Overtime 0.23 0.31 0.26 0.20 Exempt 10 9 22 26 21 21 34 36 Mediterranean Aquatic ecotoxicity 7,598 6,698 5,774 4,032 4,109 Female 58 56 58 57 56 ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Asia-Pacific Non Exempt 39 13 7 5 10 16 8 6 (Kg Cu Eq) Italy Male 53 53 55 57 58 Overtime 0.82 1.15 0.95 0.72 Operators 12 5 6 6 14 15 8 11 *Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect emissions Asia Pacific from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon Equivalence (MTCE). Female 47 47 45 43 42 ST standard working time 48.00 48.00 48.00 48.00 Exempt 6 6 19 19 20 18 29 26 Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, subcontractors and foundries. Malaysia **Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, Overtime 5.11 10.32 9.39 8.50 Europe Non Exempt 4 5 20 17 19 16 5 5 Employees working part-time by gender (%) expressed in phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 Operators 1 0 23 16 25 16 2 2 Men 15,23 15,04 15,75 18,36 Malta ***Domestic waste water is included. Overtime 2.78 6.00 4.50 5.00 Exempt 6 7 12 16 30 27 12 33 ****Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). Women 84,77 84,96 84,25 81,64 ST standard working time 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 Japan Non Exempt N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* Unplanned absenteeism (%) Morocco Operators N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* N/A* Environmental costs versus savings / EN30 (US$m) Overtime 1.15 2.62 1.46 1.10 Unplanned absenteeism 3.00 2.47 2.67 2.77 2.82 Exempt 12 17 34 24 10 11 26 34 Total costs 41 48 53 52 47 North ST standard working time 40.00 40.00 40.00 40.00 America Mediterranean Non Exempt 17 16 19 12 6 4 18 10 Energy savings 192 87 219 203 169 Formal recognition Overtime 1.62 1.51 0.60 0.85 ST standard working time Operators 0 2 7 8 0 0 9 2 Water savings 25 15 25 24 22 Overall recognition budget of 44.00 44.00 44.00 44.00 2,161 1,644 3,305 3,101 2,782 Singapore *The company has no manufacturing sites in these regions Chemical savings 86 58 87 69 62 all sites (USk$) Overtime 4.02 5.88 1.53 3.84 Number of people Total saving 303 160 331 296 253 38,805 38,373 36,697 48,606 33,823 The ST standard working time 48.00 recognized* Philippines Balance (cost savings) 262 112 278 244 206 Overtime 6.00 Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 % of accepted suggestions The method used to calculate the savings shown in this table is the following: 61.00 53.00 54.75 65.20 59.56 which were implemented Fair wages Schooling programs* / LA11 1) we set a baseline using the 1994 model with the assumption that there are no installation enhancements, except for chemicals for which the baseline is 2000; *Can include more than one recognition for one employee over the year. 2) this baseline is projected each year (in relation to the quantities produced); Percentage of employees paid Exempts 2.76 4.39 5.26 1.74 up to 105% of the legal or 21.44 13.36 16.65 12.20 11.95 3) each year, the actual value is compared to this projection; Remuneration (%) conventional minimum wage* Operators 2.75 1.02 7.96 2.31 4) the result shows the theoretical benefits due to the installation improvements concerning the savings for energy, water and the use of chemicals.Total costs cover expenditure of environmental management Employees above the ST minimum salary *Employees paid above 105% are not part of this scope. Others (non-exempts) 4.69 6.01 7.58 0.95 areas (including waste and remediation) and yearly net investment and equipment depreciation. 87.00 82.44 87.19 84.62 scale in their job grade *% of employees following ST supported external schooling programs vs total number Employees below the ST minimum salary Recordable Cases rate breakdown: industrial/domestic of employees. Environmental investments 12.00 16.62 12.79 13.90 scale in their job grade / LA7 % of total company investments 0,48 0,40 0,06 0,50 0,85 Employees covered by annual 0.00 95.24 96.93 98.49 Recordable Cases individual salary increase 0.23 0.23 0.17 0.18 0.17 Industrial rate Consumption: absolute values / EN1 / EN3 / EN4 / EN8 Benefits, bonus & USA Recordable Cases Domestic rate 0.17 0.12 0.12 0.11 0.10 Our Products / Dec. 2.1 / Dec. 2.2 / Dec. 2.3 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) Electricity (GWh) 2,127 1,986 2,018 2,058 2,041 68 % of elligible (exempt > JG 12) 33 23 24 21 22 Recordable Cases rate by region Water (1,000m3) 18,194 16,346 17,393 17,314 16,151 69 employees receiving unvested Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 stock awards Chemicals (tons) 17,883 12,451 17,138 17,076 17,792 Asia Pacific 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.14 Unvested Stock Awards (USA) 5,700 3,670 3,790 3,390 3,570 Sustainability Customer Requirements Natural gas (GWh) 234 214 171 166 153 Number of employees rewarded Europe & Mediterranean 0.6 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.43 Number of EHS* and USA % of referential population Americas 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.0 Social & Ethics customer 277 252 267 376 422 Waste split / EN22 (Tons) 24 21 22 by category requirements received** Severity rate by region Total Waste 46,314 33,439 40,775 38,593 37,511 *EHS : Environment, Health and Safety. Average training hours / LA10 Asia Pacific 2.2 1.3 0.8 0.5 0.8 **This data includes all Sustainability requirements from our customers, received at corporate level for Reuse & recycled 41,143 29,164 36,113 35,387 34,032 support and validation. Many more are dealt with directly at local and regional level. Incinerated 3,487 3,170 3,522 2,134 1,758 Exempts 27 26 32 31 29 Europe & Mediterranean 9.0 7.6 4.9 6.5 7.8 Quality 1 / PR5 (baseline 100 in 2004) Landfill 1,684 1,105 1,140 1,072 1,721 Operators 72 94 91 78 70 Americas 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 Q4' 04 Q4' 09 Q4' 10 Q4' 11 Q4' 12 Others (non-exempt) 43 41 43 38 36 Customer complaints 100 61.5 55 70.6 67* Breakdown of Recordable cases by type of event, Water Risk Assessment by location* / EN8 / EN9 (%) Total* 43 51 49 50 46 Cycle time to process failures analysis 100 65.4 71.1 59.8 65.6** accident or exposure / LA7 *Includes training on equipment and outside training. Customer returns 100 30.8 20 58.9 21.7*** Water stress assessment per Water withdrawal per site** Fall or slip 31 site*** 1 Quality indicators include ST-Ericsson from Q3 2008. Internal mobility (%) Struck by or against 26 *Q4 low shipments strongly impacted our customer complaints by volume, even if the number of Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) 100 100 complaints received was stable. Internal job request Overexertion 7 **In 2011, our failures analysis cycle time significantly improved as a result of an efficient task force Crolles (France) 76 2 90.2 17.9 40.5 36.8 34.9 posting rate (exempt)* on cycle time reduction. Catania (Italy) 74 74 Others 3 ***The customer returns results have been mainly impacted by negotiated returns from distributors. Exempt open positions filled Rousset (France) 42 32 23.0 25.9 Caught in, under or between 10 in by internal candidates WEEE / EN27 Agrate (Italy) 36 2 *Number of job requests for exempt positions (JG11-18) posted internally divided by total number of job Contact with chemicals 13 requests for exempt positions As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and not manufacturers of electronic equipment), Tours (France) 19 19 Bodily reaction from slip or motion 10 we are not directly affected by the European Directive 2002/96/ EC Waste of Electrical and Electronic Muar (Malaysia) 100 3 Collective bargaining / LA4 Recordable cases rate benchmarks* Equipment (WEEE). Shenzhen (China) 74 6 Number of collective agreements Calamba (the Philippines) 72 100 59 38 33 45 US Manufacturing 5.00 4.30 4.40 4.40 signed in the year (Source BLS**) Longgang (China) 51 4 Number of people covered The environment 21,363 24,021 31,962 All US semiconductor Bouskoura (Morocco) 48 79 by representatives 1.30 1.00 1,20 1.10 (Source BLS**) Kirkop (Malta) 7 12 % of people covered by representatives 50.08 72.34 Not SIA*** OHS 0.71 0.80 0.98 *ST water risk assessment has been conducted in 2012 with Quantis. The calculation is done for Front-end available Working time and overtime hours ST 0.39 0.35 0.29 0.29 0.27 Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and Back-end sites, as there are important differences in the water consumption. **Water withdrawal: anthopogenic removal of wtaer from any water body, either permanently or temporaly. ***Water stress assessment: consumed water multiplied by the Water Stress Index related to water availability. Employees with regular *Latest data available. Environmental burden: net values / EN16 / EN17 / EN19 / EN20 / **Bureau of Labor Statistics. worktime less than 100 100 100 100 96.3 ***Semiconductor Industry Association. EN26 / Dec. 4.1 / Dec. 4.3 / Dec. 4.4 48 hours per weeks (%) Initiatives and changes resulting in a reduction in GHG Emissions to air Average weekly overtime 2.22 1.97 3.14 3.10 3.61 Average turnover rate by gender, category and region / EN18 / Dec. 3.3 (Saved kTons CO2 ) (hours per employee) Global warming* (MTCE) 404,319 358,167 413,974 429,187 408,202 in 2012 / LA2 (%) Ozone depletion Related to PFC direct 62 8 7 0 0 Communication meetings / LA5 Exempts Others Operators (Kg R11 Eq) emissions reduction per IPPC 50 155 0 21 guidelines VOCs (Tons) 244 170 178 192 147 People attending Communication meetings 28,343 36,474 Female Male Female Male Female Male Saving electricity 295 195 0 0 Atmospheric acidification 63,142 55,370 36,581 41,525 34,456 Used green electricity 17 41 61 13 Europe 1.35 1.46 0.79 0.72 0.64 0.67 (Kg SO2 Eq) Career development (%) Americas 0.99 3.72 1.97 0.00 0.00 0.00 Photochemical oxidant Produced electricity by Employees with a promotion in the year 8.50 15.00 15.87 16.37 48,969 35,044 25,292 38,125 27,165 8 8 7 0 creation (Kg ethylene Eq) windfarm Mediterranean 6.50 6.50 1.39 4.09 2.99 4.67 Employees with a job function change Air emission toxicity** Total GHG gas emissions in the year 27.37 32.95 25.02 15.47 4,720 4,101 4,484 3,075 4,337 370 398 68 34 Asia Pacific 11.32 10,79 11.50 31.21 37.69 67.21 (Kg PH3 Eq) reduction company EHS Fines / EN28 Indicators Fine of RMB130k (US$20.6k) for Nov 1st fatal incident. Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012* EHS Incidents / EN23 Phase 1 Introduction: Agreement to comply with EICC (%) ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore): On 8th February 2012, an acid scrubber’s pH fell from 7 to 3.6 for a duration of about 4 hours. Fine amount: S$5,000. All actions necessary to avoid recurrence have been put in place. Suppliers of materials 81 82 89 95 82 Index ST Calamba (the Philippines): The site was recognized to be at the origin of a fine received by the industrial park waste water treatment plant (WWTP). In fact, ST Calamba overpassed the contractual limit of copper Suppliers of equipment/ defined between ST and the WWTP. Fine amount: US$3,642.28 34 41 50 99 93 facilities/IT Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA 71 94 87 Consumption of electricity Subcontractors Back-end 97 98 98 97 100 (kWh/production unit): normalized values / EN4 / Dec. 2.1 Subcontractors Front-end 86 90 95 95 *** Target 48,8 46,3* 44 41,8 39,7 The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report and the Consumption of electricity 49,7 71* 48 50,4 54,6 Phase 2 Assessment: ten Principles of the Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) elements and the ISO 26000 *2009: The figures show the global consumption per unit of production for the whole year affected by a decrease of production due to the economic crisis. EICC Self-assessment questionnaire completed** standard. Consumption of natural gas (GWh/production unit): normalized Suppliers of materials 18 42 76 97 183 GRI Indicators Global Compact Principles ISO 26000 core subjects and issues values / Dec. 2.1 (Baseline 100 in 1994) Suppliers of equipment/ Consumption of natural gas 39,9 51,6 29,4 29,7 29,8 facilities/IT 0 0 0 0 13 Company Energy saved*: absolute values / EN5 / Dec. 2.1 (GWh) Suppliers of spare-parts N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 2.1; 2.3; 2.4; 2.9; 3.1-3.8; 3.10; Readers' Guide Energy saved 130 0 129 0 0 3.11; 3.13; 4.9; 4.14-4.16 Subcontractors Back-end 11 17 20 23 42 *Includes electricity and natural gas 1.1; 1.2; 2.3; 2.4; 2.5; 2.6; 2.7; 2.8; Subcontractors Front-end 0 1 3 4 8 2.10; 3.5; 3.6; 3.13; 4.1-4.3; 4.7; Company 6.2 4.8; 4.9; 4.11; 4.12; 4.14-4.17 The Community Indicator 2012* EC1 Our People 6.3; 6.4 Indicator 2012 ST Foundation’s contribution to the Community Recruitment, Learning & Development LA2; LA10; LA11; LA12 GC6 6.4.7 Technical ladder (%) according to the LBG* methodology Employee Engagement 4.16; 4.17 6.2.3 WW Asia Pacific Europe* Total value of contribution 765,935 Employee Safety LA7; LA8 6.3.7 (US$m) ST population recognised 0,8 0,3 1,7 Type of involvement 100% Community investment 4.8; 4.12 through the technical ladder Labor & Human Rights GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5 6.3.10; 6.4.5 EC8; HR5; HR6; HR7; SO5 *The specified path starts from job grade 14 and above which is the reference population. Means of involvement (%) This internal program started in Europe and its deployment is currently on going. Global Diversity & Equal Opportunities LA13 GC1; GC6 6.3.7 Cash contribution 66 70 Employee Health & Well-being LA8 GC1 6.4.4; 6.4.6 71 Indicator 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012* Staff time volunteering 17 *Suppliers and subcontractors change from one year to another. The list is updated regularly which Management cost Our Products 6.7 changes the reference perimeter. 17 contribution Customer Satisfaction 4.16; 4.17; PR5 6.7.3; 6.7.6 Suppliers' and subcontractors' environmental and health *London Benchmarking Group Innovation Management 6.6.7 & safety performance / 8.3 EN2; EN5; EN6; EN26; EN27; PR1; Product Stewardship GC1; GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.7.4; 6.7.5 Number of suppliers / subcontractors PR3 Suppliers of materials 107 108 104 102 94 4.17 Conflict-free Minerals GC1; GC2 6.3.5; 6.6.4 Suppliers of equipment 40 40 40 40 40 HR2; HR7; PR3 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA 35 38 39 The Environment 4.8; 4.13; EN1; EN2; EN18; EN26 6.5 Total 147 148 179 180 173 GHG Emissions from Operations EC2; EN16; EN17; EN18; SO1 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 Subcontractors Back-end 59 65 62 59 51 Subcontractors Front-end 11 10 19 22 19 Water Management EC2; EN8, EN10, EN21; EN25; SO1 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 Energy Management EC2; EC6; EN3; EN4; EN5; EN7 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.4 ISO 14001 certified / EMAS validated (%) Chemicals Management EN1; PR3 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 Suppliers of materials 83 81 81 81 76 Waste Management EN2; EN22; EN24 GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3 Suppliers of equipment 85 82,5 83 80 83 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA 54 47 59 EC2; EN4; EN5; EN7; EN16; EN17; Transports & Logistics GC7; GC8; GC9 6.5.3; 6.5.5 Total 84.1 81.5 76.2 73.8 81.9 EN29 Subcontractors Back-end 97 97 97 98 98 The Community 4.16; 4.17 6.6; 6.8 Subcontractors Front-end 100 100 100 95 100 Management of Sustainability 4.8; 4.9; 4.12 GC1; GC3; GC4; GC5; GC6; GC9 6.6.6 OHSAS validated (%) in the Supply Chain EC6; HR1; HR2; PR3 Suppliers of materials 37 41 44 49 48 4.6; 4.9 Business Ethics & Compliance GC10 6.6.3 Suppliers of equipment 6 10 8 21 18 HR3; HR4; SO2; SO3; SO4 Suppliers of spare-parts N/A N/A 20 15 18 Local Sustainability Impacts EC1; EC8; EC9; SO1 6.8.3; 6.8.5; 6.8.6; 6.8.7; 6.8.9 Total 28.6 32.6 31.3 36.2 34 Partnerships in R&D and Education SO1 6.8.4 Subcontractors Back-end 92 91 87 62 67 Subcontractors Front-end 82 80 84 77 77 4.13 Public Affairs and Industry Networking 6.6.6 EC9; SO5 Suppliers’ compliance with EICC Target number Awards 2.10 6.2 Suppliers of materials 108 108 104 102 102 2.8; 3.9; 3.12 EC1; EC5; EC7; LA1; LA2; LA4; LA5; Suppliers of equipment/ facilities/IT 104 104 104 87 87 LA7; LA10; LA11; LA13; EN1; EN3; Additional Indicators Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA 35 35 35 EN4; EN16; EN17; EN19; EN20; EN22; EN23; EN26; EN28; Subcontractors Back-end 40 39 32 32 32 EN30; PR5 Subcontractors Front-end 11 10 19 22 22 company Data Reporting Glossary Verification Statement APG Automotive Products Group GWP Global Warming Potential SOC System-on-Chip HAN Home Arena Network Supplier Performance BCP Business Continuity Plans SPE Evaluation HIT Harbin Institute of Technology CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Socially Responsible HPB Health Promotion Board SRI Investment Commissariat à l'Energie Det Norske Veritas Business Assurance France S.A.R.L. (‘DNV Business Assurance’) has been commissioned CEA Hazardous Substances Atomique HSPM Science,Technology, Process Management STEM by the management of STMicroelectronics NV (‘the Company’) to carry out a moderate assurance CEC Corporate Ethics Committee Engineering and Mathematics Imaging Bi-CMOS ASIC engagement on the “2012 Sustainability Report” (‘the Report’) in its draft electronic format. IBP Substances of Very High CEO Chief Executive Officer & Silicon Phototonics SVHC STMicroelectronics NV is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of Concern CFS Conflict-Free Smelter IC Integrated Circuit information contained in the Report. Our responsibility in performing the work commissioned is solely TAM Total Available Market Company Infrastructure Information and towards the Management of STMicroelectronics NV and in accordance with the terms of reference CIS and Services ICT Communication Technologies TB Tubercle Bacillus agreed on with the Company. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data TCOO Total Cost of Ownership Chemical Labelling Industrial & Multisegment and information provided are complete, sufficient and authentic. STMicroelectronics NV’s stakeholders CLP IMS and Packaging Sector Technology Research TR&D are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. CTO Chief Technology Officer IP Intellectual Property & Development UN United Nations DNV Det Norske Veritas International Organization The scope of work agreed upon with processes to review the methods, practices processes are sufficiently collated, recorded, ISO for Standardization United Nations Global STMicroelectronics NV to provide a moderate and tools used in the collection, aggregation/ compiled, analysed and disclosed in a manner Democratic Republic UNGC DRC Compact level of assurance includes the following calculation, analysis, internal quality control that allowed us to examine and assess the of the Congo Industrial Technology Research ITRI information and entities: and reporting of qualitative and quantitative data accuracy of the information. In our opinion, the Institute VAP Validated Audit Process DU Digital Unify and information, as it is transferred, managed level at which the Report adheres to the principle • Key Performance Indicators for People, and stored within the Company. iTSCi ITRI’s Tin Suppy Chain initiative VOCs Volatile Organic Compounds of reliability is ‘Good’. ECHA European Chemical Agency Products, The Environment and The KPI Key Performance Indicator Waste of Electrical and Community related to the period between It is the opinion of DNV Business Assurance Comparability: we consider that stakeholders Lead-free labelling for RoHSWEEE January 2012 and December 2012, as that the 2012 Sustainable Report is an accurate Electronic Equipment have sufficient information that is adequately compliance (the EU Directive LBG London Benchmarking Group contained in the 2012 Report. ECOPACK® and impartial representation of the company’s selected and compiled in order to analyse the on Restriction on Use of Annual report filed with the LCA Life Cycle Assessment sustainability related strategies, management changes in the Company’s performance over Hazardous Substances) 20-F Securities and Exchange • Our verification was carried out in May and systems and performance. Based on the 72 June 2013. As part of this engagement we time. In our opinion, the level at which the Report MEMS Micro-Electro-Mechanical Commission 73 73 assurance work we performed on both the Key EHS Environment, Health & Safety adheres to the principle of comparability is Systems visited selected sites on the basis of their Performance Indicators as well as parts of the contribution which represents more than 20% ‘Good’. Stakeholders inclusiveness: we consider Electronics Industry Citizenship narratives in the Company’s “2012 Sustainability EICC Microcontrollers, Memories & of the Group’s consolidated environmental and Report”, it is our opinion that sufficient that the views and concerns of stakeholders Coalition MMS Smartcards GRI indicator prefixes social indicators (a higher level of Assurance have been taken into consideration and that Community Eco-Management evidences have been obtained to achieve a EMAS Metric Tons of Carbon EC Economic would have required a more detailed review): dialogue was effective. In our opinion, the level and Audit Scheme MTCE moderate level of Assurance, as information Equivalent Geneva (Headquarters), Catania (Italy), Muar at which the Report adheres to the principle of EN Environment and data communicated and subjected to our EMEA Europe, Middle East & Africa (Malaysia), Calamba (the Philippines). stakeholders inclusiveness is ‘Good’. Non-Governmental verification were found to be reliable. Since NGO HR Human Rights Our assurance engagement was planned and the organization has carried out a review of Our verification report includes observations, European Nanoelectronics Organization ENIAC LA Employment carried out in accordance with the DNV ‘Protocol its material sustainability issues, we believe findings and opportunities for improvement Initiative Advisory Council NYSE New York Stock Exchange for Verification of Sustainability Reporting’. The STMicroelectronics NV efforts to strengthen which have been reported back to the PR Product Responsibility electronic Performance available parts of Report were evaluated against the strategy and the linked action plan have Management of the STMicroelectronics NV. e-PA ODS Ozone Depleting Substances been significantly addressed, to an advanced Appraisal SO Society the following criteria in accordance with the These do not, however, affect our conclusions Organization for Economic Protocol: Materiality, Completeness, Reliability, level, for all material issues among processes on the Sustainability Report 2012. ERM Enterprise Risk Management OECD Cooperation and Development Comparability and Stakeholders inclusiveness. and business development. We recognize that strong efforts have been made to reinforce DNV was not involved in the preparation of any European Round Table of ERT Occupational Health & Safety As part of the verification we have: organisation and resources in order to better statements or data included in the Sustainable Industrialists OHSAS Assessment Series (OHSAS Challenged the People, Products, The manage sustainability coordination across the Report. DNV maintains complete impartiality in Environment, Social and 18001) Company and reliability of data. Moreover the the work carried out and expressly disclaims ESG Environment and The Community statements Corporate Governance PFCs Perfluorinated Compounds The ST Sustainability Report 2012 and claims made in the Report and assessed achievements versus the objectives are reported any liability or co responsibility for any decision in a balanced and transparent way allowing the Electronic Semiconductor is printed on paper produced by a the robustness of the data management a person or an entity may make based on this ESIA PLC Power Line Communication stakeholders to have an unbiased view of the Assurance Statement. DNV is a leading provider Industry Association manufacturer that is certified to ISO 9001 systems, information flow and controls; PQE Product Quality Excellence company’s sustainability performance. Based of sustainability services, including the verification and ISO 14001. Printing uses chlorineFA Failure Analysis Examined and reviewed documents, data on our review, we evaluated adherence of the of sustainability reports. For more information, PTM Package Test Manufacturing free pulp which enables both recyclability and other information made available to DNV Report to the following principles, on a scale of please visit our web site (www.dnvba.fr.) FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and renewability, and a chemical free, Business Assurance France by the Company ; ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’, ‘Need for improvement’: RC Recordable Cases or www.st.com. Fully Depleted pre-press system. Furthermore the FD SOI R&D Research & Development We interviewed the Corporate Sustainable Materiality: we consider that the Report Silicon-on-Insulator paper used is certified by the Forest Development Team and conducted interviews includes the major material aspects concerning Registration, Evaluation and Stewardship Council and the Chain of For DNV Business Assurance France, Front-end Manufacturing and REACH with an excess of 40 company’s representatives the Company’s performance and stakeholders’ FMT Authorization of Chemicals Custody. These confirm that the paper Technology we visited in three sites and the company’s concerns. In our opinion, the level at which the Restriction of Hazardous used comes from controlled forests that headquarter (including data owners and Report adheres to the principle of materiality is Financial Times Stock RoHS Federica Pagnuzzato Marc-Antoine Horenfeld FTSE Substances are well managed according to strict decision-makers from different divisions and ‘Good’. Reviewer Project Manager Exchange functions) to assess compliance by the sites environmental, social and economic Completeness: we believe that, overall, the GeSI Global e-Sustainability Initiative SAQ Self-Assessment Questionnaire visited with Group procedures, processes and standards, and links the production guidance. Interviews with external stakeholders topics and indicators contained in the Report SE Sustainable Excellence cover STMicroelectronics NV material impacts GHG Greenhouse Gases chain from source of timber through to were not included; paper manufacture and the final printing sufficiently to enable stakeholders’ assessment Global Logistics Securities and Exchange Paris, April 10, 2013 GLWO SEC Performed sample-based audits of the of the Company’s sustainability performance & Warehousing Organization Commission process. mechanisms for implementing the Company’s in 2012. In our opinion, the level at which the GM General Motors Micro and Nanotechnology own policies, as described in the available parts Report adheres to the principle of completeness SITELESC Industry Association of Report; is ‘Good’. GRI Global Reporting Initiative SMEs Small and Medium Enterprises Performed sample-based audits of the Reliability: we found that the information and © STMicroelectronics July 2013Printed in France All rights reserved. The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered of the STMicroelectronics group of companies. All other names are the property of their respective owners. For more information on ST products and solutions, visit www.st.com
