2013 G e n t l e c a r e f o r l i f e Overview of the Unicharm Group ● Company Profile ● Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation UNICHARM CORPORATION Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Capital 15,992 million yen (as of March 31, 2013) Cosmotec Corporation Number of Shares Issued 206,944,773 (as of March 31, 2013) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Headquarters Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Registered Headquaters 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, Ehime, Japan Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Number of employees 10,855 (on a consolidated basis as of March 31, 2013) LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: Uni.Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Baby and child care products Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Feminine care products Uni-Charm Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) Health care products Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Clean & fresh products Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Pet care products The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ Diana Joint Stock Company（Vietnam） http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html Other 27 companies (as of March 31, 2013) ● Production and Sales Bases Unicharm has a business presence in about 80 countries and Netherlands regions around the world. Korea Russia China Myanmar Japan United States India Egypt Taiwan Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ■ Sales Areas Indonesia Australia Production and Sales Bases Sales Bases *As of April, 2013 ● Main Business Indicators ■ Consolidated net sales ■ Consolidated operational profit ■ Number of group employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: person) 4,957 594 5,000 600 12,000 519 10,855 4,283 696 10,287 Other 4,000 3,769 540 500 450 465 10,000 2,120 3,478 3,568 394 2,064 Other 6,904 7,108 7,317 454 401 1,891 400 8,000 3,000 1,453 348 960 1,184 Asia 1,277 1,410 799 300 6,000 1,225 5,196 5,726 2,000 2,778 2,887 4,000 2,650 Asia 200 2,225 2,207 2,191 2,290 2,370 1,000 2,000 Japan 100 3,029 3,053 3,020 3,027 3,009 Japan 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2 unicharm CSR report 2013 ● Editorial Policy Contents Preparation of the CSR Report 2013 This document has been prepared as Unicharm Group’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. This report reaffirms that our CSR is the fulfillment of our corporate Overview of the Unicharm Group ................... 2 philosophy “NOLA & DOLA”*, and presents how we practice CSR through our business activities. The social problem of Editorial Policy/Contents ................................. 3 a super-aging society and our responses to featured global Message from the President ........................... 4 issues, including Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Unicharm Group＇s CSR .................................. Reducing the Burden of Daily Life, can be found in the Feature Topic sections of this report. 6 Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Introduction of Business Activities ................. 8 Global Compact, the UN Millennium Development Goals, ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report.  Feature Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living in We will continue to accommodate the requests of our Asia by Reducing the Burdens of stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. We welcome your Daily Life ......................................... 10 frank opinions and comments.  esponding to a Super-Aging Society Feature * NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities”. From Topic 2 R newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that ......................................................... 14 provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams. Ongoing Assistance for the Great East Japan Earthquake ..................... 19 ● Contents Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, organizational and Major Indicators (KPI) ........................... 20 structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. This report presents details of results for FY2012 as well as the Along with Our Customers ........................... 24 latest information for the early part of FY2013. Organizations Along with the Environment ......................... 28 Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated Along with Our Employees ........................... basis. Details of companies mentioned in the environmental activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. 32 Along with the Society .................................. Intended Audience All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, 36 business partners, shareholders, and society in general Period Along with Our Business Partners .............. 38 April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 (including some activities prior to and after the above period, as well as future targets) Along with Shareholders and Investors ...... 39 Reference Guidelines ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 Management ................................................. 40 ●2  007 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of Third Party Assurance Report ..................... the Environment ● ISO26000 42 Date of issue June 26, 2013 Next date of issue: June 2014 List of contents/ Available at List of Awards and Commendations Received ●C  SR & Environmental Information on the Unicharm website in Fiscal 2012 (all items reported) ●B  ooklet “CSR Report 2013” (Digest Report） ....................................................................... 43 Role of this report CSR Report For more information about our CSR activities, Interest of stakeholders please contact: Corporate Social Responsibility Department TEL: +81-3-6722-1041 (Direct Line) FAX: +81-3-6722-1018 Print version Web version For general corporate information, please contact: Public Relations Group, Management with Resonance Importance to Unicharm Group Promotion Department, Corporate Planning Division TEL: +81-3-6722-1019 (Direct Line) This report focuses on topics of concern that the company would like ・For investor relations, please visit: to particularly share with its readers and stakeholders in this year’s http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/index.html edition. Please refer to our website for the full report. http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ir/index.html unicharm CSR report 2013 3 Message from the President Devoted to Building a Society that Recognizes Public Interests through Our Business Activities our descendants. That is, the fundamental goal of a company has changed from maximizing shareholder returns to making contributions to society while generating profits from its business. Unicharm’s corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA” contains the commitment that from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams. The fulfilment of NOLA & DOLA stands at the heart of our CSR. To promote this aim, we believe it is important to pass on our tradition of bold differentiation from our competitors. This raises the question of how we define and approach this bold differentiation. We carefully listen to the hearts of our customers and make every effort to establish heart-to-heart communication for conveying our proposals to them through our products and services. Nevertheless, in most cases, it remains quite difficult to directly ask our customers how they feel about Unicharm products. This is because babies cannot speak and many users of feminine hygiene products or adult diapers prefer not to frankly talk about their experience using these products. This is why we need to listen to the heart of our customers. Going forward, Unicharm will continue to contribute to the realization of a comfortable daily life for humankind by providing bold, distinct and first-class products and services to people around the world. President and CEO Unicharm Corporation ■Committed to the public interest Takahisa Takahara of normalization and the extension of healthy life expectancy ■Unicharm’s CSR Unicharm is committed to the public interest of Following the global financial crisis and Great East normalization in society where anyone at anytime can Japan Earthquake, the world has seen a “new normal” live as they like by extending healthy life expectancy where change is now the norm and significant under our corporate philosophy of NOLA & DOLA. upheavals can occur unpredictably at any moment. Highly functional nursing care products, paper This is because change is now occurring at a frequency diapers and feminine hygiene products help alleviate and intensity never before seen in the past. At the the stress of users and enable a variety of activities. same time, the role of companies has shifted from Everyone that grows old has the inherent desire to shareholder capitalism, which was dominated by the live like they did when they were younger. As such, supremacy of shareholders and markets, to public Unicharm wants to expand its business domain from interest capitalism, which places greater focus on manufacturing paper diapers and feminine hygiene public interests. Here, the word public interest means products to include other important fields required our physical and psychological affluence and that of for today’s super-aging society. Our goal is not just to 4 unicharm CSR report 2013 sell products, but rather to help graying consumers Hoping that Unicharm will provide continually live the same way as they once did. a sound CSR model that can be practiced around the world Japan’s aging population is now older than any other country. This means that there are no other The United Nations Development Plan precedents in the world for the many challenges that (UNDP) is leading the Business Call to Action (BCtA) together with major aid agencies and await us as this aging trend progresses. Consequently, governments from around the world in order we have no other choice than to resolve these issues to help solve development issues through using a trial and error approach. The resolution of private-sector businesses in developing issues faced by our super-aging society will benefit not countries. Unicharm is a multinational only Japan, but can also be applied to other countries corporation founded in Japan that became in Asia, such as China and South Korea where the involved in this international initiative in graying of society is moving at an even faster pace October 2012. than Japan. Unicharm stands firmly committed to I applaud the company’s pledge to working closely with external experts to leverage empower women and reduce poverty by its knowledge gained in Japan for the betterment hiring women in the Middle East and Asia of Asia and the rest of the world. Moving forward, to manufacture sanitary products that are in turn sold at affordable prices to low-income we will continue to exert our best efforts toward women in these regions. normalization. Supporting the social integration of women in developing countries is effective in not only ■Helping to resolve social issues reducing poverty, but also improving school attendance rates, health and hygiene and the around the world environment. Since establishing a joint venture company in Taiwan Hiring low-income women locally to in 1984, Unicharm has expanded its business presence produce and sell products represents an to every corner of the globe and today it operates in inclusive business initiative that achieves a more than 80 countries and regions around the world. balance between commercial profits and With our business expanding even more globally, we sustainable development. announced our participation in the UN Global Compact I sincerely hope that this recognition by BCtA will serve an impetus for Unicharm to in 2006, which we continue to be party to today. take even further steps toward improving the In October 2012, our business initiatives in the lives of low-income women in developing Middle East/North Africa and Asian regions were countries and in the process develop a sound recognized by the Business Call to Action (BCtA) model for CSR that can be practiced around lead by the United Nations Development Program the world. (UNDP). These initiatives include creating employment opportunities for women across Asia, including Ms. Akiko Yuge Special Adviser to the Administrator Thailand, Indonesia, and Vietnam, and Saudi Arabia, Director UNDP Representation Office in Tokyo where it is difficult for women to advance into society, as well as providing affordable diapers and sanitary products to low-income women, which is greatly contributing to maternal and child health and hygiene. This recognition by BCtA has encouraged us to work even harder to encourage female participation in society, to help children grow up healthier and to resolve a host of other social issues around the world through our business activities. Your continued understanding and support will be greatly appreciated. unicharm CSR report 2013 5 Unicharm Group＇s CSR Unicharm Group’ s CSR is to Implement the Integrating CSR with Our Businesses Unicharm’s corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA”. Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams”. Our CSR is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. ◆ Unicharm’s Corporate Philosophy System From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with Corporate Philosophy products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle NOLA& DOLA care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. The Unicharm Ideals 1. We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by oﬀering only the ﬁnest products and services to the market and customers, both at home in Japan and abroad. 1. We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulﬁllment of our social responsibilities. 1. We bring forth the fruits of cooperation based on integrity and harmony, by respecting the independence of the individual and striving to promote the Five Great Pillars. (Established in 1974) “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action “Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action CSR Promotional Structure ●E  stablished crossorganizational ◆ Cross-organizational structure to support and promote Unicharm’ s CSR CSR structure Unicharm has established a Chairman of the CSR committee: President Takahara structure to implement and promote Committee's secretariat: CSR Department smooth CSR activities in order to meet our stakeholders’ expectations. ISO26000 Organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair Our “CSR Committee” is a crossCore Subjects operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement and development organizational structure for the Compliance, risk management, respect for human rights, employee-friendly workplaces, support of CSR, chaired by our Core Themes occupational health and safety, human resource utilization, CSR procurement, environmentallyfriendly product development, environmental management, product quality improvement, president. The committee meets four customer satisfaction improvement, social contribution activities times a year to discuss and share CSRrelated activities. Reference Framework for Unicharm’s CSR Strategy At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact”, and have participated in the compact since May 2006. UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary the protection of internationally approach to environmental challenges; Human proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: u  ndertake initiatives to promote greater Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Environment environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: e ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: B  usinesses should work against corruption AntiPrinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and in all its forms, including extortion and ISO26000 GRI Guidelines Labour compulsory labour; Corruption bribery. Principle 5:the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ISO26000 UN Global Compact’s 10 Principles 6 unicharm CSR report 2013 Unicharm Philosophy Senior Executive Officer, Director, CSR Division, Business Reform Division Staff , Management Auditing Department, Unicharm Corporation Unicharm Humancare Corporation ● Contribution to super-aging society Shinya Takahashi ● Decreasing everyday burdens Resolving of people in Asia We are implementing CSR activities both in Japan and Social Issues abroad that focus on making contributions to society through our core business. These activities are intended to help realize normalization in society where anyone Management at anytime can live as they like by extending healthy life Organizational governance, expectancy under our corporate philosophy of NOLA Compliance, & DOLA. In 2012, we began activities accredited by Foundational Quality and Product safety, the Business Call to Action lead by the United Nations CSR Environmental management, Development Program (UNDP) based on the four Social activities, Customer satisfaction, CSR procurement, Work safety, and etc. development goals of the UN Millennium Declaration. In addition, our employees continue to lead activities that inspire hope and dreams in the elderly and disabled as part of the third-year of our mid-term relief assistance for Organizational Management with Resonance* the disaster zone in Northeastern Japan and to address climate and Culture of Pride Japan’s super-aging society and normalization. We have also redeveloped our business continuity plan (BCP) so that this * Management with Resonance: To realize our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA”, shared employee DNA can be fully leveraged no matter the we practice business management in which each employee can be a focal point of situation. This will enable us to make our contributions to innovation through her or his own labors, each and every movement more greatly resonates and influences others company-wide, and each employeeʼs vision can be the public interest even larger and more effective. actualized. This is the type of corporate culture we foster. Relationship with Stakeholders Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners and society under its “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action, and encourages twoway communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. Customers We pledge to earn the full support of customers Pledge by always doing everything we can. Primary communication methods ● Information dissemination using the ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events Internet and the media ● Group interviews ● Customer service center ● Consumer monitoring surveys Society Shareholders We pledge to contribute to the We pledge to distribute industryeconomic and emotional fulfillment Pledge Pledge of the entire population through leading returns to shareholders. our corporate activities. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods D  isaster assistance Unicharm ● ● General shareholders’meetings ● Small meetings ● Contribution activities in the local community (factory ● Financial presentations tours and events, etc.) ● Information dissemination using the Internet and ● Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs investor relations tools ● Activities in industry organizations ● Dialogue with stakeholders ● Company visits by students Business Partners Employees We pledge to achieve mutual growth by We pledge to achieve the happiness of Pledge Pledge associates and their family members by filling maintaining a fair and equitable relationship. each of them with confidence and pride. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods ● Quality Policy Briefing Session ● Unicharm Kyoshinkan (Resonance Hall) ● CSR procurement (self-checks and investigations of actual conditions) ● Information dissemination using in-house intranet and in-house newsletter ● Quality and environmental audits ● CSR report reading sessions and employee questionnaires ● New product presentation conference ● Employee Satisfaction Survey ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events ● Employee Consultation and Counseling Hotline ● Family visit day at factories unicharm CSR report 2013 7 Introduction of Business Activities Comfort and Affluence for People All Over Unicharm’s five business divisions deliver gentleness We hope that people lead sound and healthy lives from the day they born into this world. To realize this hope, Unicharm's five business divisions of Baby and Child Care, Feminine Care, Health Care, Clean & Fresh, and Pet Care deliver a wide range of products and services for various generations by utilizing the technologies we have developed in the manufacturing of non-woven fabrics and absorbent materials. Baby and Child Care Business Best lineup of products for fast growing babies and children Business Child-rearing life philosophy improvement company Product lineups Mamy Poko Launch of ©DISNEY the business 1981 Our Baby and Child Care Business’ philosophy is to make social contributions by improving our customers’ child-rearing experiences through deep understanding of parent-child relationships and to continue to provide products with new value. In Japan, we receive wide support for two brands: “Moony”, with functional innovations to accommodate growth, and “Mamy Poko”, focused on fun. We also provide diapers of our global brand “Mamy Poko” for babies overseas from East/Southeast Asia to Middle Eastern countries. Moony ©DISNEY Mamy Poko Feminine Care Business We support women＇s positive activities Business We make womenʼs comfort philosophy a science, so that we may Product lineups create freedom for women Launch of the business 1963 Our business philosophy is “making a women’s comfort a science so that we may create freedom for Center-in women”. Our Feminine Care Business always identifies women’s needs of each era from women’s standpoint, Charm and continues to offer high-value hygiene products and services incorporating advanced technology and ideas. In Japan, we produce feminine products with an understanding of women’s minds and bodies under the brand names of “Sofy”, “Center-in”, and “Charm”. We actively develop “Sofy” as a global brand overseas, which has received high evaluations from women in various countries including East and Southeast Asia. Sofy Sofy 8 unicharm CSR report 2013 the World Health Care Business For a society of joyful living, for the elderly and for everyone Business Lifree for institutional use philosophy Pursuing the joy of living Product lineups Launch of the business 1987 Our Health Care Business includes two business areas: the AI (Adult Incontinence) Business and the Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape mask & medical business. Our AI business respects the Mask and Chokaiteki dignity and independence of people who experience UltraComfort Mask incontinence, and offers the best products and care system services under the “Lifree” brand in order to improve the QOL (Quality of life) of all people involved in nursing care, whether at home or in a hospital/nursing home. Our mask & medical business offers products with non-woven fabric as the core technology to protect people’s health and contribute to public hygiene, from household use to hospital/ Lifree Lifree nursing home and industrial use. Clean & Fresh Division Creating a comfortable environment for people, things, and places Business Creating a comfortable philosophy environment for people, Product lineups things, and places Launch of the business 1974 Silcot Our Clean & Fresh Business offers cleanliness, cosmetic puffs hygiene, and a fresh feeling, and creates a comfortable environment with non-woven fabric processing technology as our core technology. “Wave” is a surprisingly easy cleaning sheet for living rooms, and our “Silcot” brand features highly functional premoistened wipes, perspiration absorbing sheet pads, and high quality cosmetic products. Our products are Wave loved by many for their function and quality. Silcot wet tissues, perspiration absorbing pads, perspiration wipes Pet Care Business Making people＇s life with their pets more comfortable Business Making your petsʼ life philosophy comfortable through Product lineups health and cleanliness Launch of the business 1986 Pet Disposable So that your pet can live a long, healthy and Diapers active life in a clean environment, among the numerous pet-related businesses Unicharm Pet care Deo-Sheet Deo-Toilet focuses especially on “pet food for good health” and “pet toilet products for a clean living environment”. We aim to provide new satisfaction for dogs and cats. We provide various products to contribute to your comfortable life with pets, including pet foods with good taste and nutrition, “Aiken Genki” and “Neko Genki”, and pet toilet care sheets and pet disposable diapers utilizing our nonwoven cloth Gin no (Silver) Spoon Aiken (Dog) Genki Neko (Cat) Genki Hartz and absorbent material technologies. unicharm CSR report 2013 9 Feature Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Under the vision of the the UN Millennium Development Goals, we support the empowerment of women in Asia and the Middle East. Transforming the Empowerment of Women in Japan to Other Women Around the World It has been 50 years since we started selling feminine hygiene products with the goal of “transforming women’s discomfort to comfort.” At Unicharm, we are proud that we have played a role in boosting the social advancement of Japanese women by eliminating the sources of inconvenience, discomfort, and dissatisfaction that women may experience in everyday life. But when we turn our eyes to the world, as stated in the UN Millennium Development Goals, there are many countries and regions where women continue to be restricted in their activities and are not able to make progress in society. Our hope is to enable women all over the world to lead active lives and make social advancements, as we have done for Japanese women. This hope has driven us not only to carry out production and sales activities all over the world, but also to provide educational programs on menstruation and hygiene in areas where women have not had access to correct information. We have been making a wide range of efforts to support the success of women. UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) The MDGs originated from the Millennium Declaration of the UN Millennium Summit held in New York in September, 2000. The Millennium Declaration describes 8 goals to be achieved by 2015. Here at Unicharm we have been working to achieve 4 main goals. 8 Goals Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education Goal 3  romote gender equality and empower P women Goal 4 Reduce child mortality Goal 5 Improve maternal health Goal 6  ombat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other C diseases Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability Goal 8  evelop a global partnership for D development 10 unicharm CSR report 2013 First Menstruation Education for Girls in Rural Areas Mother of a student “I feel happy as a mother to have received this education. I will India deal with it correctly when my daughters experience their first Recently India has shown remarkable development. menstruation.” Rural Indian women usually do not use feminine hygiene products, but use old clothing instead. As a result, the fear of leaking often prevents them from going out of the home while menstruating. One of the main reasons why rural women don’t use feminine hygiene products A student who attended a first is because many of them do not have knowledge about menstruation class menstruation itself or even the very existence of feminine “I didn’t know about menstruation hygiene products. before, but I feel better with the With this situation in mind, Unicharm, with its knowledge because I can prepare corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA,” started the “first for school.” menstruation education” program in India in January 2013, with cooperation with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and local NGOs. By providing accurate information about the physical changes that occur with Ms. Deepalaya Nupur Dwivedi, from a puberty, menstruation, and feminine hygiene products, local cooperative NGO “Through this lecture, I realized our desired outcome of the program is for girls in rural that up until now, we didn’t have India to go about their regular daily activities even while enough information and that menstruating, without discomfort or fears of leakage. So far, what information we did have was we have educated about 10,000 girls. We devised effective sometimes incorrect. I also realized ways to appeal to children, including the use of picturethe significance of conveying card shows or talking about the experiences of girls who accurate information.” already experienced menstruation in the lectures. We believe this program will contribute to an improved school attendance rate among girls and the social advancement Ms. Dimpal Rani, a local educator of women, and will also improve overall knowledge about “I found this class to be very valuable for women’s health. In the future, when the girls and women the children, to allow them to understand we have educated become mothers themselves, they will how to manage the future changes in be better equipped to improve the health and well-being their bodies. The lecture gave me a good of their children. learning opportunity as an educator.” * This development of our “first menstruation education” program in India is part of our overall efforts to improve the lives of local people in our business-operation areas. In this program, we received support and cooperation from the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) in the areas of needs assessment and surveys for developing the educational (first menstruation education) project plans, and from the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO) in making arrangements with cooperative local organizations for the implementation of the program. First menstruation lessons in schools and communities in Northern India unicharm CSR report 2013 11 Feature Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Operation of a Women-only Plant, Providing Employment Opportunities Saudi Arabia Tireless Pursuit of Local Needs A new and unique production site of Unicharm was established in Riyadh, the capital city of Saudi Arabia, Indonesia a strict Muslim country, in May 2012 that is exclusively reserved for female workers. Unicharm has been active for a relatively long time Under the strict Islamic law, women are not supposed in support of women in Indonesia, so that our activities to show their skin or faces to men outside the family; have permeated local society. It was 1997 when we first in fact, they shouldn’t even be in the same room with established our production site in Indonesia. At first, we or talk to men outside the family. Even though working sold “Mamy Poko,” the same quality products available is allowed, workplaces where women can work in in Japan, but then we developed and started to sell accordance with these strict laws are extremely limited. “MamyPoko Pants Standar” for the Indonesian market. We came to recognize that establishing a womenThe reason for the change was a comment from a local only plant is the only way that Unicharm, as a feminine employee: “Mamy Poko is a luxury product out of reach products company, can support the social advancement of the common people.” As the employee pointed out, of women in Saudi Arabia. We made all kinds of efforts it was the cheaper disposable diapers made by our including providing a delivery location that is separated competitor that local employees bought for their own by shutters, to accommodate the situations in which children. female employees need to interact with men, such as delivering documents and products. Comments made by plant workers demonstrate their delight, such as: “Working here is the beginning of my own life. I feel that the more I work, the more positive benefits I can achieve,” and “The co-workers here are my second family.” A female employee Even in a social environment that places many explaining our restrictions on women’s lives, we want to offer help and products at a store in support for women to make social advances; one of our Indonesia hopes has been realized here. We believe that people all over the world share the same hope that they want to use good products for their children. So we conducted detailed surveys by visiting homes door-to-door, sometimes even participating in their daily lives, in order to create products that would match the genuine needs of local people. As a result, we were able to develop an affordable product without compromising quality by simplifying the functions and Women-only plant implementing low-cost operations. in Saudi Arabia We also contribute women’s social advancement by directly employing local women as packagers in the factories and as sales staff at stores in Indonesia. Manal AI Shamari, leader: “From the bottom of my heart, I am thankful for the company for offering women the opportunity to work. I work every day in a joyful environment.” Ameena AI Shamari, supervisor: “I work with pride as the leader of the production team. I am grateful for the working opportunity given to us.” *W omen workers wearing abaya (black over-garments) for the photo shoot. 12 unicharm CSR report 2013 Business Call to Action A global initiative established in 2008, Business Call to Action (BCtA) aims to achieve the UN Millennium Development Goals through the core business of private companies. In collaboration with local international development agencies in each country, the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) has implemented a support program to aid in the construction of business models that provide both social benefits for the developing countries as well as commercial benefits for the companies operating there. Highly-acclaimed initiative for poverty reduction and sustainable development Joined UNDP’ s BCtA In October 2012, Unicharm’s business activities areas can we improve people’s, especially women’s, lives, providing baby-care and feminine-care products in and increase people’s awareness of their own actions? the Middle East/North Africa and Asian regions was What can we do to make people feel the “abundance” of recognized as a project responding the Business Call to life? In this way, we always reflect upon and realize the Action (BCtA) initiative of the UNDP. Unicharm Ideals. Unicharm will hold fast to our ideals Only UNDP-strictly-approved companies are eligible in the future and will continue to try to realize a better to participate in BCtA, and Unicharm is one of only society through our business activities. two Japanese companies that has been so recognized. Globally, about 40 companies have been approved. Unicharm’s participation in BCtA was approved as a result of the high evaluation of our contributions to solving social issues through our business activities, beginning with our commitment to the UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Goal 3: Promote gender Ambassador of Japan equality and empower women. Specifically, we are committed to the development, production and sales of Embassy of Japan in Saudi hygiene products for the BOP population as well as the Arabia proactive employment of women. Our contributions are expected to improve the lives of women in the Middle Mr. Jiro Kodera East/North Africa and Asia. I am sure that the efforts of Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (hereafter called UGHI) to proactively create employment opportunities The Unicharm Ideals provide the for women in Saudi Arabia by establishing a starting point for all of our activities production area for women in their Riyadh geared toward making contributions to plant will not only make a large contribution to expanding employment opportunities for women, the realization of abundant lives for all which is one of the focus areas in “Saudization,” human beings. the national policy of Saudi Arabia to encourage “The starting point of our activities lies in the Unicharm employment of Saudi nationals in the private Ideals, ‘to contribute to the realization of abundant lives sector, but will also give Saudi women great hope for all human beings by providing the finest products for opportunities for their advancement in society. and services,’” said Shinya Takahashi, Senior Executive The cultural background of Saudi Arabia has Officer and the head of Unicharm’s CSR department. largely limited opportunities for women’s social “Abundance” doesn’t mean rich in terms of money, advancement. It was epoch-making that UGHI but rather means leading an improved quality of life, established a working environment for both men according to Takahashi. He continued, “Different people and women in the same facility with sufficient have different desires for ‘abundance.’ We aim to realize consideration given to Saudi Arabian culture, each different desire through our a workplace which will become the model of products.” expanding employment opportunities for Saudi He added, “I believe our CSR women in the future. is implementing activities UGHI’s initiative as a Japanese company to lead to benefit both our in making contributions to the empowerment company and society of Saudi women is highly appreciated by local at large by maximizing government officials and businesses. the company’s contribution.” In what unicharm CSR report 2013 13 Feature Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging Society We support your dignified lives as continence-care specialists ~ Lifree-care: from Japan to the world ~ Lifree-care activities for the Putting“Living as Oneself”First improvement of continence care Recently we have been receiving more inquiries about cost saving. To make sure that the proper type of pad Unicharm has been a leading company in elderly is being used and that there isn’t any waste associated continence-support in Japan since the introduction with cost of the pad being used, we actually weigh used of the adult diapers “Lifree” in 1987. Together with pads in order to suggest the most appropriate pad for nursing home and hospital staff, Unicharm’s dedicated each user. Using the right pad for each user will improve professional care sales representatives and care advisors both cost effectiveness and comfort. We always work to work to support the independence of elderly people. realize the idea of “living as oneself” and “living in a way that remains true to oneself.” Suggestions for Improved Japan Continence Care Lifree care advisor, Tokyo area, Second Sales Division, Unicharm’s specialized staff of care Metropolitan Branch Professional Care Sales, Sales Division, advisors, who are all qualified caretakers, nurses, or Unicharm Corporation home-care workers, visit the nursing homes and Kaori Uno hospitals where our products are used to explain and “I feel very happy when our customers demonstrate our products and to make suggestions appreciate the value of care advisors for improved continence care. Proper diaper choice by telling us ‘we think the worth of and use make a big difference in comfort for users. Our Unicharm is not only in its products, care advisors all work for the goal of making users more but in overall services provided, including your care advisors.‘” comfortable, thus allowing them to carry out their daily lives while still feeling like themselves. We call this “living Through publication and other information services like oneself,” which is one of our goals in providing Increasing public awareness of continence care continence care. In collaboration with the Rehabilitation department When someone tells us that “it is difficult to put of Yufuin Kosei Nenkin Hospital and the School of Nursing, Faculty of Medicine, Oita University, the diapers on,” we hold seminars and workshops for we developed a one-of-a-kind exercise for elderly nursing home and hospital staff. At the workshops, independent continence, “Continence Reha-Care we use dummies to demonstrate how to put the Exercise.” We published a brochure introducing our “Continence Reha-Care Exercise” in order to diapers on properly. By pouring water on the diapers introduce the exercise all over Japan. to demonstrate their absorbency, we also demonstrate how incorrect use or improper positioning can lead to Unicharm published a book for home-care leakage. providers, The First Book on Continence Care for the Elderly and Their Families (Koreisha to kazoku no tameno hajimete no haisetsu kea), released Specialized Nursing Home for the Elderly by Gentosha, Inc. on June 4, 2013. The book illustrates continence management solutions for continence troubles. Professor Momokazu Gotoh, Specialized elderly nursing home“KIKU,” M.D., Department of Urology, Nagoya University Kyowa social welfare organization Graduate School of Medicine served as the book’s supervising editor, and was assisted by three Mr. Kenji Nishida, Office Manager, Long-Term Care Support Specialist medical specialists. “We appreciate your support as a good advisor” Commonplace care practices are actually out Unicharm staff experience continence care of date… this can happen anytime in nursing As the leading company in elderly continence care in care. It is important for us to have someone Japan, Unicharm realizes the importance of providing employees with first-hand experience in continence care. who can cover the shortcomings of our OJT To this end, we hold “nursing (On-the-Job-Training). care workshops” to help all In this sense, we greatly appreciate Unicharm of our employees all over not just as a supplier but as someone who the country learn about “thinks about quality care with us.” good continence care for the elderly. 14 unicharm CSR report 2013 Members of the facility development department in Taiwan Lifree TV ad in Taiwan A care advisor in Taiwan explains the features and correct use of Lifree to Spread of Lifree-care activities in Asia nursing home staff members and residents’ families. Taiwan is rapidly aging. Although its VOICE population aging rate in 2011 was 11%, Taiwan about half of Japan’s rate, it is expected to Chen Yan Fei double by 2025. Lifree care advisor, As the need for elderly continence care increases as Manager, South area, Facility Development Division, Sales the population ages, Unicharm has been promoting Department our Lifree-care activities in Taiwan. United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Our Lifree-care activities in Taiwan are managed I think of my role as that of a “missionary” to promote by expert care advisors with more than 10 years of understanding of the ideas of Lifree-care among experience in nursing care. They visit nursing homes nursing care staff. Together with nursing care staff to demonstrate the use of Unicharm’s products and to members, I was able to improve their care model. I was happy to see their smiles after the introduction of Lifree share our ideas about continence care, emphasizing at their nursing home. the importance of a sympathetic attitude. We offer a trial period of several days when introducing the Lifree diaper at nursing homes. As training opportunities in the correct use of adult diapers Chen Guan Yuan have not been provided up until now, even some longLifree care advisor, time caretakers don’t have much knowledge about Staff, North area, Facility Development Division, Sales diaper use. We use the same type of dummies that we Department use in Japan to demonstrate correct diaper use, and United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) during the trial period we have caregivers experience I didn’t really care about the quality of diapers when I how to use diapers. Due to the multi-national was a nurse. But now I know that the quality of diapers environment of nursing care in Taiwan, with workers makes a big difference in comfort levels and I realized coming from different countries including Indonesia how important this is for the users. and Vietnam, we created multi-lingual manuals and use interpreters at workshops for increased understanding. Exchanging smiles between Chairman of the Taiwanese Continence Society and Care committee chairman, care-receivers and care-givers Associate Professor of Nursing science / geriatric nurse In nursing homes in Taiwan, diapers are usually Member of the board of directors, changed every 2 hours, but when using Lifree users can Community Health Care Society in Taiwan Member of the board of directors, Hualien remain comfortable for 4 hours between diaper changes. Prefecture Long Term Care Development Altering methods in nursing care may initially cause Association confusion, as a change in views about care-giving is Ms. Cai Juan Xiu, also required, but our care advisors support the smooth shift by checking on proper use of the diapers. Lifree’s ■ I support Unicharm’ s continence care ability to keep the skin dry for a longer time reduces the activities frequency of diaper changes, which eases the burden I believe that in Taiwan we should offer the best possible on the care-takers and also offers more respect for caresupport for the recovery of the dignity of independent receivers’ dignity and improves users’ comfort. This leads continence through the provision of necessary care according to each individual’s mobility. Continence care is to the realization of Lifree’s ideal of “exchanging smiles an important part of rehabilitation. If the person can stand, between care-receivers and care-givers”. encourage him/her to stand while changing the diapers at Owners of nursing care homes highly appreciate first, then once his/her mobility is improved, support him/ the value of Lifree: “Although Lifree may cost more per her in going to the toilet from the bed. Using underweardiaper, it makes the care-receivers more comfortable type diapers will also prevent further debilitation of elderly and reduce the burden of care-givers.” people and will help with their rehabilitation. I support Unicharm’s continence care activities. unicharm CSR report 2013 15 Feature Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging Society From“contributing to the super-aging society”to the“normalization” Urine-suction robot“Humany”eases the burden of both care-givers and care-receivers. Freedom from the sleepless routine of continence care Our urine-suction robot “Humany” is an automatic How it works continence-processing device jointly developed by Unicharm Operation panel ●Main body of the urine ●Urine suction pad and Hitachi, Ltd. in 2009 to realize “continence care for suction robot Suctioned urine independent support,” and sold by Unicharm Humancare travels through the tube Corporation. “Humany” quickly detects urination with a sensor and stored in the tank. built into the special urine suction pad, and sends urine to a tank to prevent the skin from getting wet. As a result, people who formerly were not able to sleep through the night due to diaper changing are able to sleep soundly through the night as Humany eliminates the need for frequent diaper changes. Urine tank *Pads are disposable Also, users can go out without worrying about the location of Connection case public toilets by mounting Humany on a wheelchair. Features of Humany ~ Humany can be used in various situations ~ Night time Day time Frequent diaper changes Frequent trips to the toilet Frequent transfers to the toilet For commuting to work… For commuting to school… For leisure activities… The background of the development of Humany Continence support is considered to be one of the heaviest burdens ●T  he heaviest burden for caregivers is in nursing care. A shortage of caregivers coupled with increased continence care demand for home care has created an even greater need for nursing （%） caregivers. In such an environment, it is necessary to ease the burdens 100 on caregivers while also maintaining and improving the quality of life The heaviest burden and the quality of nursing care for both care receivers and caregivers. in home nursing care is 80 Surveys have also shown that the “burden of continence care” is 72.3 continence care considered to be the greatest burden that caregivers face. There has been a lot of “patience” and “resignation” in the practice of 60 52.5 nursing care. A typical example is “resignation about sleepless nursing care.” Long-term “sleepless continence support” and “sleepless nursing 40 care” may have detrimental effects on the physical and mental health 23.2 22.6 of both care receivers and caregivers. Humany was developed to help 16.8 14.2 solve these problems. As the first country to face the challenges of a 20 13.5 11.6 9.7 super-aging society, Japan will also be the country to offer the world “21st century continence care.” Humany offers the ideal of “21st century 0 Continence support Bathing support Rehabilitation Accompanying Mealtime support Personal care support Conversation partner Changing clothes continence care from Japan to the rest of the world.” Other ● Performance of Humany on outings (washing face and Number of support brushing teeth) Toilet usage during Use of overnight diaper-changes the night home nursing care during the night services Before With Humany Humany Decreased by Decreased by * The heaviest burden among the nursing supports you provide (asked 155 89% 46% caretakers): from survey conducted by Unicharm 1.8times 0times Results of “Humany usage survey” * 187 users (100 females and 87 males) all over Japan 16 unicharm CSR report 2013 Clinical proof of reduction in“nursing ● Evaluation results care burden”and“unclean area of skin” Number of diaper changes Unclean area of skin Remaining amount of urine in diapers (Unit: times/day) (Unit: cm 2） (Unit: g) Unicharm has been conducting various development Decreased by Decreased by Decreased by and trial experiments in collaboration with professionals 6 1,000 500 who play active roles on the frontlines of nursing care 5 35% 800 56% 400 80% and geriatric medicine including NPOs, nursing homes, 4 600 300 3 hospitals, and welfare and medical colleges. 4.6 400 200 2 Humany addresses two main issues: reducing the 3.0 536 277 1 200 100 56 burden of nursing care and eliminating the conditions 236 0 0 0 that leave the buttocks wet, thus helping to prevent Humany Diaper with tape + + Humany Diaper with tape + + Humany Diaper with tape + + Urine suction Urine suction Urine suction Urine suction Urine suction Urine suction bedsores. We conducted a clinical study on these issues, pad pad (super) pad pad (super) pad pad (super) which we will introduce here. * From the presentation at the 20th conference of the Japan Association of Medical and Care This clinical study was conducted under the Facilities, held in Fukui, in November 2012. supervision of Takehiko Oura, Professor Emeritus of Hokkaido University, in collaboration with the Nursing Headquarters of TMG (Toda Medical Group), Musashinokai Medical corporation, Niizashiki Chuo General Hospital, Ijin-kan Medical Corporation Nakamura Memorial Hospital, and Hikone Municipal Hospital. The subjects of Mr. Takehiko Oura the study were elderly all-day diaper users who spend Professor Emeritus of Hokkaido University most of their time in bed. The study considered two factors: the reduction of the burden of nursing care and the reduction of unclean areas of skin by using Humany. One of the biggest problems in home care is continence The study demonstrated that Humany reduced the support. Continence care is a heavy psychological and physical burden for both patients and caregivers. Until now, however, frequency of diaper changes and also reduced the there have been no good alternatives to the labor-intensive unclean area of skin inside diapers, and was presented at method. Our study found that the urine-suction robot “Humany” the conference of the Japan Association of Medical and enhanced the convenience of caregivers. Our results show that Care Facilities. Humany is very beneficial for both patients and caregivers. The Experiment results: As shown in the figure, when Humany was used urine-suction robot “Humany” will be the main focus of geriatric for nursing care, “diaper-change frequency,” “unclean area of skin care in the future. inside diapers,” and “remaining amount of urine in diapers,” were all reduced, which benefited both care receivers and caregivers. Hospitals, Group Homes Hoshigaoka Hospital, Koriyama city, Fukushima Group Home Minori, Asahikawa-city, Hokkaido Hoshigaoka Hospital received Humany through the At Group Home Minori, Humany is used for their residents matching fund program, and evaluated its usefulness for us. with dementia or Parkinson's disease, and introduced it at a On the recommendation of Hoshigaoka Hospital, Unicharm continence care seminar held in Asahikawa-city. introduced Humany at a seminar on bedsores and home care in Fukushima Prefecture (held by the Japanese Society of Pressure Ulcers [bedsores], JPSU). Ms. Hatsue Abe, Chief Nurse Ms. Yukie Shirase, Director I hope use of Humany will spread among Humany enabled patients to sleep soundly caregivers through the night Diaper changing is taken care of by many After the introduction of Humany, our patients nurses at a hospital, but at home, one main with dementia or Parkinson’s disease were able caregiver may have to take care of it alone, which to sleep soundly through the night. They don’t can be heavy burden. It is essential that families fuss around with or take off their diapers during who hope to provide nursing care at home learn the night anymore, because Humany keeps their about nursing care while the patient is still in the buttocks dry and comfortable. As a result, we hospital. We consider Humany to be an effective tool in easing caregivers can provide good continence care for them. We feel the burden of continence care. We hope that Humany will be that Humany is a very valuable product for both care-receivers widely available for those involved with nursing care, such as and caregivers. care managers, helpers, and people in the communities. unicharm CSR report 2013 17 Feature Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging Society Hikaminoen, Rikuzentakata-city, Iwate There are 68 people with disabilities living in Hikaminoen (as of January 2013). The average age of the residents is 55.1 years old. Each person has a different presentation of intellectual disability. Continence support during the night had been People with disabilities a heavy burden for the staff members. They started to use Humany in February 2013 through the matching fund program. Natori Life Support Center “Mado”, Natori-city, Miyagi Ms. Teiko Shida, Manager of support division Humany enables residents to sleep Mr. Aihara uses a power wheelchair due to cerebral palsy. He through the night works for a nursing-care products store as a system manager. He sent us a comment about using Humany. One of our residents has epilepsy and osteoporosis, and a fall caused by dizziness resulted in a bone fracture. He/she has a high Mr. Masayuki Aihara urine output; we often found the bedclothes It may change their lives! wet in the morning even if we changed his/ her diapers 5-6 times throughout the night. I still remember that I felt excited when I first saw Since he/she started using Humany, he/she can sleep Humany; its “compactness” and “rechargeable portability” through the night! He/she told us that he/she liked it very would eliminate my worries about the toilet because I much by smiling while making circle with his/her hands. could carry it in the backpack on my wheelchair. Humany also eased the burden for our staff by It’s been about 6 months since I started using Humany. reducing the number of nurse calls during the night and The biggest change in my life is that going out has also by reducing the amount of laundry. But I feel happy become much easier for me. I had to check on toilet for the residents above all because they can sleep soundly availability wherever I went, but now I can go anywhere through the night! without worries with Humany. It has become an essential part of my life and has largely expanded my range of activities. If you meet someone who hesitates to go out because of worries about toilet availability, Humany contributes to a more active school I would like you to tell him/her about life for a junior high school student, Hyogo Humany. It may change not only his/ her continence experience but A junior high school student who suffers from impairment also his/her life! to all four limbs due to cerebral palsy is able to join club activities and enjoy school life by using Humany. When he was in elementary school, his teacher changed his diapers during recess, and he could go out to places that offered restrooms with beds for people with disabilities. It limited his range of activities and his family had a hard time finding alternative solutions. They found Humany at the “Barrierfree Expo” in Osaka Comment from Mrs. Aihara 2 years ago, and bought one as the solution for the issue. I think Humany is a good product “Humany eliminated diaper changes at school and the need to not just because people with find a restroom he could use when going out, which expanded disabilities don’t have to suffer from the range of his activities such as going to the difficulties of asking for toilet movies and traveling by plane. As a family, we support while caring about being a now enjoy everyday thanks to Humany,” said burden to their care-giver or family, his parents. Unicharm will continue to cheer but also because Humany offers him on in his enjoyment of school life using them big possibilities to be able to Humany! Humany mounted on a wheelchair go out where there are no restrooms for people with disabilities. Humany The junior high school student enables them to go out without who was able to expand his constraint and is an easier way for range of his activities by using them to enjoy their lives. Humany 18 unicharm CSR report 2013 Ongoing Assistance for the Great East Japan Earthquake Unicharm once again extends its heartfelt sympathies to those affected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. We sincerely hope for a speedy recovery from this unprecedented disaster. Immediately after the earthquake, Unicharm provided paper diapers, masks, feminine hygiene products and pet care products as emergency relief supplies. We also used the “Matching Fund,” set up to receive charitable donations from employees, to provide supplies and promote energy conservation. Going forward, as a manufacturer of everyday necessities, we will continue to provide assistance that benefits those in need in the areas most affected by the earthquake and tsunami. Main initiatives following the earthquake and tsunami 2011 March 11 The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes ● Crisis Management Team (CMT) established. ● Whereabouts and safety of all employees confirmed, including those at the Fukushima Factory and North Japan Donations of Humany nursing-care robots March 12 Branch. ● Disaster response framework established funded with the Matching Fund ● Assistance efforts launched in collaboration with administrative agencies, other companies in the industry, In 2012, we once again instituted the “Super Cool and municipalities ● First convoy of vehicles loaded with relief supplies departs Biz” and “Warm Biz” employee dress codes as part of for the disaster zone March 13 ● Five trucks loaded with relief supplies arrive in the Tohoku our electricity conservation and ongoing assistance to region. First relief supplies delivered to the disaster zone March 18 ● Establishment of “Matching Fund” for charitable donations the areas affected by the earthquake and tsunami. We March 25 ● Product specifications of Mamy Poko Pants partially set up a “Matching Fund” where an amount equivalent modified (temporary changes made because of damage suffered by raw materials manufacturer) to the price of our original polo shirt, badge and jacket March 26 ● Production partially restarted at the damaged Fukushima Factory bought by employees was used to purchase 39 Humany ● “Summer Time” work schedule introduced as means to conserve electricity during the summer nursing-care robots that were then donated to nursing May 9 ● Fukushima Factory becomes fully operational again care facilities and hospitals. These robots are being used ● A portion of disposable diapers for adults were temporarily imported from overseas affiliates widely on the nursing care frontlines in these areas. June 30 ● A total of 2,540 “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask for Kids” donated to Tanagura Town, in Fukushima Prefecture’s Higashi Shirakawa County July 1 ● ”Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code (donated Humany to disaster-affected areas) August 31 ●L aunched new “Two-pack Version of Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask”, with 1% of sales donated to disaster affected areas September 1 ● Donated 2.68 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask” to children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, junior high, and high schools in Fukushima Prefecture Employees wearing Super Cool Biz / Warm Biz polo shirts and jackets at work 2012 January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and tsunami Donations of“Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” reconstruction effort together with Tsuruha Holdings in which Unicharm purchased domestic emissions credits to the people of Fukushima Prefecture generated from Tsuruha using part of the proceeds from the campaign (ran until March 16) Unicharm donated 5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D March 6 ● Donated 5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” to children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, Shape Masks” to children living in Iwaki City in March junior high, and high schools in Iwaki City, Fukushima Prefecture 2012, an additional 1.36 million to children living in April 24 ● Donated pet foods “Aiken (Dog) Genki”, ”Neko (Cat) Genki” the municipalities of Hamadori district of Fukushima and “Deo-Sheet” (pet mats) as relief supplies through Japan Pet Food Association.. Prefecture in November 2012, and another 1.5 million May 7 ● “Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code to Tanagura Town in Shirakawa County of Fukushima (proceeds used to purchase Humany nursing-care robots for those areas in need) Prefecture in December 2012. Officials from Tanagura August 31 ● Held charity Rakugo performance Town were very thankful for this donation and at the Unicharm head office to benefit relief assistance (sponsored commented that they would be handouting the masks by Unicharm Union) November 15 ● A total of 1.36 million “Chorittai to all of its residents in advance of the influenza season. Ultra 3D Shape Masks” donated to children attending daycare, Unicharm also received an official letter of appreciation kindergarten, elementary school or junior high school from Fukushima Prefecture for providing relief supplies in municipalities located in the Hamadori district of Fukushima Prefecture to those areas of the prefecture in need. Section Chief of December 18 ● A total of 1.5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” donated to every household of Tanagura Town in Higashi Fukushima Prefecture, Tamane, who presented the letter Shirakawa County of Fukushima Prefecture as well as evacuees living in the town of appreciation, shared the following comments. “In the aftermath of the earthquake many residents, especially 2013 seniors and families with infants, did not have access to January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and tsunami reconstruction effort together with Tsuruha Holdings in daily essentials like paper which Unicharm purchased domestic emissions credits generated from Tsuruha using part of the proceeds from diapers. We were very the campaign (ran until March 15) grateful for Unicharm’s January 18 ● “Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Warm Biz” employee dress code (proceeds donations and are used to purchase Humany nursing-care robots for those areas in need) very appreciative of its April 1 ● Commenced “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code Currently implementing the “Matching Fund” campaign ongoing assistance.” combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code unicharm CSR report 2013 19 Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI) Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2012 Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continuously promote Group-wide environmental impact reduction activities Initiatives to reduce environmental impact environmental protection by applying proprietary and ambitious environmental standards as well as the reduction and more efficient use of resources to all corporate activities. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth Environmentally friendly product development with environmental protection by promoting environmentally friendly manufacturing and Along with the Consider the environmental during the product development stage. activities providing world-first, and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Environment quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continually measure / record environmental impact, disclose correct Environmental management environmental protection by building and implementing a PDCA cycle for environmental information and reduce environmental impacts. activities and by reducing environmental impacts. Biodiversity conservation activities Contribute to biodiversity conservation. Improve the Company's biodiversity initiatives. Promote marketing that captures changes in society and the environment, QOL improvements market trends, and customer needs. Provide world-first and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Promote product safety assurance measures quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world, and contribute to a better quality of life for everyone. Improve product quality and ensure product safety Promote quality control initiatives. Along with Promote initiatives to reflect customer feedback in products. Our Customers Leave a lasting impression on customers, deepen relationships with customers and Take steps to improve customer satisfaction based on the results of the Improve customer satisfaction provide satisfaction to customers. customer service satisfaction surveys Promote initiatives to ensure proper product labeling practices are followed. Support customers' independent decisions and selections by correctly and proactively Fair marketing and information disclosure providing appropriate information to customers. Promote disclosure of corporate and product information by expanding the Company's website. Disclose CSR activities in the CSR report. ● Continue to properly hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings Achieve company growth, ensure employee happiness and fulfill social responsibilities Corporate governance ● Implement internal control for sites in both Japan and overseas by maintaining transparent corporate management and actively disclosing information. ● Continue to properly disclose information based on amendments to disclosure ordinances Ensure the Unicharm Way, a systemized specific mechanism for all employees and ● Set up global intranet system Sound corporate culture executives to take action in accordance with the corporate philosophy and corporate ● Hand out booklets to employees and stream president messages (weekly) ethics, is practiced Group-wide. to ensure better penetration of the Unicharm Way Fair procurement Fair and equal trade with Achieve co-existence with suppliers by building fair and equitable business dealings with Promote company-wide procurement strategy and hold the Quality Policy practices suppliers suppliers. Briefing Session for suppliers Ensure the Company uses its intellectual properties by protecting the intellectual property rights (important company assets) of the Company and making sure employees protect Ensure the protection and respect of Unicharm and other companies' Protection of intellectual propertie and respect the intellectual properties of other companies and the Company, as noted in intellectual properties the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines. Conduct legal affairs training on violations of the Unfair Competition Comply with laws on competition and trade, and promote correct corporate management Fair competition and trade Prevention Act and Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, by undertaking fair and equitable trade. Etc. to Subcontractors Management Develop and thoroughly implement various guidelines Promote correct corporate management by educating Group companies and affiliates Compliance about the Unicharm Way and guidelines to complying with the Unicharm Way (including insider trading prevention rules and affiliate management rules, etc.). Conduct risk and compliance training at local incorporated subsidiaries overseas Compliance and risk management Internal control based on Japan's Financial Promote correct corporate management by properly analyzing forecast risks and ensuring Strengthen risk management structure and internal control Instruments and Exchange the internal control system functions to prevent and avoid such risks. Act Earn the trust of customers, business partners and society by strictly and securely ● Promote and thoroughly practice information security, including at Group Information security managing received information and building a systems infrastructure that ensures the companies Company can continue to operate as a going concern in the event of a fire or disaster. ● Develop structure to succeed systems operations in Japan and overseas 20 unicharm CSR report 2013 Unicharm Group formulates and implements important CSR activities and KPI together with related departments internally. Going forward, we seek to enhance the quality of these initiatives by implementing the PDCA cycle. Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2012 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2013 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report [Domestic] Total CO2 emissions Achieved target by upgrading ancillary factory equipment and conducting Install energy-saving facilities in conjunction with ancillary facility -22 -22 % ○ *compared to 2000 continuous improvement activities. upgrades. [Domestic] Total waste emissions (3 main Continuously implemented UTMSS improvement activities (Reduce p29 Promote waste reduction and recycling within the Group centered sites) -12 -14.3 % ○ product waste and effectively utilized materials during the production on productivity improvement activities. *compared to 2000 process). Begin implementation at each gate of product development stage [Domestic] Ratio of environmentally friendly Identified issues at each gate during the product development stage and 60 62 % ○ based on new standard and partially revise certain environmental p30 products revised environment-related confirmation items. standards. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of items Develop implementation system globally and create environmental 1 1 cases ○ Created manual for industrial waste and began implementing it globally p28 created in global operations manual risk item implementation manual [Domestic and Overseas] Participation rate Identified issues in-house and strived to assess the current status Establish environmental vision in conjunction with changes to the in corporate networking events to gather 100 100 % ○ Online internally, including the Group's use of certified forests Medium-term Management Plan information Strived to enhance product value by developing customer insight Conduct marketing focused on public interests by maximizing [Domestic and Overseas] Product likability based on an approach to product development that improves customer 100 98.3 % △ customer value and recognizing changes in social environment, p26 indicator *compared to 2011 satisfaction, and fostered greater trust among customers by providing a market trends and customer needs. stable supply of products. Performed safety checks on all products prior to release regarding Obtain the latest information on laws and regulations in the [Domestic] Number of problems with material 0 0 cases ○ compliance with laws, industry standards and voluntary standards, and countries the Company operates and perform proper safety check or product safety as a result, no problems occurred. testing. p27 Implement improvement measures based on information Implemented improvement measures based on information concerning [Domestic] Complaint reduction rate -1 -2 % ○ concerning faulty products and activities to ensure improvements faulty products. are maintained. [Domestic] Achievement rate of product Discussed product improvement proposals based on customer feedback Convey customer feedback in a timely manner and reflect it in 100 110 % ○ proposals based on customer feedback at monthly meetings involving business departments. products in a speedy manner. p24-25 [Domestic] Customer service satisfaction Responded quickly, fairly, and faithfully, and as a result received strong Continue to perform customer service satisfaction surveys and 90 90.5 % ○ survey: Percentage of satisfied customers customer satisfaction evaluations for the Company's response. further improve the quality of our responses to customers. Performed conformity checks on all products prior to release regarding [Domestic] Number of cases involving product compliance with laws and industry standards, checked labels to prevent Continue to abide by laws, industry standards and voluntary 0 0 cases ○ p27 labeling problems improper use, and collected evidence for product labeling, and as a standards, and to implement evidence collection activities. result, no problems occurred. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of countries 7 8 countries ○ Launched new corporate website in Saudi Arabia and India. Launch new corporate website in Australia. p26 with website presence [Domestic and Overseas] Number of times 1 1 times ○ Published CSR Report 2012 (print and web editions). Publish CSR Report 2013 (print and web editions). p7 CSR report published [Domestic] Implementation rate of board of Held board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings according to the Hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings according 100 100 % ○ p40 directors' / board of auditors' meetings annual plan. to the annual plan. [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate for promoting environment to use the Established environment where 13 of 13 countries can access the Establish environment where new overseas subsidiaries can 100 100 % ○ Unicharm Way through expansion of global Unicharm Way in English. access the Unicharm Way in English. intranet system (English) p40 [Domestic and Overseas] Distribution rate of Distributed paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired employees Distribute paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired 100 100 % ○ the Unicharm Way pamphlet to employees and mid-career hires. employees and mid-career hires. Held the 1st Quality Policy Briefing Session in China involving 123 [Overseas] Number of times Quality Policy representatives from 44 companies. A presentation was made on 1 1 times ○ Hold the 2nd Quality Policy Briefing Session in China p38 Briefing Session held for suppliers Unicharm's quality policy in China based on good practices from Japan and a request was made to continually improve quality. Hold study sessions on intellectual property laws and product Held label screening study sessions at marketing departments of [Domestic and Overseas] Intellectual property labeling laws for the marketing departments, development domestic and overseas subsidiaries, for employees being dispatched study session implementation rate (number of 100 100 % ○ departments, employees being dispatched overseas, newly p41 overseas, new marketing department employees, and newly hired times implemented / number of times planned) hired employees, and managers from domestic and overseas employees (100%). subsidiaries where study sessions have yet to be held. Continued to hold legal affairs training in marketing departments, Continue to hold legal affairs training for directors, corporate development departments, for employees being dispatched overseas and auditors, executive officers, marketing departments, development [Domestic and Overseas / Group companies] 100 100 % ○ newly hired employees. Started to hold 6 legal affairs study sessions departments, research departments, employees being dispatched p40 Legal affairs training implementation rate throughout the year in line with the action guidelines for directors, overseas and newly hired employees. Start to conduct legal affairs corporate auditors and executive officers. training for new managers using e-learning platform. Hold legal affairs training sessions for all employees on the Held e-learning training sessions on the meaning of insider trading meaning of insider trading prevention rules and procedures [Domestic] Insider trading prevention rules and internal procedures based on insider trading prevention rules 100 100 % ○ in conjunction with the exercising of employee stock options. training implementation rate (those targeted) for directors, executive officers and senior managers. All participants Strengthen monitoring of Unicharm stock trading by computerizing completed the training sessions. procedures. Continue to monitor and ensure proper reporting to the [Domestic / Group companies] Affiliate Ensured proper reporting to the headquarters in accordance with affiliate headquarters in accordance with affiliate management rules by management rules training implementation 100 100 % ○ management rules by utilizing TV conferences with overseas subsidiaries utilizing TV conferences with overseas subsidiaries and legal (affiliates) and legal audits. Monitoring was also performed. audits. Conducted legal audit at subsidiaries in China, India, Australia, Taiwan, Continue to conduct legal audits in countries not covered in the [Overseas] Implementation rate of legal affairs Saudi Arabia, and Vietnam, and proposed solutions for remedying previous year in accordance with the annual audit plan. Propose p40-41 100 100 % ○ audit plan problems found and taking legal steps to prevent inherent risks facing solutions for remedying problems found and take legal steps to each subsidiary prevent inherent risks facing each subsidiary [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious flaws or series deficiencies found in the ● Formulate BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk 0 0 cases ○ ● Formulated BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk items. company-wide management evaluation of items. ● Evaluated company-wide internal control (covering entities accounting internal control ● Evaluate company-wide internal control (covering entities for 95% of consolidated sales). [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious ● Evaluated operating process internal control (covering entities accounting for 95% of consolidated sales). flaws or series deficiencies found in the ● Evaluate operating process internal control (covering entities 0 0 cases ○ accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales) accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales). operational process management evaluation of internal control ● Managed customer information on a separate server. ● Continue to manage customer information on a separate server. [Domestic] Number of information divulgation 0 0 cases ○ ● Established system to immediately terminate the ID of lost or stolen ● Continue running system to immediately terminate the ID of lost incidents information equipment. or stolen information equipment. p41 Conducted changeover training drill in the event of a failure and verified ● Expand the number of systems requiring back-up assurance to 4. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of incidents 0 0 cases ○ that the system operated normally. ● Establish redundant Internet access environment where systems failed during a disaster ● Develop BCP sites across the domestic network unicharm CSR report 2013 21 Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2012 Unicharm Group’s Earn the trust of stakeholders by establishing and operating a system to implement the Continue to hold CSR Committee meetings and promote important CSR CSR management CSR PDCA cycle for CSR activities, and disclosing the details of such activities. themes Foster relationship of trust by recognizing stakeholder needs through stakeholder Promote activities that encourage communication with various General engagement and continually reflecting these needs in corporate activities. stakeholders Maintain growth that will earn the trust of shareholders and maintain industry-leading Stakeholder Stakeholder shareholder returns. Proactively disclose important information in a timely manner and Engagement engagement Strive to clarify accountability and improve management competencies in order to continue to hold dialogue in which senior management and persons Shareholders promote correct corporate management. in charge of investor relations meet with people working in the Actively disclose management information and strive to promote trustworthy corporate capital markets. management. Contribute to the realization of a bright society without discrimination by striving to Respect for human rights and prohibition of Continue to utilize and promote the employee consultation and Human Rights educate workplaces about human rights awareness and by promoting a workplace culture discrimination counseling hotline that respects the individual personalities and capabilities of each and every employee. Promotion of employment of persons with Continue to promote the employment of persons with disabilities disabilities Employees working together with respect for and trust of one another regardless of age, Respect for diversity gender, nationality, employment format, or disability. Promotion of rehiring Continue to promote the rehirement of employees after mandatory employees after retirement mandatory retirement ● Continue to conduct the employee satisfaction survey (every ● Foster year), identify issues and create policy a corporate culture that provides opportunities for equal self-realization and to ● Provide workplace environments where diverse human resources develop self confidence and pride, based on respect for each and every employees' can actively contribute Improved workplace environment autonomy. ● Make efforts to reduce the amount of overtime work (hold ● Foster the creation of a diverse and open group of persons that respect the values and company-wide no-overtime days) time of one another in all situations. ● Implement suggestion system and eradication of meaningless work Along with Our Employees Guarantee of safe Conduct Health & Safety Committee meeting workplace environment Occupational health Give utmost priority to employee health and safety, and guarantee comfortable workplace and safety environment. Promote employee health Implement mental health care training and return-to-work program and mental care Foster employees that are never satisfied with the status quo and always strive for Human resource development / utilization Implement global human resources development training personal development and to tackle new challenges. Under foundation of mutual trust between labor and management, achieve corporate Dialogue between labor and management growth together as well as maintain / improve employee labor conditions and ensuring a Hold discussions with the labor union stable lifestyle. Promote measures across the entire Unicharm Group (Japan: pink Take part if in activities based on the needs of local communities, build a relationship Along with the ribbon activities, child raising support project, provision of paper Social contribution activities of trust with the community and society, and contribute to improved health and hygiene Society diapers to Shikokuchuo City, and factory tours for employee family standards of people to make society more sound and dynamic. members) (China: pink ribbon activities, etc.) Reconstruction Take part in disaster relief activities (company-wide activities that Assistance for the Contribute to the safety of people and restoration of disaster-affected areas by providing combine the provision of relief supplies, matching donations, and Disaster relief activities Great East Japan assistance to every extent possible as a manufacturer that provides daily essentials. assistance to disaster-affected areas with super cool biz summer Earthquake dress code). 22 unicharm CSR report 2013 Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2012 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2013 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report [Domestic] CSR Committee meeting 100 100 ％ ○ Held CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. Hold CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. p6 implementation rate [Domestic] Employee CSR report reading Held employee CSR report reading sessions in small group meetings at Continue to implement employee CSR report reading sessions in 100 100 ％ ○ p7 session implementation rate all business divisions/departments in Japan. Japan. [Domestic] Financial presentation Senior management presented performance results to investors at 100 100 ％ ○ Hold financial presentation briefings (in Japan). implementation rate (Japan) financial presentations (in Japan). Senior management used overseas investors relations roadshows to [Overseas] IR tour implementation rate 100 100 ％ ○ Hold investor relations roadshows overseas. hold dialogue with major overseas institutional investors. p39 Persons in charge of investor relations met individually with investors [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate on more than 300 occasions both in Japan and overseas to explain 100 100 ％ ○ Hold individual meetings with investors. of meetings with individual investors about the business operations of the Company to persons working in the capital markets. [Domestic] Employee consultation and Responded to all consultations received by the employee consultation Continue to respond to consultations received by the employee 100 100 ％ ○ p40 counseling hot line response rate and counseling hotline. consultation and counseling hotline. Promoted workplaces where employees with disabilities can In addition to developing a workplace environment, proactively [Domestic] Employment rate of persons with contribute their skills and expertise, and making workplaces barrier1.8 1.7 ％ △ hire persons with disabilities throughout the year at a wide range disabilities free. Proactively continued to promote employment of persons with of workplaces and for different job types. disabilities. Had a 100% rehirement rate of employees after mandatory retirement. p34 Continue to implement current initiative and hold life planning Interviews held between future retirees and their supervisors on training sessions for employees 58 years of age along with [Domestic] Rehirement rate after mandatory future career options one year prior to mandatory retirement. System 60 79.2 ％ ○ interviews. Continue to actively increase the number of employees retirement established to promote rehirement after mandatory retirement based on seeking rehirement after mandatory retirement. Newly introduce feedback received from the individual, providing them with the most assessment system. appropriate choice and seat. Increased frequency of employee satisfaction survey to twice annually. Continue to implement the employee satisfaction survey, which [Domestic] Number of times employee 2 2 times ○ Confirmed employees' current situation and satisfaction with work and was increased to twice annually last year, and reflect results in satisfaction survey conducted reflected this in various management initiatives. management initiatives policies. p34-35 Posted maternity and parenting leave guidelines on the intranet. Provided [Domestic] Turnover rate due to pregnancy or 8 0 ％ ○ an opportunity at the back-to-work interview for persons on leave to Continue to implement current initiatives. childcare discuss their work format after returning and their childcare needs. Implemented once per month according to annual plan. Employees [Domestic] No-overtime day implementation 100 100 ％ ○ notified by audio announcements and email. Revised employment rules Continue to hold once per month according to annual plan. rate took effect April 2012. p34-35 [Domestic] Submission rate of proposals for Each and every one of the 1325 employees submitted one proposal to Move forward with proposals to eradicate meaningless work and 100 100 ％ ○ eradicating meaningless work eradicate meaningless work after taking stock of their work. link these with organizational reform themes. Held once per month according to the annual plan. Held health [Domestic] Health & Safety Committee meeting 100 100 ％ ○ management guidance led by industrial physicians and worked to reduce Hold once per month according to the annual plan. implementation rate employee working hours. Implement employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Implemented employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Also Provide information on health-check up options and results [Domestic] Health check-up screening rate 100 100 ％ ○ provided post-exam care and recommendations for employees requiring p35 via e-learning. Also, continue to provide post-exam care and second screening. recommendations for employees requiring second screening. [Domestic] Mental health care and adult onset Held mental health training for employees based on their job title as well Continue to hold training on mental health and adult onset disease improvement training implementation 100 100 ％ ○ as an e-learning program. Held a group and e-learning training program disease. Initiate measures to prohibit smoking during work hours rate (for those applicable) on remedying adult onset diseases. in 2014. In addition to induction, professional development, training programs aimed at different ability levels and areas, and training for newly [Domestic] Theme-based and rank-based appointed managers and officers, also provided leadership training Continue to hold current training programs. training program implementation rate (for 100 100 ％ ○ p34 programs for managers through the Unicharm Business College, those applicable) which has a strong management focus, and overseas business trip accompanying the president. [Domestic] Number of discussions held with Held a wide range of discussions on employment issues, health Continue to hold discussions once per month and initiate 12 12 times ○ p35 the labor union management measures, and rules deliberations, etc. measures to prohibit smoking during work hours in 2014. Promoted measures across the entire Unicharm Group (● Japan: pink ribbon activities, child raising support project in 'paper city' & provision of baby paper diapers to Shikokuchuo City , carbon offset initiatives, [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate Continue to implement activities promoted on a company-wide 100 100 ％ ○ excretion care lectures etc. ● China: pink ribbon activities ● India: p36-37 of company-wide activities level. providing learning opportunities about first menstrual period. ● Taiwan: pink ribbon activities and donations provided to social welfare group, etc.) Continued to provided assistance to disaster-affected areas (● Great East Japan Earthquake: donated masks, organized matching fund during [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate Continue to provide assistance to those areas affected by the Great 100 100 ％ ○ Super Cool Biz employee dress code that donated Humany nursingp19 of relief to disaster-affected areas. East Japan Earthquake. care robots. In FY2012, initiative was newly expanded to the Warm Biz employee dress code to promote company-wide activities). *Qualitative goal is set as 100%. Self Evaluation Standards: ○ = Goal achieved △ = Mostly achieved × = No Progress unicharm CSR report 2013 23 Along with Our Customers Unicharm will contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone in the world by Ideal offering world’s first and world-leading product and service of the finest quality and safety Vision that will bring comfort, excitement, and joy to its customers around the world. Communicating with customers Initiatives of the Customer Service Center At the Customer Service Center, our fundamental goal management system that complies with ISO10002. In is to improve customer satisfaction by responding to the March 2013, our subsidiary in Taiwan became our first valuable feedback we receive from our customers in a overseas subsidiary prompt, fair and sincere manner. In FY2012, the Customer to make a voluntary Service Center received approximately 46,000 calls. The declaration of conformity. feedback we received was in turn shared widely with These represent part related departments inside the company and used to of our initiatives for help improve our products and services. improving customer In July 2006, we made a voluntary declaration of satisfaction across the conformity in our complaint response management entire Group. Customer Service Center 90.5% system in line with ISO10002. At our customer service centers overseas in countries such as China, Thailand, Taiwan, and Indonesia, we have been promoting customer the horizontal deployment of a complaint response satisfaction ● Main Initiatives of the Customer Service Center Main initiatives Contents We organize training programs to enhance our specialist knowledge, including sessions led by external instructors and 1. Responder training other informative workshops, in order to improve the quality of our response. We share customer feedback with related departments in a timely manner through weekly and monthly report. This 2. Reflection in products feedback is used to improve existing products and develop new products, in order to provide customers with products that are safe and convenient. Customer feedback is shared internally in real-time using our centralized customer information management system, 3. Information or the SMILE system. Report meetings with business departments and product package confirmation meetings dissemination (Communication Guarantee Meeting) are also held to ensure feedback is utilized to improve products from a customer standpoint. The Development and Manufacturing departments organize training sessions for new employees and other 4. Customer Service employees that wish to participate in order to reinforce understanding of customer inclinations and quality. In Center training FY2012, 595 employees took part in these training sessions. 5. Strengthen collaboration The initiatives of our customer service centers located around the world are being shared to help improve customer with overseas customer satisfaction across the entire Unicharm Group, including its overseas subsidiaries. This information is also being used service centers to improve our response skills based on ISO10002 complaint response MS and to step up inter-office collaboration. ● Unicharm Complaint Response Policy (1) Customer feedback will be centrally managed by the Company’s customer service centers and addressed in a fair and impartial manner in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) complaint response process manual and ISO10002 complaint response process documentation. Information concerning defects in a product or service will be reported to the President & CEO and steps will be taken immediately to remedy the problem. (2) In the case customer feedback must be redressed, related departments will work together to immediately rectify the situation and prevent future reoccurrences in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) redress and preventive measure procedure manual. (3) We will strive to reflect the valuable feedback of customers in future products and services. We will take customer feedback seriously and exert our best efforts so that each department works together to ensure that customers are satisfied. ● Example of customer feedback reflected in our products We received feedback from Customer requesting a customer that the labeling of the absorption amount improvements to Customer requesting was difficult to read and labeling on the they requested it be made the development of absorption amount of clearer. In response to this, scented masks We launched sales tampons we modified the label in of scented masks in autumn 2012. January 2013. 24 unicharm CSR report 2013 Activities of customer service centers at our overseas subsidiaries Along with Our 2nd Global Customer Service Center Conference In 2012, we held the 2nd Global Customer Service Center to customer feedback Customers Conference. Employees from our customer service centers in a prompt, sincere and around the world took part to discuss their approaches to polite manner, regardless customer service and the challenges they currently face. of their location. This conference served as an ideal platform for sharing the response policy and rules of the Unicharm Group globally. Each of our customer service centers responds Global Customer Service Center Conference Feedback from Global Customer Service Center Conference Participants China Customer Service Center Thailand Customer Service Center In China, we focus on three key tenants, “the customer We strive to solve the concerns of our customers by always comes first,” “put yourself in the customer’s shoes,” responding promptly to improve customer satisfaction and “always practice the basics,” based on the belief that by enhancing the quality of our products and services. the customer service center We are committed to giving serves as a bridge between out best efforts so that our the company and customers. customers recognize us as We are always grateful for number one in customer the recommendations and service. feedback we receive from customers. Taiwan Customer Service Center Indonesia Customer Service Center In March 2013, the Taiwan Customer Service Center Because the Indonesia market for feminine hygiene made a voluntary declaration of conformity in its products is still relatively in its infancy, our goal is to complaint response management system in line with further improve the quality of life of consumers there by ISO10002. During the preparation for this we sped up the providing information about our products and how to process for compiling documents and establishing the correctly use them. We are also committed to improving system environment. Day customer satisfaction in and day out we respond by understanding the to customer feedback constantly changing needs in a timely manner by of our customers and sharing working closely with related these within the company to departments and the Japan improve our products. Customer Service Center. United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Voluntary declaration of conformity with ISO10002 Letter of thanks from a customer Indonesia Letters of thanks are displayed at the factory unicharm CSR report 2013 25  ommunication with customers C Insight research, R&D, and using various media marketing As a specialized manufacturer, Unicharm provides information on continence care, first menstruation, and parenting to customers within Japan. In March 2012, a  hree-pronged approach involving T Facebook page for Moony was established to provide insight research, R&D, and a platform for new moms to communicate with one another. In conjunction with “Baby Town”, which boasts marketing approximately 600,000 members, this social media page We practice a model of manufacturing that closely disseminates parenting information to customers. In reflects customer needs by adhering to the motto April 2013, we revamped our educational website for Maintain our No.1 position through continued and first menstruation called “First Body Navi” and added dedicated service ingrained in our DNA. We thoroughly additional content. In addition, we have developed observe the lifestyle and consumption style of consumers corporate websites for overseas locations aimed at and pursue the true needs that exist in their subconscious. strengthening online communication with customers We are committed to developing products that exceed both in Japan and abroad. customer expectations by leveraging our customeroriented creativity. In order to promote a more extensive global reach, we are developing products localized to meet the needs of each region and market. While Unicharm products are considered daily necessities, there are some countries where paper diapers are regarded as a luxury or that are not accustomed to using paper diapers throughout the day. Taking each country's customs and First Body Navi Pre-Mama Town needs into consideration, we are creating unprecedented http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.premama.jp/ new value in our products that balances function with girls/ Baby Town cost, making these products more accessible to all. http://www.babytown.jp/ As such, we aim to continue developing products that suit the local needs of each region by combining the forces of insight research, research and development, and Consumer visit and questionnaire marketing. in India Moony on Facebook Mild Incontinence Navi  ooperation between R & D and http://www.facebook.com/ http://www.nyoucare.jp/ moony.japan C Engineering Using an organizational structure consisting of research, development, and engineering (R&D&E), Unicharm promotes research and development in an interdepartmental approach that encompasses five departments. These departments engage in various types of basic research on an ongoing basis while the new Continence Care Navi Unicharm Human Care technologies and materials they develop continuously http://www.carenavi.jp/ http://www.humany.jp/ provide improvements for existing products and create completely new ones as well. In addition, we have set up research centers in key geographic areas, creating an infrastructure capable of developing products that truly meet local needs. India site Saudi Arabia site Product testing http://www.unicharm.co.in/ http://www.unicharm.com.sa/ 26 unicharm CSR report 2013 Quality Management Initiatives at Unicharm Product Along with Our As a quality assurance initiative at Unicharm Product, we use information concerning faulty products that we  nicharm’ U s view of quality receive from customers in Japan to share information Customers assurance and framework and enhance process management aimed at preventing future occurrences. In addition, all of our employees To promote quality management at Unicharm, we continually take part in process improvement activities have aligned our quality policy with our Medium-Term using the UTMSS* approach. As a quality improvement Management Plan and undertake internal and external measure at our overseas subsidiaries, we help support audits to confirm the conformity and effectiveness of quality reviews for factory launch and provide instructions our systems. We continually strive to improve these by on the framework for evaluating export products. putting in place corrective and preventative measures. All of our business offices in Japan and overseas have * UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System acquired ISO9001. Based on this standard, we have implemented a quality management system (QMS) throughout our supply chain. It is our intention to push ahead with initiatives for uniform quality improvements in the management of our business and operations globally. Ensuring product safety To provide safe products that our customers can use with peace of mind, a framework that thoroughly checks safety in the product development process is vital. As such, we have established our standards in “Guidelines for Material Safety” and “Guidelines for Toxic Chemical Substances” to prevent the commingling of chemical substances toxic to humans and the environment at the UTMSS Initiative in India — Voluntary workshop of skill transfer material procurement stage. Our respective specialist departments also perform prior confirmation of materials. At the product development stage, we hold Safety Assessment Committee meetings which effectively  romoting appropriate product P function to conduct risk assessments for potential misuse labeling of new materials and new structures. In an effort to provide accurate information to our customers, we verify that our product labels and ● Safety Assessment Framework advertisements comply with relevant regulations as well as voluntary industry standards and that they are easy to Product Transport Safety Safety Material Safety Design Manufacturing Safety & Storage During During understand to avoid misunderstandings and misuse. We Safety Safety Use Disposal also set up a Communication Guarantee Meeting which Unicharm Group Guidelines for Material Safety effectively functions to verify and evaluate the scientific basis for product labeling during the product design Guidelines for Toxic Chemical Substances stage as well as to collaborate across the Group to achieve the most adequate and precise labeling possible. Safety Assessment Committees 1 and 2 Global Safety Activities Unicharm’s policy on safety is to comply with laws and industry standards and to apply its own company standards on top of this. Since April 2007, we have had a safety framework in operation, which is now implemented by our local subsidiaries in China, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Indonesia. In addition, we visit our suppliers, Communication Guarantee Meeting testing partners and governments in each country to step up communication in order to deliver safe and secure products to our customers through a joint effort. unicharm CSR report 2013 27 Along with the Environment We will contribute to the sustainable development of a society which maintains a balance Ideal between conservation of the environment and economic growth through the creation of Vision environmentally friendly manufacturing. Promotion framework for environmental activities  ur attitude toward the O All employees of Unicharm are committed environment to environmental activities following the Basic Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action Unicharm’s products consist mainly of sanitary goods, Guidelines developed based on our corporate which are mostly consumables that have an impact on philosophical framework (Unicharm Ideals, Beliefs and the environment, whether through the use of natural Pledges and Corporate Principles of Action). We carefully resources or occurrence of waste. As we have expanded monitor the impact our business activities have on the our operations globally centered on Asia in order to environment, and we are promoting initiatives to reduce provide better products to consumers around the world, our environmental impacts and improve our economic our role and responsibility for reducing our environmental efficiency aimed at achieving a sustainable society. impact has also increased with each passing year. Basic Environmental Policy Environmental Action Guidelines As a company that engages in the manufacture ● Abide by all laws and regulations and sale of disposable products, we recognize the extent of our responsibility to the environment. ● Make sound choices for the environment Through our corporate activities we strive to create ● Eliminate waste environmentally friendly products so that we may in the future pass on a beautiful earth to future ● Learn more about environmental issues generations. We are committed to providing goods ● Enhance productivity and services that bring comfort, excitement, and ●S hare efforts for helping to improve the joy to people throughout the world and we are determined to realize the sustainable development environment of a society that achieves a balance between ● Reduce the use of natural resources environmental conservation and economic growth.  romotion framework for P our business. In addition, Unicharm has been promoting environmental activities the ISO14001 standard as a means to improving Unicharm has constructed a top-down environmental environmental performance, and partially integrated management system. it into its quality management system (QMS) based on In the past, environmental initiatives were promoted the ISO9001 standard. We believe in accounting for the using working groups created under the Environmental environmental impacts of our business activities and Task Force within the CSR Committee. However, we have promoting environmental friendliness as an important now tied in environmental activities with the business aspect of our product quality. As such, we are committed activities of each department, allowing environmental to improving the environment by means of the PDCA efforts to be incorporated into and promoted through cycle. ● Environmental Management Structure CSR Committee and related groups Environmental / ISO Promotion Group, Global Quality Assurance Department Unicharm Product Marketing Purchasing Manufacturing Distribution Sales Value chain development 28 unicharm CSR report 2013 Environmental impact and environmental goals  onitoring the environmental impact M responsible manufacturer that utilizes resources, we engage in efforts to improve the environment at every stage of the of products during the entire lifecycle supply chain through all of our business activities, from the As a manufacturer of consumer products, Unicharm uses procurement of materials to manufacturing, transport, and resources in various aspects of its business activities. As a disposal of products after use. ● Environmental impact from a lifecycle perspective INPUT OUTPUT Along with the Environment Production Input Discharge Water & Steam 3,844,368tons Materials Resources Transport manufacturer Raw Materials & Raw Materials & Auxiliary Nox 24.2 tons Fluvial Discharge & Auxiliary Materials 33.6 tons Atmospheric Release Materials 368,171tons Sox CO2 140,667 tons Electricity 219,822,000kWh Heavy oil 5,157kl Effluent 27,065 tons Outsourced Disposal 703 tons Resources Water 4,726,379tons Effluent outside sites 24,435 tons Recycle 23,733 tons Utility gas 1,068,000m3 Production Products Incinerated waste 2,630 tons LPG 1,869tons Products 355,734 ton Thermal Recycling Transport Input CO2 35,770 tons Transport Atmospheric Release Resources Diesel 13,722 kl Nox 249 tons Wholesale & Retail Stores Waste 953,000 tons Consumption Containers and packaging Waste & Incineration Third party Assurance (P42): mark is shown where 10,500 tons applicable. Aggregation period: April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013 Scope: Unicharm Group companies in Japan as stated below. Unicharm Corporation (Headquarters, Global R&D Division, Mie Factory, Itami Factory, Saitama Factory, Sales Division (Electricity and CO 2 only), Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. (Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, Shikoku Factory), Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. (Factory No. 1, Factory No. 2, Factory No. 3, Kokko Plant), Uni Care, Cosmotec Corporation Policies and standards: Aggregation based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information in accordance with relevant environmental laws and regulations including the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Notes: 1. The CO2 emission coefficient is determined in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. However, the officially published figure of 0.510kg-CO2 /kWh by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (before reflecting the 2010 Kyoto Mechanisms Credit) is used for electricity. 2. Discharge includes industrial waste, general waste from offices, and recyclables. 3. Figures estimated from incinerator operations at the Fukushima Factory are used for the volume of incinerated waste materials.  nvironmental Goals and Action E electricity due to the shutdown of nuclear power plants Plan in Japan. As a result, we will change our indicator to energy usage divided by basic unit per net sales and take In FY2012, we reached all of our environmental goals company-wide steps to reduce our CO2 emissions. (however, only when total CO2 emissions are calculated We were also able to achieve our goals for other using basic unit of electricity and CO2 from FY2011). themes, including waste reduction. Going forward, we Total CO2 emissions were largely affected by external will continue to promote business activities that are factors, such as the marked drop in the CO2 basic unit of considerate of the environment. ● FY2012 results and FY2013 goals Theme of the Activity Indicator Base Year FY2012 Goal FY2012 Result Assessment FY2013 Goal FY2015 Goal Total CO2 emissions 2000 -22% -22% ○ − − Reducing CO2 emissions Energy use (GJ) / base unit per net sales (millions of yen) − − 10.8 − 10.7 10.5 Reducing waste Total emissions at the 3 main factories 2000 -12% -14.3% ○ -13% -15% Recycling resources Recycling ratio at the three main facilities − Over 99% 99.1% ○ Over 99% Over 99% Development of environmentally Ratio of environmentally friendly products − Over 60% 62% ○ 65% 70% friendly products ［Assessment］○：Achieved target △：Rate of achievement: 70% under 100% ×：Rate of achievement: Less than 70% unicharm CSR report 2013 29 Environmental initiatives through Eco Charming Product Cat Litter Newly Released our products The left-over pulp and polymers resulting from Unicharm has set a target ratio for environmentally product loss during the disposable diaper manufacturing friendly products as part of its environmental goals process, which were once treated as waste products, are in promoting the development of environmentally now recycled as raw material for producing paper litter friendly products. Products are evaluated for whether for cats. Paper litter for cats efficiently utilizes resources environmental impacts are successfully reduced within such as pulp that were the life cycle from the baseline figures of FY2005. In traditionally difficult to recycle, FY2012, we achieved a ratio of 62% environmentally thereby meeting the standards friendly products, compared to our goal of 60%. We as an Eco Charming product. have set a goal of 65% for FY2013 to further expand our We now offer Eco Charming environmentally friendly product line. products in the pet product line Since the inception of our proprietary environmental for both cats and dogs. label, the Eco Charming mark in 2008, a total of 23 products have come to bear this label. In FY2012, Deosand Deodorizing Paper Litter became the latest VOICE product to be given the Eco Charming mark. Unicharm Corporation What is Eco Charming mark? Unicharm PetCare Company Only products that satisfy strict standards for both Toiletry Business Division “reduced environmental impact” and “product value enhancements” are Masaaki Sugimoto eligible to bear the Eco Charming Deosand Deodorizing Paper Litter is a newly mark. Decisions on applying the Eco developed paper litter that deodorizes any Charming mark to a product are unpleasant smell resulting from cat's urine and based on an environmental standard feces using fragrance. Using the paper litter Eco Charming established in our Eco Label Guidelines. mark technology of Peparlet Co. Ltd., which is part of the Unicharm Group, the paper litter product Products that use the Eco Charming mark is highly effective in its basic function as a deodorizer and waste solidifier. The product is environmentally friendly as it recycles material loss from diaper products as one of its raw materials. It is our hope to continue our contribution of addressing consumer needs while providing more 62% environmentally friendly products in the future. ratio of environmentally friendly products Impact on child-rearing ●A  mount of waste from threeyear use Unicharm has successfully maintained the absorbency of disposable diapers 27% reduction 38% reduction while drastically reducing its pulp use using its proprietary technologies. The thickness of our disposable diaper products has been reduced by approximately 60% in comparison to products from 20 years ago. We 1510kg 275kg 930kg performed a trial calculation on the environmental impacts resulting from the 200kg use of disposable diapers for the entire duration of child-rearing (roughly three 20 years ago Now 20 years ago Now years) and determined the amount of waste equals approximately 200 kg and the amount of CO2 emissions equals approximately 930 kg. In comparison ●A  mount of CO2 emission from to our products from 20 years ago, the waste three-year use (LCA) amount has been reduced by about 75 kg, 27% reduction 38% reduction while CO2 emissions have been reduced by about 580 kg. 1510kg This trial calculation is also demonstrated in Eco 275kg 930kg Products 2012, which attracted the attention from 200kg many participants at the event. 20 years ago Now 20 years ago Now 30 unicharm CSR report 2013 Initiative to reduce environmental impacts through our business activities Installation of solar power generation system Due to the severe power shortage following the Great East Japan Earthquake, we installed a solar power generation system at our three main factories in Japan, namely Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, and Shikoku Factory. The combined annual power generation capacity of the three Along with the factories exceeds 5 MW, with an estimated 5,300 thousand kWh of total power generated in FY2013. This equals about 2.4% of the Unicharm Group’s power usage in Japan (converted based on FY2012 results), which is enough Environment to supply electricity to approximately 1,600 homes.  nergy conservation activity among E  ero landfilled waste achieved at Z domestic offices our Thailand Factory Due to the severe power shortage following the Great The system of breaking down and separating offEast Japan Earthquake, a power restriction target was specification products has been introduced to the established for seven of our domestic business locations manufacturing process at Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd., in FY2012. During the fiscal year, we strived to reduce a subsidiary of the Unicharm Group. As a result, 93% of power usage by 30% from FY2010. Starting this year, the total waste produced at the factory is now reused. This initiative has been expanded to all of our regional sales together with its other recycling initiatives enabled the offices in Japan, where we achieved a 30% reduction factory to achieve zero landfilled waste. since FY2010. Going forward, we will continue to promote the efficient use of electricity. Joint carbon offset initiative with Tsuruha ● Total CO2 emissions from domestic offices (FY2012) Holdings, Inc. receives the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Prize (Unit: kWh) ■FY2010 results ■FY2012 results Target (-30% from FY2010) 250,000 Unicharm purchased domestic emission credits 200,000 generated by Tsuruha Holdings, Inc. (referred to as 150,000 Tsuruha HD below) using part of the proceeds from 100,000 Unicharm products sold at drugstores owned by 50,000 Tsuruha HD to offset one month of CO2 emissions from 0 April May June July August September October November December January February March our Fukushima Factory located within the disaster30% 2012 2013 affected area. Tsuruha HD also donated a part of the reduction in total power use among proceeds to disaster affected areas. This effort follows domestic offices achieved a new business model which involves collaboration between manufacturers, retailers, and consumers in using domestic credits to support the earthquake and tsunami Introducing eco-friendly cars to our reconstruction effort in areas affected by the disaster. sales fleet Our initiative and assistance provided through the carbon credit utilization scheme was recognized for its Our sales vehicles are gradually being replaced with contributions to the promotion of carbon offsetting and hybrid cars. The ratio of new hybrid cars deployed in was awarded with the Minister of Economy, Trade and FY2012 increased by 23.6% from the previous fiscal year Industry Prize at the 2nd Carbon Offset Awards. to 48% (62.2% rate of increase if excluding colder climates which require 4WD vehicles). This initiative yielded a 17% reduction in total CO2 emissions from our sales fleet. ●U  tilization of Domestic Emission Credit Scheme in Support of Disasters Reconstruction Business with emission reduction Disaster Tsuruha HD Donate affected areas Domestic Iwate Prefecture Purchase price emission credits Miyagi Prefecture Business using credits Unicharm Fukushima Prefecture unicharm CSR report 2013 31 Along with Our Employees At Unicharm we recognize that a company’s growth and development depend on the growth and development of the individuals who make up the organization. Therefore, Ideal we view the training and development of our human resources as among the most Vision important tasks of management. We will not be satisfied with the status quo and will never cease challenging ourselves to excel beyond the current situation. View concerning human resources and respect for human rights Unicharm Group’s Human Resource Philosophy Human Resource Philosophy 1. Human perspective ◆ We recognize that our employees are autonomous At Unicharm we value the autonomy of each and every individuals, and we respect individual initiative individual, based on Unicharm’s “Beliefs and Pledges” and based on freedom and individual responsibility. Corporate Principles of Action. We endeavor to provide ◆ We believe that each employee is aware of her/his fair opportunities for our employees to find fulfillment in respective missions and roles, and that we are all their work and to create a corporate culture that fosters independent, active beings who think and act on the development of confidence and pride. our own. ● Unicharm HR Philosophy Chart 2. The organization and the individual ◆ We, people with common interests and aspirations, “Human beings”as the foundation of our company values will work together in harmony, and together we will create a vision of the future and share the joy of our In order to support our “company management to growth as a whole. serve the common good” into the future, we will continue ◆ With market principles as one of our fundamental to be a group of experts who create and disseminate principles, we will pursue the integration of dynamic staffing systems that actualize and motivate our organizational and individual development, and the employees, trusted by our employees all over the world. realization of “the three aspects of wealth.” 3. Growth and creation ◆ By improving the ways in which we learn from each other and the diverse values we all hold, we will continue to pursue the creation of new values. ◆ We will provide our employees with opportunities Invariant for growth and will continue to create opportunities principle for the demonstration of such growth. HR Philosophy Our view of human rights The meaning of our As the “Unicharm Group Action Guidelines” clearly state, existence in order to achieve our “Pledge to Associates” we will never discriminate against people based on race, religion, gender, family background, physical disability, or any other factors; that we will not tolerate child labor or forced labor; that we Common values/ will never engage in acts of sexual harassment or power criteria for judgment harassment; and that we will undertake comprehensive safety and health management in the workplace. ● Human resources data (With the exception of (1) and (2) , which reflect the entire Unicharm Group and the Unicharm Group in Japan, respectively, the data here does not include consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates) Index Fiscal Year Unit 2010 2011 2012 (1) Number of employees(consolidated) Person 7,317 10,287 10,855 (2) Number of employees(Japan) Person 3,020 3,027 3,009 Employment (3) Average age of employees Age 40.8 40.3 40.6 (4) Employee turnover rate (Excluding retirement at the mandatory age, promotion to ％ 1.5 1.9 1.5 board member, and transfer within the group) (5) Percentage of female employees ％ 21.0 21.7 22.1 (6) Percentage of female management staff ％ 3.3 2.6 2.4 (7) Employment rate of persons with disabilities (annual average) ％ 1.9 1.8 1.7 Diversity, Equal (8) Rehiring rate of retired employees ％ 73 65 79 Opportunity and (9) Health check-up rate ％ 100 100 100 Occupational Safety and (10) Employee turnover rate for pregnancy or childcare ％ 0 0.1 0 Health (11) Use of childcare leave system Total number of men and women Person 29 46 57 (12) Use of family-care leave system Total number of men and women Person 1 4 0 (13) U se of shortened work hours system for childcare Total number of men and women Person 32 49 45 (14) Use of flextime system for personal lifestyle support Total number of men and women Person 25 31 50 *1 As of March 31 of each year *2 Only applies to full-time employees *3 (4) Employee turnover rate = Number of terminated employees (except for retirement at mandatory retirement age, promotion to board members, or transfer within the group) / Number of employees at the end of each fiscal year (March 31) *4 (6) Percentage of female management staff = Number of female management staff / Total number of management staff *5 (8) Rehiring rate of retired employees = Number of rehired employees /Number of retired employees (at mandatory retirement age) 32 unicharm CSR report 2013  APS management: Emphasis on respect for people and a sense of accomplishment S The purpose of SAPS management, a system that has ● 6 essentials of SAPS Management been in operation at Unicham since 2004, is to foster 1. Respect for people employees’ overall happiness through the recognition that employees’ time is valuable and that they will feel 2. Emphasis on a sense of accomplishment more satisfied if their time and efforts are focused on 3. Emphasis on time competitiveness high-priority (high value-added) issues. To achieve this (Time-based management) goal, we put together a company-wide group to work on and implement the 6 essentials of SAPS management. 4. Knowledge management With SAPS management, we aim to respect the autonomy 5. Emphasis on curiosity and entrepreneurship of individuals with diverse values and to foster that same sense of respect among all employees so that they 6. Mentality change will share in the joy of the growth of the organization as a whole. Through SAPS management, we proceed toward the realization of “the three aspects of wealth”: “aspiration,” “economy,” and “mind and body.” Global expansion of management with resonance – The President’ s Award Along with Our Unicharm established the “President’s Award,” which video-conference system, honorees share their successful may be awarded to any employee, including overseas result for the year with more than 1,500 employees Employees group employees, to recognize any individual or watching the live report. The “President’s Award” is team that has achieved outstanding results through more than an employee awards program, and works promoting SAPS management, based on our philosophy systemically to promote leadership development through of management with resonance. In a presentation that providing opportunities to simulate good practices and is broadcast to about 60 bases worldwide through our learn from each other. The President’s Award 2012, Winner of “Gold Prize for Teams” Indonesia Taiwan China Central Java, Institutional Development Department, FC Business Department, West Java and IAP Jabodetabek Joint Team Sales Division Product Development Division PT Uni-Charm Indonesia United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Any comments on winning the award? Any comments on winning the award? Any comments on winning the award? We were determined not to go back to All members of the Institutional Development We couldn’t believe it, but were really happy. Indonesia without winning the “Gold.” We & Marketing Departments were profoundly We all shared our happiness with each other. were just very happy. d(*^v^*)b grateful for the support from Headquarters and We will try to win the Gold Award next time! senior members of Unicharm. We will try to be How did you spend the million yen prize money? How did you spend the million yen prize No.1 again in the future. Indonesia stretches east to west for 5,110 money? km, is 5.5 times larger than Japan, and How did you spend the million yen prize money? We held an appreciation gathering with consists of 18,110 large and small islands. We spent half of it on a social gathering the members who couldn’t take time away After much discussion, we decided to use the in August and on the purchase of from work to attend the ceremony in prize money to improve our communication commemorative shirts for all employees plus Tokyo, including those in sales, production, with each other, including holding social a bonus of 300 yuan/person in cash. With packaging, and research. gatherings and purchasing video conference the other half we gave each member of the systems for smaller branches. Institutional Development Department a cash bonus as well as a suitcase. unicharm CSR report 2013 33 Personnel utilization and training Expansion of education and training programs In order to enhance employees’ motivation and awareness on a number of levels, Unicharm makes use of upskilling programs that provide employees with a sense of their own growth. ● Our distinctive training programs Title Eligible people Summary (1) Transitioning from student-life to working-life (rewiring) (2) Deepening employees’ understanding of the “3 DNAs” of Unicharm (3) Understanding Unicharm’s persistent emphasis on “mono-dukuri or manufacturing excellence” For eligible Training for new employees (4) Understanding Unicharm’s persistent emphasis on a “customer-oriented approach” people (5) Experience the importance of working as an organization (team selling), and understanding Unicharm’s persistent emphasis on “target oriented” and “target achievement” approaches (6) Creating your own “10-year career vision & plan” By A program that offers learning places and learning opportunities that cross boundaries of “time and space,” regardless of Unicharm Business College invitation location (within or outside of Japan) and job category. For eligible An upskilling program for “leaders/educators” in order to realize and spread our unique business model, the “SAPS SAPS Trainer's CAMP people management model.” For eligible A workshop program for veteran employees in their early fifties to develop action plans by utilizing their accumulated insights Unicharm Spirits Masters people and skills in order to demonstrate their powers of execution and foster younger employees. Overseas Business Trip By By accompanying senior members on overseas business trips, participants have the opportunity to observe and learn about Accompanying Program invitation the thoughts and actions of senior management members. Provides employees with the tools and a system for designing and developing individualized 10-year career plans, and for For all 10-year career vision & plan completing their own action plans. The tools can also be used for communication with management, in order to support each employees employee in achieving her/his own goals. A cooperative training program established by several companies for the purpose of allowing participants to enhance their Workplace Exchange Participation own skills and improve their own issues & weaknesses. Interaction with participants from other companies is expected to Workshop by lottery provide all participants with inspiration and insights that may not be available within a single workplace. Training program for For eligible A preparation program to enable employees posted overseas to implement their business plans soon after arrival in order to employees posted overseas people produce fruitful outputs. Respect for Diversity Various Support Systems In order to create opportunities for all employees to demonstrate their skills and talents to the fullest, Unicharm strives to provide employees with an improved workplace environment in which they can work with enthusiasm. ● Various Support Systems to respect diversity System Eligible people Summary Birth Support Leave Program Employees who undergoing fertility treatment Leave for advanced fertility treatment (up to 1 year) Shortened work hours system for For employees who have a child/children up to the third year of Working hours can be shortened to 5 hours a day childcare elementary school For employees who have family member(s) in need of continuous By application, up to 5 days leave/year is available for one family Nursing-care leave nursing care for more than 2 weeks as a result of of injury, member, up to 10 days leave/year for 2 or more family members sicknesses, or physical or mental disorders. who require nursing-care. Former Unicharm employees who worked for more than 3 years and They are eligible for re-employment within a five-year period (from resigned from employment for various reasons such as marriage, Career Recovery System time of resignation), provided that both the former employee and pregnancy, childbirth, childrearing, nursing-care, or accompanying the company reach a certain agreement. spouses on business transfers. The required number of days leave to appear in court as a citizenCivic duties leave Employees who are selected as citizen-judges judge is available by application. Up to 7 business days leave per 1 donation of bone marrow Bone marrow donors leave Employees who wish to donate their bone marrow available by application, for the procedures required for donation to a patient in the working country (except for donor registration). Employment of people with physical disabilities We aim to provide work places where people with well. Above all, we promote a physical disabilities can exercise their expertise and barrier-free company culture utilize their talents. We promote and develop barrierto support the appropriate free work places so that wheelchairs can easily move work outputs and provide from the parking lot to the office. Our bathrooms are for the full potential and Unicharm employees who also wheelchair accessible and assistive devices have motivation of people with participated in the London been installed to make stairs wheelchair accessible as physical disabilities. Paralympics, 2012 34 unicharm CSR report 2013 Unicharm Family Plant Visit Days Industrial health and safety Unicharm holds Family Visit Days at all of our plants both in Japan and overseas, to welcome the families of employees for a tour of the plant. We received comments Company-wide safety conventions from participants, such as “I was impressed by how quickly We hold company-wide safety conventions as part production of the various products was completed,” as of our efforts to ensure employee safety. The 10th well as from employees, such as “I was happy to show my convention was held in 2012 at the Central Plant, Shikoku family my working site.” factory, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Mr. Ishikawa, president of Unicharm Products Co., Ltd., presented the company’s wish for the safety of all employees is embodied in the “Sazareishi The 10th company-wide Family Plant Visit Day in Indonesia Family Plant Visit Day in monument” to all the safety convention, Unicharm Fukushima factories. Products, Co., Ltd. Charming Voice (Suggestion System) Health and Safety Committee Along with Our In FY2011 Unicharm established a company-wide, year round suggestion system as a channel for the promotion Unicharm’s “Health and Safety Committee” consists of “management with resonance” by utilizing the wisdom, of industrial doctors and elected commissioners from Employees enthusiasm, and mind of the people in the front-line. the company and the labor union. The Committee Aiming to achieve conditions in which employees can fully implements various activities once a month, including devote themselves to their jobs, we asked employees to activities related to improving the working environment take stock of their own jobs and called for suggestions of and preventing work related accidents. For example, the “eradicating meaningless work”. 1,325 target employees implementation of monthly no-overtime days for staff has were asked for suggestions, and they all submitted one been analyzed for each floor, and an 80% implementation suggestion per person. From the suggestions submitted, rate has been achieved. 564 have been adopted and we expect that more than 30,000 hours will be created in one year. Promoting employee health In order to support our employees’ productive activities Employee survey with healthy and wholesome minds and bodies, we We conduct “employee surveys” twice a year at all achieved a 100% consultation rate through the proactive group companies in Japan and overseas, in order to verify encouragement of regular health check-ups. We also employees’ current situations and attitudes towards work. assume the expenses for regular breast cancer screenings This sequential monitoring enables us to implement and pap smears for all female employees. For employees various measures in management and human resources, at risk of metabolic syndrome, we held a lifestyle and also encourages employees and organization modification program. The participants of the program operations to be more proactive. set their own 6-month action plans and tried to achieve their goals. Also, the Shikoku Technical Center started a ● Employee satisfaction index (all full-time employees) “no-smoking on company property during work hours” (Unit: point) initiative in October 2012. 5.0 4.10 4.19 4.24 4.22 We also introduced an employee support program by 4.0 3.73 3.8 3.87 3.91 3.74 3.76 3.81 3.84 which our employees and their families can consult with 3.0 external counselors about 0 their worries and troubles, Overall satisfaction Feeling of fulﬁllment Satisfaction about in order to facilitate their working for Unicharm ■ 2010 ■ 2011 ■ 2012 ﬁrst half ■ 2012 second half realization of fulfilling and healthy lives without worries.  ialogues between labor and D A seminar of the lifestyle management modification program 100% We place a great deal of value on mutual trust between labor and management, and hold regular monthly discussions between the company and labor union. Regular health We discussed various issues including employment, check-up rate health management, and company rules in FY2012, and continuously work to achieve ideal working conditions. unicharm CSR report 2013 35 Along with the Society We build trusting relationships with communities and society as a whole, and contribute Ideal to the realization of a sound and vital society, and improvement of health and sanitation Vision standards, through our business activities serving community needs. Our attitude toward social contributions ● Pink Ribbon activities in Asia Taiwan Unicharm believes that its business activities have a highly positive impact on society. We feel a strong sense of pride and joy in providing comfort, emotion and pleasure to people not only in Japan, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. Through our involvement in a variety of social contribution activities directly related to our business, we are working to become a company that makes contributions to the countries in which we operate and one that is welcomed and trusted by people in these Japan China locales. ● Unicharm’ s attitude toward social contributions Social contribution Core businesses activities Community-based social ● Baby care ● Various charitable activities ●E mployee-led social Feminine care contribution activities (Japan) ● contribution activities ● Healthcare ●A ctivities in the field of education Clean & fresh  onated paper diapers to D ● ●A ctivities in the ● Pet care communities where we operate stockpile for emergencies In June 2012, we donated paper baby diapers, sanitary napkins and masks to the Kagawa Prefectural School for Making contributions to society the Visually Impaired to be stockpiled for emergencies. A total of 31 students with some type of visual impairment, through our core business from infants to elderly, are enrolled at this school, where they learn how to be independent members of society  articipation in“Pink Ribbon Campaign” P and cope with their impairment. The school has a activities both in Japan and abroad dormitory for students that cannot commute from home and following the Great East Japan Earthquake it has Pink Ribbon Campaign activities promote the early been working on storing supplies of preserved foods and detection, early diagnosis and early treatment of daily necessities to prepare breast cancer in countries around world. Unicharm for future emergencies. As has participated in activities in China and Japan, and in a result, Unicharm decided FY2012 it expanded this participation to Taiwan. to make a donation of its A total of 62 employees and family members products to support these participated in the Pink Ribbon Walk held in Taipei, efforts. Taiwan. Participants noted that through their involvement in this event they were gained a stronger interest in the  ponsored Childcare Festa 2012 in S company’s CSR activities as well as their health and the health of loved one. All of the proceeds collected at the Shikokuchuo City event were donated to fund breast cancer screening In October 2012, Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. sponsored outreach activities. Childcare Festa 2012 held in Shikokuchuo City. Under 2012 marked the fifth year that we have supported Shikokuchuo City’s slogan “best place to raise a child in Pink Ribbon Campaign activities in Japan. An employee Shikoku,” this event is held to provide an opportunity for that took part in the Pink Ribbon Festival Smile Walk parents and children to interact with one another and Tokyo, held in October 2012, with her daughter shared a improve circumstances for childcare. Pamphlets on breast personal anecdote in which her daughter recommended cancer awareness were also handed out by Shikokuchuo that she receive a breast cancer screening after reading City as a part of the Pink Ribbon Campaign activities held the pamphlet handed out at the event. at the same time as this event. Many of the mothers in attendance had nothing but positive things to say about the event. 36 unicharm CSR report 2013  eld continence-support H set to take part in practical training at actual facilities showed a serious commitment during presentations and presentation at a high school hands-on learning. One student commented that they Unicharm organized a continence-support presentation learned about the importance of reducing the burden led by Unicharm continence-support researchers for high of caregivers and encouraging the independence of the school students at Machida High School in Tokyo aspiring elderly through the presentation. to become nursing care givers. Student participants said that presentation really brought home the importance of learning how to use adult diapers in the correct way. Community-based social contribution activities (Overseas) Thailand  roviding support to persons P with disabilities in Thailand China S upporting the reconstruction effort Unicharm helped support economically and socially vulnerable people in Thailand by sponsoring “Move after the Shichuan Earthquake Together” with Green Family No. 24. We continue the Unicharm is proactively involved in the relief and financial support that we provide to prepare prosthetic reconstruction effort following the April 20 earthquake in limbs for persons with disabilities and to purchase China’s Shichuan Province. Immediately after the quake, equipment that supports the growth of children with we donated Sofy, Mamy Poko and Lifree products and developmental and intellectual disabilities. called on employees to make monetary donations. Our efforts were widely covered in the Shanghai’s Qingpu District Newspaper. Indonesia V  isitations to welfare Along with the In addition, donations collected from employees facilities Society were presented during a visit Unicharm employees have been visiting orphanages to the Shanghai Charitable and welfare facilities for the disabled in Indonesia on the Foundation (SCF) on June 3, Saturday closest to July 1 (the date of our founding) since 2013. 2004. Every year we visit two facilities, where employees present their monetary donations and also donations of China  isitations to welfare facilities V Unicharm products as well as food, clothing and daily for the aged essentials that can be used by the facility. Employees are Unicharm employees have been visiting welfare always greeted by the sound of traditional folk music facilities for the aged in China around every April since played by the residents. 2012. During these visits, employees present their These visits are helping us monetary donations and also donations of Unicharm to deepen our relationship products and daily necessities. Employees then talk with local communities in and often sing along with Indonesia. residents. Every year both employees and residents alike look forward to these Taiwan  rovided donations to and P visits. held volunteer activities at orphanages China  eld continence-support H In December 2012, the Honghua Children’s Orphanage presentation for students held a special “hand-holding” event prior to Christmas to encourage interaction with the children and give a tour Starting in December 2012, Unicharm began organizing of the facility. In addition to a dinner party, donations of continence-support presentations led by Senior used clothing, toys, picture books and stationary were Researcher Funatsu from the Unicharm Continencealso made. To respond to the facility’s needs, Unicharm support Research Institute for students studying nursing Taiwan also presented NT$107,950 in charitable donations care at Nursing Care Department of Shaanxi Labor collected from employees and eight cases of supplies. College. In May 2013, we held a continence-support care standard course that incorporated unique curriculum from Japan that included hands-on learning. Students unicharm CSR report 2013 37 Along with Our Business Partners Ideal We will collaborate with suppliers in implementing CSR activities and promote CSR Vision throughout the entire supply chain, in an effort to produce better products. Approach to materials procurement CSR procurement guidelines １. Compliance with laws and social imperatives At Unicharm, we share our philosophy on safety and (1) Comply with related laws and social imperatives in the environment through close cooperation with our purchasing activities. suppliers. (2) Provide fair and equitable competitive opportunities in At our overseas sites, where we are expanding our purchasing activities, regardless of nationality, size, or operations, we strive to establish business relationships track record. with partners that meet our standards in terms of quality, (3) Strive for the appropriate management of information function, safety, environment, and services, in product obtained in purchasing activities. lines of varying prices in growth markets. In promoting ２. Procure safe products and materials that provide a these efforts, we make use of our approaches to peace of mind successful supplier relationships that we have established (1) Choose products and materials in purchasing activities in Japan. for which safety has been confirmed. In addition to promoting procurement activities with (2) Choose economical and high quality materials and a particular emphasis on crisis management, going products in purchasing activities. forward, we aim to establish a sound understanding (3) Emphasize the ability to manufacture and supply and dissemination of Unicharm’s stance and view products that meet requirements in purchasing activities. on compliance with laws and social imperatives and ３. Give due consideration to human rights and labor extending due consideration to human rights in labor (1) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who when we commence trading with new overseas partners. place importance on respect for human rights. We also call for the cooperation of existing partners in (2) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who environmental and ethical areas. give due consideration to inhumane labor practice. (3) Emphasize engaging in purchasing activities with Promoting CSR procurement corporations who promote appropriate employment practices. ４. Responsibility to the environment Unicharm established CSR procurement guidelines and (1) Value corporations who understand the importance of, implemented them in 2009. and promote environmental conservation in purchasing The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to activities. applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in environment, and product safety, such as “the abolition purchasing activities in an effort to achieve a recyclingoriented society. of child labor,” ”the elimination of discrimination,” and “the promotion of measures against global warming,” as ５. Development of relationships of mutual trust stated in the Global Compact. (1) Cultivate a relationship and trust with business partners Beginning with China in 2009, followed by Thailand, within the scope of social norms. Indonesia, Taiwan, and Korea, we held briefing sessions (2) Strive to enhance business performance mutually for our suppliers in order to ensure cooperation with through exchange of essential information with business our CSR procurement guidelines. We promote CSR partners. throughout our entire supply chain by having each supplier complete a self-check sheet in order to verify each supplier’s procurement status. Quality Policy Briefing Session In August 2012, we held our first overseas Quality Policy asked all suppliers for their understanding and for their Briefing Session, held in China with 123 participants from continuous support in the realization of our goals. 44 suppliers in attendance. During the session, based on our 10 years of successful “best practices” in Japan, we explained our quality policy and material improvement goals for China, where the size of the market has been rapidly expanding so that sales in China now account for the largest share of overseas Unicharm Group sales. Our quality policy and material improvement goals for China aim to manufacture products that meet the local consumers’ needs to an even greater extent, and to improve the quality of the materials we use there. We Quality Policy Briefing Session in China 38 unicharm CSR report 2013 Along with Shareholders and Investors We continue to grow and develop to maintain our shareholders’ trust and to ensure the Ideal distribution of industry-leading returns to shareholders. Vision We practice transparency in our management and strive to ensure that our management is considered to be trustworthy. Our basic policy on profit returns to our shareholders The “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action outlined in our Unicharm Group’s Action Guidelines constitute our pledge to our shareholders which we share with all group employees. Our Corporate Principles of Action clearly state that “We will strive to manage the company in a way that will maintain a level of growth Information for investors on our website corresponding to our shareholders’ confidence, and that will enable us to distribute industry-leading returns to shareholders. Based on our Corporate Principles of Action, we ensure stable and continuous return on investment, as well as improvement of our business performance. Our basic guidelines for return on investment are to implement stable and continuous returns while also investing in our own midand long-term business expansion. We distributed 34 yen per share in the fiscal year ending in March 2013 and have achieved dividend increase for 11 consecutive fiscal years. We will continuously view shareholder return as Results briefing an important management agenda and will strive to realize the distribution of industry-leading returns with continuous improvement of our business performance. Information disclosure for our investors We opened investor relations pages on our websites overseas IR tours to post timely information including brief notes on the settlement of accounts and financial statements. At the Along with Our same time, we post English translations of important information on our English site to disclose information for overseas investors. Listed in the SRI Index Business Partners We also position result briefings and overseas IR tours as important venues for dialogue among company executives and our investors, and strive to improve Unicharm is included in the major international SRI the disclosure of information in order to help investors (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes “FTSE4GOOD to better understand our business activities. Takahisa Index Series” and “Morningstar Socially Responsible Along with Shareholders Takahara, the president of the company, visited the major Investment Index (MSSRI)”. corporate investors in Europe (February 10 – 16, 2013) and the U.S. (March 3 ‒9, 2013) on this year’s overseas and Investors IR tour, where he made an appeal for our future growth by directly referencing the security of our stable profits in domestic business in Japan and detailing Unicharm’s Morningstar Socially Responsible long-term global growth potential. We have been FTSE4GOOD Index Series Investment Index (MS-SRI) working on improving communication by holding regular individual meetings for the active exchange of opinions with each corporate investor and securities analyst, as well as by holding tours of Unicharm Kyoshinkan or Resonance Hall, our building commemorating Unicharm’s 50th anniversary in February 2011, and the Shikoku Technical Center. unicharm CSR report 2013 39 Management We achieve growth and development as a company, the happiness of our employees, Ideal and social responsibility through transparent management and proactive information Vision disclosure. Corporate Governance Compliance Unicharm strives to pursue proper corporate Our attitude towards Compliance management through Unicharm Ideals. We recognize the We see compliance as the promotion of sound importance of achieving a sustainable balance between corporate ethics and our corporate philosophy, in addition increasing corporate value and fulfilling our corporate to conforming to established legislation. We strive to social responsibilities through business activities promote the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines, which implemented by integrating management and executive express the high level of preparedness and morality divisions. Based on this belief, we are reinforcing our expected of every employee at the Unicharm Group, as corporate governance system as we further strengthen well as ensure legal and fair management. our executive officer structure through our corporate auditor system. Initiatives for increasing compliance  stablishment of an Internal E awareness Control System Unicharm conducts periodic training and e-learning The Unicharm Group formulates our “Basic Policy for to raise compliance awareness of directors, officers and Establishing an Internal Control System”, based on the employees as well as provides them with knowledge of Companies Act, and established an “Internal Control laws and business contracts for their respective positions Committee” to respond to the “Internal Control and and work duties. We will continue to train our employees Reporting System (J-SOX)” of the Financial Instruments through a phased expansion of target areas and and Exchange Act. companies going forward. The Internal Control Committee conducts an annual reevaluation of risks for each company under the Unicharm  mployee Consultation and E Group, reviews target countries for J-SOX assessment, and revises business processes requiring evaluation. Counseling At the same time, the Committee is committed to Unicharm set up the “Ring-ring Employee Hotline” in achieving reliable financial reporting by promoting the FY2004 to provide employees with guidance and advice establishment and operation of an internal control system on compliance-related issues. In FY2012, we addressed and effective assessments. 17 cases. Moreover, the same hotline was set up for our Going forward, we will continue to make improvements overseas offices in China and Thailand and commenced to our internal control system. operations. General Meeting of Shareholders Monitor Board of Auditors Audit Board of Directors Accounting Auditor 2 Full-time Statutory Auditors 11 Directors 2 Part-time Statutory Auditors supervise Attend Report Business Plan CSR Committee Report Advisory Board Meetings Corporate Ethics Committee 監査 Report President and CEO Attend Business Update Direct/supervise Report Meeting Report Attend Executive Officers /Deputy Executive Officers Management Auditing Report Audit ● Business Divisions ● Functional Divisions ● R&D Divisions CSR Department Department Audit Survey Subsidiaries, Affiliated Companies Statutory Auditors (Board) Report Strengthening Legal Compliance and Ethics Action Guidelines (“Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action, “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action) 40 unicharm CSR report 2013 Risk management Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) Unicharm developed a Crisis Communication Manual Thorough information security in 2005, outlining the procedures for dealing with situations in a crisis. Starting in FY2012, we established a To ensure thoroughness in information security, BCP Task Force within the CSR Committee to strengthen Unicharm has established its information security principles our crisis management capacities. In FY2012, we begun and procedures in various documents, such as the the deliberation of our BCP, and revised related manuals Information Security Policy, the Information Management such as “Support for Disaster Affected Areas” and Security Rules, and the Personal Information Protection Correspondence to Earthquake Disaster Mitigation in Rules, which are based on the Ministry of Economy Trade Tokyo Metropolitan Area. and Industry’s guidelines for safeguarding customers’ The BCP Manual describes steps to ensure the safety personal information. Unicharm strictly controls information of our employees and their families, deliver Unicharm access and use, and takes every precaution to prevent products that represent necessities for daily living to any possible information leaks. To ensure that rules are people in disaster affected areas as well as those who strictly observed, Unicharm has established an Information require them at the fastest rate possible, and recover Security Committee. Through continuous monitoring, important corporate functions of Unicharm. We based the the committee is responsible for the Group’s planning of manual on interviews and feedback from the Fukushima information management security measures, employee Factory and Sendai Sales Office, which were damaged education, and the prevention of information leaks. in the Great East Japan Earthquake, in terms of the challenges that need to be addressed. The manual also Protecting intellectual property reflects the Ordinance on Countermeasures for Stranded The intellectual property of the Unicharm Group is centrally Persons in Tokyo. managed by the Legal & Intellectual Property Division, which In March 2013, we conducted an e-learning session for formulates and executes intellectual property strategies all employees to raise awareness and promote proactive linked to business and development strategies at Unicharm. measures. To ensure prompt verification of employee safety, As its patent application strategy, it promotes the protection we encourage all employees to carry a portable manual and utilization of intellectual property as intellectual assets on emergency response. Furthermore, we are conducting of business and development results. With an awareness of ongoing education and training through disaster drills and Unicharm’s global business development, the Division also basic lifesaving training once a month, with the aim for all reinforces intellectual property rights through international employees to complete their training within a two year patent applications. (The rate of global patent applications period. Starting in FY2013, we plan to establish a new BCP is approximately 90% among all intellectual properties*.) designed for Japan to address the potential large-scale In an effort to protect our intellectual properties, Moony interplate earthquake involving the Tokai, Tonankai, and Air Fit was submitted for consideration under the new Nankai plates based on the BCP Manual for Earthquake Japanese government policy of Integrated Examinations Disaster Mitigation in Tokyo Metropolitan Area. Additionally, Corresponding to Business Strategy in FY2012, and was we will strengthen our global risk management by planning selected as the first product in Japan. Consequently, over 80 for measures against all potential riots, terrorism, and other patents, designs and trademark applications associated with emergency situations. this product became subject of the integrated examination, many of which received the right to claim as the World's First * BCP: Plan for the continued execution and recovery of core business and Finest before their official market release. As a company activities soon after an emergency that sells a wide range of products overseas, we plan to actively participate in this new program going forward. Basic lifesaving training Unicharm has also applied for and used the trademark that protects Group brands in more than 160 countries around the world. At the same time, we are also actively protecting our rights to proprietary packaging. The operational and R&D Divisions cooperate closely with overseas subsidiaries concerning the control of counterfeit products both inside and outside the country, and take a firm stand in protecting the company’s products and rights. Unicharm is committed to cultivating a corporate culture that promotes the respect and protection of intellectual Management property rights of Unicharm and other companies, as Disaster planning articulated in the Unicharm Action Guidelines, by conducting Portable manual employee training through a combination of on-the-job training, off-the-job training, and e-learning to ensure that employees in Japan and overseas are fully versant in the handling of intellectual property rights at Unicharm. Fire Drill at Mita Headquarters *Investigation by Unicharm (April 2012 to March 2013) unicharm CSR report 2013 41 Third Party Assurance Report This English language report is a translation of the original Independent Assurance Report in Japanese on Unicharm Corporation’s CSR Report 2013 and is for reader’s convenience. Independent Assurance Report June 3, 2013 To: Mr. Takahisa Takahara, President and CEO Unicharm Corporation PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata Sustainability Certification Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Fudosan Shiodome Hamarikyu Bldg. 8-21-1 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0061, Japan １． Objectives and Scope We, PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata Sustainability Certification Co., Ltd., have been commissioned by Unicharm Corporation (hereafter the “Company”) to provide limited assurance on the Company’s “CSR Report 2013” (hereafter the “Report”). The Company is responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the Company’s policies and standards. Our responsibility is limited to independently express a conclusion on the environmental performance data (electricity consumption, heavy oil consumption, gas consumption, CO2 emissions (not including those from logistics) and waste production (not including after use of products)) in the Report, using the Company’s policies and standards as criteria as to:  Whether the environmental performance data (electricity consumption, heavy oil consumption, gas consumption, CO2 emissions (not including those from logistics) and waste production (not including after use of products)) for the year ended March 31, 2013 included in the Report were collected and reported in accordance with the Company’s policies and standards in all material respects. ２． Summary of Assurance Procedures Performed We performed limited assurance procedures in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagement 3000 － Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000), revised in December 2003 by the International Federation of Accountants. In a limited assurance engagement the procedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Therefore, the evidence-gathering procedures to provide a basis for conclusion are more limited in nature, timing or extent than a reasonable assurance engagement. Therefore, our limited assurance provides a lower level of assurance than reasonable assurance. Because we did not conduct an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, we do not express an audit opinion. The procedures we performed for our limited assurance engagement are summarized as follows:  Reading relevant documents with regard to the Company’s overall status and environmental management (including the internal controls), and interviewing relevant personnel;  Interviewing relevant personnel with regard to the establishment and implementation of the Company’s policies and standards for the subject matter at the headquarters and at the sites we visited (listed in the table below);  Reading relevant documents at the headquarters and at the sites we visited with regard to the methodologies for measuring, compiling, and reporting the subject matter information, and interviewing relevant personnel;  Performing analytical procedures and tracing part of the subject matter information with supporting documents available at the headquarters and the plants.  The sites we visited are as follows: Name of Site Functions Unicharm Corporation Head Office Headquarters Unichram Products Co., Ltd. Fukushima Plant Manufacturing Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Kokko Factory, Factory No.3 Same as above Cosmotec Corporation Main Plant Same as above The environmental performance data (electricity consumption, heavy oil consumption, gas consumption, CO2 emissions (not including those from logistics) and waste production (not including after use of products))subject to our assurance procedures are marked ( ) in the Report. ３． Our Conclusion Our conclusion is as follows:  Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the environmental performance data (electricity consumption, heavy oil consumption, gas consumption, CO2 emissions (not including those from logistics) and waste production (not including after use of products)) for the year ended March 31, 2013 included in the Report were not collected or reported, in all material respects, in accordance with the Company’s policies and standards. 42 unicharm CSR report 2013 List of Contents Chapter Title Topic Web Print Page Chapter Title Topic Web Print Page version version version version Company Profile / Promotion framework for environmental activities ● ● P28 ● ● Overview of Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Environmental impact and environmental goals ● ● P29 the Unicharm P2 Production and Sales Bases ● ● Environmental initiatives through our products ● ● P30 Group Main Business Indicators ● ● Initiative to reduce environmental impacts through Along with the ● ● P31 Editorial Policy ● ● our business activities Editorial Policy P3 Environment Contents ● ● Initiatives for biodiversity ● Message from Environmental Accounting ● Message from the President ● ● P4-5 the President Results of FY2012 activities ● Integrating CSR with Our Businesses ● ● Site data ● CSR Promotional Structure ● ● View concerning human resources and respect for Unicharm ● ● P6-7 human rights Group’s CSR Reference Framework for Unicharm’s CSR Strategy ● ● Personnel utilization and training ● ● Along with Our P32-35 Relationship with Stakeholders ● ● Employees Respect for Diversity ● ● Industrial health and safety ● ● Introduction of Business Unicharm’s five business divisions deliver gentleness ● ● P8-9 Human resources data ● ● Activities Our attitude toward social contributions ● ● Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by ● ● P10-13 Making contributions to society through our core Feature Topic Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life ● ● business Responding to a Super-Aging Society ● ● P14-18 Along with the Community-based social contribution activities P36-37 Society ● ● Ongoing Assistance for the Great East Japan Earthquake ● ● P19 (Japan) Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI) ● ● P20-23 Community-based social contribution activities ● ● (Overseas) Initiatives of the Customer Service Center ● ● P24 Approach to materials procurement ● ● Activities of customer service centers at our overseas Along with ● ● P25 Our Business Promoting CSR procurement ● ● P38 subsidiaries Partners Communication with customers using various media ● ● P26 Quality Policy Briefing Session ● ● Three-pronged approach involving insight research, Our basic policy on profit returns to our shareholders ● ● ● ● P26 Along with R & D, and marketing Shareholders Information disclosure for our investors ● ● P39 Along with Our and Investors Customers Cooperation between R & D and Engineering ● ● P26 Listed in the SRI Index ● ● Unicharm’s view of quality assurance and framework ● ● P27 Corporate Governance ● ● Ensuring product safety ● ● P27 Management Compliance ● ● P40-41 Global Safety Activities ● ● P27 Risk management ● ● Initiatives at Unicharm Product ● ● P27 Third Party Assurance Report ● ● P42 Promoting appropriate product labeling ● ● P27 List of Contents / List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2012 ● ● P43 CSR Report 2012 Survey Results ● List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2012 Month and year Name and description Recipient April 2012 Honorable mention of “Special Planning Prize” for booth exhibited at the 12th Japan Drugstore Show Unicharm Corporation June 2012 Letter of appreciation from Governor Yuhei Sato of Fukushima Prefecture for the provision of relief supplies to the prefecture LG Unicharm Co., Ltd.（South Korea） June 2012 Letter of appreciation from Iwaki City for donations of masks provided to the city Unicharm Corporation July 2012 Excellence Award and the Kagawa Labor Accident Prevention Group Liaison Council Chairman's Award from the Kagawa Labor Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Accident Prevention Group Liaison Council Shikoku Factory Central Manufacturing Building July 2012 Letter of appreciation from Governor Yuhei Sato of Fukushima Prefecture for the provision of relief supplies to the prefecture Unicharm Corporation July 2012 Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. 13th Environmental Brand Survey 2012: 96th Unicharm Corporation August 2012 13th Japan Society of Sensitivity Engineering Conference Excellent Presentation Award Chiemi Habu, GIR Division, Unicharm September 2012 Best Friend Thailand 2012 Award Unicharm Corporation September 2012 Nihon Keizai Shimbun's “Best Workplaces” in Japan 2012: 95th Unicharm Corporation Separate Category: Consideration toward Diverse Work Styles: 4th November 2012 Nihon Keizai Shimbun's “FY2012 NICES Corporate Ranking”: 8th Unicharm Corporation January 2013 Nihon Keizai Shimbun's 16th “Environmental Management Survey”: 124th Unicharm Corporation February 2013 2nd Carbon Offset Award from the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Unicharm Corporation February 2012 Interbrand's “Japan's Best Global Brands 2012”: 21st Unicharm Corporation March 2012 Toyo Keizai's “CSR Corporate Ranking 2013”: 66th Unicharm Corporation Keidanren Business Services for Internal Communications “FY2012 Keidanren Recommended In-house Newsletters” Magazine / March 2013 Newspaper Category: General Award Unicharm Corporation unicharm CSR report 2013 43 http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html
