SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTENTS Outotec and sustainability 1 Outotec in brief 2 Highlights in 2012 3 Our approach 4 CEO’s message to stakeholders 4 Strategy 6 Materiality assessment 8 Management approach 10 Long-term targets and sustainability agenda 2020 12 Our way of working 13 Employees 13 R&D and innovation 20 Values and Code of Conduct 21 Governance and sustainability 24 Interaction with stakeholders 26 Commitment to external initiatives 31 Our impact 33 Metals and sustainability 34 Renewable and alternative energy 35 Expert view – Technologies with low ecological impact 37 Industry drivers 39 Risks and opportunities 40 Impact of our products and services 43 Ecological footprint of our operations 45 Economic impact 48 Impact of our supply chain 50 About the report 52 Report scope and profile 52 Data collection 52 Sustainability targets 53 Independent assurance report 56 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 58 Contact information 62 Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 CONTENTS OUTOTEC AND SUSTAINABILITY Our approach to sustainability is defined tion to abating climate change is made in our mission, strategy, values, corpothrough providing sustainable technolrate responsibility policy, and manageogies and services to our customers, ment system documents. ‘Sustainable enabling them to run environmentally use of Earth’s natural resources’ is the sound, profitable and socially acceptpurpose for the company’s existence able businesses. In that way, with our and mission we work to achieve. We ininnovative solutions, we create shared tend to incorporate sustainability into all value for our stakeholders as well as aspects of our operations, from our own society at large. business processes to the solutions we Outotec has existed as an independdevelop for our customers. ent company since 2006. We published Our strategic intent is to be the leading our first annual sustainability report in provider of sustainable minerals and met2010 to improve our performance and als processing solutions and to become an transparency in all aspects of sustaininnovative provider of sustainable energy ability. This report is our third, and it and water processing solutions. Our core describes the company’s performance value is ‘committed to sustainability’, in 2012 and sets targets for 2013 and comprising the social, economic and envibeyond. The reporting complies with ronmental elements of sustainability. the accounting standards and volunBecause of the nature of our busitary reporting guidelines issued by the ness, our most significant contribuGlobal Reporting Initiative (GRI). Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Outotec and sustainability 1 Outotec in brief With a mission of ‘Sustainable use a technology company that develops of Earth’s natural resources’, Outoand markets innovative online process Outotec has four business areas: Non-ferrous Solutions tec provides leading technologies and control solutions based on 3D imaging. • Providing technology solutions for the processing of copper, nickel, zinc, lead, gold, silver, services to its customers, guaranteeOutotec’s most significant impact on and platinum group metals at all stages in the value chain from ore to metal. ing the best return on the customer’s sustainability occurs indirectly through investment with minimal ecological our customers’ operations. At present, Ferrous Solutions • Providing technology solutions for the processing of iron ores and other ferriferous materials impact. The benefits of this approach these organizations are confronted with in the entire value chain from ore to metal. include conferring the license to operthe dilemma created by the growing ate, maximizing recovery, and reducing need for metals and the environmental Energy, Light Metals and Environmental Solutions emissions as well as energy and water impact of their production. As a result, • Providing technology solutions for sulfuric acid production, off-gas handling, alumina refining, roasting, calcination, biomass processing and other renewable energy production, oil shale consumption. The majority of Outotec’s Outotec’s customers are increasingly and oil sands processing, as well as for industrial water treatment. customers operate in the minerals and looking to improve their energy efmetals industries, and increasingly in ficiency and to reduce CO2 and other Services the renewable and alternative energy emissions, as well as water consump• Providing life cycle services to Outotec’s customers in all business areas. sector, chemical industry and industrial tion. We believe that with modern water treatment. technologies and life cycle solutions, Innovative research at Outotec’s 18 metals and materials can be produced Summary of key figures 2012 2011 2010 in-house R&D and competence centers sustainably. Sales, EUR million 2,087.4 1,385.6 969.6 and continuous development work with Outotec, headquartered in Finland, has Reported operating profit, EUR million 184.3 111.9 41.6 customers has made us the leading global operations, employees in 25 coundeveloper of technology in the minerals tries and sales to over 80 countries. Research and development expenses, EUR million 41.6 33.5 28.5 processing and metallurgical industry. Outotec has been listed on the Priority applications, pcs 70 41 50 Outotec has a strong market position NASDAQ OMX Helsinki since October National patents granted, pcs 286 326 287 across the entire value chain from ore 2006. Number of employees on average 4,456 3,516 3,151 to metal and, in addition to in-house reWages and salaries, EUR million 362.6 284.4 224.4 search and development, we intend to Read more about our financial perforstrengthen our technology leadership Total greenhouse gas emissions, 15.2 18.8 25.0 mance in Outotec Financial Statetonnes of CO2 /EUR 1 million sales also through acquisitions. ments 2012. In 2012, Outotec acquired four comGreenhouse gas emissions avoided through the use 4,600 4,800 4,200 panies: Backfill Specialists Pty Ltd, a Read more about Outotec’s legal of Outotec technologies, thousand tonnes of CO2-e technical consulting and engineering entities in Financial Statements Total energy consumption, TJ 164.9 141.5 150.0 company specialized in mine backfilling 2012, p. 59 and associated compasolutions; TME Group, a mining sernies, p. 40. vices company providing grinding mill relining and mineral processing plant maintenance services; Demil Manutenção Industrial Ltda, providing industrial maintenance services for iron ore agglomeration plants; and Numcore Ltd, Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Outotec and sustainability 2 Highlights in 2012 NOVEMBER Outotec agreed to deliver advanced renewable energy solution to Switzerland JANUARY SEPTEMBER Outotec’s sustainability report Employee survey 2011 awarded Readers’ Choice in Finland Outotec’s seminar in results showed that Outotec's job satisfaction MARCH MAY Indonesia focused on Outotec agreed to deliver sustainable use of natural a renewable energy solution for index was slightly below Minna Aila assumed Outotec agreed to deliver resources a biomass power plant in Turkey the global norm, and our overall responsibility Emission Optimized engagement index was at for sustainability as an Sintering process for Employee Share Savings New Outotec Hazardous the global expert norm level Executive board member bPSL in India Plan launched Substances Policy implemented 2012 APRIL Sustainability Report 2011 published Outotec supported Mongolian students’ metallurgy studies in Finland FEBRUARY JULY OCTOBER DECEMBER Outotec’s project team Emirates Aluminium Outotec acquired backfill Code of Conduct approved built a pre-school during named Outotec their best Specialists in australia by the board of Directors the Kalagadi Sinter Plant Environment, Health & to expand its sustainable New Donations Policy approved project in South africa Safety contractor tailings treatment business by the board of Directors Technology and Plant Outotec recognized Outotec delivered the first-ofSafety Management in Carbon Disclosure its-kind minipilot concentrator meeting was held to Leadership Index to the university of Oulu in Finland create unified global New company values practices Outotec agreed to deliver launched environmental solutions for Namibia Custom Smelters Improved rating in bbbEE certificate in South africa Outotec awarded maximum amount of awards in the Codelco Mina Ministro Hales project in Chile Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Outotec and sustainability 3 OUR APPROACH CEO’s message to stakeholders 2012 was a very special year for Ouability. We are also introducing new totec. We passed our 2 billion euro long-term targets for our sustainsales target milestone almost three ability work. This report provides the years ahead of plan. This year was also details of our progress, and I hope that significant in terms of sustainability. its contents and the aims we have set Our customers’ priorities towards the for ourselves will ably demonstrate environmental and social dimensions our commitment to sustainability and of sustainability strengthened in their corporate responsibility as well as the decision-making. We also worked hard shared value we create for our stakeon making our values an integral part holders and the society. of everything we do. I am very proud of the way our people have started to The best return on a customer’s judge dilemmas by simply asking: “Is investment with minimized this sustainable?” ecological impact In this third sustainability reOutotec’s most significant impact on port we can also report progress in sustainability occurs indirectly through many other areas. We have adopted a our customers’ operations. ‘Sustaincomprehensive Code of Conduct and able use of Earth’s natural resources’ further developed our governance. We is the mission we’ve worked toward now have an Executive Board member achieving, in cooperation with our cuswith overall responsibility for sustaintomers. We want to promise them the “We have advanced our sustainability agenda and defined long-term targets for our sustainability work.” Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 4 best return on their investment with leading technologies – the majority of Although we made progress in “Around 89 percent minimized ecological impact. our proprietary technologies are clascertain areas, for example by installOur customers are increasingly sified as BATs (Best Available Teching new video conferencing facilities, of our order intake confronted with the dilemma that exists niques) by the EU. we were not able to reduce our greenin 2012 represented between the growing need for metals Active R&D is the cornerstone, yet house gas emissions, partly due to our and the environmental impact of their we understand that solving these highly strong business growth, which required Environmental Goods and production. We believe that this dilemcomplex issues also necessitates colfrequent air travel to project sites and Services under the OECD ma can be addressed. In fact, its solulaboration. For example, thanks to our customer meetings. tion is a vital part of our strategy – we recent work with PE International we We have, however, been able to classification.” see it as our role in the industrial ecoare now able to provide a new perspecimprove the gender balance in our system: building sustainable success tive on life cycle analysis. Our joint leadership. By the time this report is stories together with our customers. solution uses fact-based environmental published, we will have three women By employing eco-efficient soluimpact information to generate product in our Executive Board (there were tions, it is possible to reduce the enviand process modeling simulations and none at the end of 2011), and there is ronmental impact of the industry and scenarios for sustainable production. also a proposal for the Annual General simultaneously increase wellbeing. All this means that while doing good Meeting to elect another woman to the Of the megatrends facing the mining business, we can also create shared valBoard of Directors. and metals sector, we consider susue and contribute to our customers’ soWe achieved public recognition for tainability the most important, and we cial license to operate. In fact, as much our sustainability work in 2012. For see evidence of this not only in mature as 89 percent of our order intake in 2012 example, Outotec ranked 12th in The markets but also in those in the develrepresented environmental goods and Global 100 list of the world’s most susoping stages. In a world of rapidly diservices under the OECD definition. tainable companies. The list is comminishing natural resources there is an piled by the Corporate Knights media increasing demand for more advanced, Improving our own performance and investment research company, energy-efficient technologies and recyand reporting systems which has screened all global mid cling solutions. In line with our commitment to sustainand large cap listed companies for the We address these challenges by proability, in 2012 we continued our efforts ranking. We will continue to lend our viding our customers with sustainable to establish policies and processes to support to the United Nations Global technologies to maximize the recovery improve our performance, data collecCompact and are committed to its of valuable metals and minerals whilst tion, and measurement systems. One of ten principles and other such causes, consuming less energy and fewer natuthese initiatives was the harmonization pushing for good use of the Earth’s reral resources at reduced operational of our environmental and quality mansources for generations to come. cost. Our technologies – whether relatagement systems in order to create an ing to minerals and metals processing, integrated system for quality, environwater, energy, or biomass – reduce the mental, health and safety management. environmental effects of a number of Several steps towards a world-class industrial operations worldwide. We integrated QEHS management were Pertti Korhonen also live up to our values by creating taken during the year. President & CEO, Outotec Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 5 Strategy Outotec’s most significant impact on technology portfolio for the entire value the environment occurs indirectly chain – from ore to metals – through through our customers’ operations. our own research and development Our strategy is to provide sustainable as well as by acquisitions. We actively life cycle solutions which fully utiseek new applications for our technololize Outotec’s technology and service gies. Rising energy costs and stringent expertise, while guaranteeing perlegislation have guided users to seek formance and lifelong benefits to our out energy efficient solutions for many customers. These benefits include the years. In addition, water is an increaslicense to operate, reduced energy and ingly scarce resource and its efficient water consumption, high recovery, and use, along with recycling and purifiminimized emissions. We want to encation processes, is a goal of steadily able the best return on the customer’s mounting importance. The energy and investment with the least ecological industrial water treatment industries impact. offer significant growth opportunities In the area of minerals and metfor Outotec while boasting high synergy als processing, Outotec has been an potential and manageable risks. industry leader, developing innovative We also aim to further strengthen technologies for nearly a century. This our presence in emerging markets and expertise has since been successfully improve our cost-competitiveness and applied to many other industries. We scalability. This strategy provides the diare continuously strengthening our rection for Outotec’s sustainability work. “We strive to become the undisputed global leader in sustainable minerals and metals processing solutions and to firmly establish our presence in the energy and water businesses.” Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 6 In addition to the pressure to imSustainability approach in “The delivery of gas prove production efficiency in terms mergers and acquisitions When assessing potential acquisitions of environmental sustainability, the Acquisitions support Outotec’s longwe use the following indicators among cleaning, sulfuric acid financial impact of sustainability in term strategy. We take environmenothers: • Energy efficiency of technologies and effluent treatment the metals and minerals industry is tal, economic and social aspects into also of growing relevance. Goldman consideration when assessing potential • Efficiency of water usage • Environmental soundness technologies for Namibia Sachs estimates that, assuming a acquisition targets. For example, the of technologies • The level of environmental Custom Smelters is a working emissions trading scheme is acquisition of Backfill Specialists in in place with carbon pricing at USD 2012 strengthened Outotec’s portfolio responsibility of the acquisition good example of Outotec’s • How the target company respects 60/ton of CO2, 15 percent of the total of environmental solutions. Backfill employee well-being, local health and sustainable solutions, as safety systems, local bargaining agreecash flow of global companies will be transferred from companies with high Specialists is a technical consulting and engineering company specialized in ments, and human rights in general it reduces the emissions emissions to those with low emissions. mine backfilling solutions in Australia. • Ethical standards • International norms of the smelter and This trend will be particularly visible Combining the expertise of both comconsiderably improves in carbon intensive industries, such as panies in paste technology, we can offer those of Outotec’s customers. While comprehensive tailings treatment soluthe working and living this poses a significant threat to these tions to the mining industry worldwide, conditions around it. customers, it also provides immense for both landfill and backfill solutions. possibilities for Outotec to successfully In Outotec also carries out environmenNamibia Custom Smelters market its technologies. tal due diligence if there are environwill have a world-class In light of the trends mentioned mental considerations in relation to above, Outotec’s strategic goal is to the acquisition. Sustainability issues process plant that will become a company with strong global are carefully considered when deciding meet the World Bank’s market presence and integrated opupon business integration and future erations. Outotec strives to develop business plans. environmental standards.” a solid company culture based on common values, and to improve its cost-competitiveness and scalability. A strong brand and reputation will pave the way for Outotec to become the undisputed global leader in sustainable minerals and metals processing solutions, and to firmly establish a presence in the energy and industrial water treatment businesses. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 7 Materiality assessment Outotec’s most important sustainability the company’s technology solutions is range of issues from internal ways issues were discussed and defined in a clearly the most important sustainabilof working to relations with different management workshop in December ity issue for Outotec. The significance stakeholders. In many of these areas 2011 facilitated by an external partner. of providing eco-efficient solutions is we have separate, more detailed poliThe participants included the CEO and underlined by comparing the amount cies in place. heads of shared functions, as well as of CO2 emissions annually avoided Corresponding to these concerns representatives from each business arthrough the use of Outotec’s goods and and ambition levels, the appropriate ea. Sustainability trends and stakeholdservices (4,600,000 tonnes CO2-e) and GRI indicators were chosen and targets er feedback were taken into account the amount of greenhouse gas emisfor improvement determined. when evaluating the most important sions from Outotec’s own operations sustainability issues and, subsequently, (31,755 tonnes CO2-e). the chosen GRI indicators. To become a preferred employer was regarded as highly important for Outotec’s future success. Community Through discussion and by defining involvement and charity work including Outotec’s most material aspects Outotec’s ambition level, the following employee engagement were identified aspects of sustainability were selected as areas for further development. Sustainable as most material to Outotec: Improving the sustainability of Ouproducts and • Sustainable products and solutions Sustainability totec’s operations, supply chain mansolutions for for customers of Outotec's own agement, and technology and plant customers • Preferred employer operations • Community involvement and safety management were also identicharity work fied as important targets to meet the • Improving sustainability of our own operations expectations of customers, employees Responsible Preferred • Responsible supply chain and other stakeholders. supply chain Community employer • Technology and plant safety Continuous development of Outo• Globally integrated QEHS system tec’s management systems ranks high involvement and • Human rights and labor rights charity work on the company’s sustainability agenda. QEHS In order to operate as a globally intemanagement Technology and grated company, to grow the business, plant safety systems The ambition level for each mateand to enhance productivity and quality, rial issue was defined and a dedicated Outotec is in the process of creating a person responsible for developing globally integrated system for quality, Human rights / performance was nominated. Relevant environmental health, and safety manLabor rights Forerunner Anticipation sustainability-related key performance agement. Meeting indicators (KPIs) were chosen based on In 2012, we adopted a comprehenexpectations the workshop results. sive Code of Conduct which provides Compliance The materiality assessment revealed our people with ethical guidance on that development and improvement of many issues. The Code covers a wide Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 8 We enable sustainable use of Earth’s natural resources The demand for metals and raw materials to support global development is growing while resources are becoming increasingly scarce. Engineering, 4. Solution Our customers face many challenges definition Sourcing, SUSTAINABLE OUTCOME such as declining ore grades, Delivery 1. rising energy prices, water scarcity, 3. CUSTOMERS Clean, efficient tightening environmental regulations, operations and high employee health and safety, and Benefits return on investment. long-term operational profitability. EMPLOYEES Meaningful and rewarding jobs. Material Fuel Energy Increased SOCIETY Feasibility efficiency efficiency efficiency safety 2. Our core competence is in study, Installation, Improved resource efficiency, prosperity, mineral and metal processing. clean environment. We develop new applications Analysis Commissioning for energy and industrial water SUPPLIERS treatment, offering customers Water Reduced Increased Recycling We expect our sustainable technology solutions efficiency emissions recovery suppliers to adhere and life cycle services. to the same high standards as we do. SHAREHOLDERS Investing in a responsible company. Upgrades, Operation, ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT Expansion, Maintenance Technologies Demolition with low impact. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 9 Management approach Economic responsibility Environmental responsibility we have actively participated in Baltic jects jointly with our customer, with joint As a listed company, Outotec is comAlthough improving the sustainability Sea Action Group’s program for rehafinancing. The projects are also selected mitted to increasing shareholder value. of Outotec’s operations is an important bilitation of the Baltic Sea. taking Outotec’s own know-how into acThe company delivers on this committarget for the company, the developcount and by utilizing it to the furthest ment by developing and maintaining ment and delivery of energy-efficient possible extent. Furthermore, we want to competitive and profitable operations and environmentally sound solutions for Read more in our impact, p. 33. integrate voluntary work into community based on ethical business practices. its customers has far more significance projects – both during and off working Outotec constantly applies principles of for Outotec in terms of environmenhours. All Community Agenda projects good corporate governance and transtal responsibility. We intend to further Social responsibility must bring measurable benefits to the loparent accounting. increase the share of environmental Society cal community. Outotec’s operations have ecogoods and services in our offerings. Outotec contributes to community wellnomic impact upon the local, national, The major impact of Outotec on the being. In addition to paying taxes and Human rights and labor practices and global communities in which the environment is indirect and unfolds providing jobs directly and indirectly, Outotec is committed to treating people company operates. We contribute to through our customers. Our primary we maintain close cooperation with with dignity. Every individual is equally community well-being through paysustainability challenge is therefore to educational institutions and participate entitled to enjoy human rights, fair treating taxes in the countries where we help minimize any negative effects our in local initiatives to increase welfare in ment, respect and common courtesy operate and through direct and indirect customers’ operations may have. This the countries where we operate. without discrimination and regardless of employment, as well as other forms of includes assisting them with reducing According to our new Donations their ethnic origin, nationality, religion, community involvement. The world’s their impact on the surrounding enviPolicy adopted in 2012, we can engage political views, sex, sexual orientation or industrial production is increasingly ronment and aiding them in the reuse in two types of activities. Firstly, we age. We follow the principle of equal opconcentrated in Asia to serve the area’s and recycling of resources involved in can give donations to global charitable portunities, and employees are selected rapidly growing large local markets and their processes. projects that aim to improve sustainand treated on the basis of their abilito supply world markets as a manufacWe aim to reduce the environmenable development and/or quality of ties and merits. We do not tolerate any turing powerhouse. Thus, the majortal impact of our own operations and life. Outotec does not give donations to form of harassment, including sexual ity of new metals production capacity improve our performance on all fronts. individuals, political parties or pressure harassment and other behavior that can is being constructed in the developing We therefore follow our greenhouse gas groups, religious organizations or any be considered offensive, intimidating, markets. Outotec is strengthening its emissions, energy consumption, water organizations showing or encouragdiscriminating or insulting. presence and local operations, and it consumption, paper use, and waste gening any type of prejudice (for example We do not provide goods or services aims to support sustainable developeration. When selecting new office premracial, sexual or religious). that we know will be used to carry out ment in these markets. ises, the environmental criteria are taken Secondly, we have a Community human rights abuses and we support An essential part of Outotec’s growth into account. For example, the new OuAgenda, which is aimed at supporting lothe realization of basic human rights strategy is to complement the compatotec facilities in Espoo, Finland, are becal projects in connection with major soglobally. We will not use any form of ny’s technology portfolio of sustainable ing built taking into account the LEED® lution deliveries to our customers. These compulsory, forced or child labor and products and services through acquisirequirements (LEED = Leadership in community projects are based on the we expect the same from our agents, tions. In 2012, the acquisition of Backfill Energy and Environmental Design). needs of the local community in a project suppliers, contractors and other busiSpecialists strengthened Outotec’s In line with our Donation Policy, we delivery location, and they are defined in ness partners. We work towards effecofferings for sustainable tailings treatsupport initiatives that enhance susa dialogue with the local community. We tive abolition of the use of compulsory, ment at mine sites. tainable development. In recent years, aim at completing the community proforced or child labor globally. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 10 As an international company with a and to always providing its personnel a offers its customers various services and system covers most of Outotec’s operaglobal presence, Outotec values diversity healthy and safe working environment. expertise to maintain their plants, which tions in 28 locations and 14 countries. and different cultures at the workplace. In Outotec’s customer projects, local even extend to operating and maintaining Outotec’s Hazardous Substances We are committed to a working environsubcontractors are also required to be the plant on the customer’s behalf. This Policy was published to ensure that ment with mutual trust and respect, and trained specialists. Therefore the risk way, we receive continuous direct feedall Outotec technology deliveries are where everyone feels responsible for profile regarding human rights violaback of the performance of our products. adequately designed, manufactured, the performance and good reputation of tions is relatively low. Based on our Supinstalled and commissioned to control Outotec. Outotec maintains continuous plier Policy, we will continue to develop Towards a globally integrated hazardous substances. As a minimum communications with employees through our supply chain management and supQEHS system requirement for all activities, Outotec is information and consultation procedures. plier selection procedures further. Outotec is committed to acting responsiusing the chemical specific regulations Regular briefings and interactive events bly, utilizing the best know-how availof the World Health Organization (WHO) are organized for personnel regarding Product responsibility able in the areas of quality, environment, and the International Labor Organization the company’s financial situation, targets, As a leading provider of technology, Ouand occupational health and safety. (ILO) regulations, including the Internaand successes. In addition, various influtotec ensures that all the plants, equipOutotec’s QEHS policy addresses issues tional Chemical Safety Cards (ICSC). encing and discussion channels are used, ment, and services engineered and delivfrom a general perspective, leaving speIn 2012 Outotec established a new including online questionnaires, intranet, ered by the company are reliable and safe cific details to be elaborated and applied QEHS portal to share quality, environOutotec Round-Table, and meetings through their life cycle. Outotec’s prodas required. It is each employee’s remental, health and safety information with employee representatives. Outotec ucts meet with all relevant health and sponsibility to ensure that their actions globally. The QEHS portal includes globrespects the freedom of association and safety laws and regulations as well as and behaviors comply with this policy. al procedures, instructions, standards the right to collective bargaining. safety-related industrial standards. We In order to enable business growth, and forms. In addition, Outotec’s global Competent and motivated people are also organize seminars for our customenhance productivity, secure quality, and QEHS team assessed and developed the essential to Outotec’s success. Therefore, ers to share our views and expertise on ensure compliance with legal requireQEHS process flow charts. A complete the company provides continuous trainthe sustainable use of natural resources. ments Outotec operates as one globset of QEHS modules including process ing and competence development. The Outotec has a Technology and Plant ally integrated company. Therefore, our flow charts is now available for Outotec most important responsibility of OutoSafety management process to ensure management systems for quality, enviemployees in the portal. tec’s leaders and managers is to help and that all products engineered and delivronmental health and safety (QEHS) are Our target is to establish modern support our people in personal and proered by the company worldwide are relibeing unified. The ‘One Outotec’ QEHS management systems to cover all fessional growth. We nurture a corporate able and meet all applied safety standmanagement system is based on the ISO Outotec locations, introduce the key culture, in which people can flourish and ards during all phases of the life cycle. 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standperformance indicators and data colbe creative. We encourage each other We provide information to our customards and it defines the procedures, worklection by 2013, and ultimately achieve to work together and interact across orers about the impacts of our products ing instructions and templates that are to the new QEHS management system ganizational and national borders. and services (e.g. their energy consumpbe used in global business processes. certification in 2013. Innovation is encouraged at Outotec, tion, emissions, metal recovery, and waSeveral steps towards a world class The challenge is to integrate our as our technologies are key assets to ter usage) and safety information accordintegrated QEHS management were takbusiness requirements into one system our business. Outotec has established ing to industry standards. In industrial en in 2012. Outotec operations in six adwhile keeping the existing certificates a Reward Program for compensating processes, safety is an integrated part of ditional countries achieved their ISO 9001 valid during the implementation of the employee innovations. This program was the operational manuals we provide. quality certification. Furthermore, Outonew system. reviewed in 2012 with upgraded rewards. To get feedback and information on tec operations in five countries achieved Outotec is committed to protecting our customers’ expectations, we carry multi-site ISO 9001 quality certificates. Read more about health and safety, and utilizing the best know-how with out customer satisfaction surveys and After these achievements and certifip. 17. regard to occupational health and safety, conduct case study interviews. Outotec cates, the integrated QEHS management Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 11 Long-term targets and Sustainability Agenda 2020 Outotec Sustainability Agenda 2020 In our previous reports we have published • 20 percent increase in the amount of – driving sustainability as a core element of our brand annual targets which steer our sustainavoided CO2 emissions by the industry ability agenda. For 2013 we have decided through the use of our metals related Offering Agenda Community Agenda to divide those targets into two categoprocesses by 2020. Sustainable technologies Creating shared value ries: key targets and supporting targets. • To generate more energy through our and lifecycle solutions together with our customand services ers in delivery locations The prioritization is done based on our waste-to-energy solutions. The tarmateriality analysis. We have also clearly geted annual reduction in the use of improved the measurability of our targets. fossil fuels is comparable to 80 MWe A major improvement in targetpower plants and 60 MWth steam setting is that we have decided to add boilers as an average. Sustainability long-term targets up to the year 2020 • 50 percent reduction in fresh maketo complement our annual targets. The up water per one tonne of ore in nonAgenda first long-term target − ‘More sustainferrous metal concentrators. This is 2020 able technologies and services by 2020’ a clear task for technology develop− relates to our Offering Agenda and it ment and new innovations. comprises four elements: • To keep the share of environmenThe base line year for the long-term Governance Agenda tal goods and services (EGS) in our technology related targets is 2012. The Strong common values order intake permanently above 90 second long-term target will be formuPeople Agenda and Code of Conduct and Preferred employer solid governance structure percent. This means that we always lated during 2013 on People Agenda, seek to sell our latest technology which is the other area considered as (BAT) to customers. most relevant to our business. Environmental goods 50% reduction in fresh and services / order make-up water/t of ore intake permanently in non-ferrous metals over 90% concentrators More sustainable technologies and services by 2020 More energy generated through our waste-to-energy solu20% increase in avoided tions. Annual reduction CO2 emissions by the in use of fossil fuels by industry through use power plants equaling 80 of our metals-related MWe and by steam boilprocesses ers equaling 60 MWth Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our approach 12 OUR WAY OF WORKING Employees At the end of 2012, Outotec had a total Personnel by age range Employees 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator of 4,805 employees. Temporary person700 nel accounted for about 9 percent of Number of employees at year end 4,805 3,883 3,130 LA1 600 this total. In addition to its own employ500 Number of employees on average 4,456 3,516 3,151 LA1 ees, Outotec had approximately 660 400 Temporary, % of the total number 9 9 8 LA1 full-time equivalent contracted profes300 Number of full-time equivalent 660 620 328 LA1 sionals working in project execution 200 contracted professionals and services. 100 Share of women in employees, %* 19.2 20 20 LA2 Nearly half of Outotec’s employees 0 < 25 26–30 31–35 36–40 41–45 46–50 51–55 56–60 > 60 Share of women in management, %** 15.7 14 11 LA2, LA13 are based in Europe; however, Outotec also has operations and employees in Wages and salaries paid, EUR million 362.6 284.4 224.4 EC1 2010 2011 2012 all the continents. Average age of employees 40.7 40.7 41.3 LA2 2012: n=4,111 (coverage: 86%) Lowest employee turnover in Europe * 2012: n = 4,721 (coverage: 98%) During 2012, Outotec’s employee turno** 2012: n = 695 (employees in management based on Outotec grading) ver remained lowest in Europe. Educational background Personnel by region Personnel by region Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2011 Dec 31, 2010 EMEA (including CIS) 2,642 2,327 1,945 Primary and lower The Americas 1,400 972 759 secondary level 27% Upper secondary level EMEA (including CIS) Asia Pacific 763 584 426 and lower university 2,642 degree 48% Total 4,805 3,883 3,130 The Americas 1,400 Higher university Asia Pacific 763 degree and postgraduate 25% 2012: n=2,684 (coverage: 56%) Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 13 Competence development a more pro-active intervention aligned Employee turnover rate 2012 2012 2011 2011 2010 GRI indicator Competent and motivated employees to our talent cycle process in 2013. are essential to Outotec’s success. Outotec’s new employees participated # % # % Therefore, the company provides conin various customer projects to attain by age group tinuous training and competence develpractical experience. To enable lifelong <25 22 8 15 8 n/a LA2 opment as well as a healthy and safe learning and uniqueness of knowledge 26–30 54 9 40 7 working environment for its personnel. in certain areas of expertise, we encourWe continued to have a key focus in age our experienced specialists to share 31–35 62 10 43 8 Outotec on learning, in line with the their knowledge and to train successors. 36–40 50 9 29 6 70/20/10 concept, so that 70 percent 41–45 44 9 23 5 of Outotec’s emphasis is on on-the-job Learning from others 46–50 24 6 20 5 learning, 20 percent on learning from Mentoring is also used to transfer others, and 10 percent on formal traintacit knowledge from more experi51–55 38 12 7 2 ing programs. In 2012 we emphasized enced specialists to newcomers or less 56–60 23 8 18 6 collaboration in teams and leaderexperienced employees. We imple>60 47 21 9 4 ship in general. Over 300 employees mented a mentoring program in Brazil Total* 364 10 204 6 participated in our sales master class and extended our O’Mentor program by gender program. We invested almost EUR 1.5 to include 30 more people in Finland. million in leadership, coaching, sales We continue to expand the context and Women 102 11.3 45 6.1 n/a LA2 and mentoring programs. principles of mentoring in 2013. We are Men 310 8.1 195 6.5 Our newly-revised employee enset to launch ‘train the trainer’ program by region gagement survey, taking place in 2013, in Sweden, India and North America to Finland 69 5 51 4 n/a LA2 will capture all of these new concepts help them raise awareness and plan in questions relating to how our leadto prepare for their own key mentoring Germany 32 6 16 3 ers behave in line with company values programs in 2014. Rest of Europe 28 10 12 4 and how our leaders direct their people. Active coaching for the Executive The Americas 174 12 83 9 There will be focused questions about lisBoard and senior leaders continued on Australia 46 9 18 5 tening, communicating and coaching. The individual and team levels all over the Rest of the world 63 11 60 13 survey will also include several new facworld. The use of diagnostic tools such tors relating to satisfaction regarding the as EQ-i Emotional Intelligence & MBTI * The reason for the difference in the total number in the category ‘employee turnover rate by age development opportunities offered to our assessments still had a part to play, group’ is restricted data of age from one reporting unit. employees. We will start to measure both and in 2013 we will review the overall the engagement and the success of how concept for these tools to ensure we we help our people learn and develop as focus on the right returns. we progress over the next few years. In addition, monthly leadership Personnel survey, % 2012 2011 2010 reflections and learning went out colEmployee satisfaction n/a 65.6 63.7 On-the-job learning lectively to a set community of over 100 Survey coverage n/a 79.4 74.6 Job rotation continued to be high on leaders for refreshing ideas on conthe agenda and it will become part of cepts for leadership. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 14 Training programs and other processes and tools will be Training 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator All global onboarding activities were piloted internally. All types of vocational training and instruction n/a LA10 upgraded in 2012 to support Outotec’s The second group of 48 senior leaders high growth rate. The process was from different parts of the world particiNumber of employees 2,990 1,288 clarified and communicated, together pated in Future Leaders workshops in Hours 60,184 32,948 with a global onboarding plan template Abu Dhabi and India to help understand Paid educational leave provided by n/a LA10 supporting line managers. Two global the cultural impact and needs in areas Outotec for its employees onboarding events were arranged with where our business growth is high. The Number of employees 563 318 recorded webcasts where our senworkshops focused on strategy, adaptive Hours 21,506 4,240 ior executives gave an overview of our leadership, networking within the matrix strategy, operations and values. We alorganization and enhanced coaching prinTraining or education pursued externally n/a LA10 so developed self-study materials such ciples to help with team and individual and paid for in whole or in part by Outotec as technology inductions and ‘a basics performance. On-going learning groups Number of employees 2,277 1,237 of mineral processing’ webcast to be practicing coaching and projects covering Hours 28,187 16,569 globally available for our employees. major strategic topics will contribute to Training on speciﬁc topics such as health n/a LA10 After a two-year establishment that the 2020 strategic planning process with and safety focused on internal technology and active Executive Board sponsorship. Hours 49,700 9,955 product training, a new concept and We also launched a more focused platform for learning, Outotec Learning program relating to value selling and Training on human right issues n/a n/a LA10 Point, was finalized for global launch in customer segmentation by partnerNumber of employees 3,019 early 2013. The aim with Learning Point ing with IMD in Switzerland. As part of Hours 1,509 has been to establish concepts, prothe program, 48 of our leaders were cesses and roles needed for systematic challenged to help evaluate the right competence transfer across Outotec targets for set customer markets. This organizations. The range of basic trainwork continues in 2013. In 2012, training hours increased and a local dialogue was launched. 63 ing courses already covers most of Since December 2011, we have insignificantly from 2011 because of percent of Outotec’s personnel particiOutotec’s process equipment for differcluded organizational cultural workthe large number of new employees pated in local workshops. ent target audiences. In the first phase shops and analysis in the integration who needed support with onboarding, Outotec held a seminar in St. Petraining courses are targeted for Outoplans of acquisitions. The aim is to change in organizational culture and tersburg where topics like prevention tec employees and in the second phase better understand the similarities and improved reporting. of heart diseases, for example, first aid for customers and sub-contractors. The differences between the organizational Human rights issues were discussed when extremely high or extremely low Learning Point environment was decultures of the buyer and the seller. as part of the workshops organized to blood pressure, first aid when fainting signed and piloted with 650 users. DurIn 2012 four of these workshops were discuss Outotec’s values. During 2011 etc. and some other occupational health ing 2012 39 standardized product trainorganized to minimize the symptoms of we held workshops in all our locations issues (necessity of avoidance of sedening courses altogether were delivered culture clash, such as increased emglobally, and there was also an online tary lifestyle) were discussed. globally. Learning Point will continue to ployee stress, reduced productivity and dialogue about our values. The results Through a Medical Alerts and Travel grow, becoming an overall learning platincreased labor turnover. of this journey were launched in June Security Online service provided by form for Outotec which could eventually In addition, there were some local 2012. We started the full-scale global International SOS Security Advisors all cover all elements of self learning. leadership development programs and roll-out in October. All Executive Board Outotec employees are informed about In 2013 e-learning materials linked coaching as well as safety, language, members were assigned to local workdiseases and other health, safety and to health and safety, legal compliance and ICT trainings. shops where the values were explained security issues. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 15 Performance development dialogues Topics discussed included strategy, Over 95 percent of Outotec employacquisitions, rewarding, organizational ees had performance development change, and internal development prodialogues (PDD) in 2012. Personal grams. 23 personnel representatives development plans were added to PDD participated in the meetings. mid-reviews to ensure systematic performance and competence development Rewarding as well as a strong leadership mechaOutotec’s Board of Directors believe nism. In 2013 we will focus on embedthat an effective compensation policy ding our values into the PDD process plays an essential part in the compato align them with set behaviors and to ny’s future success. It is also in sharemeasure ‘how’ employees achieve their holders’ interests to have competent targets, as well as ‘what’ they achieve and motivated employees working in against performance targets. line with Outotec’s targets and strategy. For a technology company such as Labor practices Outotec, it is very important to be able Outotec Round-Table discussed to recruit and retain world-class prostrategy and internal development fessionals, as they are a key asset that Outotec Round-Table is a discussion fohelp to create the company’s intellecrum for personnel representatives and tual property. management on matters concerning Fair and motivating compensation is the whole company. It is based on the achieved through pay that is in line with European Works Council directive 94/95 the requirements of the job and the EU, Article 6 and it covers all employperformance and competences of the ees in the EU countries as well as in employee. Norway and Switzerland. The Outotec All Outotec employees are covered Round-Table was held twice in 2012. by an annual bonus system to encourCoverage of the benefits provided by Outotec Benefit Full time employees Temporary employees GRI indicator covered (%) covered (%) Life insurance 30 10 LA3 Health care 80 50 LA3 Disability/invalidity coverage 90 40 LA3 Maternity/paternity leave 90 40 LA3 Retirement provision 45 30 LA3 2012: n = 3,670 (coverage = 76%) Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 16 age performance and personal develOther labor practices Health and safety 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator opment. The bonus is only paid to those 54 percent of employees are covered Non-fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 26 48 n/a LA7 employees who have been employed by collective bargaining agreements. Fatal injury arising from or in the course of work 0 0 n/a LA7 by the company for at least six months Binding collective agreements are folduring the accounting period, or if a lowed in each country where they are Lost time injury rate (LTIR) (number/200,000 working hours) 0.40 1.62 n/a LA7 person has been hired during the acapplicable to Outotec employees. Occupational diseases 0 0 n/a LA7 counting period, the minimum employThe minimum notice periods regardOccupational disease rate (number/200,000 working hours) 0 0 n/a LA7 ment time is four months. In addition, ing significant operational changes Lost days because of an occupational accident or disease 285 408 n/a LA7 the employee needs to be employed by depend on locations and national legisLost day rate (number/200,000 working hours) 4.35 13.76 n/a LA7 Outotec at the time of bonus payment. lation, and therefore differ significantly. In 2012 Outotec launched an emNotice periods range from 2 to 8 weeks Absentee rate (%) 1.96 2.61 n/a LA7 ployee share savings plan for the up to one year. company’s employees globally. The first Health and safety topics are not cov2012: n = 5,873 (own employees and subcontractors on site) savings period commenced in January ered in formal agreements with trade 2013. Altogether 1,513 employees in unions. Health and safety issues are 22 countries (approximately 34% of the covered by statutory regulations in difTargets related to health and safety employees eligible to participate) save ferent laws, and there is therefore no Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator a proportion of their salary to buy Ouneed for separate agreements. totec shares. In return, Outotec will reTechnology and plant safety: Target was achieved. TPSM is included PR1 ward the participants with free shares Health and safety implement technology and plant in all major new in the future. The participation rate is The main focus in the area of quality, safety management (TPSM) in TPSM has been introduced technology and all locations with engineering in all locations involved in plant delivery over 50 percent in Finland, Sweden and environmental health and safety (QEHS) activities. project implementation and contracts globally. five other countries. Participation in the is to harmonize QEHS-management engineering. share savings plan is entirely voluntary. systems and to create common proLong term target: In addition, 146 key employees were cedures, instructions and tools for all zero harm= part of the company’s share based inOutotec locations. The target for health zero fatalities+ centive program in 2012. and safety is that all main locations are zero incidents+ Outotec has several pension plans in working and will be certified according zero property damages various countries. The plans are mainly to the OHSAS 18001 management sysfor Outotec and our partners. classiﬁed as deﬁned contribution pentem before the end of 2013. sion plans. In Germany, we use deﬁned Outotec has a medical and security beneﬁt pension plans. Other post-emservices agreement with the global ployment beneﬁts relate to retirement service provider International SOS to medical arrangements in Germany. ensure the security and well-being of its employees. This service covers all Read more about employee benefits Outotec employees and service providin Outotec Financial Statements ers for emergencies that occur during 2012, p. 29. business trips, through providing global medical and security assistance 24/7. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 17 Employee categories, gender balance and age structure 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator Total number of employees in each employee category* n/a LA13 Senior management 126 135 Middle management 429 496 Specialists 2,074 1,959 Blue-collar workers 842 516 Senior management (%)** n/a LA13 Women 10 11 Men 90 89 < 30 years old 0 0 30–50 years 61 68 > 50 years old 39 32 Middle management (%)** n/a LA13 Women 19 12 Men 81 88 Case: Emirates Aluminium awarded Outotec as its best EHS contractor < 30 years old 4 3 Outotec’s project team received the certificate and trophy for the best envi30–50 years 69 68 ronment, health & safety (EHS) contractor from Emirates Aluminium in July > 50 years old 27 29 2012 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Outotec’s team is building a green Specialists (%)** n/a LA13 anode plant and anode rodding shop at Emirates Aluminium’s aluminum Women 24 27 smelter. Steve Stewart, EHS Manager and Michel Saby, Site Project Manager Men 76 73 received the award during a ceremony at Emirates Aluminium’s headquar< 30 years old 15 21 ters. “We have made numerous proactive initiatives on site to ensure that 30–50 years 61 57 positive safety culture will be maintained throughout the assignment”, > 50 years old 24 22 explained Steve Stewart, Outotec’s EHS Manager. There were 16 contractors competing for the Best EHS Contractor award. Blue-collar workers (%)** n/a LA13 Women 3 4 Men 97 96 < 30 years old 31 22 Gender balance and age structure Procedures for local hiring 30–50 years 49 49 Because of the master data system When Outotec starts a new operation in a > 50 years old 20 29 introduced in 2011, we are able to recountry, normally an expatriate is sent to Board of Directors (%) n/a LA13 port detailed information of the share take care of integration of the new operaWomen 14 14 of females and age structure in each tion. However, the target is that senior Men 86 86 employee category. The low share of management of the local operation is hired < 30 years old 0 0 women may reflect the typically high locally. Currently Outotec has an office or 30–50 years 29 29 share of men in the history of the minoperating entity in 25 countries and a local > 50 years old 71 71 ing and metallurgical industry. manager in 78 percent of them. Outotec There were no reported incidents of has a harmonized hiring process that al* Grading of all employees not completed yet (n = 3,471; coverage = 72%) ** Data coverage 80% because of local restriction of data reporting any type of discrimination in 2012. lows taking into account local procedures. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 18 Targets related to employees Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator Further improve the employer image to become a preferred Target was achieved. Social media channels were actively developed with Further develop the employer image: employer: increase the use and develop the content of social more content creators globally. Global employee value proposition was • Localized employee value proposition in 5 key media channels (such as Facebook, Linkedin, Twitter, XING). created based on new hire survey, internal workshops and interviews. countries. • 20% increase in number of followers in social Survey on employer image using social media participants. In April, survey was made of 400 recently-hired employees from all over media. the world. The data was then used to build an employee value proposition. • Localized content in social media. (KEY TARGET) Finalize and publish the refined set of Outotec values and Target was partially achieved. Our values framework, published and comCode of Conduct implementation: SO3 integrate them into the management system. municated to employees in 2012, was built around ‘committed to sustain• E-learning solution created and 80% of perability’ as the core value. sonnel trained. (KEY TARGET) Publish the new Code of Conduct and the related e-learning platform. The new Code of Conduct was created. The implementation and related e-learning platform was postponed to 2013. Continue ethical dialogue in internal social media with all employees and in the Management Forum. 90–95% of employees have their performance development Target was achieved. Over 95% of employees used the new PDD tool for Performance development dialogues: LA12 dialogue (PDD) using the new tool. defining their targets, and a personal development plan function was • All employees have had PDDs according to developed in the tool. defined policy. Develop the tool to include individual development. Study the possibilities to increase the sustainability of our Target was achieved. Our values framework, published in 2012, was Improving life balance and sustainable leadership: EN18, LA11 own operations, for example telecommuting, i.e. remote built around ‘committed to sustainability’ as the core value. In addition • Global guidelines for remote working and working from home (social and environmental impact). to video conferencing, sustainability also guided decisions on our new flexible working time to be published. Espoo premises (our biggest office) are being built in full consideration • Sustainable leadership implemented through of LEED® (LEED = Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) performance evaluation concept and leaderrequirements. ship training. Technology and plant safety: take technology and plant safety manTarget was achieved. TPSM has been introduced in all locations involved Technology and Plant Safety Management: PR1 agement (TPSM) into use in all locations with engineering activities. in project implementation and engineering. • TPSM is included in all major new technology and plant delivery contracts globally. Long term target: zero harm= zero fatalities + zero incidents + zero property damages for Outotec and our partners. Define and implement the HC Master Data related processes. Target was partially achieved. Quality of data in the HC Master data system LA1–13 Develop the HC Master Data system and HC reporting further. was improved through closely followed training of local Human Capital personnel globally. HC reporting was further developed based on Master Data, but because of matrix organization, further needs were identified and a project to fulfill those needs was started in late 2012. Read more about Outotec’s interaction with stakeholders, p. 26. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 19 R&D and innovation Outotec’s success is based on a strong technologies. Water is also an increasingly Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator portfolio of world-class technologies, roscarce resource, and its efficient use, along Increase the percentage Target was achieved. 89% of EGS % of order intake: EN6 bust expertise and innovative personnel. with recycling and purification processes, of environmental goods order intake classified as EGS. maintain the percentTo stay at the forefront of sustainable soluis a goal of steadily mounting importance and services (EGS) in age of EGS in order tions, we continuously improve and develop in the customer industry. order intake. Long-term intake on the level of our proprietary technologies. We will furThe growth opportunities offered by entarget is to reach a level 85–95% and above ther strengthen our portfolio of sustainable ergy and industrial water treatment are atof 80–90%. 90% as the long-term solutions for the entire value chain from ore tractive as they show high synergy potential target. (KEY TARGET) to metals and complement our in-house and manageable risks. Outotec’s energy and Increase the investTarget was partially achieved. Done, sustained as EN6, EN26 R&D with acquisitions and partnerships. environmental solutions business includes ment in R&D in line R&D expenditure was EUR normal business We cooperate with universities, reofferings for bioenergy, water, improved with business growth. 41.6 million, representing 24% practice. search institutes, and customers in R&D. heat recovery, and applications for oil shale growth from 2011. However, Outotec has 630 patent families, over 5,740 and oil sands. Naturally, all of the company’s because of the strong business national patents and applications, and business areas focus on energy and water growth in 2012, the share of over 70 trademarks. Key areas of experefficiency, emission reductions and waste R&D of sales was 2.0%, which tise are physical separation, metallurgy of management in their product developis lower than in 2011 (2.4%). solid-state materials, chemistry including ment. In addition to in-house R&D, Outotec Continue growth Target was achieved. Outotec Sustainable acquisiEC1 pyroand hydrometallurgy, as well as gasdevelops sustainable solutions in partnerthrough acquisitions to made four acquisitions in 2012. tions: continue growth handling technologies. We have 18 comship with other companies. For example, by complement Outotec’s The acquisition of Backfill Spethrough sustainable petence centers and in-house research utilizing its expertise in solid-water sepatechnology portfolio. cialists brought new solutions acquisitions based on centers, state-of-the-art laboratories, and ration technologies, Outotec cooperates for sustainable tailings treatM&A target assessment into Outotec’s portfolio. ment criteria. More test facilities, which have enabled dozens with Kemira to improve the oil recovery and than 50% of acquisiof Outotec technologies to become best water efficiency of oil sands extraction. tions must increase available techniques (BAT) and industry sustainability offering standards. Outotec also has extensive Targets related to R&D or improve sustainknowledge of material technology, plant An essential part of Outotec’s strategy is ability agenda. and equipment engineering, equipment to complement the company’s technology and process automation, and the impleportfolio of sustainable products and sermentation of large international projects. vices through acquisitions. In R&D, OutoR&D and innovation 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator Outotec actively strives to explore new tec focuses on technology development to R&D expenditure, EUR million 41.6 33.5 28.5 EN6, EN26 applications for its technologies. Among increase resource efficiency by, for example, R&D expenditure, % of sales 2.0 2.4 2.9 EN6 other sectors, energy and industrial water reducing energy and water consumption and treatment in particular offer significant the environmental impact of the company’s R&D grants, EUR million 1.8 2.1 1.3 EC4 and attractive growth opportunities. Both products and services. We plan to keep the Amount of new patent applications filed 70 41 50 of these sectors require solutions for percentage of environmental goods and serNew national or regional patents granted 286 326 287 utilizing raw materials in an efficient and vices (EGS) in our order intake on the level of Amount of patent families 630 583 565 environmentally sound way. For some time 85–95 percent through product development Proportion of environmental goods 89 87 72 EN6 now, energy costs and stringent legislation and acquiring sustainable technologies, and and services in order intake, % have led users to seek out energy-efficient above 90 percent as the long-term target. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 20 Values and Code of Conduct In 2011, a dialogue with employees was 1) Creating leading technologies: this Outotec values started concerning Outotec’s values and means creating technology breakCode of Conduct with the purpose of throughs and leading the way, seeing Creating discussing and redefining them. Apchange and complexity as opporleading proximately 60 percent of employees tunity, leveraging our expertise, technologies participated in workshops and also gave encouraging innovation and rethinktheir input in an online questionnaire. ing as well as leading in sustainable After thorough analysis of the workshop technology. results and on-line feedback, we redefined our values for 2012. At the core is 2) Building success together: this our commitment to sustainability. For means pursuing our mission, buildus, sustainability means a good balance ing long-term sustainable customer Committed to between social, economic and environand supplier relationships, trust sustainability mental responsibility. We want to behave and respect, celebrating success in a sustainable manner in all our relatogether, taking care of life balance, Aspiring Building tionships, whether internal or external. leveraging diversity, and acting with for success As we are growing larger and more mulcourage. excellence together ticultural as an organization, we must ensure that we not only rely on manu3) Aspiring for excellence: this means als and policies, but on a strong ethical continuous improvement every day, culture built on our common values. We setting the bar high, challenging Targets regarding values and Code of Conduct want to encourage everyone at Outotec the status quo, growing and renewto consider their actions through one ing ourselves as individuals, staying Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator simple question: “Is this sustainable?” humble and adaptive to learn, finding Finalize and publish the reTarget was partially achieved. Code of Conduct SO3, HR3 In addition to our core value of susout what good looks like and flourfined set of Outotec values implementation: tainability, we have three very imporishing in what we do. and integrate them into the Our values framework, published e-learning solution tant value statements: management system. and communicated to employees in created and 80% of Watch the Outotec journey. 2012, was built around ‘committed to personnel trained. Publish the new Code of sustainability’ as the core value. (KEY TARGET) Watch the CEO talking about values. Conduct and a related e-learning platform. The new Code of Conduct was Read more about our corporate created. The implementation and responsibility policy at Continue ethical dialogue related e-learning platform was www.outotec.com/sustainability in internal social media postponed to 2013. with all employees and in the Management Forum. Ethical dialogue was not conducted due to the postponement. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 21 These values were launched to the top more detailed policies in place. The UN Global Compact’s ten principles Outotec management for final review in our Mancode also provides for a method for Principle 1: Businesses should support and • Values agement Forum in June 2012. We started raising concerns. The implementation respect the protection of interna• Corporate Responsibility Policy the full-scale global roll-out in October. of the code will start in 2013 with traintionally proclaimed human rights • Quality, Environmental Health and Safety All Executive Board members were coming and a help-line to be established. (QEHS) Policy • Local health and safety systems mitted to local workshops where the val• Employee training and development ues were explained and a local dialogue Committed to the Global • Collective bargaining agreements was launched. Almost all Outotec locaCompact initiative Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that • Corporate Responsibility Policy tions were covered by the end of 2012, Outotec has signed the Unitthey are not complicit in human • Values and the rest will be covered during 2013. ed Nations Global Compact rights abuses • Supplier Policy The first deployment phase concentrated initiative and committed to Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the • 54% of employees covered by collective baron our mission and the core value. The its principles of human rights, environfreedom of association and the gaining agreements second phase starting in 2013 will conment, labor, and anti-corruption. By effective recognition of the right to centrate on the other three values. joining the Global Compact initiative in collective bargaining Building on our values, in 2012 we 2010 Outotec has expressed its intent Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the • Corporate Responsibility Policy adopted a comprehensive Code of to further advance sustainability and elimination of all forms of forced • Supplier Policy Conduct which gives our people ethical social responsibility principles in its and compulsory labor guidance in many issues. The code covbusiness practices. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the ef• Corporate Responsibility Policy ers a wide range of issues from interfective abolition of child labor • Supplier Policy nal ways of working to relations with Compliance with regulations and laws Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elim• Corporate Responsibility Policy different stakeholders. The first section Outotec endorses ethical business ination of discrimination in respect covers human rights, integrity in the practices and complies with national of employment and occupation working community, health & safety, and international laws and regulations. Principle 7: Businesses should support a pre• R&D, technology development to improve process employee development and innovaIn 2012, Outotec did not encounter any cautionary approach to environsolutions environmental performance, comply with tions, privacy as well as intellectual competition law related suspicions. Oumental challenges all relevant environmental legislation, risk manproperty issues. The second section totec did neither have to pay any fines agement (materials used, products, processes) deals with compliance, reporting and and was not exposed to any non-mon• QEHS management systems regulations, conflicts of interests and etary sanctions for non-compliance • Risk management system insider rules. The third section looks at with laws and regulations. Nor did any • Technology Policy dealing with our business partners and issues emerge concerning the rights of Principle 8: Businesses should undertake • R&D, technology development gives guidance on gifts and entertainindigenous people. initiatives to promote greater • Energy-efficiency agreements in Finland ment, dealing with suppliers, fair comOutotec detected one case, where environmental responsibility • QEHS systems petition practices and actions against an employee was suspected of abuse • Outotec products and services comply fully money laundering. The fourth section of organizational position where minor with local environmental laws and regulations concentrates on relations with comcorruption was also involved. Further Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the • BAT offerings, sustainability KPIs in Outotec munities and governments, and defines an external person was suspected of development and diffusion of envisolutions the principles in those relations, antisending intentionally falsified VAT inronmentally friendly technologies • Outotec mission and vision corruption, donations and environmenvoices to Outotec, said behavior entail• Sustainability features in product design tal responsibility. ing tax liability. Principle 10: Businesses should work against • Corporate Responsibility Policy In many of the areas covered by the Our products comply with induscorruption in all its forms, includ• Anti-Money Laundering Policy Code of Conduct, we have separate, trial health and safety standards and ing extortion & bribery Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 22 regulations. We provide extensive related to the internal audit reports product information for customers in directly to the board’s audit committhe form of user manuals and technitee and the CEO. The Audit Committee cal descriptions. No non-compliance approves the annual and long-term concerning the provision and use of internal audit plans. Audit findings, recproducts and services has been reommendations and management corported to Outotec. rective actions are reported regularly to In 2012, Outotec’s subsidiary in South the Audit Committee. Africa improved its Broad-Based Black Internal auditing helps Outotec to Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) ratcomply with good corporate governance ing from Level 6 to Level 5 contributor, and gives management an independent which means that Outotec customers perspective in considering and reviewing can recognize 80 percent of their spend the company’s operations. The function on Outotec products as BBBEE Preferbrings a systematic, disciplined apential Procurement. BBBEE program proach to evaluating and improving the has been initiated by the South African effectiveness of risk management, congovernment to distribute wealth across trol, and governance processes. as broad a spectrum of South African Outotec’s internal and external audit society as possible. Outotec launched a processes take into account eventual program to improve its scorecard and corruption suspicions and fraudulent become compliant to industry expectaacts. Legal seminars are held throughtions in this regard in 2011. out the organization on a regular basis to train employees in its anti-corruption Internal control and audit policies and procedures for the purpose Internal control and audit are a funof preventing misconduct and crimes. damental part of Outotec’s corporate In 2012, Outotec defined a new Intergovernance and management systems. nal Audit Policy to specify the guideOutotec’s internal audit system monilines to be followed in internal auditing. tors that the company’s operations are In addition, a process with related docefficiently managed and profitable, risk uments was published on the intranet management is at sufficient level and and communicated to employees. Two the information provided for external extensive audits were conducted, one and internal purposes is accurate. The in the human capital function and its internal audit function reports adminprocesses, and the other in compliance istratively to the CFO, but in matters and fraud risk management. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 23 Governance and sustainability Outotec follows the Finnish Corporate Monetary incentives Decision making in sustainability issues Governance Code (available at www. related to sustainability cgfinland.fi) issued by the Securities Employees working with sustainability Market Association in June 2010 and and environmental issues have personal adopted by the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki targets set in their annual bonus plans. Board of Directors stock exchange. Outotec complies with This mainly pertains to environmental the regulations and recommendations and sustainability managers. Inventors issued by NASDAQ OMX Helsinki. The working with new, patentable solutions CEO Corporate Governance Code is based also receive monetary rewards for their Executive Board on self-regulation and complements inventions. Furthermore, Outotec restatutory procedures. Outotec’s Corpowards all employees for making proposrate Governance Statement 2012 has als that improve the sustainability of the been prepared in accordance with the company’s internal processes. Corporate responsibility Technology and recommendations of the Finnish CorThe company’s research center in Head of Product Board porate Governance Code and related Pori, Finland applies a reward system Communications and CR CTO instructions issued by the Securities based on balanced scorecard indicaMarkets Association. tors. The majority of Outotec’s technolAt Outotec, the Executive Board ogy development projects focus on raw is responsible for our Sustainability material and energy efficiency improveWorking group Agenda. The Executive Board approves ments and thus CO2 and other emission the sustainability strategy, targets and reductions. Water efficiency is also ofreporting. The Senior Vice President for ten a driver for Outotec’s research, and Sustainability aspect Communications and Corporate Recustomers expect Outotec to develop sponsibility, a member of the Executive new technologies that result in energy Board, has the overall responsibility and cost savings. QEHS for coordination and development. The Strategy Employees Supply chain Governance Head of Economic Investor Head of Head of and compliance Relations responsibility for issues related to the Board work Strategy Human Capital Head of Supply Head of Legal Business CFO Head of IR Infrastructure sustainability of our products and serThe Board of Directors of Outotec convices lies with the Technology and Prodsists of seven members, six of which uct Board chaired by the CEO. Decisions are independent. Tapani Järvinen, who made, actions, and commitments are was the former CEO of the company reported to the Board of Directors. Susuntil the end of 2009, is defined as tainability is integrated into all relevant dependent because of his employment organizational functions, such as human relationship. One of the board memcapital, supply, legal, health and safety bers is female. etc. In addition, there is a working group In 2012, the Board of Directors met that meets several times a year. 13 times. The average attendance of Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 24 members at board meetings was 96 preparation and presentation of memTarget for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator percent. The Board of Directors asber candidates for the Board of DirecFinalize and publish the Target was partially achieved. Code of Conduct SO3, HR3 sesses its performance annually. The tors, as well as Board of Directors’ refined set of Outotec implementation: annual evaluation regarding 2012 was remuneration matters. The nominavalues and integrate them Our values framework, e-learning solution conducted by an external advisor. tion board consists of representatives into the management published and communicreated and 80% of The remuneration of board memof the three largest shareholders of system. cated to employees in 2012, personnel trained. bers is described in Outotec’s Financial Outotec, plus the Chairman and Vice was built around ‘committed (KEY TARGET) Statements 2012, p. 10. There is no Chairman of the Board of Directors. It Publish the new Code of to sustainability’ as the core linkage between the compensation for also prepares proposals for the elecConduct and the related value. board members and Outotec’s social or tion and renumeration of the members e-learning platform. environmental performance. of the Board of Directors to the Annual The new Code of ConThe Board of Directors has a human General Meeting. Continue ethical dialogue duct was published. The capital committee, consisting of four The board has an audit committee in internal social media implementation and related with all employees and in e-learning platform was members, to ensure that all human capconsisting of four board members, who the Management Forum. postponed to 2013. ital related topics – such as ethics and are independent of the company. This values, resourcing strategy, competence committee’s task is to review in greater Improve the system for Target was partially achieved. Improve sustainability sustainability KPIs colgovernance model: and performance management, and detail than is possible for the board as lection. GRI indicator collection strengthen sustaincompensation arrangements – support a whole the auditing work, the internal improved in 2012. A validaability focus on all the strategic aims of the business and controls, the scope of internal and exInclude the relevant tion check for all business levels and improve enable the recruitment, development, ternal audits, invoicing by the auditors, sustainability KPIs in core units was integrated in the integration throughout motivation, and retention of key personthe company’s financial policies, and business and shared funcreporting tool that highlights the organization. nel while complying with the requireother procedures for managing compation processes. changes over 20% compared ments of regulatory and governance ny-specific risks. In addition, the audit to the previous years and bodies and satisfying the expectations of committee prepares recommendations asks for verification of the shareholders. The human capital comto the General Meeting of Shareholddata controller. This is yet mittee met five times in 2012 with averers concerning the election and fees of another step in improving age attendance of 95 percent. the auditors for the company. In 2012, data quality. In 2012, Outotec’s Annual General the audit committee met four times and The work with including Meeting decided to establish a nominathe average attendance of members in sustainability KPIs in core tion board. Its duties include search, these meetings was 92 percent. business processes did not progress as rapidly as Read more about Outotec’s Corpoplanned, and the work conrate Governance Statement 2012 at tinues in 2013. www.outotec.com/cg Refine the supplier asTarget was achieved. The Suppliers: EC6, HR2 sessment process further supplier assessment pro300 major suppliers covering sustainability ascess has been defined and have committed to new pects and deploy globally. officially released. A pilot Supplier Policy. study was carried out with a Chinese supplier. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 25 Interaction with stakeholders Outotec’s most important stakeholdIn addition to regular business coners are customers, current and future tacts, we organize seminars, users’ employees, suppliers, shareholders, meetings, training, and workshops for and the scientific community. These customers. To get feedback and inforkey stakeholders have been prioritized mation on customers’ expectations, we in the sustainability working group. In conduct customer satisfaction surveys addition, we cooperate with media as and case study interviews. Furtherwell as public and non-governmental more, it is industry practice that the organizations. Outotec has dedicated experts of both producers and technolfunctions to deal with its key stakeholdogy suppliers exchange information ers in an open and continuous dialogue and experiences and meet frequently at and to enhance transparency. technical conferences and trade shows around the world. Customers Outotec’s customers include compaSustainability expectations nies using natural resources as their Outotec studied its customers’ sustainraw material, such as mineral and ability targets and the requirements metal processing companies as well they set for their suppliers in 2011. The as producers of industrial minerals, study included 195 companies and was Case: Global conference for ferroalloy producers in South Africa fertilizers, sulfuric acid and energy. based on publicly available information. Outotec organized the 7th global Steel Belt Sintering conference for its liWe have long relationships with the According to the study, the most reportcense holders in Pretoria, South Africa in October 2012. Outotec has ormajority of our customers. As a proed targets were on energy consumpganized this conference every second year since 2000. A total of 57 people vider of tailored technological solution, greenhouse gases (emissions), attended the Pretoria conference representing 11 ferroalloy plants using Outions and services, we continuously water use, waste management, and totec Steel Belt Sintering (SBS) technology in South Africa, Brazil, Kazakhinteract with our customers on varisafety performance. The requirement stan and China. The theme of the conference was “Back to Basics”. Besides ous levels during the lifetime of their for suppliers was often the supplier’s technical papers, the conference was a workshop between producers and investment or plant. Personal discuscode of conduct, and occasionally cusOutotec. The idea was to provide a common floor for SBS technology users sions and site visits are always needed tomers expect suppliers to follow their to exchange experiences and ideas regarding the operation of their ferroalin Outotec’s business. We have joint own code of conduct. Other requireloy plants. For Outotec, the users’ conference is an opportunity to present R&D projects with customers in order ments Outotec’s customers set for their the latest developments in the SBS process. The participants also visited to develop the best possible solution suppliers were linked to human right Xstrata’s Wonderkop chromite pelletizing plant near Rustenburg. for their specific needs. issues and sustainability. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 26 In addition, Outotec studied the Outotec’s customers are very well n°12”. Competing with over 90 comsustainability expectations of twelve aware of their sustainability aspects panies, Outotec achieved this annual major metals producers based on their and publish this information in their award thanks to its confidence, acsustainability reports. As expected, the sustainability reports and web pages. complishments, sustainability and main challenges were related to energy Often environmental legislation drives environmental management results. efficiency, GHG emissions reductions, their activities to improve sustainability Outotec´s team on site included 43 GHG emissions trading, other emisperformance (e.g. emission reductions, professionals supervising the activities sions into the air, water efficiency, land use, safety). However, customers of 1,600 workers. In the Mina Ministro water protection, waste management, are increasingly realizing the potential Hales project Outotec is delivering five efficient use of resources, environmento improve profitability by energy-, waplants: a roasting plant, a gas cleaning tal protection, biodiversity, and health ter-, and resource-efficient processes. plant, a sulfuric acid plant, an effluent and safety. Because of the mature naIn 2012, Outotec did not carry out treatment plant and a copper concenture of the sampling group, many of the further research on its customers’ sustrate filtration plant. The work for this planned actions were targeted towards tainability expectations. project worth over 150 million euros, the improvement of existing operations. started in November 2011. Outotec has For the companies studied, it is of utAwards in customer work also achieved a total of up to two milmost importance that sustainability not During the implementation of Codelco’s lion hours without lost time accidents only ensures their license to operate Mina Ministro Hales project in Chile, (LTA) in the project. but also improves their profitability. For Outotec’s site manager Ino Dralle was instance, energy efficiency, reduced CO2 awarded with the “Site Manager 2012” emissions, and efficient resource use recognition for his excellence and are essential factors for improved cost leadership by Codelco’s HSE Council effectiveness. “Consejo Amplio de Sustentabilidad Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 27 Current and future employees largest visitor groups at www.outotec. Outotec’s aim is to be an open and com, therefore we developed the Caequal work community. The company reers section on our website in 2012. culture encourages everyone to discuss We also increased the use of social meand develop Outotec’s operations. Regdia in employer branding and as chanular briefing and interactive events are nels to interact with potential employorganized for personnel regarding the ees. The number of Outotec followers company’s financial situation, targets, in Facebook nearly doubled from about and successes. In addition, various 1,000 likes in January to 1,900+ likes in channels are used for discussion and December. The number of Twitter folinfluence, such as the intranet, Outotec lowers grew even faster from about 270 Round-Table, and meetings with emfollowers to over 700 followers in 2012. ployee representatives. A new interactive intranet was launched at the end of 2012 to enable interactive communicaRead more about our employees, p. 13. tion and information sharing globally. Outotec’s Young Professionals netWatch an interview with Outotec emwork had its first full operating year in ployee Aditi Basu of Kolkata, India. 2012 in Finland and it will be expanded globally in the future. The network is Case: study program for Mongolian students meant for young or young-at-heart Students Munkhtuya Ganbat was one of the students who took part in a study program Outotec employees to ease networking We have identified students and future financed by Outotec. She had attained a B.Sc. in minerals processing and across business units, improve profesemployees as an important stakeholder was doing her M.Sc. at the Erdenet Institute while also working as a research sional pride, and share career experigroup with an increasing interest in engineer at Erdenet Mining Corporation. According to Ganbat, she became ences across the organization. The tarsustainability and our performance as a interested in the discipline because the mining sector is developing very get is to create a pool of young, active, responsible employer. quickly in Mongolia and there are currently many opportunities. In Finland her and energetic people for fairs, career To increase recognition and to overall experience was very good and she managed to learn many new things, infos, customer events, student visits, strengthen its employer image, Outotec although the fast pace of studying surprised her at first. The most memorable photo shoots, summer trainee menhas actively sought different forms of colaspect for her was when the group traveled for two weeks around Finland and toring, and round table discussions. laboration with university students. We visited places such as the Pyhäsalmi mine, Talvivaara’s processing plant, and The network arranges activities with organize visits, internships, cooperative Outotec’s Pori research center. During the final seminar of the study program a positive athmosphere: lunch dates work on research, topics and supervision her topic was ”Copper production and its environmental impact”. and after-work activities such as game of diploma theses, field trips to producevenings, sports, and picnics. During tion plants, and lectures on various topi2012, the network, for example, visited cal issues. Many graduate students have a limestone mine museum, played contributed to the development of OuMongolia (MME) in 2011, Outotec sent golian students to Finland in April to beach volley and Finnish baseball, and totec’s technologies through their M.Sc. four Aalto University professors to give study minerals engineering and metaldiscussed how the working week could and post-graduate research. lectures at the universities of Darhan, lurgy for their master’s theses. The be redesigned. As part of the cooperation program Erdenet and Ulan Bator in February study program comprised three months Based on web surveys, students and Outotec established with the Ministry 2012. The cooperation was deepened of intensive training at Aalto University persons looking for job is one of the of Minerals Resources and Energy of when Outotec brought a group of Monand was financed by Outotec. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 28 Investors meets them on a regular basis at quarGood reputation amongst investors Suppliers Investors are increasingly interested in terly reporting events, investor meetIn 2012, Outotec was ranked 10th best Outotec’s supply chain includes thouOutotec’s corporate responsibility and ings, road shows, industry seminars, company in a survey made by Pohjoissands of suppliers globally. These repsustainable technologies. In 2012, we and annual general meetings. ranta Burson-Marsteller and Arvopaperi resent (but are not limited to) assembly had some sustainability-specific diaIn addition to interim and annual fimagazine for evaluating the reputation workshops, component manufacturers, logues with major investors. nancial reviews, the CEO’s Q&A sessions of 70 listed companies in Finland during distributors, logistics services providIn addition to Finnish law, EU directives, continued to be an important channel the year. Outotec’s reputation was ranked ers and construction and engineering Corporate Governance, and stock exchange to maintain a dialogue in between the 8th best in 2011. Outotec’s CEO Pertti Kocompanies. rules and regulations, Outotec’s IR policy is interim reviews and to comply with fair rhonen was ranked 7th on the list of most Supplier selection is of key imporbased on self-regulation, which is emboddisclosure. These live webcasts aim to reputable CEOs in the same survey. tance in Outotec’s business. Outotec ied, for the most part, in Outotec’s Corpogive further clarity on information made The survey has six different dimengives performance guarantees for rate Governance and Disclosure Policy. public earlier. In order to serve the capisions to measure reputation, using the plants and processes it deliver to tal market efficiently, to ensure equal factors related to corporate culture and its customers. Naturally, Outotec is Diverse shareholder base access to company-related information, leadership, financial excellence, public responsible for the equipment and maOutotec’s investor base is widely spread and to comply with disclosure requireimage, products and services, social reterials supplied as well as engineering, geographically and the company’s free ments, the live webcasts are recorded sponsibility, and operational dynamics. construction and service work profloat is close to 100 percent. Some 46 and available on demand for future vided by its suppliers and subcontracpercent (Dec 2012) of the company’s reference. tors. Outotec is determined to further Read more about shares and shareshares are held outside Finland and the As part of the annual Capital Markets holders in Outotec’s Financial Statedevelop long-term relationships with largest three shareholders account for Day, webcasted live from Hamburg, Ouments 2012, p. 75. selected suppliers, as well as estabsome 20 percent of the shares. There totec’s management shed more light on lishing global, common procedures for are numerous requests for information company strategy, business operations, Watch an interview with one supplier qualification, quality assurfrom the capital markets regarding the and long-term plans, as well as newly of our largest shareholders, ance, continuous monitoring and joint company’s business operations, financial introduced technologies and customer Solidium in Finland. continuous improvement of processes performance, corporate governance and cases. Participants were also given the and practices. environmental and social issues. The aim opportunity to visit Outotec’s customer Read more about Outotec as Outotec has two policies serving as in communicating with the capital market Aurubis. an investment target at the basis for collaboration with supis to ensure that the market has a true In 2012, Outotec had 16 road-show www.outotec.com/Investors pliers. Supply Policy is the umbrella and fair view of the company’s financial days, 50 group meetings, 15 conferpolicy, covering all the key elements position, operations, and future prospects ences, 44 teleconferences, 133 onearound supply, namely how supin order to make investment decisions. 22 on-one meetings at Outotec’s head Sustainability indexes ply activities in the company shall be analysts conducted research on Outotec. office, two IRO sales team briefings steered, from the strategic to the opAt the end of 2012, Outotec had 15,312 and four private investor seminars. As The Global 100 erational level, how supply quality shall shareholders. Shares held in 16 nominee part of the 2012 IR strategy, Outotec RobecoSAM 2013 be built, and a code of conduct for all registers accounted for 44.4 percent and targeted investors in the area of clean STOXX® Global ESG Leaders people involved in supply-related acFinnish households held roughly 10.7 technology, SRI and energy, and met tivities. The Supplier Policy is publicly percent of all Outotec shares. with 22 funds. available and all Outotec suppliers are Outotec published a quarterly IR to comply with it. This policy defines Continuous dialogue Highlights bulletin, which is an informathe high-level requirements for OutoOutotec’s IR team has a continuous diation collage of published orders, news tec suppliers. The policy sets princilogue with investors and analysts and and events during the quarter. ples on elements like ethical conduct, Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 29 compliance of laws and regulations, at the Aalto University School of Scienvironment, health and safety, labor, ence and Technology to promote the intellectual property and improper research of environmental technology, benefits. granted a scholarship in 2012 to Professor Mika Sillanpää of the LappeenRead more about the Impact of our ranta University of Technology for his supply chain, p. 50. dedication to environmental technologies. The basic capital for the fund was Watch an interview with one of donated by Outotec. Outotec’s suppliers, Teknikum in Based on the Cooperation Agreement Finland. with the Ministry of Minerals Resources and Energy of Mongolia, Outotec and Aalto University organized a training Scientific community course in Finland for Mongolian BacheIn 2012, Outotec continued its cooplor of Science graduates and professors eration in the development of enviin minerals engineering and metallurgy. ronmentally sound technologies with Outotec also began active cooperavarious organizations. As an expert in tion with the Central South University the European Union’s technical working (CSU), a comprehensive and nationally group and in an environmental workkey university under the direct adminising group of the Federation of Finnish tration of China’s Ministry of Education. A new school building was needed in Tswelelopele. By the time of our team’s first visit to the village, Technology Industries, many OutoOutotec’s sustainability expert, Profes96 children aged between 2 and 6 years had to share two little shacks, without running water, toilet tec representatives participate in the sor Markus Reuter was awarded with facilities or shade. The kindergarten receives very little financial support due to limited resources. The updating of the BREF on non-ferrous the visiting professorship by the unimain building of the new pre-school provides room for 100 children with 200 m² of classrooms and 100 m² for a kitchen, an office, storage and an isolation room. metals, a reference document which versity. He gave a public lecture titled defines best available techniques (BAT). “Metals – Enablers of Sustainability”, In addition, Outotec has been involved which received very positive feedback with the work of the International Copand a warm response from students, tec sponsored the building of and actualper Association’s Health, Environment including a very interesting discussion. ly did the construction work for a decent Read more about Outotec’s commitment to external initiatives, p. 31. and Sustainable Development Steering Outotec’s team also visited the labolearning environment for the children of Committee, European Technology Platratories of the Mineral Concentrating, Magojaneng West, in Hotazel Kuruman. Read more about Outotec’s study form – Sustainable Minerals Resources Metallurgical Processing, Material SciIn addition to building the Tswelelopele program for Mongolian students, High Level Group, among other organience and Chemical Schools. pre-school, our project team participated p. 28. zations. in building the playgrounds and providing In addition, one of Outotec’s experts is Local communities learning tools to stimulate learning. Watch a video of the Tswelelopele a lead author and editor of a document Outotec aims to be a good corporate In addition, Outotec supported pre-school opening. on recycling technology under the auscitizen in countries where we operate. UNICEF’s Schools for Asia program, the pices of Dr. Ernst von Weizsaecker, the In 2012, Outotec cooperated with its World Wildlife Fund’s Living Amazon co-chair of the UNEP resource panel. customer and partners in South Africa program as well as the Baltic Sea The Tapani Järvinen Environmental to build a pre-school in conjunction with Action Group’s initiatives for rehabilitaTechnology Fund, established in 2010 the Kalagadi Sinter Plant Project. Outotion of the Baltic Sea. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 30 Commitment to external initiatives CLEANTECH FINLAND The United Nations Sponsorship of the Millennium Cleantech Finland® Finnish Business and Society Global Compact initiative Technology Prize Since its inception, Outotec has been Outotec is a member of Finnish BusiSince 2010 Outotec has been committed In 2012, Outotec continued its sponsorinvolved in developing the Cleantech ness & Society which promotes finanto the United Nations Global Compact iniship of the Millennium Technology Prize. Finland® brand together with Finpro. cially, socially, and ecologically sustiative and its principles of human rights, tainable business in Finland and is a environment, labor and anti-corruption. member of CSR Europe, the CSR 360 Global Partner Network, and the Global Reporting Initiative. Carbon Disclosure Project Research program to foster Commitment to rehabilitating Technology Industries of Finland Outotec reports its greenhouse gas sustainable water use the Baltic Sea Centennial Foundation Fund for emissions, emissions reduction targets, Since 2010, Outotec has participated in Outotec contributed EUR 40,000 to the the Association of Finnish Steel and the risks and opportunities asa five-year industrial research program Baltic Sea Action Group’s initiatives to and Metal Producers sociated with climate change to the of the University of Alberta intended to improve the state of the Baltic Sea. Outotec is one of the five founding memCarbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Since foster sustainable water use in Canabers of this foundation, which aims to 2009 Outotec has been included in the dian oil sands extraction. give EUR 300,000 annually in grants and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for scholarships to students and univerNordic countries. sity research groups. In 2012, the fund awarded EUR 290,100 in grants. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 31 Principal international stakeholder organizations Organization Interest area Outotec’s engagement International Copper Association Increase the awareness and usage of copper by communicating Member, member of Environment Program the unique attributes that make this sustainable element an essential Advisory Committee contributor to our lives International Zinc Association Improvement of zinc production methods Member International Chromium Association Promote sustainable ferrochrome production Member International Committee on Ferro Alloys Promote the holding of International Ferro Alloy Congresses to retain Member the established high technical standard of the industry European Association of Metals, Eurometaux Non-ferrous metals industry in Europe Member of Executive Committee as of 2013 Federation of European Mineral Programs Support international education and research Member Finnish Environmental Cluster for China (FECC) Increase the awareness of Finnish environmental solutions in China Member, consultation European Industrial Research Management Association R&D method management and development Member of the board Finnish Business and Society Promote financially, socially and ecologically sustainable business in Finland Member Cleantech Finland Promote clean technologies Member since 2009 Baltic Sea Action Group Improve the state of the Baltic Sea Member since 2009 EU IPPC Bureau TWG evaluating the reference values Ensure in cooperation with the Finnish non-ferrous metals industry An Outotec employee has been a member since 2007 for BAT on non-ferrous metals that the technologies and emission values relating to them are realistic and reachable Excellence Finland Promote sustainable excellence and Member competitiveness in Finland Federation of Finnish Technology Industries Ensure that the Finnish technology industry has the preconditions Member of Technology & Business Working Group, for success in the global marketplace member of Association of Finnish Steel and Metal Producers, member of Environmental Working Groups Carbon Disclosure Project Greenhouse gas emissions reduction Reporting since 2009 United Nations Global Compact Business sustainability guidelines Participant since 2010 Global Reporting Initiative Outotec sustainability reporting since 2010 according to GRI guidelines European Technology Platform on Sustainable Address the future technological and social challenges in High Level Group participant since 2005 Mineral Resources the European minerals industry Finnish Metals and Engineering Competence Cluster (FIMECC) Boost cooperation between companies and research institutes Deputy member of the board Cluster for Energy and Environment (CLEEN) Facilitate and coordinate world class industry-driven research Vice Chair of the board in the field of energy and the environment Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our way of working 32 OUR IMPACT Resource-based industries have great potential to assist the economic development of the communities in which they operate. The mining industry has, for example, aided the development of several areas in the United States, Canada, and Australia, as well as helped Chile to emerge as South America’s most successful economy. Unfortunately, there are also many challenges, such as corruption, that countries face when attempting to translate their wealth of natural resources into economic prosperity. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 33 Metals and sustainability Though metals and minerals, once involves emissions, lead, dust and the total energy consumption in a process extracted, have a very long usage life release of dioxins, if the process lacks from bauxite to metal products through cycle and are often close to 100 perproper planning. Solving the challengthe electrolysis of aluminum oxide cent recyclable, their production is es of recycling requires an open mind (Al2O3), which must first be mined from often linked to negative impact on the and a combination of various processbauxite ore and then refined using the environment as well as on society. As es. These matters are also being deBayer process, is approximately 18,000 a provider of technologies and services veloped at Outotec, where the sustainkWh per tonne of metal. for these industries, we see our role as able use of natural resources steers all Producing aluminum from recycled an essential contributor to change for of the company’s operations. However, scrap requires only five percent of the the better. As part of the varied soluthese recycling solutions represent a energy used to make virgin aluminum. tions we offer, we aim to address the very small amount of Outotec’s sales The recycling process involves simply main sustainability challenges facing and thus Outotec’s impact in this rere-melting of the metal and uses only our customers. spect is small. about 10 percent of the equipment The intermediate industrial products that an aluminum processing facility Urban mining in different types of slag and deposits employs [source: The Aluminum AsThe challenges of metals recycling, still hold recycling potential that has sociation]. also known as urban mining, are prodnot yet been fully exploited. ucts which are complicated and shortRecycling alone is not the answer to Water scarcity lived, as well as materials in which the increasing use of metals, which has In many mining regions such as Chile metals are not found in their pure form. skyrocketed in just a few decades – the and Australia, the quality and quantiFor example, the lead used in car batanswer is to make more of it. An imty of water pose problems, as comteries can be easily and efficiently reportant sustainability task is to ensure panies’ water demands can result cycled, but when a phone that has been that these valuable products do not go in conflicts with local communities used for a few years accidentally ends to waste, but instead allow them to be that depend on the same resources. up as scrap iron, the valuable metused by future generations. Furthermore, mining and mineral als it contains, such as gold and silver, work is often carried out in parts of are lost forever. They can end up being Energy-intensive industry the world that are rich in natural reused in road construction together with Historically, the mining and metals sources, yet particularly environmenscrap iron slag. sectors have been heavy consumers of tally sensitive. Quite often the economy, technolenergy. Energy is often the most signifiOutotec offers, for example, paste ogy and ecological sustainability are cant cost in the processes of Outotec’s plant technology for mineral concentraat odds with one another. The aim is to customer industries. Energy accounts tors and effluent treatment solutions. utilize everything, but the more easfor around 70 percent of costs in aluThe company is developing water treatily reclaimable valuable metals come minum production, and the energy ment solutions for the industry as one first. Making new metal from existconsumption of concentrators attached of its strategic focus areas. However, ing metal is energy efficient, but not to mines amount to approximately 50 the proportion of these solutions in our entirely problem-free: processing also percent of total operating costs. The sales is still relatively small. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 34 Renewable and alternative energy To abate climate change, substituting Outotec solutions for alternative and renewable energy fossil energy sources with renewable ones is crucial. For example, in the St. Petersburg region in Russia alone, more than twenty million chickens, pigs and cattle annually produce over 600,000 tonnes of nutrient-rich litter Outotec® and manure. This waste biomass is a combustion, source of energy and nutrients if apgasification and Agriculture propriately managed. Nutrient run-off thermal Bio fertilizer from large-scale animal farms has processing Wood pellets become among the main threats of polWastes Heat Ash solutions lution for the sea and for groundwater Biomass reservoirs. In addition, harmful atAgricultural waste mospheric emissions are derived from Wood waste improperly-managed manure. Residue fuels and sludge Residential heating Sewage sludge – when adequately Municipal waste Wood pellets processed – comprises another imporIndustrial waste Heat tant source of phosphorus and energy. Energy The acquisition of Energy Products of Idaho at the end of 2011 significantly improved Outotec’s capabilities to offer biomass and waste-to-energy systems that can treat over 200 different Fossil raw materials Industrial plants biomass fuels and fuel mixes – from Conventional fuels Heat Coal Steam waste wood up to biomass sludge such Bituminous fuels Fuel gas as lignin sludge from bio-ethanol proOil shale Electrical energy duction. Shale oil In addition, Outotec has developed an efficient technical solution to exploit the energy and nutrient potential of a certain part of farmyard waste and when incinerating municipal sewage sources such as oil shale or oil sand sewage sludge. The solution combines sludge, manure and chicken litter and are being developed. Outotec has exOutotec’s fluidized-bed-based biomass residues. pertise in oil extraction from oil shale incineration technology and the ASH With energy prices constantly climband similar hydrocarbon-containing DEC process to recover phosphate from ing and conventional natural resources materials with energy-efficient and enthe ash that remains as a by-product shrinking, unconventional fossil fuel vironmentally neutral processes. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 35 Outotec’s role as an enabler As a technology company without our own production, we consider ourselves to have a vital indirect role in supporting our customers in reducing the environmental footprint of their operations. We ceaselessly develop technologies that ensure sustainable use of natural resources and keep our global society as healthy as possible. This includes assisting customers with reducing their impact on the surrounding environment and aiding them in the reuse and recycling of resources involved in their processes. Reduced energy and water consumption as well as effective use of raw materials Case: building a framework for sustainable mining not only reduce environmental impact but and metals processing in Indonesia also improve profitability. Indonesia is a steadily growing economy with great natural resources. Outotec hosted a seminar in Jakarta, Indonesia in 2012 focusing on impleWatch an interview with the China mentation of a framework for sustainability in the Indonesian mining and Non-ferrous Metals Industry metal processing industries. The seminar was organized jointly with the Association. Finnish Ministry of Environment, the Republic of Indonesia and supported by the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, the Indonesian Mining Association and PERHAPI, the Association of Indonesian Mining Professionals. The purpose of the seminar was to start a dialogue with Indonesian ministries about legislative developments as well as to share information and experiences regarding sustainable technologies and sustainable mining and metals production. State Secretary Ms Katariina Poskiparta, of Finland’s Ministry of Environment noted: “I am happy to see that through very practical collaboration between businesses and authorities we can reach environmentally sound solutions to the challenges we face today.” Outotec presented sustainable solutions and environmental considerations in mineral and metal processing as well as the trends of environmental legislation in Europe to the audience consisting of customers, co-operation partners, ministries, industry associations and academics. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 36 Expert view Technologies with low ecological impact Hard evidence process design at Outotec. The aim was As consumers, we are increasingly to provide life cycle analysis that could keen to know the ecological footprint of take account of the industry’s complex the goods we use. We demand tighter processes and systems, extending right environmental legislation, forcing down to the end-consumer level. industries to cut emissions, includOutotec experts are enthusiastic ing CO2. But our need to conserve the about the results; the beauty of the planet’s limited resources conflicts with new system is the fact-based data that our demand to produce more metals determines the ecological footprint and goods to consume. of many of Outotec’s Best Available The scarcity of natural resources Technique (BAT) processes – calibrated provokes industries to find alternative with real industrial data rather than the resource-efficient ways to do more with averages used in the past. less – and of course to comply with legThe new interface allows users to islation. How can the metals and minerdevelop product and process modeling als processing industry find the necessimulations and scenarios from an LCA sary balance? If you drill deep enough perspective, including all environmenwith the right tools, the answers lie in tal impact information. Remarkably, the process flow sheet, incorporating this will facilitate finding and recogthe complex systems that link indusnizing the BATs from several process try and consumer. In this continuous alternatives. search, Outotec is leading the way. GaBi’s country-specific data makes it possible to estimate the impact Outotec’s Drawing on real industry data technologies will have in the location Life cycle analyses (LCA) have been conwhere a given plant is operated. In the Outotec’s sustainability experts Harald Huppe, Markus Reuter and Ilkka Kojo collaborate in developducted for years, but even the best LCA near future, the new footprint calculaing scientifically solid proof of the sustainability of our technologies. They also identify the comdatabases are often based on industry tions will be used alongside this data pany’s actions related to sustainability, calculate the carbon footprint and the emissions avoided averages. Can these truly reflect the reto find solutions that comply with local through the use of Outotec’s technology solutions as well as monitor the progress of Outotec’s actions to mitigate climate change. source-efficient processes that Outotec legislation. designs and delivers? Not necessarily. At the end of 2011, Outotec and Fueling R&D and legislation pioneering sustainability consulting Using the newly combined system, company PE International agreed to businesses are now able to plan their combine GaBi software with Outotec’s operations and make material and HSC Sim software, which is used for all process decisions based on the susOutotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 37 tainability and life cycle information of not noted for its sustainability – has an HSC Sim current and future metal manufacturimportant place in the technology portfoOutotec’s HSC Chemistry software is ing scenarios and their environmental lio, somehow helping to lower the overall designed for various process simulation impacts. emission level or footprint. Sometimes and modeling applications. HSC Sim is This also represents valuable data the small things play a vital part in the a process simulator based on 24 calfor legislators. Until now, emission larger process. culation modules and 12 extensive dalevels have been merely political deciThe tool also indicates the viable tabases. The resultant process models sions, as realistic, well-simulated valeconomical and technological limits provide initial data for process design, ues were not available. involved. Surprisingly, in terms of emisengineering and automation at Outotec. Outotec can use the data to visualize sions, there are ultimate levels under the entire value chain – the big picture which you simply should not go. This GaBi – starting from the mine site and endis not only for economical reasons, but PE International’s GaBi is a product ing at the final product: cathode copper, due to the fact that drastically reducsustainability solution with a powerfor example. ing certain emissions may lead to an ful engine to support life cycle assessThis flow sheet objectively illustrates increase from some other source. ment, costing, reporting and social which part of the process emissions responsibility. come from: concentrator, smelter, elecConnecting disciplines trolysis or acid plant. The data enables Outotec now has a tool to provide Read more at the process industry to carefully exproofs to regulators for evaluation. www.outotec.com/hsc amine the entire flow sheet and all the The newly combined software embodwww.gabi-software.com emissions, and act accordingly. At Outoies what sustainability is ultimately all tec, the new analysis possibilities steer about: communication and dialogue. To process design, but also R&D, enabling benefit the environment, the solution constant development towards the optiof complex issues requires connecting mal arrangement of technologies. disciplines, sharing ideas and making The wider perspective may also reveal decisions based on what is technically that a certain sub-process – perhaps one and economically possible. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 38 Industry drivers Outotec believes that the increasing awareness of sustainability is the most important megatrend driving indusIndustry drivers tries today. This trend can be seen not only in developed economies but also in 1. Ore grades are declining and emerging and developing markets. the demand for metals is Much of global development can be atincreasing. In order to meet tributed to metals and minerals. Howthe demand, more ore needs ever, society is confronted by a dilemma: to be processed with more the need for metals is growing, while advanced technology. there is a great concern over the environ2. Making metals requires a lot mental impact of producing them. As a of energy, and energy costs technology company, we at Outotec beare constantly climbing. More lieve that this dilemma can be resolved. energy-efficient processes are Decision-makers have realized that needed. the current exploitation of nature cannot 3. Mining and metallurgical continue. Increasing energy consumption, industries are major emitcriticism against nuclear power plants, ters of CO2 and eco-toxic pollution, and lack of clean water are substances. Cleaner solutions growing issues that need to be addressed. must be developed. At the same time, employee health and 4. Water availability and polsafety requirements are increasing. All of lution are critical issues. the aforementioned developments stimuAdvanced solutions for water late increased investment into sustaincleaning, conservation, and able solutions, a trend that we believe will recycling are needed. continue to gather strength over time. 5. Peak oil is approaching. Oil The companies producing mineris expected to run out by 2050 als, metals, and materials face many with current production rates. challenges and require the social liAlternative energy sources are cense to operate. We have identified six needed. trends that act as drivers of sustainable 6. The need for recycling is development. These contribute to an growing, thus requiring new increased demand for new technology, technologies for turning scrap presenting great opportunities for Ouand waste into products. totec’s technologies and solutions. Read more about metals and sustainability, p. 34. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 39 Risks and opportunities Outotec’s business environment is afmetals, and employing greater efficienand thus help them control the finanIn the future, a premium may be placed fected by the fact that while developed cy in the utilization of raw materials in cial implications of regulatory risk. For on clean production, but strictly speakeconomies are stagnating, emerging general. We also assess the water coninstance, energy savings, which lead to ing, the main benefits are maintaining countries keep growing fast. This acsumption in our customers’ processes reduced carbon emissions, make cuslicense to operate, lower operational celerates urbanization, the growth of and our own operations. tomers less vulnerable to fuel and encosts, and improved recovery. the middle class, and the use of natural We aim to capitalize on these opergy taxes and regulation. These include Many growth opportunities are seen resources. The exhaustion of natural reportunities and introduce technology international, national, regional, or state in the energy sector and in industrial sources and the emergence of a new enimprovements or develop new technolregulation on emissions, carbon taxes, water treatment. New opportunities in ergy paradigm, in which oil is expected to ogies that mitigate climate change and and cap-and-trade schemes. environmental technologies, such as run out by 2050 and nuclear power is bepromote sustainability. By successfully Outotec’s operation and maintenance materials recycling, renewable energy ing abandoned by many countries, necesimplementing our technologies and services further help customers to resolutions, waste management and insitate more eco-efficient use of resources solutions to address customer chalduce their operational risks and envidustrial water treatment, are steadily and materials. Awareness is increasing lenges, Outotec’s references increase, ronmental impact. Utilizing our process increasing. In order to be less dependin environmental, social, and economic which also enhances competitiveness. know-how, we can create the best stratent on the cycles of the mining and sustainability all over the world. While climate change presents Outotec egy for operation and maintenance, and metals industries, Outotec has begun From an environmental, social, and with attractive business opportunities, we can even actually operate the plant to pursue opportunities to deliver its governance perspective, Outotec’s some risks may affect Outotec’s cuswith optimal raw materials usage and technologies to other industries with greatest risks and opportunities unfold tomers and therefore, indirectly, affect concentrate production for the customer. high technological synergies. through our customers. Outotec. International, national, regional, Expanding this business provides new Outotec follows up on environmental or state regulation on emissions may business opportunities for Outotec. HowRisk management legislation, competitors’ technologies, present risks, and excessively strict ever, operating customers’ processing Within Outotec, risk management is an and best available techniques, as well limits on emissions can threaten the plants also involves risks for Outotec. integral part of the company’s manas continuously develops its technology operations and existence of some cusUsing Outotec technologies and agement system and internal control and service portfolio. tomers. Furthermore, cap-and-trade services, customers can reduce their framework. It is seamlessly linked to The risks and opportunities discussed schemes may force our clients to move exposure to emissionsand energybusiness operations to identify the below bear a strong link to sustainabiloperations into areas with less stringent related regulatory risks. Regulatory risks and opportunities in a systematic ity. While risks can represent threats regulations, and in some cases excesopportunities can help Outotec grow way. It covers all parts of the organizaor uncertainties, they may also include sively strict regulation may lead to plant its business because inefficient mintion from strategic to operational risks. some opportunities. closure. High energy prices, which may ing and metallurgical processes need The Board of Directors is responsible be an instigating factor of cap-and-trade to be replaced with new technologies. for the company’s risk management Risks and opportunities with schemes, also compromise our customOutotec’s solutions, for instance, help procedures and for ensuring that risks a strong link to sustainability er’s competitiveness. cushion customers against carbon are taken into account in strategic planWe continuously look for new business Outotec’s technologies and life cycle taxes and secure their competitiveness. ning and business operations. opportunities to address the challenges services are designed to improve the Furthermore, with carbon trade mechIn 2012, the company’s risk managethat our customers are facing. These efficiency of customers’ processes and anisms, customers utilizing Outotec’s ment principles, definitions, processes challenges include improving energy therefore help them address these technologies may have the opportunity and responsibilities were renewed and efficiency, reducing CO2 and other risks. They help customers to reduce to turn CO2 savings into profit and obdocumented under the Outotec Enemissions, improving the recovery of emissions into the air, water, and soil, tain emission reduction credits (ERC). terprise Risk Management Policy. The Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 40 policy acts as an umbrella for all risk management activities within Outotec. Read more about Outotec’s risks Outotec’s project risk identification and and risk management at www.outotec.com/investors management (PRIMA) process, finanand in the Corporate Governance cial risk management activities, QEHS Statement 2012. systems, Internal Audit Policy and Corporate Responsibility Policy form integral parts of enterprise risk management. The Enterprise Risk Management Policy’s procedures will become company-wide effective in 2013. Outotec sustainability drivers, opportunities and risks Sustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Ore grades are declining, ores are more complex and more difficult to process. The average copper ore grade is 0.8%, which is 20% less Outotec’s vast knowledge of mineralogy and process techIf Outotec fails to develop new technologies or keep its portfolio than ten years ago, and it is forecasted to fall further to nologies, as well as comprehensive R&D facilities, enable competitive, it may lose market share. Customers’ operations 0.65% by 2020. To produce one tonne of copper requires the company to develop new process solutions for low-grade require sufficient amounts of water, coal, fossil fuels, rock, and 125 more tonnes of ore to be milled, which also results in and complex ores. Outotec’s technologies enable efficient ore mineral resources. Any changes related to the availability or an increased amount of tailings and the consumption of processing and higher yield thanks to advanced process control. the price of these commodities has financial implications. The energy and water. There are increased business opportunities when customers operational costs (energy and water) may become too high for replace inefficient processes with new technologies and energycustomers and they may need to close down some operations, and water-efficient solutions. which could also reduce Outotec’s business. Making metals is energy-intensive and energy costs are constantly climbing. Mineral and metal processing is very energy-intensive. The Several Outotec technologies are rated BATs by the EU thanks to Price changes prompted by resource scarcity, energy shortGHG emissions in this industry are mainly related to entheir energy-efficiency and low CO2 emissions. Outotec designs ages, and changes in consumer attitude imply high financial ergy use. Roughly 7% (2008) of the world’s energy is used sealed processes that utilize the energy contained within raw risks for our customers and subsequently for Outotec. If by the metals sector and this will increase due to falling materials. Through Outotec’s technology solutions, the impact in consumers’ point of view the CO2 footprint of plastic is ore grades. Grinding mills alone take up 10% of Australia’s of carbon taxes upon our customers are cushioned and their smaller than that of aluminum or copper, they might change total energy consumption. competitiveness secured. attitudes and buying habits, which would put our customers’ and Outotec’s business at risk. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 41 Sustainability driver Opportunity for Outotec Risk for the customer and/or Outotec Cleaner solutions need to be developed. Sulfur being a constituent in many ores is released as Outotec’s sustainable technologies including efficient sulfur capOverly strict laws and regulation can result in unprofitable sulfur dioxide (SO2) in smelting and refining. The metals ture, gas cleaning and sealed processes guarantee the license to operation, and the customer may lose its license to operate. If industry annually emits millions of tonnes of SO2, with the operate far into the future and make it easier for producers to get Outotec fails to provide competitive solutions for the customer, largest amounts in Peru, Chile, Russia and Australia. SO2 financing for their investments. Outotec is continuously working it may lose business. emissions have a significant local impact. Fine particulate to develop its technologies further and to develop innovations, and matter emissions to air cause health problems. Heavy therefore the company is well positioned competitively. metals in hazardous dusts and fumes can cause occupational exposure. Eco-toxic substances from metallurgical operations impact air quality, water, and soil. Availability of water and water pollution. Availability of water is becoming a critical issue at many Outotec has technologies which lead to significant reductions Customers who have operations in areas of drought may be mine sites. When ore grades decline by 20%, water conin fresh water consumption, recycling of process water, and forced to close down their operations, which may reduce Ousumption increases respectively. For example, processing decreased water loss. The company is also developing new aptotec’s business. If Outotec fails to develop new water-efficient one tonne of ore requires 3,500 liters of water, one tonne plications for industrial effluent treatment and cooperating with applications, it may not be able to grow its business. of nickel 377,000 Iiters of water (in a hydrometallurgical Kemira in developing solutions for water-intensive industrial process), and one tonne of gold 252 million Iiters of water. applications. Furthermore, mining and metals extraction can impact upon nature due to discharges of contaminated water. Peak oil is approaching. Global energy demand is expected to increase by 44% in Outotec has technologies which enable environmentally sustainOverly high energy prices due to carbon taxation and emission the next two decades (EIA, 2009). With the current rate of able use of oil shale, oil sand, and biomass as new alternative trading schemes can cause our clients to lose their competiproduction, the industry estimates that conventional oil energy sources, and the company is developing new applicativeness and cease to operate. If environmental regulation reserves will be exhausted in 40 years. The demand for tions with other companies, universities, and research institutes. tightens to the degree that oil shale and oil sand processing will alternative and renewable energy is increasing. Outotec has acquired Energy Products of Idaho and can expand its not be allowed, Outotec may lose business. There is also a risk renewable energy technology business globally. that the development of new technologies will not succeed. The need for recycling is increasing. Metals are almost 100% recyclable, and this potential is Outotec can grow its business by selling solutions for the producIf the industry does not succeed in organizing the recycling of not fully taken advantage of. Product lifetime is becoming tion of metals from secondary materials, such as electronic scrap and waste properly, opportunities for Outotec may be shorter, and thus the need for recycling is growing. Manuwaste, metallic scrap, cabling, and battery paste/scrap. Outotec’s reduced. facturing new products from recycled metal consumes technologies are used for the recovery of metals from residues, much less energy than from virgin metal. There is also a fume dusts, and waste stockpiles at production sites. They utilize need for recycling of process water and turning waste into raw materials efficiently, reducing the amount of emissions, new products. residues, and waste. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 42 Impact of our products and services Outotec develops and delivers solufor sustainable mine backfilling and Outotec technologies (ferrochrome protions which utilize natural resources and tailings treatment, modernization, and cess, cogeneration added to ferrochrome Read more about our technologies raw materials efficiently, reduce energy long-term operation and maintenance process, copper flash smelting, alumina and Best Available Techniques (BAT) and water consumption, produce less services. calcination, and ceramic filters) amountrated products at www.outotec.com/About-us waste and emissions, and minimize the According to Outotec’s self-assessed to 4.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalenplant’s lifetime operating costs. Through ment, as much as 89 percent of our cy (CO2-e) in 2012. In addition, Outotec’s our vast experience and in-house R&D 2012 order intake qualifies as environnew CO filter enables the use of process centers, we have the ability to tailor mental goods and services (EGS) under gas in direct electricity generation. “Does our product reduce processes for different raw materials, test and scale up, and develop new proOECD definitions. This means that these products and services measThe smaller amount of emissions avoided through Outotec technologies the need for resources cesses for complex raw materials. We ure, prevent, limit, minimize or correct in 2012 compared to 2011 indicates that or energy? Does our have a strong portfolio of world-class environmental damage to water, air some operations based on less sustaintechnology reduce technologies for the entire value chain of and soil, as well as problems related to able technologies have been shut down processing ore to refined metals. Each waste, noise and eco-systems. These and the base line in the industry in gennegative environmental of Outotec’s technological developments include cleaner technologies that reeral has improved. impacts?” has the potential to reduce the enviduce environmental risk and minimize Overall, the adoption of best pracronmental impact of a large number of pollution and use of resources. EGS tice technologies in iron and steel, industrial operations worldwide. represent pollution management, realuminum, and non-ferrous metals However, even if customers are ussource management and, especially in production worldwide would reduce CO2 ing Outotec’s best available technoloOutotec’s case, cleaner technologies. emissions annually by 280–460 million gies in mineral and metal processing, For example, Outotec’s sulfuric acid tonnes (IEA 2007; Tracking Industrial or if customers also have less susplant, when used to produce acid from a Energy Efficiency and CO2 Emissions). tainable technologies and operational smelter, is clearly EGS technology, but in Significant impact on a plant’s sustainpractices in use, at the same time, the case of an acid plant burning elemenability can be achieved through life cycle Outotec may indirectly be involved in tal sulfur, it is defined as ‘maybe EGS’ services and technological improvements. environmental damage, contamination and the final category depends on the latOutotec offers its customers various serof soil or water, or public health effects est features of acid production technolvices and expertise to maintain the plant, through its customers’ operations. Beogy being used in the particular project. and can even operate and maintain the cause industry investments have a lifeplant on the customer’s behalf, guarantime of decades, Outotec also provides 4.6 million tonnes of CO2 avoided teeing that it will run smoothly, safely, and machinery, spare parts and services to In metallurgical processing, energy is efficiently at all times. old industrial plants that may, despite the most significant cost item and the Through hundreds of successful modern initiatives, have a significant main reason for CO2 emissions. Outotec projects, we have made a significant negative impact on the environment designs sealed processes that utilize global impact by creating new revenue and human health. the energy contained within raw materistreams, reducing our customers’ To minimize the industry’s negaals. The annual emissions avoided by the carbon footprints, and increasing welltive impact, Outotec offers solutions metallurgical industry through use of five being in local communities. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 43 Product safety Detection of hazards such as exploAs a leading technology provider, Ousion, fire, and lightning followed by totec has a technology and plant safety examination of HAZOP according to IEC management process to ensure that 61882 and SIL-Allocation Assessments all products engineered and delivered are mandatory at Outotec. by the company worldwide are reliable We provide information to our cusand meet all applied safety standards tomers about the impact of our products during each phase of the life cycle. The and services (e.g. their energy conequipment delivered by Outotec fulfills sumption, emissions, metal recovery, the safety-related industrial standards and water usage) and safety information such as ISO 12100, IEC 62061 for the according to industry standards. In insafety of machinery and all required dustrial processes, safety is an inteEuropean directives such as: grated part of our operational manuals. • 1997/23/EG Outotec manuals cover the entire life • 2009/105/EG cycle of the delivery, follow the new IEC • 2006/42/EG 82079-1 standard, and contain informa• 94/9/EG (ATEX) tion on transport, installation, operation, • 2004/108/EG maintenance and decommissioning. • 2006/95/EG In addition, maintenance as a service • IEC 61508, IEC 61511 package is offered to customers. for process plants. We also provide training services to our customers, including safety training. Read more about industry drivers, p. 39. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 44 Ecological footprint of our operations Outotec operates globally, mainly in ofGHG emissions from air travel are the Energy consumption, TJ 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator fices which are located in 25 countries. biggest single source of Outotec’s emisIn addition, our operations include two sions. Therefore, 25 new video conferDirect energy consumption: 38.2 22.2 25.6 EN3 research centers in Finland and Gerencing systems were installed in 2011 to Propane gas 15.7 8.7 9.8 many, two manufacturing workshops reduce air travel. In 2012, the amount of Light fuel oil 0.6 0.5 0.5 in Finland, assembly shops in Canada, video conferencing facilities was further Coal, coke, semi coke 2.0 0.4 1.0 China, and the USA, a ceramic plate increased to 31. In addition to video conferNatural gas 13.0 6.7 8.2 production plant in Finland, and several encing, Sametime and Skype are used for warehouses. However, the majority of internal meetings (there are no user staDiesel and gasoline 6.9 5.9 6.1 Outotec’s manufacturing is outsourced. tistics on our use of Sametime and Skype). Indirect energy consumption: 126.7 119.3 124.4 EN4 The bulk of Outotec’s operations inFlights to visit customers are an inteElectricity* (incl. cooling) 72.9 67.0 67.6 volve engineering and business mangral part of Outotec’s business, by which District heating 52.6 50.3 53.4 agement, the environmental impact of means Outotec contributes indirectly to which is relatively small and is manavoiding emissions through the use of its Steam 1.2 2.0 3.4 aged through the use of unit-specific technology solutions and services. The Total energy consumption 164.9 141.5 150.0 EN3, EN4 environmental and quality management positive impact of Outotec’s business systems. In addition, at our workshop travels can be best illustrated by compar* MWh converted to TJ: 20,244 MWh (2012), 18,605 MWh (2011), 18,770 MWh (2010) in Turula and Lappeenranta and at our ing our annual greenhouse gas emissions Pori research center, we are committed in 2012 (31,755 tonnes CO2-e) with emisto the Federation of Finnish Technology sions avoided through our goods and serGreenhouse gas emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator Industries’ energy efficiency program. vices (4,600,000 tonnes CO2-e). The smallScope 1 emissions From these manufacturing and R&D acer amount of emissions avoided through 4,190 2,841 2,993 EN16 (own fuel combustion, company cars) tivities no spills were reported in 2012. Outotec technologies in 2012 compared Scope 2 emissions Due to our strong business growth to 2011 indicates that some operations (purchased heat and electricity) 9,409 8,323 10,212 EN16 and increased number of personnel based on less sustainable technologies Scope 3 emissions in 2012, our total energy consumption have been shut down and the base line in 18,156 14,861 11,049 EN17 (air travel and commuting) increased from 2011. the industry in general has improved. In 2012, Outotec made four acquisiOutotec has paid attention to the use Flight emissions, 7.6 9.5 9.9 EN17 (NEW) tonnes of CO2 /EUR 1 million sales tions (Numcore, Demil Manutenção, of responsible air carriers and hotels. TME Group and Backfill Specialists) 90 percent of the flights used by OutoTotal greenhouse gas emissions, 15.2 18.8 25.0 EN16 that contributed to an increase of scope tec employees are operated by Finnair, tonnes of CO2 /EUR 1 million sales 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emisLufthansa and other Star Alliance memTotal greenhouse gas emissions 31,755 26,025 24,254 EN16 sions. Due to strongly increased busibers. For instance, Lufthansa and Finnair Greenhouse gas emissions avoided 4,600,000 4,800,000 4,200,000 EN18 ness activities and personnel, scope 3 use relatively new fleets. When Outothrough use of Outotec technologies GHG emissions from air travel rose in tec makes agreements with hotels, the 2012. However, the relative emissions hotels that have a social responsibility (CO2 /EUR 1 million sales) decreased. policy and system in place are preferred. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 45 Materials used, tonnes 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator We follow water consumption at our premises, and one finding was that in one location the water consumption was 10 times higher than the average consumpPaper 131.3 90.8 100.1 EN1 tion per employee. The investigation revealed that there was a leakage, and when Steel 6,946.9 n/a n/a EN1 (NEW) it was repaired, consumption returned to average. Ceramics 300 n/a n/a EN1 (NEW) Cardboard packaging 9.9 6.6 5.7 EN1 (NEW) Energy consumption and emissions 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator in Finnish units (Research Center Pori, Plastic packaging 2.0 0.5 0.5 EN1 (NEW) Turula and Lappeenranta works) Metal packaging 1.5 0.4 0.2 EN1 (NEW) Energy consumption, TJ 44.7 40.3 44.5 EN3, EN4 Wood packaging 986.2 371.4 236.9 EN1 (NEW) Energy saved due to efficiency 3.2 7.6 3.4 EN5, EN7 improvements, TJ (compared to base year) Data on steel consumption in Outotec workshops was included in environmental Emissions, tonnes CO2-e 3,010 2,703 2,983 EN16 data reporting in 2012. Energy Products of Idaho, which was acquired by Outotec at the end of 2011, is not included in the steel consumption figure. Outotec Ceramics unit in Turku manufactures high tech ceramics for Outotec In 2012, Outotec’s Lappeenranta site was included in the Federation of Finnish filters and it used 300 tonnes of ceramics in 2012. Technology Industries’ energy efficiency agreements. However, due to increased Outotec workshops in Lappeenranta, Turula (since 2012) and Turku annually report production activities this unit was not able to reduce energy consumption in the amount of packaging they use to the Environmental Register of Packaging PYR Ltd. comparison to the base year. Waste, tonnes 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator Company cars in Finland 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator Waste recycled 2,311.5 1,949.7 1,480.3 EN22 Company car emissions, g CO2-e/km 149 162 178 EN16 Landfill waste and incinerated waste 1,682.4 1,086.5 678.3 EN22 Reduction from 2008, % 22 15 7 Hazardous waste 28.6 23.5 27.3 EN22, EN24 Company car emissions, tonnes of CO2-e 720.1 564.2 562.2 EN16 Total waste 4,022.5 3,059.7 2,185.9 EN22 Paper recycled 164.4 98.3 96.3 EN22 In the course of data quality improvement, a data gap was revealed in reporting of annual driven kilometers. Therefore, future reporting on company cars in gram A small amount of hazardous waste is formed in the final surface treatment of CO2 emission per km driven will follow car manufactures’ reported CO2 emissions. filter presses in the Lappeenranta works. In addition, oily waste from lubricants Previously reported g CO2-e/km figures were re-calculated. used in the Turula works is hazardous. The hazardous waste is sent for treatment In 2012 Outotec updated its company car policy. With the new policy, employees are to local hazardous waste treatment facilities. incentivized when they take a car with less than 120 g/km CO2 emissions. This is one reason why g CO2-e/km decreased in 2012 compared to the previous year. The increase Water consumption, m3/year 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator of total emissions is due to a significant increase of personnel and company cars used. Total water withdrawal 69,300 55,997 43,774 EN8 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) 2012 2011 2010 GRI indicator River water for cooling 20,727 23,457 7,695 EN8 (NEW) emissions from paint shops VOCs emissions, t 10.3 n/a n/a EN20 (NEW) Water is purchased locally from municipal water suppliers, and waste water is sent to municipal waste water systems. Because our workshops are mainly assembly shops, Due to improvements in Outotec’s environmental data reporting, the company is no process water is discharged. Outotec Research Center Pori uses river water for coolnow able to calculate volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions from its paint ing purposes in their test facilities. After use, the water is channeled back to the river. shops. VOC emissions are calculated based on annual paint consumption. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 46 Local unit-specific targets Targets related to environmental performance In addition to the common companywide targets, we have local or unit-speTargets for 2012 Performance in 2012 Targets for 2013 GRI indicator cific targets for the energy efficiency of Increase the percentage of environmental Target was achieved. 89% of order intake EGS % of order intake: maintain the EN6 operations. Outotec Research Center goods and services (EGS) in order intake. classified as EGS. percentage of EGS in order intake on the Pori and the Turula works in Finland The long-term target is to reach a level of level of 85–95% and above 90% as are committed to the Federation of 80–90%. a long-term target. (KEY TARGET) Finnish Technology Industries’ enCO2 emissions avoided: over 5% annual EN18 ergy efficiency agreements 2008–2016 increase in the amount of avoided CO2 and plan to save 9 percent in energy emissions through the use of Outotec’s consumption compared to the basemetal-related technologies and solutions. line year, 2006. Outotec’s Lappeenranta (NEW KEY TARGET) site was included in these agreements Develop all needed EHS Modules (14001 and Target was partially achieved. The environManagement systems: in 2012, showing its commitment to 18001) and implement them in all locations. mental modules were implemented in 75% EHS module implementation continues reducing energy consumption. Actions of our locations, and H&S modules in 85%. to cover all locations in 2013. ISO 14001 taken to achieve the targeted savings Preparations for global certification. Six new countries were certified with and OHSAS 18001 certification for 18 in 2012 include the replacing of old flue ISO 9001 Certification for 6 new countries. ISO 9001. The planned OHSAS 18001 and new locations. (NEW TARGET) ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification ISO 14001 certification for offices in Alsdorf, gas purification systems with new ones of one additional location. Germany and Utrecht, the Netherlands and a new heat recovery system in the was postponed to the first quarter of 2013. machinery room at Turula. Double the use of video-conferencing The target was almost reached. The use Reduction in CO2 emissions in traveling: EN18 Outotec’s target in Finland is to refacilities from 2011 level. of video-conferencing increased by 93%. 5% decrease in tonnes of CO2 flight duce company cars’ g/km CO2 emisSix new video-conferencing facilities were emissions per million EUR sales sions by 18 percent in 2013 compared installed, and the total number was annually through increased virtual with the base year 2008. Both the increased to 31. meetings, etc. commitment to the energy efficiency agreements and company cars target In addition to video-conferencing, Sametime are voluntary. and Skype were also used. However, we do not have any use statistics for those. Read more about Outotec’s management approach, p. 10. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 47 Economic impact Through solid financial performance, my, the demand for Outotec’s technolo• To achieve average annual sales Outotec benefits all company stakegies and services remained solid. Our growth of 10–20 percent. holders. Profitable business enables customers’ investment decisions were • To grow the sales of our services to growth and development of the busiincreasingly driven by environmental and an annual level of EUR 1 billion by ness as well as the prosperity of ownenergy-efficiency factors. For the first the end of 2017. ers and employees. Through providing time, Outotec sales exceeded two billion • Annual operating profit margin from sustainable solutions to our customers, euros. Two thirds of these sales came business operations is targeted to we create jobs and wealth locally in from emerging markets. Profitability be on average at 10 percent over the countries where we operate or where improved strongly, in line with our longcycle, excluding one-time costs and our customers’ projects are located. term targets. We achieved the financial purchase price allocations of actargets that we had set for 2012. quired businesses. Strong profitable growth • To maintain strong balance sheet to continued in 2012 Financial targets provide operational flexibility and en2012 was an important milestone for OuOutotec’s long-term financial targets to able acquisitions. totec. Despite the sluggish world econoensure continuous profitable growth are Added value to stakeholders Added value for stakeholders Generation of added value Distribution of added value Employees + Customers Wages and salaries Sales EuR 2,087.4 million EuR 362.6 million Public sector Suppliers Direct taxes Cost of goods, materials and EuR 64.6 million services purchased EuR 1,515.9 million Creditors Interest on debt and = EuR 571.5 million borrowings EuR 9.2 million Added value Shareholders Dividends EuR 38.9 million Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 48 Tax expenses Our income tax expenses in 2012 in 2012, and the closing price at (dividends paid for 2011: EUR 38.9 milOutotec is operating globally and aims totaled EUR 51.9 million (2011: EUR 34.0 the end of the year was EUR 42.37 lion), and it will be paid to shareholders to manage its tax liability in a responmillion). These expenses include taxes (Dec 31, 2011: EUR 36.40). At the in April 2013. sible and sustainable manner. This paid on the basis of local tax legislation, same time, the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki implies that Outotec companies pay the tax adjustments from previous years, and portfolio index, OMX Helsinki CAP, Donations amount of tax legally due in the terthe effect of annual change in deferred rose by approximately 10 percent. Outotec’s donations to charitable ritory in which the liability arises and taxes. The direct taxes (current taxes in Outotec’s market capitalization causes in 2012 totaled EUR 94,000. observe all applicable rules and regulaOutotec’s Consolidated Financial Stateat year-end was EUR 1,940 million They focused on projects that aim to tions in all of the territories in which ments) were EUR 64.6 million in 2012 (Dec 31, 2011: EUR 1,666 million). improve sustainable development and/ Outotec operates. Outotec builds its (2011: EUR 33.4 million), out of which Outotec’s target as defined in the or human life in locations where Outax-planning activities on the network EUR 44.0 million (2011: EUR 28.8 million), company’s dividend policy is to distribtotec operates. The largest individual of operative companies. came from outside Finland. The most ute as dividends at least 40 percent of donation, EUR 40,000, was made to Outotec pays taxes to 26 governsignificant countries in terms of curannual net income of the preceding Baltic Sea Action Group to enhance the ments in countries where the company rent tax expenses in 2012 were Germany, financial year per share. rehabilitation of the Baltic Sea. either has its own operations or cusFinland, Chile and Australia, whereas in Profitability from business operatomer projects. Our tax rate and taxes 2011 the respective countries were Chile, tions improved in 2012. Earnings per paid in a certain year vary according to Australia, Finland and Germany. share were EUR 2.82 (2011: EUR 1.75). large projects under implementation or The Board of Directors proposes for the Read more about our financial perforcompleted in that particular year and Dividends Annual General Meeting that a dividend mance in Outotec Financial Statethe legislation of the country in which The value of Outotec’s share rose 16.4 of EUR 1.20 per share be paid out for ments 2012. the project is located. percent on the NASDAQ OMX Helsinki 2012. This is a total of EUR 54.9 million Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 49 Impact of our supply chain Outotec’s supply chain includes thouOur manufacturing/assembly shops In Outotec’s customer projects, Manufacturing sands of suppliers globally. These repOutotec operates three manufacturlocally-sourced sub-contractors’ resent (but are not limited to) assembly ing workshops in Finland and assememployees need to be well-educated workshops, component manufacturers, bly shops located in China, USA and specialists. Therefore the risk profile distributors, logistics services providCanada. These moderately sized operaregarding affront/violation of human Own workshops 10% ers, and construction and engineering tions all have local quality, health, and rights is relatively low. Suppliers 90% companies. safety systems in place, and they manHowever, more emphasis will be The majority of purchasing (approxiage proper sorting and further handling placed on supplier selection procemately 62%) takes place in the EMEA of their wastes. No considerable risk dures in the future to improve our supregion (Europe, Middle East, Africa). related to the use of child, forced, or ply chain management and thus also Global supply chain management compulsory labor has been identified. our sustainability performance. The has been defined as a key strategic supplier assessment and approval proSupply spend by category pillar for Outotec, therefore supply is a Sustainability aspects in supply chain cess was refined and released in 2012. strategic function and a highly priorOutotec’s Supplier Policy covers ethiIn 2013, all new supplier qualifications Components itized development area. The supply cal conduct, compliance with laws and are to be done by applying this process. and systems 30% function builds and manages Outotec’s regulations, environmental, health and The development and deployment of Small parts 28% supplier base through sourcing catsafety performance, labor relations the new supply practices continued in Metals products 25% egory management. Furthermore, it (e.g. no child or forced labor), respect2012. Training on supply chain sustainaIndirect 12% leads and develops sourcing activities ing intellectual property, improper benbility was provided globally for purchasing Plastics 5% for customer deliveries, executed by efits, conflicts of interest, and manageoffice heads, who then provided the same locally-based purchasing. ment of sub-suppliers. Outotec expects training to their procurement staff in all Outotec’s supply chain management its suppliers to comply with this policy units. 96 percent of Outotec’s procurecovers both its own operations and supin their dealings with Outotec, their ment staff participated in this training. Location of major suppliers pliers’, as agreed. In 2012, Outotec spent own employees, suppliers, and with There was another workshop organapproximately EUR 1,150 million on other third parties. Competitive supized in 2012, focusing on risk mapping customer-deliveries-related purchasing. pliers are expected to continuously imof the supply chain. Outotec’s susApproximately 10 percent of Ouprove their capability to provide Outotec tainability specialists facilitated the EMEA and Africa 62% totec’s manufacturing and assembly with reliable, cost-effective, innovative workshop and the supply team, led by The Americas 25% takes place in the company’s three services and goods. Furthermore, they Outotec’s Senior Vice President SupAsia Pacific 13% manufacturing workshops in Finland are expected to ensure compliance with ply, identified sustainability risks in the and in three assembly shops located in Outotec policy, identify deviations, mansupply chain. The identified sustainabilChina, USA and Canada. Some 90 perage corrective actions, provide transity risks were placed in a matrix based cent of manufacturing is sourced from parency of these actions and communion their likelihood of occurrence and Coverage: 90% external suppliers. cate in a systematic manner. severity of consequences to Outotec’s Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 50 business. As an outcome of this risk in countries that have little awareTargets regarding supplier activities assessment, the following risks were ness of safety issues and a weak deemed to be most relevant: occupational safety culture. In these Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator countries, Outotec employees are inRefine the supplier Target was achieved. Suppliers: EC6, HR2 • Bribery and kickbacks structed to follow the company’s own assessment process The supplier assessment 300 of major suppliers • Occupational safety occupational safety principles. further covering process has been defined have committed to new • Protecting information Outotec’s technology and plant safesustainability aspects and officially released. A Supplier Policy. • Reporting misconduct ty management process is mandatory and deploy it globally. pilot study was carried out • With regard to environmental issues, in all Outotec entities. By following the with a Chinese supplier. material toxicity and chemicals technology and plant safety manageranked highest. ment process as well as the HAZOP and Read more about our interaction SIL methods (internationally-known with suppliers, p. 29. Outotec also set a target for 2013 that methods to analyze risks for person300 of major suppliers have committed nel and environment within process to Outotec’s new supplier policy. plants), we ensure that we deliver a safe product which causes no harm to Safety in field operations human beings or the environment. Safety is an important aspect of OuOutotec provides training in occupatotec’s field operations at customer tional safety for employees whose work sites. Outotec’s project manager is involves or will involve participating in responsible for the company and its installation, commissioning, maintesub-contractors’ site activities and nance, or general site operations refollows the management of environlated to plants, equipment, or services mental issues, safety, systematic delivered by Outotec to its customers. practices, and cleanliness. All OutoThe objective of the training is to teach tec’s project and service specialists employees hazard recognition and follow the customer’s safety regulamethods of preventive action and to imtions on site. From the occupational prove practical collaboration between safety standpoint, the greatest risks the customer and supplier organizaare associated with work assignments tions on shared sites. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Our impact 51 ABOUT THE REPORT Report scope and profile Data collection over 20 percent compared to the previcompanies. They pay a monthly lump ous years and asks for verification of sum to the office providers, and thereThis report covers the company’s susOutotec introduced its environmental the data controller. This is yet another fore it is not possible to identify electrictainability performance for the 2012 data reporting system in 2009. The data step in improving data quality. Outotec ity, heat, or water consumption. For this calendar year. In upcoming years, peron environmental performance is based also continues to report on GRI B+ level. group, an average number was calcuformance and targets will be reported on Outotec’s financial reporting system, The developments concerning the new lated based on the available data. annually on the company’s website. ‘Hyperion Financial Management’ (HFM), G4 guidelines are closely followed. Economic performance data is based Outotec’s sustainability reporting is where each business unit reports its enThe data reported does not cover on data collection through ERP systems prepared according to the Global Revironmental figures. After data collection, all Outotec employees yet, which is an and Outotec’s management reporting sysporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 sustainthe reported figures were retrieved from area that needs further improvement. tem, HFM. The figures used in Outotec’s ability reporting guidelines and the UN the HFM system and Microsoft Excel was Performance data on environmenConsolidated Financial Statements have Global Compact principles. If you are deployed to carry out calculations. In 2012, tal aspects of sustainability have been been prepared according to the IFRS (Ininterested in specific issues relating to Outotec acquired Backfill Specialists collected from major business units for ternational Financial Reporting Standard). corporate responsibility, we recommend (October 2012), TME Group (August 2012), electricity, heating, owned or leased comIn addition, some data has been collected that you check the GRI and UN Global Demil (June 2012), and Numcore (March pany cars, flight emissions, water, paper, manually from MS Excel spreadsheets. Compact reporting index, where all the 2012). These new businesses are included recycled waste, and landfill waste. In addiWe have applied GRI’s “Guidance on Defining indicators regarding responsibility pracin the environmental data reported. tion, the combustion of fuels in companyReport Content” when preparing the report. tices are listed together with links to the For collection of social performance owned combustion sources (scope 1 emisOutotec’s most important sustainabilpages on which they are addressed. data, a global master data system based sions) and hazardous waste occurring in ity issues were discussed and defined in Outotec reports on the core indicators on SAP HCM (Human Capital ManageOutotec’s research centers, equipment a management workshop facilitated by of most relevance to its operations, soment) was applied. It includes accurate manufacture workshops, and ceramic an external partner at the end of 2011. lutions, and stakeholders. The selected data of employees and covers all major plate production plant are included in the Sustainability trends and feedback from core indicators are of importance at the business units. The system was introreport. The sources of owned fuel comstakeholders were taken into account corporate level and are based on those duced in 2010 and has been further debustion are identified through separate when evaluating the most important proposed by the GRI guidelines. veloped since. In addition, Outotec has a environmental data reports provided on an sustainability issues and, subsequently, We report on our own operations but global health and safety reporting system annual basis. When required, e-mail corthe chosen GRI indicators. Identifying the do not include delivery projects, use for setting and following common health respondence was used to collect the informaterial aspects created the basis for of the technology, or our supply chain. and safety targets in all Outotec operamation from the various business units. sustainability management and defining The report boundary includes all our tions. It also provides qualified metrics. Environmental data was available the report’s content. The content of this major operations. Our aim is to expand This report includes the health and safety for Outotec’s most important and largreport was reviewed and approved by Ouinformation collection and include site data that covers Outotec globally. est business units. The smallest offices totec Executive Board in March 2013. We operations, construction, and commisIn 2012, a validation check for all were not able to report environmental have identified our investors, customers, sioning work carried out at our custombusiness units was integrated in the data, because they are located in larger current and future employees, and supers’ sites. reporting tool that highlights changes of office premises together with other pliers as the main users of this report. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 About the report 52 Sustainability targets The materiality assessment and the to further advance sustainability and complement our annual targets. The targeted annual reduction in the CO2 emissions avoided through Outhe principles of social responsibility first long-term target – More sustainuse of fossil fuels is comparable to totec’s technology solutions clearly in its business practices. able technologies and services by 2020 80 MWe power plants and 60 MWth illustrate where Outotec can achieve In our previous reports we have – relates to our Offering Agenda and it steam boilers as an average. the most positive impact on sustainpublished annual targets which steer comprises four elements: • 50 percent reduction in fresh makeability – namely through improvements our sustainability agenda. For 2013, we • To keep the share of environmenup water per one tonne of ore in nonin its technologies to enable cushave decided to divide those targets tal goods and services (EGS) in our ferrous metals concentrators. This is tomers to reduce the environmental into two categories: key targets and order intake permanently above 90 a clear task for technology developimpact of their operations. Besides efsupporting targets. This prioritization is percent. This means that we will ment and new innovations. forts in R&D and providing customers done based on our materiality analyalways seek to sell our latest techwith process solutions, technologies, sis. We have also clearly improved the nology (BAT) to customers. The base line year for these long-term and services, Outotec also strives to measurability of our targets. • 20 percent increase in the amount of technology-related targets is 2012. improve the economic, environmenavoided CO2 emissions by the indusThe second long-term target will tal, and social performance of its own New long-term targets try through the use of our metalsbe formulated during 2013 regarding operations. By joining the corporate A major improvement in target-setting related processes by 2020. our People Agenda, which is the other responsibility UN Global Compact initiis that we have decided to add long• To generate more energy through area considered most relevant to our ative, Outotec has expressed its intent term targets up to the year 2020 to our waste-to-energy solutions. The business. Key targets for 2013 Targets for 2020 Key Target for 2013 GRI indicator Environmental goods 50% reduction in fresh and services / order make-up water/t of ore Economic Code of Conduct implementation: e-learning solution created and 80% SO3, HR3 intake permanently in non-ferrous metals and governance of personnel trained. over 90% concentrators Environmental EGS % of order intake: maintain the percentage of EGS in order intake on the level of EN6 85–95% and over 90% as the long-term target. More CO2 emissions avoided: over 5% annual increase in the amount of avoided sustainable CO2 emissions through the use of Outotec’s metals-related technologies and solutions. EN18 technologies and services Social Further develop the employer image: localized employee value proposition in five key by 2020 More energy countries. 20% increase in number of followers in social media. Localized content in generated social media. through our waste-to-energy solu20% increase in avoided tions. Annual reduction CO2 emissions by the in use of fossil fuels by industry through use power plants equaling 80 of our metals-related MWe and by steam boilprocesses ers equaling 60 MWth Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 About the report 53 Other targets for 2013 Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator Continue growth through acquisitions. Target was achieved. Outotec made four acquisitions in 2012. The acquisition Sustainable acquisitions: continue growth through EC1 of Backfill Specialists brought new solutions for sustainable tailings treatsustainable acquisitions based on M&A target asment into Outotec’s portfolio. sessment criteria. More than 50% of acquisitions must increase sustainability offering or improve sustainability agenda. Improve the system for sustainability KPIs collection. Target was partially achieved. GRI indicator collection improved in 2012. A Improve sustainability governance model: Economic and governance validation check for all business units was integrated in the reporting tool strengthen sustainability focus on all levels and Include the relevant sustainability KPIs in core that highlights changes over 20% compared to the previous years and asks improve integration throughout the organization. business and shared function processes. for verification of the data controller. This is yet another step in improving data quality. The work with including sustainability KPIs in core business processes did not progress as rapidly as planned, and the work continues in 2013. Refine the supplier assessment process further Target was achieved. The supplier assessment process has been defined and Suppliers: 300 of major suppliers have committed EC6, HR2 covering sustainability aspects and deploy globally. officially released. A pilot study was carried out with a Chinese supplier. to new Supplier policy/code Continue sustainability assessments in acquisitions. Target was achieved. In all four acquisitions made in 2012 the sustainability Done, sustained as normal business practice. was assessed. Continue reporting based on GRI 3.0, long-term Target was achieved. Outotec decided to continue to report on GRI B+ level. The Done, sustained as normal practice. target is to follow the GRI 3.1 guidelines. development concerning the new G4 guidelines are being closely followed. Develop all needed EHS Modules (14001 and 18001) Target was partially achieved. The environmental modules were implementManagement systems: EHS module implementaand implement them in all locations. ed in 75% of our locations and H&S modules in 85%. Six new countries were tion continues to cover all locations in 2013. ISO certified with ISO 9001. The planned OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certification 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certification for 18 new Preparations for global certification. ISO 9001 for offices in Alsdorf, Germany and Utrecht, the Netherlands was postponed locations. certification for 6 new countries. ISO 14001 and to the first quarter of 2013. OHSAS 18001 certification of one additional location. Double the use of video conferencing facilities The target was almost reached. The use of video-conferencing increased Reduction in CO2 emissions in traveling: 5% EN18 Environmental from 2011 level. by 93%. Six new video-conferencing facilities were installed, and the total decrease in tonnes of CO2 flight emissions per milnumber was increased to 31. lion EUR sales annually through increased virtual ways of working. In addition to video-conferencing, Sametime and Skype were also used. However, we do not have any use statistics for those. Increase the investments in R&D in line with Target was partially achieved. R&D expenditure was EUR 41.6 million, Done, sustained as normal business practice. EN26 business growth. representing 24% growth from 2011. However, because of strong business growth in 2012, the share of R&D of sales was 2.0%, which is lower than in 2011 (2.4%). Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 About the report 54 Target for 2012 Performance in 2012 Target for 2013 GRI indicator 90–95% of employees have their performance deTarget was achieved. Over 95% of employees used the new PDD tool for dePerformance development dialogues: LA12 velopment dialogue (PDD) using the new tool. fining their targets, and Personal development plan function was developed all employees have had PDDs according to defined in the tool. policy. Develop the tool to include individual development. Study the possibilities to increase the sustainability Target was achieved. Our values framework, published in 2012, was built Improving life balance and sustainable leadership: EN18, LA11 of our own operations, for example telecommuting, around ‘committed to sustainability’ as the core value. In addition to video global guidelines for remote working and flexible i.e. remote working from home (social and environconferencing, sustainability also guided decisions on our new Espoo premworking time to be published. mental impacts). ises (our biggest office) are being built in full consideration of LEED® (LEED Sustainable leadership implemented through = Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) requirements. performance evaluation concept and leadership training. Social Technology and plant safety: take technology and Target was achieved. TPSM has been introduced in all locations involved in Technology and plant safety management: PR1 plant safety management (TPSM) into use in project implementation and engineering. TPSM is included in all major new technology and all locations with engineering activities. plant delivery contracts globally. Long term target: zero harm= zero fatalities +zero incidents +zero property damages for Outotec and our partners Define and implement the HC Master Data related Target was partially achieved. Quality of data in the HC Master data system LA1–13 processes. was improved through closely followed training of local Human Capital Develop the HC Master Data system and HC reportpersonnel with close follow up globally. HC reporting was further developed ing further. based on Master Data, but because of matrix organization, further needs were identified and project to fulfill those needs was started in late 2012. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 About the report 55 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the Management of Outotec Oyj Methodology Insinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy (hereafter Ecobio) has been commissioned by Outotec Ecobio based the assurance process on the following guidelines and standards: Oyj (hereafter Outotec) to perform a limited third party assurance engagement the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.0, the regarding the content of Outotec’s Sustainability Report for 2012. International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE3000) and Outotec’s internal reporting guidelines. The assurance process was performed utilizing Outotec’s Responsibility Ecobio’s internally developed GRI assurance tool, covering the principles, standOutotec was responsible for the collection, preparation and presentation of the ard disclosures and indicators of the GRI G3 Guidelines. All Standard Disclosures information in the Sustainability Report (hereafter Sustainability Information) acwere assessed individually. cording to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version 3.0) set up by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Ecobio, as an independent assuror was not involved Concerning limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures in the preparation of any Sustainability Information, apart from the Independent are more limited than for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less Assurance. The Management of Outotec has approved the information provided in assurance is obtained. This assurance engagement was conducted from February the Sustainability Report. to March 2013. The assurance process included: • Interviewing employees responsible for data collection and reporting at OutoPractitioner’s Responsibility tec’s group level. Ecobio’s responsibility was to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Informa• Evaluating procedures for gathering, analyzing, and aggregating quantitative tion subject to the assurance performed by Ecobio. data for the Sustainability The scope of work included assurance of completeness and correctness of informaReport 2012 as well as performing cross-checks on a sample basis concerning tion presented by Outotec in the Sustainability Report 2012. The assurance engagethe reported sustainability data. ment was limited to the non-financial performance data disclosed in the Sustain• Checking the internal guidelines of the data collection. ability Report for the reporting period of January 1st 2012 to December 31st 2012. • Checking the sufficiency of the documentation of the data gathering process. • Checking the consistency of the Sustainability Report 2012 compared to the GRI The Sustainability Information assured covered the Standard Disclosures, includG3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. ing the reported Environmental and Social Performance Indicators. In addition, the level of the consistency of the Economic Performance Indicators reported was Conclusions checked against the GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Based on the work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the information presented in Outotec’s SustainEcobio disclaims any liability or responsibility for any third party decision based ability Report 2012 is not fairly stated, in all material respects, or that it would not upon this assurance report. comply with the Reporting Criteria stated before. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Independent Assurance Report 56 Outotec claims that an Application Level of B+ is achieved. We assessed the scope Practitioner’s Independence and qualifications of Sustainability Information provided by Outotec for each Standard Disclosure Ecobio is an independent consulting company that specializes in environmenand evaluated that an Application Level of B+ is achieved. tal, health and safety management with over 20 years of history. Ecobio provides corporate sustainability and environmental consultancy services, combined with Observations and Recommendations training, modelling, research and planning, for companies in the infrastructure, Based on our limited assurance engagement we provide the following observations industry and service sectors. Ecobio’s assurers are skilled and experienced and recommendations related to GRI Sustainability Reporting principles. These obwithin non-financial assurance and has good knowledge of industry related susservations and recommendations do not affect the conclusions presented earlier. tainability issues. • In general, the report is comprehensive, well-structured and claims are reported in a reasonable fashion. As an independent consultancy, Ecobio has no financial dependencies on Outotec • Due to improved data gathering processes, Outotec has been able to extend beyond the scope of this engagement. Ecobio has conducted this assurance indethe number of indicators reported (from “not reported” to “partly reported” two pendently, and there has been no conflict of interest. indicators and from “partly reported” to “fully reported” four indicators). It is, however, recommended for future reporting periods to further improve the accuracy and completeness of the data provided. Helsinki, 21st of March 2013 • We recommend the boundary of the report to be expanded in future reporting peInsinööritoimisto Ecobio Oy riods to include, where possible, project execution as well as site and supplier performance. By including project execution and supplier performance in the report the sustainability context and completeness of future reports will be enhanced. • To improve transparency, it is recommended for Outotec to further develop reporting on possible failures in the report content. By including failures the balance of future reports will be enhanced. Sanna Perkiö Thomas Andersson • To improve consistency in data gathering and compilation, it is recommended President Senior Consultant to further elaborate the documentation of the work processes and the internal guidelines for data gathering to take into account all aspects of the report content. By improving the documentation the accuracy and completeness of future reports will be enhanced. Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Independent Assurance Report 57 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX AND UN GLOBAL COMPACT Based on its own assessment, Outotec has self-declared this report to be compliant with the GRI application level B+. The application level has been checked by a third party, Ecobio Ltd. GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles Standard Disclosure 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 CEO’s statement CEO’s message to stakeholders, p. 4 Fully 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Materiality assessment, p. 8 Fully Risks and opportunities, p. 40 Sustainability targets, p. 53 2 Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.7 Markets served Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Highlights 2012, p. 3 Fully Customers, p. 27 3 Report parameters 3.1–3.4 Report profile Report scope and profile, p. 52 Fully Contact information, p. 62 3.5 Process for defining report content Materiality assessment, p. 8 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 26 3.6 Boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 52 Fully Data collection, p. 52 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Report scope and profile, p. 52 Fully 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Report scope and profile, p. 52 Fully and other entities Data collection, p. 52 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Data collection, p. 52 Fully Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 58 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles 3.10 Explanation of re-statements Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods Outotec in brief, p. 2 Fully Data collection, p. 52 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report GRI Index and UN Global Compact, p. 58 Fully 3.13 Assurance Independent assurance, p. 56 Fully 4 Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1–4.10 Governance Governance and sustainability, p. 24 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 40 4.11–4.13 Commitments to external initiatives Commitment to external initiatives, p. 31 Fully 1–10 Risks and opportunities, p. 40 4.14–4.17 Stakeholder engagement Employees, p. 13 Fully Interaction with stakeholders, p. 26 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to economic responsibility Management approach, p. 10 Fully 1,4,6,7 Economic impact, p. 48 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic impact, p. 48 Fully EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Risks and opportunities, p. 40 Fully 7 activities due to climate change EC3 Employee benefit obligations Rewarding, p. 16 Partly EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government R&D and innovation, p. 20 Fully EC6 Spending on local suppliers Supply chain, p. 50 Partly EC7 Procedures for local hiring Labor practices, p. 16 Fully 6 EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit Commitment to external initiatives, p. 31 Fully EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts Economic impact, p. 48 Partly Management approach, p. 10 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Management approach to environmental responsibility Management approach, p.10 Fully 7,8,9 Ecological footprint, p. 45 EN1 Materials used Ecological footprint, p.45 Partly 8 EN3–5 Energy consumption and energy saved Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 8,9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and services R&D and innovation, p. 20 Partly 8,9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the reductions achieved Ecological footprint, p. 45 Partly 8,9 EN8 Water withdrawal Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 8 EN11 Location and size of land holdings in areas of high biodiversity Not relevant 8 EN12 Description of significant impact of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Not reported 8 EN16–17 Greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 7,8,9 Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 59 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant 8 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Ecological footprint, p. 45 Partly (NEW) 8 EN21 Water discharge Not relevant 8 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant 8 EN24 Hazardous waste Ecological footprint, p. 45 Fully 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products R&D and innovation, p. 20 Partly 7,8,9 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Not reported 8,9 EN28 Compliance with environmental laws Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully 8 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Labor practices and decent work Management approach to labor practices and decent work Management approach, p. 10 Fully 1,3,6 Labor practices, p. 16 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region Employees, p. 13 Fully LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Employees, p. 13 Fully 6 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees Rewarding, p. 16 Fully LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Rewarding, p. 16 Fully 1,3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes Labor practices, p. 16 Partly 3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number Health and safety, p. 17 Fully 1 of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training and prevention programs regarding serious diseases Training programs, p. 15 Partly (NEW) 1 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Health and safety, p. 17 Partly 1 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee category Competence development , p. 14 Partly LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Competence development , p. 14 Fully LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Competence development , p. 14 Fully LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according Employees, p. 13 Fully 1,6 to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Not reported 1,6 Human rights Management approach to human rights Management approach, p. 10 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 HR1 Investment agreements with human rights clauses or that have undergone Not reported 1,2,3,4,5,6 human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 50 Partly 1,2,3,4,5,6 screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights relevant to operations Management approach, p. 10 Fully 1,2,3,4,5,6 Employees, p. 13 Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 60 GRI Content Reference page Reported Global Compact principles HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Labor practices, p. 16 Fully 1,2,6 HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Not reported 1,2,3 bargaining may be at significant risk HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 50 Fully 1,2,5 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 50 Fully 1,2,4 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully 1,2 Society Management approach to society Management approach, p. 10 Fully 10 Employees, p. 13 SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that asses and manage Commitment to external initiatives, p. 31 Fully the impacts of operations on communities Sustainability aspects in supply chain, p. 50 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Partly 10 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Partly 10 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully 10 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Principal international stakeholder Fully 1–10 organizations, p. 32 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions Economic impact, p. 48 Fully 10 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully non-compliance with laws and regulations Product responsibility Management approach to product responsibility Management approach, p. 10 Fully 1–8 Impact of our products and services, p. 43 PR1 Health and safety impacts of products and services Impact of our products and services, p. 43 Fully 1 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully 1 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Impact of our products and services, p. 43 Partly 8 significant products and services subject to such information PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully 8 product and service information and labeling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customers, p. 26 Fully PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Not reported marketing communications PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning Values and Code of Conduct, p. 21 Fully the provision and use of products and services Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Global Reporting Initiative Index and UN Global Compact 61 CONTACT INFORMATION Minna Aila Outotec Oyj Senior Vice President – Communications and Corporate Corporate management Responsibility PO Box 86, FI-02201 Espoo, Finland minna.aila@outotec.com +358 20 529 211 Dr. Ilkka Kojo www.outotec.com/sustainability Director – Environment and Sustainability www.facebook.com/Outotec ilkka.kojo@outotec.com www.linkedin.com/company/outotec www.twitter.com/outotec Harald Huppe www.youtube.com/user/OutotecOyj Manager – Global Environment and Sustainability harald.huppe@outotec.com Eila Paatela Director – Corporate Communications eila.paatela@outotec.com Saija Kinanen Communication Specialist – External Communications saija.kinanen@outotec.com Outotec Oyj Sustainability Report 2012 Contact information 62
