E B A R A G r o u p C S R R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 EBARA Group CSR Report 2 0 1 2 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Editorial Policy Purpose of Issuing the CSR Report What We Would Like to Convey The EBARA Group’s objective is to grow as a trusted enterprise, to the Reader while communicating with its stakeholders. This Report is issued ■ In order to more fully understand the activities of the EBARA to inform our stakeholders of how we are working on CSR. We Group, we strive to listen to the voices of our stakeholders. welcome your comments and cooperation, which will lead us to ■ The FY2012 version comprises reports on the activities of our further improving the report. EBARA signed the United Nations overseas group companies. Global Compact as a company, and submitted the CSR report as ■ We regard our customers, shareholders, investors, suppliers, an annual report (Communication on Progress) to the United and employees as our major stakeholders (see the illustration Nations. below). We believe that maintaining and improving the relationships with our stakeholders, based on mutual trust, is of EBARA Group fundamental importance to the continuity and growth of our Information on business. To this end, we are presenting our activities and EBARA Group’s CSR Report 2012 accomplishments. Through comprising past environmental reports, we began Detailed information for our shareholders and investors can creating and publishing the CSR Report since FY2008. be found in the Annual Report and in the Business Report. The FY2012 version was created by referring to the GRI ■ This booklet briefly describes our efforts toward protecting Sustainability Reporting Guideline version 3.1. In addition, the global environment. To find out more, please visit the environmental performance data is available on our website. EBARA website. We feel that “CSR activities underpin the continuation and Website for Environmental Activity Reports development of business,” and in order to expand on this idea, http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/env/ we will report on activities from the company’s mid-term administration plan “E-Plan 2013”, established in 2011, from a CSR perspective. Please also refer to our website while viewing these topics. EBARA Group and Stakeholders Issue date: Octber 10, 2012. (Previous issue date: August 10, 2011) (Main pages) Supervised by: EBARA Group CSR Activities Planning Committee Period: April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 Customers (P.24〜33) * The term FY used in this CSR Report stands for EBARA’s fiscal year, beginning in April 1 and ending March 31 of the next year. Scope: Consolidated EBARA Group companies * Other organizations are listed in the footnotes. Content: EBARA Group’s CSR activities Shareholders Employees Next issue date: August 2013 and investors (P.36〜39) Description of company names used in this report: (P.23) “EBARA” represents only the EBARA Corporation. EBARA Group “EBARA Group” represents EBARA, its subsidiaries, and its affiliated companies. Reporting Reference Guideline: GRI Sustainability Reporting Guideline version 3.1 Communities Contact for comments and questions: Suppliers (P.34・35) and society eco@ebara.com (P.40・41) Privacy Policy http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/privacy/ Global environment ( P.42 to 45 and EBARA’s website http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/env/ ) 02 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Front cover The monochromatic photo is a picture of the first factory during the initial years of EBARA’s establishment. The color photo is a picture of when Futtsu Plant began operation in 2010. Building on our 100 years of history, we express EBARA’s dedication to continue serving society as an industrial machinery manufacturer. C O N T E N T S Message from the Management … …………………… 04・05 Involvement with Our Stakeholders About the EBARA Group … ……………………………… 06・07 The EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct defines its involvement with EBARA Group – Supporting society, our stakeholders as follows: industry and life ……………………………………………… 08・09 ■ Customers We will offer superior products and services conscious of quality Contributing to Society for 100 Years and safety through fair business practices. through Our Business Activities … …………………… 10・11 ■ Shareholders and investors We will pursue long-term enhancement of our corporate value, to live up to the expectations placed on us. Furthermore, we will Reporting on the management promptly and impartially disclose accurate management information. Medium-Term Management ■ Suppliers Plan E-Plan 2013 and CSR … …………………………… 12・13 We will maintain proper purchasing practices by abiding with the Corporate Philosophy and CSR … …………………… 14・15 principle of fairness. Corporate Governance … ………………………………… 16・17 ■ Communities and society We will act as a good corporate citizen to make a positive Internal Control and Risk Management ……………… 18・19 contribution to society. Compliance …………………………………………………… 20・21 ■ Employees Information Security … ………………………………………… 22 We will endeavor to maintain and improve our workplace environment, which is safe and easy for any employee to work in, Information Disclosure and Communication … ………… 23 while respecting the employee’s basic human rights, personality and life. * Employees: All personnel involved with the Company, such as Executives, regular For providing superior products, technologies and services employees, corporate advisors, part-time workers, and loaned employees. Common concepts of our involvement with any and all stakeholders Fluid Machinery & Systems Company … …………… 24 〜 28 are: Precision Machinery Company … ……………………… 29 〜 31 ■ Compliance We will act responsibly and with common sense, in full Environmental Engineering Company … …………… 32・33 recognition of corporate ethics, by abiding with all relevant laws and regulations and observing social norms. ■ Protection of the global environment Sociality We will make a continual effort to abate the environmental impact of our corporate activities and prevent environmental pollution. Fulfilling CSR Together with Suppliers … …………… 34・35 ■ Anti-corruption Approaches to the Work Environment … …………… 36 〜 39 We will not accept bribes in connection with any and all For Communities and Society … ……………………… 40・41 stakeholders. How we handle your comments and inquiries Environment conservation Any personal information provided might be presented to other Environmental Initiatives … ……………………………… 42 〜 45 group companies in instances where various EBARA group companies cooperate in a business activity, or where it is required in order to carry out business activities. Furthermore, answers to inquiries might be handled by other group affiliates, rather than Third-party Comments EBARA. Koji Shimada, Professor, Ritsumeikan University College of Economics ………… 46 External Assessment … ………………………………………… 47 EBARA Group’s CSR Challenges …………………………… 47 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 03 Message from the Management Enhancing individual capacities for a company Mission of reintegration after the 311 earthquake More than a year has passed since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and the disaster's impact on our business activities is coming to a close. However, the end is still not in sight for disposal of the rubble and the effects of the nuclear catastrophe. The apprehension felt by people living in the devastated areas is undoubtedly still overwhelming. The EBARA Group will continue doing all it can to help these people get back to a normal life as soon as possible. Immediately after the earthquake struck, we instituted setups for rehabilitation of infrastructure, dispatched technical experts to the affected districts, and embarked on the task of restoring pump stations and waste incineration facilities. Employees of the EBARA Group worked diligently for such tasks even while aftershocks were still being felt, and contributed to the earliest recovery. Surely I am not alone in the conviction that this was a demonstration of EBARA's real power of heritage that it has been supplying infrastructure-related products and remained involved in their maintenance for approximately 100 years since the start-up of business. Meanwhile, our main production sites managed to fulfill their responsibility to continue supplying products in spite of the need to reduce their power consumption, thanks to the alternate work shifts and working on holidays. It is recognized that we could fulfill the duties to the society as a corporate enterprise that supports the infrastructure even when disasters strike. Natsunosuke Yago Action by employees is the pillar of President and Representative Director CSR activities EBARA CORPORATION It was five years ago that we developed our Environmental Report into our CSR Report, out of the desire to accurately convey to our stakeholders our perspectives on and approaches to 04 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 enabling contributions on a global scale responsibilities to society which corporate enterprises must fulfill. around the world. In order to sharpen the sense of right actions Social interest in corporate CSR activities is rising even higher. In at more global business scenes, I strongly urge all employees to response, the contents of our CSR report has been changing, deepen their understanding of the ten principles of the Global albeit gradually. Amid this change, one proposition has remained Compact (GC) in addition to the standards established by the unchanged: What are the norms which our employees are to EBARA Group. follow when taking action in line with CSR activities? Companies are composed of individuals, and in this sense CSR may be Striving for an industrial machinery equated with the responsibility to be discharged to society by producer vital for customers around the employees when engaged in their business activities. It goes world over the next 100 years, too without saying that the activities of each and every employee are the pillars of CSR activities. The GC principles are neatly defined as human-centered Companies must make a contribution to society through such standards of action to be held in common by all parties activities aimed at use of the finite resources of society to worldwide. Each principle leaves no room for doubt in the mind maximize their value. To this end, they must make a clear of any human being about following it. In other words, their statement of what they intend to achieve through their business substance is such that it is only natural for each and every activities, including earning targets and the policy for repaying individual to act in accordance with them. Many employees who those profits to society, which is substantiated in the are already working in other countries or are scheduled to do so management plan. For their part, employees fulfill their surely must be taken aback by differences between Japan and responsibility to society through activities aimed at their country of assignment in respect of culture. The times accomplishment of the management plan. As the principals of demand behavior based on proper judgments in the context of corporate activities, employees are at the same time always in different cultures. If they make judgments by considering our the position of having to take action on emerging issues. As a Corporate Philosophy and Five Basic Principles for Actions standard of judgment before taking action, they must ask together with the GC principles, which concisely set forth themselves whether or not the step is not against public order standards of behavior that may be considered world standards, and standards of decency, and will be linked to increase in value our employees will presumably be able to take tight actions for the society. anywhere in the world so that the EBARA Group can fulfill its As guides to help their employees make correct judgments, responsibilities to society. In our view, CSR activities are nothing companies consequently formulate corporate philosophies that other than the practice of proper action as human beings based set forth the target corporate orientation and standards of value, on these norms by each and every one of our employees. along with codes of conduct that set out standards of judgment In 2012, we are celebrating the 100th anniversary in business. in behavior based on corporate ethics. In the case of the EBARA Over 100years’ history of business, we have always discharged Group, we have also determined the Five Basic Principles for the role of furnishing a cornerstone of society. The future holds Actions to serve as standards which employees apply personally the prospect of economic advancement led by newly emerging to make judgments and verifications as to whether a given act is countries and population growth on a global scale. This, in turn, legitimate or not. These standards are defined by universal and points to a further increase in activities on a worldwide stage in comprehensive expression to fields closely intertwined with the EBARA Group, such as the enable correct judgments even in expansion of facilities related to the water treatment and energy complicated circumstances. Our supply. Through a concerted effort by our member companies Corporate Philosophy and Five and their employees around the world, we in the EBARA Group Basic Principles for Actions are determined to move forward as an industrial machinery function effectively as criteria for producer making a substantial contribution to society as a action by the employees of whole by provision of excellent technologies and optimal EBARA, which is doing business services over the next 100 years as well. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 05 About the EBARA Group The EBARA Group consists of 89 companies in total: EBARA, 77 subsidiaries (including 53 consolidated companies) and 11 affiliate companies. The Fluid Machinery & Systems Company, the Environmental Engineering Company and the Precision Machinery Company operate their businesses globally based on an in-house company system. Corporate and Group Profile machinery and systems such as pumps and compressors. And, (as of the end of March 2012) EBARA has expanded into the environmental engineering business ● Corporate name EBARA CORPORATION with incineration and gasification technology and water treatment ● Common name EBARA technology at its core, and further into the precision machinery ● Date of foundation November 1912 business handling semiconductor manufacturing equipment and (Inokuchi Type Machinery Office) other products. The EBARA Group is constantly thinking of what ● Date of establishment May 1920 (EBARA CORPORATION) will be required in the future and is seeking to accurately grasp the ● Paid-in capital 61.3 billion yen current and future needs of its customers, while it continues to ● Representative President and Representative pursue the development of superior technologies and products in Director, Natsunosuke Yago all its businesses. In the years to come, as in the past, the EBARA ● Head office 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ohta-ku, Group will continue to achieve further development and Tokyo, Japan contribute to society by excelling in the development of ● Composition EBARA, 77 subsidiaries (including 53 technologies as well as the manufacturing and marketing of consolidated companies) and 11 products, and by providing high-quality support and services. affiliate companies, for a total of 89 companies Key Products Fluid Machinery & Systems Company ■ Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Consolidated subsidiaries Domestic 11 Overseas 29 (Fluid Machinery & Systems Company) Other subsidiaries and affiliates Domestic 4 Overseas 14 Pumps, fans, compressors, turbines, refrigeration equipment Environmental Engineering Company and systems, fluid machinery plants, and cooling and waterConsolidated subsidiaries Domestic 1 Overseas 2 supply systems for nuclear power plants Other subsidiaries and affiliates Domestic 9 Overseas 6 ■ Environmental Engineering Business Precision Machinery Company (Environmental Engineering Company) Consolidated subsidiaries Domestic 1 Overseas 5 Municipal waste incineration facilities, industrial waste Corporate incineration facilities, energy-related plants, water treatment Consolidated subsidiaries Domestic 3 Overseas 1 facilities, other plants and systems, and industrial chemicals Other subsidiaries and affiliates Domestic 2 ■ Precision Machinery Business (Precision Machinery Company) Outline of Business Vacuum pumps, chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) EBARA, established in 1912, has grown to become one of the systems, plating systems, and systems and equipment for the world’s principal manufacturers of industrial machinery with fluid semiconductor industry ■ Overseas offices, principal subsidiaries and affiliate companies, and composition of employees by region (as of March 31; numbers are consolidated and include overseas companies) Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Environmental Engineering Company Precision Machinery Company Overseas Offices Europe 2012 614 2011 586 EBARA 2010 601 CORPORATION Japan North and South America 2012 7,879 2011 7,926 2012 2,287 2010 7,906 2011 2,214 2010 2,151 Asia-Oceania 2012 3,915 2011 3,281 2010 3,142 2012 Employee Population 06 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Summary of Business Results (Year ended March 31, 2012; numbers are consolidated and include overseas companies) ● Sales 412,076 million yen ● Operating Income 23,266 million yen ● Net Income 2,889 million yen ● Overseas Sales 181,213 million yen For details, see our website ● Employees 14,695 http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/ir/ (as of March 31, 2012) ■ Composition of Sales (millions of yen) ■ Composition of EBARA Group Employees (Numbers) Precision Machinery Other Business Precision Machinery Corporate Business 7,484 ／ 1.8％ Company 653 ／4.4％ 68,373 ／ 16.6％ 1,642 ／ 11.2％ Consolidated Consolidated 412,076 14,695 Environmental Engineering Fluid Machinery & Systems Environmental Engineering Fluid Machinery & Systems Business Business Company Company 50,128 ／ 12.2％ 286,089 ／ 69.4％ 2,066 ／ 14.1％ 10,334 ／ 70.3％ ■ Sales Fiscal years ended March 31 ■ Overseas Sales Fiscal years ended March 31 (millions of yen) (millions of yen) ■Overseas Sales Composition of Overseas Sales （%） 500,000 485,889 300,000 50 44.1 44.0 401,675 412,076 250,000 39.3 400,000 40 200,000 191,025 177,046 181,213 300,000 30 150,000 200,000 20 100,000 100,000 10 50,000 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ■ Operating Income Fiscal years ended March 31 ■ Net Income Fiscal years ended March 31 (millions of yen) (millions of yen) 35,000 30,000 28,191 31,541 30,000 25,000 25,000 23,266 20,000 20,000 18,953 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 5,441 5,000 5,000 2,889 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 07 EBARA Group – Supporting society, industry and life EBARA Group products, technologies and services support various aspects of society, industry, and our lives by playing a behind-the-scenes role. ❻ Steel Plants High Pressure Pumps ❷ Waste Treatment Facilities ❸ Power Plants Municipal Waste Incineration Plant Boiler Feed Water Pumps ❶ Water Infrastructure Facilities Drainage Pumps ❶ Various types of pumps are used in water-related infrastructure, such as ❸ To support a stable energy supply, various types of pumps, including boiler water-supply and sewerage systems, agricultural systems, seawater feed-water pumps, are supplied to facilities. desalination facilities, and drainage-pump stations that prevent flooding ❹ Centrifugal chillers are widely deployed in large-scale facilities, such as district during heavy rains. heating and cooling facilities, shopping centers, and factories. ❷ By utilizing incineration technologies, both stoker and fluid-bed furnaces and ❺ Water supply and sewage drainage, using supply and drainage pumps for operation-management technologies, we are working to sustain the stable operation commercial and residential buildings, support our everyday lives. of facilities and achieve high efficiency power generation from waste disposal. ❻ In steel plants we provide pumps to remove iron powder, produced when rolling 08 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 EBARA Group Supporting OUR SOCIETY Pumps and compressors are necessary for delivering two indispensable resources for our lives, electric power and natural gas, to our households. Pumps, blowers, and water ❽ Semiconductor treatment systems play a key role in the drinking water and Plants sewage systems. Pumps work tirelessly in facilities that protect us from floods during heavy rains. Household and office solid waste treatment facilities use incineration ❼ Petrochemical Plants technology, recycling and resource recovery technologies and bottom ash reduction technology, as well as technology for generating power from waste incineration. You may not have many opportunities to see or recognize EBARA Group products, technologies and services in your daily life, but CMP Systems these products play an important role in supporting our social infrastructure. Compressors EBARA Group Supporting INDUSTRY Industries such as steel, chemicals, petrochemicals, semiconductors, FPDs ＊1, machinery, metal, paper, and foods and beverages, use a variety of EBARA products and technologies, such as pumps, compressors, turbines, chillers, water treatment equipment, semiconductor manufacturing equipment and vacuum equipment. Our products and technologies also help in countermeasures against global warming and in achieving a recycling-based society. These include equipment for treating process gases, such as PFC＊2, which is a greenhouse gas generated in the semiconductor ❹ District Heating and manufacturing process; an internally circulating Cooling Facilities fluidizedbed gasifier for extracting valuable gases from waste; and pumps, chillers, and dry vacuum pumps ❺ Buildings and designed to save energy. EBARA Group products, Condominiums technologies and services support a variety of industries. EBARA Group Supporting OUR LIFE EBARA Group products, technologies and services support Centrifugal Chillers the comforts we take for granted in our daily lives, in a variety of settings. EBARA provides pump units that supply water to the upper floors of commercial and residential buildings; fire pump units; chillers and water chillers/heaters Water Supply Units used in air conditioning of large buildings, such as office buildings, public facilities and shopping centers; and fans for ventilating closed spaces, such as high-rise buildings and underground malls. EBARA’s products and technologies are closely related to the products we use in our daily lives, including mobile phones and automobiles, and their components and materials. ＊1【FPD】Flat Panel Display. A display with a flat surface, such as a liquid crystal display or a plasma TV. ＊2【PFC gas】Perfluoro compound. This gas is used as an alternative to CFCs, which are used for etching and scrubbing in the metal, and air blowers to remove the large volumes of gases emitted in sintering facilities. semiconductor manufacturing process. It is a greenhouse ❼ EBARA provides compressors, turbines, and pumps for oil and gas facilities. We have also gas designated as a controlled substance by the Kyoto Protocol. been recognized for many achievements in the production of pumps for transferring liquefied natural gases (-162℃ ). ❽ Beginning with the CMP system, which polishes wafers to a super-flat form, EBARA has focused on the development of new technologies and equipment by looking ahead to the next generation. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 09 Contributing to Society for 100 Years through Our Business Activities 1912 to 1940’ s Company Founding and a Commitment to Deliver Superior Pumps to the World In 1912, the Inokuty type Machinery Office was founded to 1950 to 1970’ s produce high-quality pumps built according to the volute pump theory developed by the internationally recognized inventor Dr. Inokuty. Domestically Produced Pumps for Waterworks At the time, imported pumps dominated the waterworks pump market in Japan. EBARA’s pumps proved to have capabilities surpassing those of foreign competitors and realized the domestic production of city water pumps. Domestically Produced Chillers for Cooling Buildings Since the first centrifugal chiller was developed in 1930, use of chillers has spread to department stores, large buildings, Boiler feed water pump for supercritical-pressure power generation (first domestically made model) theaters and other facilities. Sustaining Japan’ s Recovery after World War II 1961 Delivered the first model of a stoker-type refuse incinerator (marking our first step in the waste EBARA produced large quantities of pumps that were vital treatment facility business). in boosting food production to alleviate post-war food 1964 Established a company for post-sales service shortages. Efforts were also made to manufacture salt 1965 Newly constructed the Fujisawa Plant and initiated production systems, meeting another vital human need, as production of standard pumps. well as equipment for key industries, such as coal, iron, and 1976 Newly constructed the Sodegaura Plant as a fluid steel, which were urgently needed to help in Japan’s recovery machinery plant, focusing on the manufacture of compressors and turbines. after the war. Economic Recovery Followed by a Period of Rapid Economic Growth Founded In line with the pace of Japan’s industrial recovery, EBARA 1912 delivered a wide range of fluid machinery products, including power plant pumps, to various industries. As a period of rapid economic growth ensued, EBARA developed products and technologies to address the needs of growing heavy and chemical industries with increasingly sophisticated technical requirements. Furthermore, we broadened our business line by deploying technology such as compressors and turbines. Through these efforts, EBARA has supported Japan’s rapid economic growth. Contributing to Social Infrastructure to build a society safe and comfortable In keeping pace with economic growth, there was mounting demand for the construction of social infrastructure, including sewage and storm-water drainage works, to support improved living standards. EBARA manufactured countless Order for pumps for the Asakusa Tamachi pumping pumps and other products for these facilities, and entered the station in Tokyo City, awarded in 1916. waste treatment facility business in 1961 when we produced our first mechanical stoker-type refuse incinerator. 1912 Founded as the Inokuty type Machinery Office. 1920 Incorporated as EBARA Corporation. The Dawn of Overseas Expansion 1921 Delivered the first blower. Since opening our Bangkok, Thailand, office in 1964, EBARA has 1930 Manufactured the first centrifugal chiller in Japan. embarked on an active policy of establishing overseas sites, incorporating the first overseas production site in Brazil in 1975. 10 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 In November 2012, EBARA will celebrate the 100th anniversary of its founding. As a manufacturer of industrial machinery over the past century, EBARA has continually played a role as a cornerstone of society. We will strive to continue to contribute to society by leveraging our outstanding technology and service. 2012 Looking 1980 to 1990’ s forward to the Developed energy-saving dry vacuum pumps coming century 2000’ s and later Building a Management Structure Geared toward the Global Market In strategically important regions, such as China, Southeast Asia, and the Middle East, EBARA is working to build a business framework that offers its global customers a total suite of services, from equipment delivery to after-sale services. These services are based on the principles of “regional production for regional supply”: locally rooted production, sales, and service, 1984 Delivered the first twin interchanging fluidized bed incinerator. and through the organic cooperation of EBARA’s bases. 1985 Launched a project to develop new businesses for Working to Support Society as an Industrial the semiconductor manufacturing industry, marking the beginning of our precision machinery business. Machinery Manufacturer 1986 Started producing dry vacuum pumps to be used by Pumps and compressors key components of facilities the semiconductor industry. that address water and energy issues of global concern. 1992 Delivered the first CMP system (followed by Eco-friendly incinerators that efficiently recycle energy extensive production for global semiconductor from waste. Dry vacuum pumps and CMP equipment manufacturers). that support semiconductor manufacturing – a key to Technologies Underlying Our Highly the creation of a prosperous society. EBARA will meet the Information-oriented Age needs of its customers and society, and will continue to be EBARA started marketing dry vacuum pumps, which are a manufacturer of industrial machinery that will be trusted used to create a clean environment for the manufacture over the next 100 years as the unsung hero of affluent, safe, of semiconductors, and gas abatement systems, which is and secure communities. used to make flue gas emissions safer. Subsequently, EBARA developed a CMP system that was directly associated with the semiconductor manufacturing process, thus expanding into the arena of semiconductor manufacturing equipment. EBARA’s precision machinery business has grown into the third key pillar of our business, helping to produce smaller, more advanced semiconductors. Building a Sustainable Society The Earth Summit held in 1992 reflected mounting public concern about environmental issues. We at EBARA were no exception, and have pursued the development of diverse environmental and energy-saving technologies, including inverter-controlled pump units and dry vacuum pumps that CMP system that supports miniaturization and lamination of semiconductors cut power consumption by as much as 60% compared to previous models. 2002 Delivered the first model of a municipal solidOther technological developments by EBARA include: waste fluidized-bed type gasification and ash melting system (followed by extensive deliveries for • High efficiency thermal recycling for power generation municipal solid-waste treatment applications). and hot water production from municipal solid-waste 2007 The total number of compressors and turbines incinerators shipped out reach 6,000 units at the Sodegaura • Incinerated ash-melting and resource-recycling Plant. technologies 2008 The number of standard pumps reaches a total of 15 million units at the Fujisawa Plant. • Biomass power generation technology. 2010 The Futtsu Plant, to be the mother plant for global pump Recognizing waste as a resource, EBARA has delivered manufacturing sites, started operation. numerous waste treatment facilities that address the 2011 The total number of volume of Dry vacuum pumps challenges of a recycling-oriented society with technologies shipped out reaches 100,000 units. such as these. 2012 100th anniversary of the company’s founding EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 11 Medium-Term Management Plan E-Plan 2013 and CSR E-Plan 2013 is our medium-term management plan, covering the period of FY2011-2013. The plan addresses some of the new challenges we are facing as a manufacturer of industrial machinery, as we pursue our goal of providing superior technology and service, as well as contributing to society as best we can. Medium-Term Management Plan E-Plan2013 E-Plan 2013 Targets we are to achieve We have positioned the period of E-Plan2013, which began in Reporting on the management The targets we are to achieve by this management plan are fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 , as a time to proceed with the as follows: implementation of measures, which were begun under the previous medium-term management plan, to strengthen our In the fiscal year of E-Plan 2013 management foundation, and, with the theme of taking the “first (fiscal year ending March 31, 2014) steps toward tackling the new challenge of solid growth,” we will Return On Invested Capital (ROIC*): work to establish a more-solid, more-stable business structure. Taking these objectives into account, among our five core 8% or more * ROIC: Net income/ (interest-bearing liabilities + shareholders’ equity) businesses (businesses in pumps, compressors and turbines, To reach this target without an overemphasis precision machinery, environment, and chillers), we will position on either ROE or D/E ratio. the first three as businesses that will pursue growth and the latter two to focus aiming for stability. We will have each of In the fiscal year of E-Plan 2013 these businesses, both domestic and overseas, act as unified (fiscal year ending March 31, 2014) organization, and work to strengthen global competitiveness Operating income ratio: and vigorously pursue maximizing the value of each business. 9% or more In addition, to provide for corporate functions that will support business activities from a standpoint for pursuing optimal state for the entire Group, we will strengthen the functions of the Group headquarters / Global headquarters. We will also secure the necessary resources for sustaining growth and development Our Response to the External Business of the Group as a whole; strengthen our governance systems, in Environment addition to further upgrading our management systems, and The three trends described below are treated by E-Plan 2013 as creating systems that can provide sufficient support, such as in part of our external business environment. Viewed from the human resource development and other areas, for globally point of view of CSR, EBARA will pursue measures to respond to active business divisions. these trends. As we implement these activities, the second year of this ① A trend towards yen appreciation medium-term management plan (fiscal year ending March 31, ② Increase in demand for oil and gas, electrical power and 2013), will mark the 100th year since EBARA’s founding. We will energy; and water-supply infrastructure, especially within look to the next 100 years, and, to continue to be “an industrial emerging markets equipment manufacturer that makes extensive contributions to ③ A trend towards oligopoly within the ICT (Information and society by providing superior technology and services,” we will Communication Technology) fields take our “first steps toward tackling new challenges.” The trend towards yen appreciation We will shift from our previous approach towards overseas development that focused on exporting products manufactured in Japan to other countries, to where products are manufactured The basic policies for the Group as a whole in locations that are optimal in terms of logistic capabilities. We under the medium-term management plan have selected China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East, India, Brazil and the United States as strategic priority regions from 1. Promoting “regional production for regional supply” in among the emerging countries. In these regions we will priority areas and establishing optimally located establish and expand sales and service bases or production production and supply system from a global perspective bases to fit the characteristics of each region and implement – Moving with the Tides of Change – local strategies holding the concept, “regional production for 2. Working to enter new markets by expanding core regional supply” as basis. Through this, we will create a system businesses domains to moderate the effects of foreign-exchange fluctuations, to – Aiming for Solid Growth – secure a more stable income flow. 3. Aiming to optimize “monozukuri” (manufacturing) processes through scientific approaches Increase in demand for oil and gas, electrical power – Internalizing Ceaseless Productivity Innovation and energy; and water-supply infrastructure, into the Corporate/Organizational Culture – especially within emerging markets 4. Expanding the functions of the corporate headquarters It is expected that the demand for energy resources, such as oil, in keeping with the globalization of business domains natural gas, and electricity will increase dramatically in tandem – Restructuring Group Management through with the remarkable economic growth within emerging Strengthening Group Headquarters/Global markets. The EBARA group will respond to these rapidly Headquarters Functions – increasing energy demands by providing machinery that contributes to improved energy efficiency, and safer transport 12 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 and energy conversion. In addition, we aim to simultaneously Results for fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. help create a comfortable environment and also curb global Promulgating the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct warming by providing energy-saving pumps and high-efficiency Group companies within various regions establish and practice Reporting on the management cooling equipment in urban areas, in manufacturing facilities, codes of conduct that comply with local laws and customs. and as part of the social infrastructure. On other fronts, EBARA is The basics of the EBARA Code of Conduct were posted on our also responding to various water-related issues, such as website when it was revised. We will further promote a mindset worsening water shortages and flooding due to climate change, to put the Code of Conduct into practice. by supplying fluid machinery, such as pumps, to seawater Undertaking activities to promote human rights desalination plants and flood-control facilities. CSR training that took place, intended for group employees within Japan, aimed to deepen understanding of the meaning The trend towards oligopoly within the ICT of human rights. (Information and Communication Technology) fields Promoting CSR procurement We expect to see further progression towards oligopoly among We have established the “EBARA Group CSR Procurement our customers in the semiconductor market. When choosing a Guideline.” (Details on page 34) manufacturer for semiconductor production equipment, Addressing issues of Information Security customers within the semiconductor industry seek not only high We have revised our security framework and reorganized product quality, but also a “high-quality corporation” in terms of company rules relating to security. (Details on page 22) environmental protection, safety, contributions to society, corporate governance, and all aspects of CSR. The EBARA group will continue to strive to meet these expectations. Making significant contributions to society over the next 100 years. Continuing in our role as a leading CSR activities that support the manufacturer of industrial machinery continuation and development of business With an eye towards helping to address the issues facing Recognizing the principle that CSR activities support the mankind concerning energy, water resources and climate continuation and development of business, the CSR Activities change, EBARA is actively searching for the seeds of new Planning Committee, with the aim of fostering adoption of a technologies based on a long-term outlook, with the aim of CSR mindset within the EBARA Group, undertook the following commercializing new technologies and products and expanding activities in fiscal year ended March 31, 2012. our existing businesses. ● Promulgating the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct With regard to the fundamental technologies that EBARA has ● Undertaking activities to promote human rights developed over the years, we are cooperating and working ● Promoting CSR procurement together with universities and outside research institutions and ● Addressing issues of information security actively embracing “open innovation methods.” We expect to quickly reap results by applying science to technology, Activities of the CSR Activities Planning Committee enhancing the competitiveness of our products. At the same According to audits and CSR procurement questionnaires, in time, we are working to develop human resources inside and recent years customers and other stakeholders are examining a outside the company, and we will pass this knowledge on to the company’s adequacy of governance and contributions to the next generation as part of EBARA’s corporate DNA. environment and society, in addition to examining the quality In the area of existing businesses, we will strive to optimize the of its products and services. EBARA has used the results of these scientific approach to “monozukuri (manufacturing). In new audits and CSR procurement questionnaires as a gauge of what fields of operation, we will conduct research and development customers expect from our group and what sort of in an effort to create new businesses with a competitive improvements we can make. We examined the portions of the advantage, either as an extension of already existing businesses, audit and questionnaire results that pointed to areas of or by creating new businesses with a different approach, while inadequacy, and worked to improve those that we considered utilizing EBARA’s current base technologies. to be a high priority. In order to expand our current business, we will promote In the fields of environmental management and quality research and development within each company, while taking management (including product safety), our improvement the needs of our customers into consideration. We will efforts based on ISO 14001 and 9001 are underway, and have concentrate research and development efforts in fields that will been favorably received. However, we have decided that there ultimately lead to a rise in net income through the rapid is further need for improvement in certain fields: fostering a establishment of new businesses, commercialization of global, group mindset of respect for human rights; the products, and enhancement of our competitive advantages in compliance of suppliers and their support in environmental the market. conservation, labor health and safety while maintaining service and product quality; and building the trust of our stakeholders through the proper management of information. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 13 Corporate Philosophy and CSR To continue applying our corporate philosophy with a global perspective, we are making efforts to increase the adoption of international initiatives and guidelines, such as the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000, as well as the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct. EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct The founding spirit, “Netsu To Makoto” We have established, and practice, the “EBARA Group Code of Conduct” and rules of action for management Reporting on the management (Note: “Netsu To Makoto” means enthusiasm and sincerity.) and employees. The Code of Conduct was translated into English and Chinese and has also been distributed Corporate Philosophy to all overseas group companies. We have taken the Extensive contribution to society by providing laws, social rules, and customs of various countries into superior technology and the best possible service account when establishing the code. Since the related to water, air, and the environment. fulfillment of social responsibilities for the EBARA Group requires both management and employees to undertake activities complying with the Code of Gist of the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct Conduct, we actively disseminate it through CSR ◆ We will contribute to society through business by providing excellent training and compliance training. products and services globally. ◆ We will be fully aware of corporate ethics, comply with laws and ordinances, and respect the principles of society. System for Promoting CSR ◆ We will strive to conserve the global environment when proceeding The CSR Committee and the CSR Activities Planning with business activities. Committee were established as the authority to ◆ We will maintain fair and amicable relationships with stakeholders. undertake implementation of CSR activities. ◆ Top management and employees will fulfill the responsibilities of their respective work. * Overseas group companies have set up their own Code of Conduct, CSR Committee taking local laws, social norms, and customs into account. The committee consists of directors (including those from outside the company) and full-time corporate auditors, with the president acting as the chairman of Five Basic Principles for Actions the committee. This committee was established in 1. Realize that any action, no matter how trivial, can lead to serious consequences. September 2011 as a development of the Corporate 2. Confirm the objective and meaning of actions before carrying them out. Ethics Committee. Objectives include: debating topics of 3. Follow fixed procedures and rules when carrying out actions. corporate ethics and compliance, making decisions on 4. Review actions, confirm them, and take responsibility for their results. improvements and policies related to the EBARA Group 5. Adopt a wide perspective and consider areas outside one’s own CSR, and acting as the framework for further promotion responsibility when carrying out actions. of CSR activities, through a better appreciation of the status of activities taken from a broad perspective. ■ Relationships between the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct and Internal Rules Global Compact Page in this EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct and internal rules 4 areas 10 principles report Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect Code of Conduct, Chapter 6, “2. Rules of Conduct in the the protection of internationally proclaimed human Workplace,” (1) to (5) Human Page 14, 18, rights. We will strive to apply the rules not only to employees, but rights Principle 2. Business should make sure that they are also to stakeholders that we come into contact with through 34, 38 not complicit in human rights abuses. business, such as suppliers, to whom we can have an influence. Labor Agreement, Chapter 9: Joint Labor-Management Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of Conference association and the effective recognition of the right Chapter 10: Collective Bargaining Page 37 to collective bargaining. Chapter 11: Freedom of Union Activities (the labor agreement is not disclosed) Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination Labour Work Regulations, Chapter 3: Service of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective The Work Regulations prescribe that the Company employ Work abolition of child labour. people aged 15 or older. (Work Regulations are confidential.) Regulations are Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination confidential Code of Conduct, Chapter 6, “2. Rules of Conduct in the of discrimination in respect of employment and Workplace,” (1) to (5) occupation. Principle 7. Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater Code of Conduct, Chapter 3: Environmental Conservation and Page 42 to 45 Environment environmental responsibility. We in the EBARA Group CSR website Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Code of Conduct, Chapter 4: Society and We in the EBARA AntiPrinciple 10. Businesses should work against Group Page 3, 15 corruption in all its forms, including extortion and (Dissociation from donations, political contributions and corruption bribery. antisocial groups) CSR website Code of Conduct, Chapter 5: Prohibition of Bribery 14 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 CSR Activities Planning Committee opportunity to consider the most important responsibility of the The committee was established with the objective of fostering a EBARA Group, as a manufacturer supplying vital equipment, CSR mindset within the group. Committee members include which is to swiftly restore the operation of social infrastructure Reporting on the management department heads of various companies, in departments such as and production facilities, even during times of disaster. management planning, human affairs, publicity, internal In preparation for any large-scale disaster that may occur in the management, human rights compliance, environment, future, EBARA is working to ensure the complete operation of procurement, and planning. the BCMS ＊4 so that we can quickly resume operations. To accomplish this, we recognize that the basis is for every individual to abide by the Five Basic Principles for Actions and United Nations Global Compact actively participate in drills and exercises, to be prepared for The EBARA group supports the UN Global Compact (GC), and such emergencies and disasters. signed onto it in 2009. In FY2011, working within the GC Japanese network, we also participated in subcommittee meetings that studied human rights, biodiversity, MDGs＊1, ISO 26000＊2 and CSR Lecture the supply chain. In addition to collecting information on ongoing The themes for the FY2011 Ebara group executive’s CSR lecture advanced activities, we also exchanged opinions. were: CSR desired by global administration” and the “business We concluded that it is vital to undertake these advanced continuation plan.” All EBARA executives and representatives activities, to respect human rights in accordance with the GC ten from associated companies within Japan, a total of 66 principles, and to pursue further activities in supply management individuals, participated in this training. We deepened our and environmental conservation in order for EBARA to properly understanding of the thoughts behind respect for human rights carry out its activities as a global corporation in the future. on a global business scale, the need for the swift establishment of a BCMS, and trends in various countries regarding anticorruption laws. Day for Reconfirming Basic Principles for Action In other events, around 4,400 Since the dioxin contamination incident that occurred at our individuals participated in 65 Fujisawa district in 2000 ＊3, we designated March 23 as the Day training sessions held in for Reconfirming Basic Principles for Action. Every year on this Japan for general employees. day, the president delivers a message to all group employees to The themes for these training reflect upon corporate social responsibility, to ensure that the sessions included ISO 26000, incident is not forgotten. the Global Compact, respect This year, the day overlapped with the one-year anniversary of for human rights, and the Great East Japan Earthquake, and our employees took this compliance. Scene from the executive’s CSR lecture ■ Core ISO 26000 Themes and the EBARA Group’s CSR Activities Core ISO 26000 Themes Report pages on this issue, Key Activities and Results other media reports Page 04, 05, 12, 13, 16, 17 EBARA established the Consolidated Management Promotion Office with the Organization Governance objective of strengthening group management. Governance report Page 14, 15, 34, 38 We conduct employee educational activities relating to the topic of human Human Rights rights. We have established a consultation service and accept inquiries. We CSR website also call upon suppliers to respect human rights. We conduct activities for thorough implementation of the no-overtime Labour Practice Page 36 to 39 day, and to realize plans to stimulate the participation of male employees in raising children and establishing a better work-life balance. Page 42 to 45 We have set the environmental objectives for FY2020 and conduct activities Environment in pursuit of those goals. CSR website Page 03, 15 The EBARA Group Code of Conduct strictly prohibits bribery under any Practice of Fair Business circumstances. CSR website At EBARA, we see this as a task involving customers. We strive to provide Tasks Involving Consumers Page 24 to 33 products and services that reflect both the trust and the expectations of our customers. Expansion and Participation We undertake activities centering on the areas of: “Advancement in Page 40, 41 Technology and Art,” “Environmental Conservation,” “Promotion of Sports,” in the Community “Social Welfare,” and “Regional Commerce.” ＊1【MDGs】Millennium Development Goals. Eight goals that international society should achieve by 2015, such as the eradication of extreme poverty and hunger, and the realization of universal primary education. ＊2【ISO 26000】International guidance on the social responsibility of organizations ＊3【Dioxin contamination incident】http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/ethics/5basic-action.html ＊4【BCMS】Business Continuity Management System EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 15 Corporate Governance At EBARA, we think it is important to enhance corporate governance and to continue to improve it, so that we will be thought of as a reliable company by our stakeholders and can continue contributing to society. Corporate Governance Structure President and employees to facilitate communication between In accordance to the Companies Act established by Japanese the top management and employees. Over 120 employees, government, EBARA’s Board of Directors supervises business mostly young, took part in the meetings, and had active Reporting on the management operations and makes important managerial decisions, while discussions on a wide range of topics not only about compliance the Audit & Supervisory Board oversees the Directors in their but also on the attitude toward work of each individual and the performance of these duties. Also, to speed up the business production innovation movement. decision-making process and to streamline operations, the Executive Officers administer business operations. To ensure transparency and objectivity in management, the Strengthening Group Management Board of Directors is composed of 12 members, and 4 of these In FY2009, we established the “Group administration Basic are Outside Directors. Also, the majority of the Audit & Rules” which provide the basic policy for Group administration Supervisory Board (3 out of 5) are Outside Audit & Supervisory and reestablish the structure underlying proper involvement of Board Members. (all men) EBARA as a parent company in the management of global Outside Directors enhance the propriety of our decision making, affiliate companies. by giving advice and supervision from an independent In FY2011, we established the Group Management Department standpoint at Board Meetings. In addition, they make up a in effort to strengthen group management. As a leader of group majority of the Nominations Committee and the Compensation management, this department has expanded the functions of Committee, ensuring transparency and objectivity in the process the corporate headquarters. With regard to the structure of our for selecting Directors and Executive Officers, and in Group administration, we implemented improvements to determining their compensation. Important issues concerning increase effectiveness and efficiency, including a revision of the company-wide management policy and management strategy “Group administration Basic Rules” and extension of the rules are thoroughly discussed in the Management Meeting held throughout Group affiliate companies. before Board Meetings. The decisions by the Board Meeting are efficiently communicated to employees through the organization structure based on company system. Compensation of Directors The Corporate Audit Department, a division under the direct Policy regarding compensation for the Company’s Directors is control of the President, conducts internal audits of business determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors, with operations in each EBARA Group Company, checking and reference to results of discussions by the Compensation evaluating their effectiveness, and offering advice and Committee, a majority of which are Outside Directors. The policy recommendations on the appropriateness of business concerning the compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board operations and how to improve their quality. Members is decided through deliberation of the Audit & Supervisory Board. The Company’s remuneration system for Directors is designed Board of Directors Compliance Action to encourage the execution and supervision of operations in line Plan with the Company’s management philosophy and to strongly Compliance is an important policy for the EBARA Group. To motivate them to achieve mediumand long-term management make everyone in the Group fully aware of and committed to targets. (This does not include Outside Directors.) compliance, the Board of Directors drew up a Compliance Action This remuneration consists of “Basic Compensation,” Plan in 2007, and has been implementing systematic activities “Performance-Linked Annual Bonuses” and “Long-Term based on the plan throughout each year, on an annual basis. Incentives.” The compensation for Directors with higher The content of this plan is disseminated through the in-house positions and therefore greater responsibility for the intranet to improve the awareness of the importance of performance of the Company is more linked to the business compliance, not only for the Directors themselves, but also for results of the Company. all employees. Principal activities for FY2011 included the Outside Directors that are independent of the execution of appraisal of the EBARA Group’s status of compliance practice by operations are paid a fixed-amount of compensation. The the Board of Directors, with dissemination of assessment results amount of remuneration for each Audit & Supervisory Board to employees via the intranet, as well as the implementation of Member is determined through discussions among the Audit & self-inspection and self-appraisal of the internal control Supervisory Board Members according to whether the Audit & activities for the department under the jurisdiction of each Supervisory Board Member serves full-time or part-time, what Director, and for the Board of Directors. degree of auditing duties he/she is assigned and other factors. In addition, we held ten discussion meetings between the 16 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 ■ Amount of Compensation Paid to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (FY Ended March 31, 2012) Total Amount of Total Amount of Compensation, etc. by items Position Compensation, etc. (millions of yen) Reporting on the management (millions of yen) Base pay Bonus Stock options Directors (14 members) 293 233 ― 59 Outside Directors (4 members) 42 42 ― ― Audit & Supervisory Board Members (8 members) 80 80 ― ― Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (5 members) 32 32 ― ― Outside Directors and Outside Audit & [Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (3)] Supervisory Board Members ● Yoshihiro Machida (as of June 28,2012) He performs his duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory [Outside Directors (4 members)] Board Member by harnessing his wide range of knowledge ● Akio Mikuni and high-level insight as an university professor specializing He performs his duties as an Outside Director by harnessing in the areas including audit and internal control. his wide range of knowledge and high-level insight as a ● Fumio Takahashi specialist in the area of corporate rating and financial He performs his duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory markets. Board Member by harnessing his wide range of knowledge ● Sakon Uda and high-level insight as a certified public accountant. He performs his duties as an Outside Director by harnessing ● Tadashi Urabe his wide range of knowledge and high-level insight as a He performs his duties as an Outside Audit & Supervisory specialist of business management, etc., and a former Board Member by harnessing his professional knowledge and manager of a company. high-level of insight as an attorney. ● Masao Namiki He performs his duties as an Outside Director for the Four Directors, Akio Mikuni, Sakon Uda, Masao Namiki and Shiro management of the company by harnessing his ample Kuniya, and three Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Yoshihiro experience and wide range of knowledge as a former Machida, Fumio Takahashi and Tadashi Urabe, satisfy the manager of a listed company. qualification for the independent directors/corporate auditors ● Shiro Kuniya stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Sapporo He performs his duties as an Outside Director by harnessing Securities Exchange. The Company has filed a required his professional knowledge and high-level of insight as an notification to both the exchanges for appointing Akio Mikuni, attorney. Sakon Uda, Masao Namiki and Shiro Kuniya as its independent directors/corporate auditors. ■ Outline of EBARA’s Corporate Governance Framework (As of June, 2012) General Meeting of Shareholders Selection/Dismissal Selection/Dismissal Reporting Reporting Nominations Committee Auditing/Reporting Reporting Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Auditing Selection/Dismissal Compensation Committee Selection/Dismissal/ Exchange of Information Surveillance Supplementary Assistance Guidance Exchange Corporate Audit President and of Opinions Department of Audit and Opinions Department Representative Director & Supervisory Board Reporting Member's Staff Advice and directions for improvement Reporting Internal Guidance/ Management Meeting Company / Audits Transmission of Corporate Information Auditing Management Planning Independent Auditor Committee Reporting Executive Officer Meeting Disclosure Committee Support for Risk Management Panel Management and Execution Subsidiaries and Affiliated CSR Committee Companies Exchange of Information and Opinions EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 17 Internal Control and Risk Management The EBARA Group has established and is assessing a system of internal control, to ensure proper Business under the intent of its policy to put compliance first, and aims at sustainable growth and higher corporate value. EBARA’s Internal Control ■ Internal control enhancement system diagram (As of April, 2012) In May 2007, one year before the Internal Control over Financial Reporting was President and Representative Director Reporting on the management Corporate Audit enacted; we established a new dedicated Department department. In order to create a corporate Internal Audits Auditing of internal Secondary Internal Control Office, Internal Control Group, environment to focus on compliance, control based on the assessment of Enterprise Risk Finance and Accounting Companies Act improve the reliability of financial company level Management Division Control Division Independent control reporting and prevent of fraud, EBARA assessment of internal control based on the In charge of adjustment, conducted over five years of internal Financial Instruments In charge of all matters of implementation, and control assessment and improvement and Exchange Law internal control, such as risk improvement to internal management and crisis control related to the activities, so that internal control systems management. Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. could take hold and spread within various workplaces. As a result of these activities, we achieved positive results for internal Each company control over the financial reporting at the Fluid Machinery Environmental Precision end of FY2011. & Systems Engineering Machinery Corporate EBARA continues in its efforts for Company Company Company Internal Audits Establishment improvement through the Medium-Term of financial Independent Establishment Establishment Establishment Management Plan that started in FY2011, assessment of process of process of process of process statements controls closing and which is built on the four objectives of controls controls controls reporting internal control: effectiveness and processes efficiency of business operations, Risk management, compliance activities reliability of financial reporting, compliance with applicable laws, and Support in establishing internal control system to subsidiaries safeguarding of assets. Internal control enhancement Subsidiaries Subsidiaries of Subsidiaries of Fluid system Machinery & Environmental of Precision Subsidiaries Engineering Machinery of Corporate Beginning in FY2011, EBARA reorganized Systems Company Company Company the internal control enhancement system (see figure on the right). Reorganization efforts included: the establishment of an internal control group in Finance & Accounting Division in charge of streamlining, practicing, and a subordinate organization of the Risk Management Panel in improving internal control related to the Financial Instruments each company, and at the corporate level. Together, they carry and Exchange Law, and the establishment of the Internal out activities directed towards risk response. In addition, EBARA Control Office of the Enterprise Risk Management Division in set up separate cross-sectional committees to deal with specific charge of overall internal control, including risk management risks, such as the contravention of several laws including the and crisis management. These reorganization efforts are aimed Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act, environmental at the establishment and implementation of an internal control management, and countermeasures against Anti-Social Forces. system, for further pragmatic risk management, and continuing EBARA also established the new Enterprise Risk Management improvement of our system. Division in FY2011. We established this division as a system for across-the-board monitoring and direction for all risk-related Reliability of Financial Reporting matters, including those related to the environment, human Continuing with past activities, EBARA is promoting highly rights, compliance, construction operations, and security export effective action by selecting business processes and sites with control. comparatively high risk, and prioritizing quality improvement for In FY2011, we identified and took action in five major areas those processes and sites. applying to EBARA and Group companies, as the core of compliance-related tasks. On this occasion, we utilized a risk map to illustrate issues that are shared among related Risk Management System departments, and conducted thorough implementation of At EBARA, we believe that risk management is at the core of the improvement activities. In the area of crisis preparedness, in internal control system advocated by the Company Act. For this FY2009 we established a BCP ＊1 to deal with pandemics of new reason, EBARA established an organization called the Risk types of influenza, and as a countermeasures against Management Panel to supervise risk management within the earthquakes, the BCMS ＊2 was established in FY2010 comprising Group. The Panel consists of full-time directors and is chaired by three parts: the IMP ＊3, the BCP and the BRP ＊4. the President. We also set up a Risk Management Committee as 18 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 ■ EBARA Group risk management system Business Continuity Management System EBARA provides products and services to support a wide range Board of Directors of social and industrial infrastructure, including drinking water Reporting on the management treatment plants, drainage-pump facilities, railways, power Risk Management Panel plants, hospitals, and so on. In the wake of a large-scale disaster due to an earthquake or other cause, EBARA’s most important Specific risk/cross-sectional committee mission is to sustain and/or restore the function of this social Company/Corporate Risk and industrial infrastructure. In addition, operations for Management Committee customers around the world to whom we supply precisionmachinery-related equipments will continue regardless of Each subsidiary Each division whether EBARA is struck by disaster, so we must be able to maintain the supply consumable parts to these customers. To meet these demands, EBARA has formulated the Business Continuity Management System in preparation for earthquakes. Risk Management Measures and Status The countermeasures presuppose specific disaster scenarios Beginning in FY2010, we focused on five areas identified as and we have devised three types of plan, to guide our response major risks common throughout EBARA and its Group at various stages following a disaster. companies; the compliance with Construction Business Act; Act (1) Incident Management Plan (IMP) Against Delay in Payment to Subcontractors; Legal Transactions; Evacuation, rescue, containment of widespread damage, and Legal Contracting; and Environmental Management. EBARA relief planning. implemented the dissemination of information from workplace (2) Business Continuity Plan (BCP) representatives to top management utilizing a risk map, based A plan for swift resumption of operations by setting target on extensive research. As a result, we believe we have recovery levels and times to minimize suspension of business heightened consciousness about risks, and countermeasures (products and services). been have been effectively implemented throughout the (3) Business Recovery Plan (BRP) company. EBARA’s Risk Map visualizes high and low risk areas by A plan for the complete recovery and normalization of all using “Risk Management and Reduction Level” as the horizontal business operations. axis and “Risk Measure Implementation Status” as the vertical EBARA will ensure the promulgation of these plans to all axis. By assessing both management system risks and the employees through education and training. In the meantime, implementation status of risk measures, we are able to more we will implement the PDCA (plan-do-check-act) cycle, and strictly manage this area. continue to make improvements that reflect the latest information and observations made by employees during their ■ Risk Map Image training. ■ Initiation of Countermeasures in the Event of an Earthquake ↑ LOW Earthquake Business Occurs Measure Implementation Status↓ Recovery Before Implementation Normal Plan (BRP) of Measure Operation Level Business by Department A Continuity Plan (BCP) Incident Management Target Plan (IMP) Recovery After Implementation Level of Measure HIGH Target Recovery Time (Time) HIGH ← Control and Management Level → LOW ＊1【 B C P 】Business Continuity Plan ＊2【BCMS】Business Continuity Management System ＊3【 I M P 】Incident Management Plan ＊4【 B R P 】Business Recovery Plan EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 19 Compliance To be a good corporate citizen trusted by stakeholders, the EBARA Group defines compliance as not only complying with laws and regulations but also practicing internal regulations and other rules and sincerely acting in accordance with social norms, common sense and good sense. Compliance Promotion System Compliance Liaison System The Corporate Ethics Committee which objective was to enforce The compliance liaison system was implemented in FY2007 with compliance up to now, was renamed the CSR Committee on the objective to develop a corporate culture that focuses on Reporting on the management September, 2011. compliance. This system allocates liaison officers at the head The CSR Committee, holding effective means of communication office and at hubs nationwide, and offers a familiar consultation with stakeholders and widening its view over matters, convene counter for problems relating to compliance that occur in daily once every 3 month to discuss how the EBARA Group can fulfill work. In addition, the system holds the objective for liaison its social responsibilities as a corporation. officers to pick up compliance risks in the business field that lurk The schedule for the committee and the discussed topics are within operation and are difficult to notice, furthermore, create disclosed and disseminated to EBARA Group employees. In a business environment that minds compliance in which can addition, head representatives of various group companies bring self improvement. The status and risks that liaison officers participate the committee every time it is held and report the acquire are reported 4 times a year to the secretariat. A current status of their CSR activities. Though past reporting and summary of these matters are then reported to the CSR discussed topics at the Corporate Ethics Committee were Committee. In addition, EBARA holds training sessions twice centered around compliance, we are gradually transitioning year. In the session held during the second semester of FY2011, topics to those that strive to raise the CSR mindset throughout a dialog was held for liaison officers to exchange opinions on the EBARA Group. the promotion plan for achieving the objectives of liaison. By We also periodically hold the “EBARA Group Compliance spreading the discussion results throughout various workplaces, Network” consisting of responsible controllers and coordinators we work to foster the compliance awareness of employees. in charge of corporate ethics from EBARA Group companies. At the conference, they report the discussion at the CSR Committee and compliance status of the various companies. ■ CSR Committee and the Compliance System CSR Committee: Chairman President Members All Directors Compliance Liaison Dialog Full-Time Corporate Auditors Compliance Consultation Counter System The EBARA Group set up the Compliance Consultation Counter Advisor: lawyer in charge of the in March 2003 as a whistle-blowing system to promptly Compliance Consultation Counter recognize facts in cases of violation of laws and regulations and/ or departure from internal rules by organizations or individuals Secretariat：CSR, Human Rights and and to facilitate early improvement and settlement. To protect Compliance Department the privacy of consulters and attain independence from the company, the consolation counter is staffed by external lawyers. In FY2011, there were approximately 20 consultation cases. We have received a total of over 250 cases since its establishment Consists of the employee(s) responsible EBARA Group and we continue to attain appropriate correspondence. The for and in charge of corporate ethics for Compliance Network the affiliate company details of and responses to some consultations are disclosed to employees after obtaining the consent of consulters in a bid to Allocates a compliance liaison to prevent recurrence of similar cases. EBARA compliance hubs such as sales offices, branch liaison officer offices and branch sales offices Compliance Awareness Survey Compliance The results of the FY2011 questionnaire (conducted in January External lawyers Consultation Counter 2012) indicated a high level of “Code of Conduct Abidance Status” and “Awareness to Prioritize Compliance.” Notably, as a result of top management and executives taking initiative to Harassment CSR, Human Rights and Compliance Consultation Counter Department heighten compliance awareness, the awareness of all employees has increased. 20 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 ■ Do you think that actions in your workplace abide “EBARA’s Exclusion of Antisocial Forces from the Code of Conduct”? EBARA Group The EBARA Group has established basic policies that are rooted Reporting on the management Yes Yes, more or less Not much No in fundamental internal control policies to block the formation of any ties with antisocial forces throughout the entire Group. In ［%］ 80 accordance with these policies, we established the Antisocial Forces Countermeasure Headquarters in close cooperation with 60 relevant public agencies as a countermeasure towards antisocial forces. In addition, training and other sessions for Headquarter 40 officials are being actively conducted. 20 In FY2011, EBARA held a lecture session for employees involved in construction, procurement, marketing, general affairs and the 0 like that have the possibility of coming into contact with 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] antisocial forces. The total of 279 participants from 14 EBARA Group companies attended in the 6 sessions held with Antisocial Forces Countermeasure Officials as instructors (also being legal ■ Between compliance and company profit, which do you think advisors and former police officers). you prioritize in your actions? Priority for compliance under any circumstances Compliance Activities of Group Moderately, priority for compliance Companies in Various Countries Balance between both compliance and company profit Moderately, priority for company profit All overseas subsidiaries have compiled codes of conduct that Priority for company profit under any circumstances abide “EBARA’s Code of Conduct” and also adhere to the laws of their country. ［%］ 50 In FY2011, EBARA made a compliance manual to suite Chinese subsidiaries as a supplement to the Code of Conduct. Thereafter, 40 we began training sessions relating the code of conduct after 30 debating with business owners of various Chinese companies. 20 The Elliott Group has commissioned Global Compliance Corporate Officers and educates compliance to all Elliott Group 10 Companies all over the world. 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] ■ Do you think the company is seriously committed to compliance practice? VOICE Excellence Built Upon Personal Integrity and Yes Yes, more or less Not much No Responsibility ［%］ Carol Gatewood 80 Chief Global Compliance Officer Elliott Group 60 I am in charge of overseeing that all employees abide by 40 the “Elliott Group’s Code of Conduct” in their business 20 operations. This Code applies to many fields of business such as safety, fair transaction with sales representatives 0 and Group affiliates, export control, anticorruption, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 conflict of interests, marketing and environmental [Fiscal Year] conservation. All of our employees are educated to take ethical action. Furthermore, we request sales representatives to also abide our Code of Conduct and have them certify their compliance every year. If any issues are affirmed after investigating possible Code violations, we administer remediation for the situation upon reporting it to the CEO and two outside directors. I firmly believe that foundation for successful business is the honest and ethical actions of each individual person. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 21 Information Security As there is great concern for the possibility of earthquake under the capital of Japan in addition to the present threat of cyber attacks to information assets, the need for information security is becoming increasingly important to continue business. The EBARA Group is working to reinforce information security on a medium to long term viewpoint. Information Security Management System Information Security Policies Formulation and operation of the system Disclosure of information security policies on the Recently information leaks have had an immense impact on website Reporting on the management businesses. Under these circumstances, companies must We have posted the “EBARA Group 5 Principles on Handling undertake information security for all the organization-wide. Important Information” on the EBARA’s CSR website as our This gives rise to the need for having information security built policies for information security. Based on these policies, we are into the corporate structure. Customers and clients urge tougher conducting various enforcement measures towards information information security management. With this as the backdrop, security. we have established the Group Information Security Management System, as illustrated below. This system allows us to control and administer information security management on Keeping Information Available in Times a day-to-day basis, and also direct and implement responses to of Natural Disaster or Emergency information leaks if they should occur. The promotion of IT-BCP In addition, to thoroughly implement information security, During times of disaster, initial methods of communication EBARA has revised the internal rules and handling rules on within and outside of companies rise as the top priority. For information equipment. In other efforts, EBARA continues in these reasons, we have transferred the communication services conducting the education and edification related to information for EBARA Group, such as internet connections, websites, and security though methods such as “E-Learning.” electronic mail, to an external data center with high disaster resistance. In doing so, EBARA has implemented a higher standard for measures to protect information together with ■ Group Information Security Management System acquiring a method of communication in times of disaster, not only between employees, but also with customers. President In addition, EBARA is forwarding the formulation of an environment where we can continually provide necessary IT services to businesses. We strive to do so by implementing ① in-house power generators that can withstand continuous Group Information Security operation and maintenance for supplying their fuel, establishing Supervisors earthquake measures for equipment, and others such as the acquirement of spare parts for important equipment at our data ② center that manages and operates the business system. Group Information Security Manager The company-wide BCMS ＊1 is based on the premise that IT services are the first to function. The IT-BCP is placed as the top priority task that we must undertake. ③ Corporate/Company Information Security Supervisors Globally Expanding Information Security The enhancement of measures within the Group ④ Each company of the EBARA Group utilizes IT services from the Corporate/Company Information same IT base and shares the information security environment. Security Managers As for overseas Group companies, upon conducting business suiting each region, they constructed their own unique IT ⑤ environments and their security environment were individually Information Security Supervisor and Information Security Manager segmented. appointed in each division We now strive to enhance information security and generalize IT around the globe in accordance with the medium term management plan, “E-Pan2013.” As a first step, beginning with the generalization of User ID/ ① ： Group Information security supervisor for the entire EBARA Group Password management, equipment management and the thorough implementation of virus countermeasures, we proceed ② ： Conduct affairs necessary for the operation of information security system of the entire EBARA Group to consolidate the IT environment for safe information sharing ③ ： Security supervisor of Corporate and each company around the global Group. ④ ： Conduct affairs necessary for the operation of information security system for Corporate and each company ⑤ ： Establish and maintain the information security management system in each division ＊1【BCMS】Business Continuity Management System 22 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Information Disclosure and Communication The EBARA Group discloses information and promotes communication through various media and tools, in order to become a corporate citizen that acquires broad acceptance from, and grows together with, society. Policy on Information Disclosure and Exchange. Even Information that is not subject to laws or Communication regulations for timely disclosure, the Group discloses information The EBARA Group believes that promoting mutual to help people understand the Group through various ways, such Reporting on the management understanding with stakeholders and earning their trust is an as news releases, websites and exhibitions. integral part of sustainable corporate growth. Therefore, we pursue a policy of disclosing information actively to encourage a deeper insight into the Group. Renewal of EBARA’s Website The Group discloses sensitive management information and In August of 2011, we started the renewal project of EBARA’s corporate information in a fair, appropriate, and timely manner in website and have posted it online in April of 2012. It is based on accordance with relevant various governing laws and regulations, design for easy usage and dissemination of information that such as the “Financial Instruments and Exchange Act” and the stakeholders seek. We also improved methods for searching “Rules on Timely Disclosure of Corporate Information by Issuer of EBARA’s products and services in addition working to enhance Listed Security and the Like” stipulated by the Tokyo Stock information on the CSR. ■ Information Disclosed by the EBARA Group to Key Stakeholders and Opportunities for Communication ● Product and service The EBARA Group makes much of communication with customers in our day-to-day marketing Customers information activities. Product and service information is offered through catalogs and websites. ● Management, business and The EBARA Group discloses management, business and financial information in a fair, Shareholders financial information appropriate, and timely manner. and investors In addition to direct communication, such as at analyst meetings and general shareholder meetings, the Annual Report and the Business Report are published in print and on our website. ● Business status The EBARA Group’s business highlights, policies, top priority tasks for the current year and other ● Policies and goals regarding information are presented through the “Partner Companies Association” which is an Suppliers procurement, environment, organization of suppliers involved in the implementation of the Group’s businesses. product quality and safety The Group holds training sessions together with the Environment Health and Safety Partner Association to help maintain a safe and healthy work environment. ● Environmental impact of We invite residents in our districts to factory-tour and summer evening gatherings, to promote corporate activities on the friendship and communication between the residents and the EBARA group and to maintain Society and community mutual trust. community ● R&D information Data on environmental impact, such as waste water and gas emissions from our major （ ） production bases, and environmental data, such as energy consumption and waste discharge, including are periodically published and updated on our website. administrative agencies and We also organize factory tours and basketball clinics, in response to requests from schools in the academic community. institutions And, we publish the R&D accomplishments of the EBARA Group in our quarterly magazine, the EBARA Engineering Review (booklet and website), to promote cooperation between government, industry and academia. ● Management policy and We use our group magazine (informational magazine intended for employees) and intranet to goals permeate the EBARA Group’s management policy and related concepts among employees. Employees With the goal of creating a better workplace environment across the group, we hold a Joint Labor-Management Conference with the labor union periodically and when needed, working together to solve problems and share information. ■ Tools for Communication Between the EBARA Group and Stakeholders Published Copies：FY Ended March 31, 2012 Information Disclosure Published Frequency Tool Copies Reports annually on operating information, mainly for shareholders and investors. Once every English Annual Report Japanese: http://www.ebara.co.jp/ir/library/annual-report.html fiscal year 2,500 copies English: http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/ir/library/annual-report.html Reports on business highlights. Booklets of business reports are forwarded to Once every Japanese shareholders and the contents are published on the website as well. Business Report half term 49,000 copies Japanese: http://www.ebara.co.jp/ir/library/report.html Reports on the accomplishments of the EBARA Group’s CSR activities and future goals. Once every Japanese CSR Report Japanese: http://www.ebara.co.jp/csr/report/ fiscal year 5,000 copies English: http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/report/ Presents the EBARA Group’s latest R&D results, new product development and delivery Four times a Japanese information. The EBARA Engineering Reviews are distributed to research institutions, EBARA Engineering Review academic institutions, libraries and other institutions. year 5,500 copies Japanese: http://www.ebara.co.jp/company/rd/jihou/ Various Corporate Brochures, Sequential Presents a broad, comprehensive insight into the EBARA Group. Business Guides Updates EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 23 For providing superior products, technologies and services The Fluid Machinery & Systems Company produces a variety of equipment and facilities related to water and air, such as pumps, fans, compressors, and chillers that support the social and industrial infrastructure and people’s lives in general. The Company is working to upgrade and expand overseas production, sales and service locations, to support our customers around the globe. Fluid Machinery & Systems Company President Message In our mid-term management plan, E-Plan 2013, we have defined a market strategy of growth in tandem with growing energy, water, and industrial infrastructure around the globe. As an example, our pumps business is focused on water-related infrastructure, used, for example, for water supply and sewage, irrigation, and drainage systems, mainly in China and Southeast Asia. Elliott Group’ s compressors and turbines business focuses on natural gas, which promises to grow as a clean energy source. The chillers business driven by Ebara Refrigeration Equipment & Systems Co., Ltd. focuses on heat pumps as energy-saving products in China. At the same time, our company is pursuing a plan of global human-resource rotation, which involves many employees from across the company gaining hands-on experience with overseas services, to add to the For providing superior products, technologies and services Toichi Maeda success of our global business. This effort has led to vibrant exchanges with employees President of our overseas affiliates. Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Three-Business Structure to Address equipment; Ebara Yoshikura Hydro-Tech Co., Ltd., which Social Challenges and Needs manufactures and markets industrial pumps, installs industrial The Fluid Machinery & Systems Company addresses three key machinery, and carries out plant construction projects; and Ebara businesses in E-Plan 2013. The pumps business offers standard Environmental Technologies Hokkaido Co., Ltd., which provides and custom pumps used to convey and compress fluids liquid, design engineering for various plants and pieces of equipment. air, and steam. The compressors and turbines business offers This organizational restructuring allows us to realize a fully compressors and steam turbines to efficiently convert resources, integrated service workflow, from product development, design such as natural gas and especially shale gas, which have and production to sales and maintenance, offering speedier attracted attention as clean energy sources, into energy. The solutions to customer needs than was previously possible. chillers business provides products designed to leverage untapped energy sources, such as geothermal, hot-spring water, and sewage water, as well as providing refrigerators used to Supporting Social Infrastructure as a Company air-condition plants and other buildings. As an operating division committed to supporting waterand Notably in China, due to growth in economy and industry, energy-related social infrastructure, another key responsibility emerging nations demand for the refurbishment of water of our company is to aid in the reconstruction of facilities and infrastructures such as water sewage supply systems and those equipment following natural disasters. Following the Great East for industrial and drinking water, and also large-sized, high Japan Earthquake in March 2011, the entire EBARA Group, pressure pumps and high energy efficiency systems for power including our company, not only helped to restore public water generation facilities to support the growing energy demands. supplies, sewage-water and storm-water treatment facilities, With our cutting-edge technology and expertise in solving the and building and plant pumps and chillers, but also undertook a challenges of water and energy use, we are offering products concerted effort to help our customers continue to operate their that support communities, industries, and people’s lives. businesses – a vital element for local growth. Soon after the quake, we assembled a disaster-recovery support team to inspect 85 drainage pump stations under the control of Delivering More Integrated Services than Ever the Tohoku Branch, at which time we found that more than ten We have been reviewing our business structure and operational of them had been damaged and restored eight of them to processes so we can deliver more targeted services to quickly emergency operating condition. In addition, we inspected and answer customer needs in all facets of our business. serviced approximately 50 of the 100 drainage pump vehicles For EBARA’s operations in the pump market of Japan, we have used in paddy fields along the drastically overhauled our business organization to build a system coastline in response to a that allows us to respond appropriately and in a timely manner request from the Ministry of throughout the lifecycle of our pump products, from delivery Land, Infrastructure and through maintenance and parts replacement to replacement of Transport. The work was the main unit, including piping and auxiliary equipment. difficult in many ways, but we Specifically, three companies were merged with EBARA felt that it was our responsibility Corporation in April 2012 Ebara Techno-serve Co., Ltd., which as a pump manufacturer to help carries out sales and after-sales service of wind-power and protect the local water water-power machinery, chillers, and air-conditioning infrastructure. These actions Shallow-well Pumps Designed to Support Earthquake Disaster Reconstruction 24 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 were recognized within our company’s internal system of official dedicated to manufacturing large custom pumps, embarked on commendations as “Corporate Activity Contributing to Society.” a program of production innovation to double its production When flooding occurred in Thailand in July 2011, we capacity and to cut lead times and work-in-process goods by participated in an emergency free-aid project launched by the one-half. These activities were extended from July 2011 to the Japanese government, and delivered 56 agricultural pumps in manufacture of custom pumps and standard pumps at the collaboration with EBARA Corporation, P.T. Ebara Indonesia and respective plants in Fujisawa. Ebara (Thailand), Ltd. Both plants aim to reduce the lead time ＊1 by one-half or more. In manufacturing standard pumps, for example, we are working to drastically cut the lead time, from taking the order for deepRealizing the Qualities Sought by Our well submersible pumps to shipping them, from the previously Customers required two-week period to just two days. These and other Because the products and services offered by our company are activities are steadily taking effect as the associated For providing superior products, technologies and services used in the facilities of corporate, government, and other departments make a unified effort to optimize the institutional customers, the customers’ voices themselves are manufacturing process. Our company will continue to pursue helpful in maintaining and improving the quality of our higher levels of refinement, to address the increasingly products and services. We believe that “quality is built through diversified and sophisticated needs of our customers. insight into our customers’ needs at all stages of work, including at the manufacturing site.” To this end, the EBARA Corporation has launched an ISO 9001-compliant quality management Developing Human Resources to system in each of its operating divisions, to integrate the Encourage “Regional Production for customer’s voice into our products and services, as part of our Regional Supply” ongoing policy of continual quality improvement, effectively E-Plan 2013 was launched in 2011 as a mid-term management bringing the qualities sought by our customers into reality. plan, with the aim of addressing local needs by setting up In June 2011, EBARA acquired N-stamp certification, an exacting production in the most suitable locations world-wide using a quality standard of the American Society of Mechanical global perspective, while adhering to the principle of Engineers (ASME), which is binding on manufacturers of pumps encouraging “regional production for regional supply”. and other equipment for nuclear power plants. We look upon Globalization of human resources is a vital element in attaining this as a great accomplishment, reflecting our many years of this goal. As part of this effort, our company is assigning activities in pursuit of quality improvement. engineers with approximately ten years of service to positions at overseas group companies in Italy, China, Thailand, Singapore and Vietnam. We expect that, by taking jobs with actual For Greater Customer Satisfaction responsibility and authority rather than simply taking part in (Productivity) training sessions, these employees can develop into employees In order to offer timely solutions to customers’ needs and to with global capabilities. To this end, we are pursuing a policy of grow with the market, an unrelenting pursuit of ever-higher training and assigning the right people to the right posts, across productivity is essential. In FY2010, the Futtsu Plant, a site borders. ■ Quality improvement activities promotion system Fluid Machinery & Systems QA management committee Company Business unit QA committee Customers’ opinions Customers’ opinions Customers’ opinions （questionnaire） Sales Management review Chairman’s review Design/development Policy and planning Customers Customers’ Purchasing opinions Improvement Product realization Policy and objective setting （complaints, etc.） Manufacturing/service Objective setting Monitoring/measurement Plant/commissioning Implementation Operations/management Analysis of data Internal audit Deployment to business unit Business unit Data analysis Business unit Reporting Business unit ＊1【Lead Time】The time required for manufacturing a product, from commencement to completion. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 25 For providing superior products, technologies and services Expansion of Business to a Global Market The Compressor and Turbine Business In order to remain one of the world’s top industrial machinery The Compressor and Turbine Business will reinforce both the manufacturers in the coming century while we continue to Engineered Products and the Global Service project, to further contribute to society, the EBARA Corporation has committed drive the business merger with Elliott Group, pursuing a single itself to strengthening its global competitiveness. Our wellglobal management policy and further market penetration for organized, strategic approach to marketing allows us to deploy the Elliott brand. In China and India in particular, we will businesses in line with our regional and product strategies, continue to exploit new suppliers by leveraging our revitalized while revitalizing our network of after-service sites. network of sites. In South America and elsewhere, our existing global network of sales and service sites will be refurbished and The Pumps Business enhanced. In addition, the Company will expand our line of Targeting China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East, and the US as products for the petrochemical and oil-refinery industries and priority regions, the Company is building a system that delivers enhance our core expertise in high-pressure compressors for oil For providing superior products, technologies and services products geared to the needs of the global market from the and gas applications. Group’s production sites, while reviewing our functionalities and product lines, and associated production capacities. In The Chillers Business addition, we are pursuing marketing methods appropriate to The Company’s chillers business continues its policy of each region, to reinforce site-unique sales structures. In the consolidated management built around the Yantai Ebara Air after-service business, the Company is revitalizing our network Conditioning Equipment Co. Ltd. In so doing, we are pursuing of after-service sites to encompass a broader scope of business business growth and increased profitability in China and the potential, by shifting emphasis from parts sales to more Middle East, as well as in Japan, based on integrated decisionextensive service and support. making on development, production, and sales activities. The To achieve greater impact in emerging regions, such as China, Company will be trimming the lead times on chillers, saving the Middle East, and India, with their constantly growing body procurement and design costs, to strengthen our product of oil, gas, electric, and water-related infrastructure and other competitiveness. We will also restructure our after-service operations, we are reviewing our product marketing strategies business model. In addition, we will aim to expand sales of both and tailoring them to our customers’ needs and the competitive consumer and industrial cooling towers, foster solution environment. We will then reformulate our suite of new businesses and launch overseas expansion, and develop Chinaproducts to reflect procurement and production conditions, to oriented products jointly with Yantai Ebara. Yantai Ebara is strengthen product competitiveness (cost, performance and ready to boost production of power-plant absorption heat functionality), as well as improve upon and modify our existing pumps to ensure profitability, and is also promoting sales and line of key products. cost reductions for a series of centrifugal chillers. For the general fluid machinery and systems business, the Company will accelerate the pace of production innovation ■ Key Global Sites of the Fluid Machinery & Systems Company Europe North and South America Ebara Pumps Europe Middle East Ebara International S.p.A., Sumoto S.r.l. and Corporation, Elliott Bahrain Office, Dubai others (7 firms in total) Company, Ebara Industrias Office, Ebara Pump Mecanicas e Comercio Ltda. Industries and others Japan and others (10 firms in total) (3 firms in total) EBARA, Ebara Hamada Blower Co., Ltd., Ebara Refrigeration Equipment & Systems Co. Ltd., Ebara Elliott and others (12 firms in total) China and India Southeast Asia Ebara Great Pumps Co., Ltd., Ebara Ebara Vietnam Pumps Company Boshan Pumps Co., Ltd., Ebara Ltd., P.T. Ebara Indonesia, Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd., Yantai (Thailand) Limited, Ebara Pumps Ebara Air Conditioning Equipment Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., Ebara Co., Ltd., Kirloskar Ebara Pumps Additional businesses Engineering Singapore Pte. Ltd. Limited and others (9 firms in total) (5 firms in total) and others (9 firms in total) 26 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Fluid Machinery & Systems Company activities at its domestic plants. At the same time, we will This production system is based on the mindset of “Bench Mark strengthen business at key overseas sites, such as those in Sodegaura,” also deployed in the Jeannette Plant, of excellent China, to reinforce partnership among our global sites (with the Japanese manufacturing technology and management Japanese plants acting as parent facilities) within the global techniques. The Sodegaura Plant and the Jeannette Plant, production network. To expand our global after-service reciprocally rotate employees from both plants to make a business, the service structure will be strengthened in various system that assuredly consolidate the collective know-how as ways, including the refurbishing of dedicated service facilities. an asset to the Elliott Group. Developing Human Resources Suitable to the World Strengthening Competitive Power of The Elliott Group’s employees of over 2,100 individuals are Elliott Group through Integrated comprised of people originating from various countries around Management of Japan and the US the world. With this, in addition to implementing the human For providing superior products, technologies and services In our compressors and turbines business operation, the Elliott resource rotation from 2009 to stimulate communication Company in the US, with over 100 years of history, integrated between the different cultures of Japan, US, and Europe, the management in 2011 with Ebara Elliott in Japan to create the Elliott Group is also focusing its efforts in cultivating human “Elliott Group.” Based on the Group Consolidation Strategy, this resources with various unified programs such as the “Elliott restructure of organization was aimed at stimulating the Leader Development Program” for training manager class efficient growth of global business within the ever expanding employees. worldwide oil and gas market. In light of the “E-Plan2013,” our We believe that the spearhead who supports the Elliott Group in compressors and turbines business operation also continues to the coming years is the human resource who can accept the improve the after-service system from a global perspective. diversity of race, nationality, gender, religion, culture, and Holding its key production sites in Jeannette, Pennsylvania, USA customs, gain experience while absorbing such differences and and Sodegaura, Chiba, Japan, the Elliott Group has deployed can work enthusiastically in any location of the world. marketing and after-service sites at 35 different locations in 17 countries, all over the world. In the days to come we aim to grow business by taking a step ahead in customer needs throughout the world and contribute to the utilization of shale gas which has been gathering attention within oil and gas market in the past decades. Through this, we will take full advantage of the merits in integrated management and be a contributor to solving the global energy crisis. Customer Support and Pursuing Global Product Quality VOICE Striving to be a Corporate We, Elliott Group, based on company policies towards valuing Group that Contributes to health, safety, the environment, and product quality, provide Solving the Global Energy Crisis the highest quality products and services to customers Uruma Yasuyuki worldwide. Through activities such as conducting online CEO customer satisfaction surveys on the website customer Elliott Group satisfaction and receiving feedback, the Elliott Group constantly takes in opinions and applies them to quality improvement. The Elliott Group is a Global Business Corporation holding production, marketing , and after-service sites at 35 locations in 17 different countries. The products and services we provide have a deep association with the ever expanding energy market. Because the products we Elliott’ s Commitment provide are some of the most important equipment in plants related to oil and gas, customers from all over the Health, Safety, Environment, & world constantly seek products with high reliability and Quality Policy efficiency in addition to swift, high quality services. In 2011, the initial fiscal year of starting the Group The world turns to Elliott for rotating machinery management, we prepared a system for enforcing several and service. measures and policies concerning safety, environmental ◆ We will do our job safely, to our personal satisfaction conservation, compliance and the supply chain to accommodate as being a group conducting global and our customers’ delight. business. In addition to striving for continuous growth ◆ We will be good citizens, obeying all laws and within the energy market, the Elliott Group will continue preserving the environment for future generations. to be an entity which fulfills its responsibilities as a good ◆ We will strive each day to become a little better. international citizen. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 27 For providing superior products, Fluid Machinery & Systems Company technologies and services Promotion of the Principle of Regional and bribery; ensuring occupational safety and health, and Production for Regional Consumption in protection of the environment. China Ebara Boshan Pumps Co., Ltd. Making Sure that Safety and the Environment are Beijing Ebara Corp. Beijing Oﬃce Yantai Ebara Air Conditioning Taken into Consideration Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd. Equipment Co., Ltd. The Company also works to follow the EBARA norms in our Ebara Qingdao Co.,Ltd. practices related to occupational safety and environmental Ebara Densan (Qingdao) Technology Co., Ltd. protection, with Chinese group companies working to obtain Shanghai Ebara Densan (Kunshan) certification under ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. In May 2011, EMC Mfg. Co., Ltd. obtained OHSAS 18001 ＊2 certification in recognition of its Ebara Great Pumps Co., Ltd. continuing commitment to strengthening occupational safety E-Plan 2013 positions China as a top-priority region for and health. The plant conducts weekly safety inspections and For providing superior products, technologies and services strengthening global competitiveness. While EBARA has monthly fire drills. manufactured products in various forms in China since the 1990s, it is now faced with the task of resolving three key issues People-to-People Exchanges associated with China’s 21st-century economic growth – related The development of human resources is vital to the delivery of to water, energy, and global warming. Japanese-developed quality to our Chinese customers, in order Our company wishes to continue contributing to resolving these to win their trust in the high-priority China region. At present, issues in addition to concentrating to expand the business two manager candidates with around ten years of experience rooted regionally in accordance with our principle “Regional with the company have been transferred from EBARA’s Production for Regional Consumption” which means that we marketing and sales promotion department and our plant complete a series of services from production, sales up to department to positions at EMC, where they will be in charge of after-service of main products such as energy saving pumps, practical operations tailored to the local business climate. Plans high efficiency chillers and towers within China. are underway to involve EMC staff in a training session in Japan We will take the following actions to answer the market needs to learn the philosophy of manufacturing at EBARA. of Chinese Society: 1) Development and production of energy-saving, direct booster pump units for buildings that meet the requirements of various local regulations 2) Development and production of large pumps to handle river VOICE water for the national “South-North Water Transfer Project＊1.” Responding Quickly to China’s Needs in In the area of refrigeration equipment and systems, we have accordance with the Principle of Regional developed and manufactured large absorption heat pumps that Production for Regional consumption. meet the demand for district heating, which is being pursued as Haifeng Sun state policy. In China we adhere to the spirit of the code of Vice President conduct that places customer satisfaction before all other Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd things. We maintain eighteen after-service sites for standard pumps nationwide, and establish a supply chain for spare The flagship EBARA standard pump models, FS and CN, have components that’s ready to respond quickly to customer needs. been modified to meet the needs of the Chinese market. We are also working to forge better, safer, and more eco-friendly Localizing the Group’s Code of Conduct products with Japanese assistance, by modifying, To facilitate the global development of business, it is important developing, and refurbishing feed-water equipment and that the norms and values that have been pursued by EBARA are horizontal stainless-steel pumps, to address local regulations and needs. Our products and our service have been adapted on a local level. In FY2011, we prepared a guide to the evaluated very positively by our customers. We follow Chinese edition of the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct and EBARA’s corporate philosophy of making contributions to distributed it to seven group companies in China. The group society through our cutting-edge technology and service. companies are now working on reviewing and revising their As a corporate citizen, we collaborate with the Chinese Red respective codes of conduct based on this guide. Cross Society and with environmental-protection groups. We For example, Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd. (EMC), which also take an active part in volunteer and environmentaloperates a pumps business in an integrated manufacture-sales protection activities. As we look forward to the oneeffort, has made efforts to promulgate the concepts of the EMC hundredth anniversary of the founding of the EBARA code of conduct among its 536 members. In addition, its Corporation, we are making the continual implementation of procurement department has prepared a checklist pursuant to positive social actions part of our corporate strategy, to help the EMC code of conduct for its suppliers. The Company audits boost public awareness of the EBARA brand. the suppliers with respect to the ban on child labor, forced labor 【South-North Water Transfer Project】A project designed to transfer water from southern China to the northern part of the country, to alleviate persistent water shortages. ＊1 ＊2【OHSAS18001】Occupational safety and health management system 28 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 For providing superior products, technologies and services The Precision Machinery Company is committed to its mission of providing the world with manufacturing and related equipment in the rapidly evolving semiconductor industry, thereby supporting the growth of the electronic equipment industry and enriching the lives of people all over the world. Precision Machinery Company President Message We are committed to offering superior technologies and services in the fields of water (wet), air (vacuum), and an environment (clean) that are tailored to the manufacturing processes of our customers. Since our founding in 1985, we have evolved according to these guiding principles, starting with ① clean vacuum systems (starting with air), and continuing with ② clean wet systems (to environmental processing), followed by ③ the wet revolution and ④ going from revolution to evolution. We are now in a phase ⑤ – enabling solutions. Creating customer satisfaction depends heavily on sympathetic guidance from our customers, the untiring efforts of our employees, and the support of our suppliers. Manabu Tsujimura For providing superior products, technologies and services President Your continued assistance and guidance is of great value to us. Precision Machinery Company Sustaining the Evolution of semiconductor manufacturer’s sites. Since the shipment of the Semiconductors first model in 1986, sales of our vacuum pumps have grown to From digital home appliances, such as PCs, cell phones, and reach a substantial share of the global market, with cumulative flat-screen TVs, to information and communication technologies shipments from the Fujisawa Plant reaching 100,000 units in May supporting diverse industries. The primary customers of the 2011. Precision Machinery Company are manufacturers of As requirements for semiconductor performance grew ever more semiconductors, liquid crystals, solar cells and other core critical in the 1980’s, oil pumps used to create a vacuum began to products and technologies that make daily life more convenient adversely affect the yields of semiconductor production because and comfortable. Our company’s mission is to develop and of the oily environment they created and the limited service life manufacture industrial equipment and facilities for the of the oil used in the pumps. The dry vacuum pumps developed semiconductor industry, as well as vacuum devices that meet by EBARA were highly praised by customers, because they did the industry’s needs. not use oil at all, creating a cleaner vacuum, with decreased Currently new versions of smartphones, tablet computers, and power and space requirements compared with their other devices are entering the market in rapid succession, with performance levels that continue to evolve at a phenomenal pace. Our Company is committed to taking the lead in providing manufacturing equipment and facilities that address the VOICE Customers’ Opinions Anticipating Product Development functional needs of our customers, supporting the evolution of Geared to the Needs of the Times the products that they develop and produce, while keeping pace with ever-increasing device capabilities. Dr. Kei Hattori Senior Manager, Process & Manufacturing & Engineering Department, Oita Operations Toshiba Corporation Semiconductor & Storage Products Company Results Based on Customers’ Voices A key part of the Company’s product line, dry vacuum pumps, is We would like to congratulate you on surpassing the used to create a vacuum environment in clean rooms at 100,000-unit mark in the total sales of your dry pumps. In the latter half of the 1980s, oil back diffusion from the oil-sealed rotary pumps that were used in semiconductor ■ Dramatic Increases in Dry Vacuum Pump Deliveries manufacturing equipment was found to cause the degradation of device performance. That is when you 120,000 100,000 units surpassed made a breakthrough by developing completely oil-free (100,511 units) 100,000 dry pumps. Toshiba was one of the earliest companies to Cumulative shipments 80,000 units surpassed 80,000 (80,851 units) evaluate and adopt the new pumps. Subsequently, you 50,000 units surpassed have continued to develop timely product solutions to 60,000 (53,594 units) constantly changing needs, addressing issues of 30,000 units surpassed conservation of energy and space, quiet performance, 40,000 (33,263 units) corrosion resistance, increased capacities, byproduct 20,000 (powder) readiness, and broadband readiness. It is our 0 hope that you will continue with your policy of timely 1986 1998 2001 2006 2011 Shipment year product development and further growth. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 29 For providing superior products, technologies and services predecessors. Initially, dry vacuum pumps were made to order. At plants. the start of the 1990s, however, we began planned production of Cross-checks not only encourage better product quality, but also standardized models to achieve better quality and lower costs, motivate soul-searching by plant technicians with regard to their winning EBARA a steadily growing market share. Also attitudes toward manufacturing and their awareness of contributing to this growth was EBARA’s advanced expertise in problems. Recognizing problems that are obscured by energy conservation and miniaturization, and our systems to preconceptions and finding case studies that can serve as a useful make periodic overhauls easier. reference should open the way to new improvements. Plans are Reaching the cumulative shipment level of 100,000 units attests also underway to factor the cross-check concept into the process to EBARA’s devotion to manufacturing products that customers flow, to seek better in-process quality and higher work efficiency. trust and use with confidence. EBARA is eager to reinforce its There is no end to our pursuit of product quality to win greater development capabilities and service structure to pursue customer satisfaction. The Company is making a united effort to potential customers in non-semiconductor markets as well, while work toward this goal. For providing superior products, technologies and services achieving cumulative shipments of 200,000 units within the next twenty years. ■ Quality improvement activities Customers Ready to Respond Promptly to OUT IN New products Increasingly Critical Needs IN OUT Complaints ● ● ● Desires/ ● Continual quality ● Startup quality requests improvement issues Our Company has built and maintained a strict system of management in every process, Information Design (FMEA) sharing from design to procurement, Feedback production, and maintenance, Manufacturing ● FTA ＊3 Effect Owner (FMEA) Why-Why to fulfill even the most critical ● verification appointment Analysis＊4 of customer needs. On April 12, Inspection (defect influx Improvement 2011, the Company was given prevention) and remedial action the Preferred Quality Supplier (PQS) award by Intel Corporation in recognition of ● Work standard ● Check sheet Task team activities its performance. The PQS award is part of Intel’s Supplier Plaque Commemorating the Winning of the PQS Award ● Education Continuous Quality Improvement Program that it runs to encourage suppliers in Management review New-product general quality meeting their efforts to achieve continual, meaningful improvements. To Quality goals receive the PQS award, suppliers must achieve at least 80% of their goals in the areas of cost, quality, delivery, technology, the environment, social matters, and governance. Suppliers must also implement consistent quality and business systems in Raising Awareness for Quality and response to a challenging improvement plan (cited from the Productivity Improvement EBARA April 12, 2012 News Release, In Detail The semiconductor industry is a unique environment http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/news/2012/20120412.html). characterized by the rapid pace of technological innovation and market change based on consumer purchasing trends. To keep up with business demands and grow in this industry, the A New Approach to Improving Quality Company is continually implementing department-specific Because CMP systems＊1 and dry vacuum pumps are expected to programs to raise the awareness of each individual employee provide 24-hour uninterrupted operation every day, all year with regard to the goal of higher productivity. In the dry pump around, the reliability of products needs to be maintained manufacturing department, the “Mindora Campaign” (which through rigorous quality control at the production site. The means “Dry Pump Activities for All” in Japanese) has been Company implements FMEA＊2 and other techniques in newunderway since July 2009, with the entire staff of the product design and production stages, to prevent defects from department continually working to innovate production making their way into the market. In FY2011, cross-checks were methods. In the CMP system manufacturing department, the introduced as a new approach to quality improvement. “M Zero Challenge” promotion has been underway since March Cross-checks are a technique whereby a team of inspectors 2010, and it is committed to eliminating the three Ms (Muri is makes reciprocal checks on the manufacturing processes Japanese for unreasonableness, Muda means waste, and Mura is between the Company’s production sites at the Fujisawa Plant inconsistency). The Mindora Campaign works toward the and the Kumamoto Plant. The manufacturing process at each implementation of various ideas to create a production system plant is checked from an objective viewpoint, that of the with an awareness of the value of “total integration,” for customer, to pursue product-quality improvements at both example, by converting the assembly line from bulk 30 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Precision Machinery Company manufacture to piece-by-piece manufacture to trim the lead Toward an Enhanced System of Global time from order taking to delivery, and reducing the level of Support stock in process. We are also partnering with the sales and About 80% of the Company’s sales are derived from the design department and with the information systems semiconductor market, with overseas sales making up 70% or department that supports the production areas, to continue more. For this reason, EBARA has Group companies located in with further department-specific improvements. Our entire South Korea, Taiwan, North America, Europe, China, and organization is geared toward streamlining the manufacturing Singapore, in addition to Japan. This enables prompt response process and making continual productivity innovation part of to our customers’ needs, while pursuing an enhanced system of our organizational culture. global support. The Company is now building an optimized system of product and service delivery by concentrating and building up its sites in line with the global strategy set forth by Reaffirming Bonds with Our Customers E-Plan 2013. The development and allocation of human and Our Own Mission For providing superior products, technologies and services resources will also be improved from a global perspective. The job of supporting the Company’s customers is undertaken by our global sites and Ebara Field Tech. Corporation (EFT). EFT ■ Key Business Sites of the Precision Machinery Company emphasizes the importance of contact with customers, and Ebara Precision Machinery Europe GmbH endeavors on a day-to-day basis to maintain and enhance their Shanghai Ebara Precision Machinery Co., Ltd trust, as it sells and installs products at customers’ plants and Ebara Precision Machinery Korea Inc. then tests, tunes, and maintains those products. Ebara Technologies Inc. The Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred in March 2011 EBARA dealt a blow to Renesas Electronics Corporation’s Naka Factory, Ebara Field Tech. Corporation one of the customers of our products. It was feared that the effects of quake-caused damage could spread to various Ebara Precision Machinery Taiwan Inc. industries, as the customer commands a global market share of microprocessors, the lifeblood of many products, including PCs, Ebara Engineering Singapore Pte. Ltd. cell phones, automobiles, and automated teller machines (ATMs). After being urged by administrative authorities and trade groups, nearly 2,500 workers a day sent from major Cutting-edge semiconductor technologies still evolve in the US construction, plant-engineering, and other companies worked and are deployed across Asia. Our Company is actively together to restore the plant. EFT also participated, mobilizing evaluating dry pumps and other components at US 35 technicians from its nationwide sites to work on the semiconductor equipment manufacturer sites to reinforce our restoration of the customer’s facilities. Amid lingering abilities to collect information about these technologies. aftershocks, we worked with the customer to overcome a variety The Company is also working to create an environment in which of difficulties and helped the customer resume production Japanese staff and their counterparts at overseas sites can grow earlier than scheduled. The customer gave us a letter of together, while reinforcing supply chains, for example, by commendation for our restoration support, and a promoting overseas procurement, deploying domestically commemorative gift of a semiconductor chip that is inscribed rooted productivity improvement drives to overseas factories with the Chinese character for overhaul, and other methods. meaning bonding. The The Company will continue to build a framework of total Company will continue to customer support, by offering superior products, technologies, pursue improvement in our and services of consistent EBARA quality everywhere in the customer support, to fulfill world. our duty as an equipment maker that serves the semiconductor industry. “Bonding” chip given by Renesas Electronics Corporation ＊1【CMP systems】Chemical Mechanical Polishing systems. CMP systems are used to flatten wafer surfaces. ＊2【FMEA】Failure Mode and Effect Analysis. A technique for identifying and preventing defects in a product before they develop. ＊3【F T A】Fault Tree Analysis. A technique for determining the causes of defects. ＊4【Why-Why Analysis】A method for looking for the actual underlying cause of a problem. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 31 For providing superior products, technologies and services The Environmental Engineering Company is committed to keep offering total solutions for creating a safe and secure recycling-based society, in a framework geared at constructing, maintaining, and managing and operating waste treatment facilities within a fully integrated workflow. Environmental Engineering Company President Message Waste disposal is an integral part of our lives. The corporate activity of the Environmental Engineering Company can be thought of as a social contribution in itself, as the Company provides, operates and maintains facilities used to hygienically treat collected waste for recycling. There is increasing demand for the generation of power from the heat produced by incinerating waste, calling for an approach that supports a low-carbon society. In our quest for high-efficiency power generation and energy conservation, we provide eco-friendly facilities for the protection of the global environment. In addition, we are devising and implementing plans to cut peak power consumption and reduce the use of fossil fuels, not only by adding energy-efficiency Akihiro Ushitora For providing superior products, technologies and services President features to existing facilities, but also by improving their operating methods. Environmental Engineering Company Building a Sustainable Society Promoting Waste Power Generation to The guiding principle of the Environmental Engineering Address Power Shortages Company is to contribute to the realization of a sustainable The waste power generation process, whereby heat produced society through the development of environmental and energyduring waste incineration is used to generate steam for turbine related infrastructure, such as solid-waste treatment plants and power generation at domestic waste incineration plants, is currently biomass power plants, along with related services. Treating solid attracting attention. This attention is driven by fears of extended waste resulting from the Great Eastern Japan Earthquake that periods of power shortages and Feed-in Tariffs (FIT) for renewable occurred last year and responding to power shortages have energy sources scheduled to take effect starting 2012 summer. become urgent issues for the Company. EBARA has helped its Waste power generation implemented at waste incineration plants customers to accommodate debris delivered to their facilities. makes it possible to generate power over and above the power EBARA is also carrying out a program to recycle energy resources required to run the plant (station service power), so the surplus from waste to produce electricity efficiently and economize on power can be sold. Waste is positioned as a renewable energy energy in waste-treatment facilities, to further the goal of source, and the electricity derived from biomass in the waste, creating a low-carbon society. In recent years it has become a except for plastics, is CO2-neutral. High-efficiency waste power widespread practice to make arrangements to outsource to the generation can contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. private sector the entire job of administering facilities, from construction, through operation, to inspection, maintenance and renewal. Outsourcing operation and maintenance of Enhancing Field Capabilities to Improve existing facilities in multi-year deals is also increasingly being Service Quality practiced. Another trend is extending the service lives of The Company’s field capabilities are delivered by employees existing facilities. With these circumstances in mind, E-Plan 2013 working at our customers’ facilities (at administrative offices has incorporated a basic policy of pursuing engineering, and construction sites) as part of our O&M and EPC businesses. procurement, and construction (EPC) businesses and operation Enhancing our field capabilities provides greater customer and maintenance (O&M) businesses for waste-treatment plants satisfaction, which wins greater customer trust. Greater under integrated management. In FY2011, we succeeded in customer satisfaction should in turn allow us to achieve more taking orders for facility life-extension projects and concluded precise insights into customer needs. Plant and electrical long-term comprehensive contracts. engineering instructors are assigned at each administrative office to educate employees working at the office on ways to efficiently improve field capabilities. The Company maintains a staff of 96 instructors in total, 47 plant engineering instructors and 49 electrical engineering instructors, who work at their respective offices to augment staff skills. We started issuing “O&M Net,” an in-house journal, periodically in FY2011. It is meant to reinforce the nationwide network of administrative offices and encourage the ingenuity of our field staff by familiarizing them with case studies from other offices. In addition to the one-way transmission of information from the head office, communication between administrative office staff via O&M Net is expected to mutually stimulate them and Nagareyama City Clean Center Facilities enhance their field capabilities. 32 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 For Enhanced Engineering Capabilities EBARA established the Incinerator Engineering Center and has promoted standardization of design since FY2011. The purpose VOICE Communicating with Customers for was to establish design standards that result in cost reductions Safe, Secure Waste Treatment over the lifecycle of a product. Standardization of design for one model was virtually complete in FY2011, and it is still underway Toshio Iguchi for other models. Promotion of design standardization is also Office Manager, Nagareyama Administrative Office, Operation and Maintenance Department expected to offer performance improvement and cost reduction, O&M Business Division, Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. as well as fewer design mistakes. EBARA also administers an action program in which empirical knowledge acquired by The Nagareyama City Clean Center treats non-industrial employees through many years of design activities is collected waste from Nagareyama City, Chiba Prefecture. Since the in-house as explicit knowledge, in order to hand down technical nuclear power plant accident triggered by the Great East For providing superior products, technologies and services expertise from generation to generation. Japan Earthquake, the radioactivity level of the waste has risen, dictating safety management measures. As we work, we take great efforts to ensure staff safety, pursuant An Operator That Supports Social to guidelines formulated by national and local Infrastructure governments and following the radioactivity handling manual that we developed. We also maintain close The 7 incineration plants that had been managed under communication with our customers to exchange contract by Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. (EEP) were hit by information and handle the various tasks necessary to the Great East Japan Earthquake that took place in March 2011. realize safe, secure waste treatment. One of the plants, the Arakawa Clean Center in Fukushima, had its chimney and cooling tower damaged by the earthquake, but it resumed operation as early as March 19 as a result of extensive efforts to repair the damage discovered following a full inspection, with assistance from administrative offices VOICE nationwide. All facilities struck by the earthquake resumed Contributing Solutions to operation around one week after the earthquake. We have China’s Waste Problems administered these facilities to fill local and social needs in close coordination with the customers, for example endeavoring to Kazushige Kurosawa, Project Construction Department trade surplus power while economizing on power requirements. Plant Construction Business Division, Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. We received excellent evaluations from our customers for the restoration of the facilities in such a short period. North of the Kanto Plain, we are working to check the dispersion We are supplying furnace equipments for three incineration plants currently under construction in China of radioactive substances as a result of the nuclear power plant in cooperation with Ebara Qingdao Co., Ltd. (EQC). As accident. A safety standard and a work manual have been China plans to build 262 waste incineration plants by formulated to prescribe how to handle waste and other 2015, we believe that our expertise can be of service. materials containing radioactive substances, and how to Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. is a licensor of stokeroperate in an environment with high levels of radioactivity. Our type incinerator technology to EQC, its subsidiary, and Company carries on its work while working to safeguard the has helped to enhance EQC’s technical capabilities health and safety of employees working at the Arakawa Clean through mutual exchanges of technicians. Partnership Center in Fukushima and other facilities feared to have been between the two companies will be strengthened further contaminated by radioactive substances. to help resolve China’s waste problems. As a result of the earthquake, the Company has reaffirmed our belief that our waste treatment business supports the social infrastructure and is an essential part of our safety and security. While waste treatment facilities are widely used in Japan, there are many nations and regions in the world in which waste treatment infrastructure has yet to be developed. The Company wishes to contribute to the protection of the global environment through delivery of equipment to such nations and regions, including China. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 33 Fulfilling CSR Together with Suppliers We are communicating with our suppliers to work together on sustaining and improving quality, cost, delivery, environment, and safety. Our objective for the future is to grow together with our suppliers, while seeking understanding and cooperation from the CSR procurement perspective over an even greater sphere. Procurement policy EBARA Group builds a partnership with suppliers (of ◆ Mutual trust products, materials, and services) and engages in fair We aim for mutual growth, and for building a trade practices under the following procurement policy, relationship of trust and partnership with suppliers. which is intended to be mutually beneficial: All of the procurement section members are aware that ◆ Provide fair and equitable opportunities they must always maintain a good relationship with the We provide open and fair opportunities to all suppliers, internal and external sections concerned, and that they based on ISO 9001. To start a business relationship with and the sections concerned cooperate with each other a supplier, we conduct a technological and commercial and are creative. We make efforts to allow all the assessment using our certification system, which is operations to function smoothly and effectively. based on ISO. Then a basic agreement or a basic work ◆ Social trust agreement is concluded, before starting to do business. We promote CSR procurement, while paying close ◆ Economic rationality in selecting suppliers attention to compliance with Japanese and overseas In selecting suppliers, we adequately assess the quality laws, human rights, safety of products and services, of materials, reliability, delivery time, price, technological quality guarantees, occupational health and safety, and development capability, proposal capability and financial corporate ethics. Furthermore, we are always thinking soundness of the supplier. Assessment criteria may differ first of contributing to the sound development of depending on the product or on the conditions of the society. agreement with the customer. ◆ Green procurement ◆ Confidentiality We promote environmental conservation activities in We do not disclose to third parties any confidential cooperation with suppliers, to pursue effective product information that we have learned through our business manufacturing that takes conservation of the global dealings with suppliers without obtaining their environment into consideration. approval. EBARA Group CSR Procurement Guidelines 1. Compliance 5. Improvement of technical capabilities Sociality We request suppliers to comply with the laws, regulations We request suppliers to continuously improve their technical and social norms of the countries related to the transaction. capabilities. 2. Consideration to human rights, health and safety 6. Information disclosure We request suppliers to prohibit unreasonable labor, such as We request suppliers to provide and disclose information child labor, forced labor etc., to also respect fundamental positively. human rights and to ensure a healthy and save working 7. Information security environment. We request suppliers to establish a system to properly 3. Environmental conservation manage and protect personal and confidential information, We request suppliers to continuously promote activities that and to prevent obtaining, using, disclosing and leaking such reduce the impact on the global environment. Please refer to information illegally or unreasonably. the EBARA Group Green Procurement Guidelines for further 8. Protection of intellectual property details. We request suppliers to respect intellectual property and not 4. Ensuring proper quality, price, delivery and to infringe intellectual property of others. safety of products and services 9. Dissociation from antisocial forces In order to supply satisfactory products and services to our We request suppliers to block any relationship with antisocial customers, we request suppliers to provide us products and forces. services which are based on safe and superior quality, competitive price, reliable delivery and a stable supply system. 34 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Promoting CSR Procurement Suppliers’ Cooperation a Key to Business We would like our suppliers to realize that CSR steers us toward Success the goal of achieving both enhanced, sustainable corporate Dry pump shipment from Ebara reached 100,000 units in May value (mainly financial value) and socially significant value, so 2011, a record that could not have been achieved without that the Ebara Group and its suppliers can grow together, by support from suppliers. Suppliers from many industries worked incorporating CSR activities into their corporate activities. very hard to ensure backup spares were available in spite of Since 2008, EBARA has prepared CSR reports and published months of hardship following the Great East Japan Earthquake, them on its website to announce the status of our CSR allowing us to minimize the impact of the quake upon procurement, as declared in the procurement policy. The EBARA shipments. Group established EBARA Group CSR Procurement Guidelines in February 2012 in an effort to draw understanding and cooperation from its suppliers. The EBARA Group expects to inquire into the status of CSR procurement implementation in the suppliers’ businesses through each procurement VOICE Suppliers’ Voices Safety Assurance in Contributing to department of the Group in FY2012 and after. Early Recovery of the Tohoku District VOICE Suppliers’ Voices Mr. Takeo Ohashi President Ohashi Iron Works, Ltd. (recognized as an excellent Working on CSR Activities contractor at the FY2011 Safety Convention) Together with EBARA Breathtaking sights still linger in the earthquake-struck Mr. Garry Hartridge coastal zones, with no traces of living at all. Fortunately, Quality Manager we were not hit by the earthquake and were able to Baric Systems Limited handle emergency work. The most difficult point was to secure fuel supply. Part of the Colfax Corporation, Baric Systems Limited is a In some plants, equipment immersed in a pool of water UK based solutions provider to the Oil & Gas / Power left after heavy rains was elevated by mounting it on a Generation industries specializing in the design and rack. The fact that we managed to stay accident-free as manufacture of API614 Lube Oil Systems, Seal Systems we worked for one year in many restoration sites on loose and General Packaged Units. grounds should be the outcome of our employees’ As a long time partner supplier to Ebara Corporation we awareness augmented by the official recognition of our share and endorse their commitment to Corporate Social company at the Safety Convention. We, in cooperation Responsibility and are proud to provide a working with EBARA, will get prepared to execute works that help environment that is safe and without significant risk to facilitate early recovery of the Tohoku District, with top health. We accept our responsibility for Health, Safety, priority given to safety assurance. Environment and Welfare of others, and are committed to continual improvement. Sociality VOICE Suppliers’ Voices Promoting Safety Together with Overcoming the Great East Suppliers Japan Earthquake Cooperation from suppliers, called “subcontractors,” is essential Mr. Shinkichi Suzuki to executing construction, installation, repair and other works at President customers’ sites, including pumping stations and drainage Tokushu Metal Co., Ltd. pump stations. At the construction sites, subcontractors organize themselves into a Health and Safety Partner We are a supplier of dry vacuum pump castings, based in Association to ensure safety at work. At the Tohoku District Soma City, Fukushima. We were hit by an earthquake, Safety Convention held in July 2011, EBARA delivered a safety scaling a lower 6 in seismic intensity. Tsunamis and the lecture on fulfilling tasks in a radiation environment in nuclear accident caused employees to evacuate the plant temporarily. Fuel shortage prevented us from calling even connection with the implementation of restoration projects restoration aid workers, but we managed somehow to after the Great East Japan Earthquake. After subcontractors put machinery and equipment back into service in a short reported their status at the time the earthquake had occurred, period of 20 days. talks focused on how cooperation should be in times of major Such speedy resumption of operations is a tribute to the disasters. Then, the subcontractors that have contributed to the extensive assistance rendered to us by Ebara and its safety of construction works were commended. subcontractors. We are resolved to continue providing quality products under Ebara’s supervision so we can live up to its expectations. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 35 Approaches to the Work Environment Human resources provide an important source of support for the sustainable development of a business. We are committed to maintaining a safe and pleasant work environment and to continue improving, so that each employee is motivated to work. At the same time we will continue to improve various human resources systems, through dialog between labor and management. Working to Develop Human Resources for the Coming Century Director, Managing Executive Officer (Division Manager, Human Resources, Legal & Public Relations Division) Masaru Shibuya The EBARA Group’ s management environment is characterized by rapid globalization as our overseas businesses further expand. Our new medium-term management plan recognizes that Japan is part of the global market, and to reflect this, we are striving to nurture employees who are able to meet the challenge of global business proactively, and act on a global scale by drawing on their own ingenuity and original ideas. There is a saying that people are improved by people, and this philosophy has become part of the EBARA Group tradition over the course of its hundred years of history. To achieve further progress during the coming century, we are committed to remaking our personnel policies from a global perspective. Human Resource Policies in E-Plan 2013 Our guiding human resource policy is based on the development of a workplace environment that makes possible; acquiring and developing diverse human resources who can draw on their ingenuity and original ideas with the goal of advancing the EBARA Group on the path to growth with the spirit of challenge. To that end we will endeavor to implement the following principles: ❶ Introduce a globally uniform personnel system for the top management of key overseas EBARA affiliates. This will help us build a framework within which to acquire and retain the high-level managers that are needed to promote the global deployment of each of our businesses. ❷ Recruit human resources from strategically prioritized regions to work at the Group’s head office, and develop them as the core for the deployment of our businesses in those regions. ❸ Create and implement a system of personnel rotation within the Group, including member firms, and encourage mutual personnel exchange and partnership among employees in the Group, while striving to assign the right personnel to the right places. ❹ Introduce a program to give young employees recruited in Japan hands-on experience with overseas service, so that they can have the opportunity to cultivate their fundamental qualities in support of the global deployment of our businesses. More than Sociality half the employees in Japan should experience overseas assignments before their length of service reaches ten years. ❺ Establish a work environment that enables each individual employee to engage his or her abilities to the maximum extent, regardless of gender or other individual differences. ❻ Create and implement a human resource development system from the perspective of the Group as a whole, while encompassing the principles listed above. Creating a Workplace Environment Where awareness survey, a decreasing proportion of respondents All Employees Can Work Comfortably “witnessed a case of power harassment around them during the Human Rights Training That Addresses All Employees previous year,” which we consider evidence that our efforts to Each year, the CSR training program, which was launched in prevent power harassment are steadily having an effect. We are FY2009 and which targets all employees in the EBARA Group committed to continuing training programs to foster human (including contract employees, part-timers, temporary rights enlightenment. employees and contractors), addresses the topic of human rights. The program for FY2011 drew a total of around 4,400 Harassment Consultation Counter participants, and it familiarized them with the definition of the EBARA’s Harassment Consultation Counter has handled term “human rights” and discussed ways to prevent power approximately twenty human rights issues each year for the past harassment and rules for combating power harassment. In few years, in collaboration with consultation counters at Group addition, we administered a training course directed towards companies. Harassment cases that have been handled at the the top management of the Group’s member firms, in order to consultation counters at Group companies are reported to the create a workplace environment free of power harassment CSR Committee (see page 20) to share information that helps in across the EBARA Group. According to a FY2011 compliance preventing harassment and reinforces support from the 36 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 consultation counters. To create a workplace environment where The program will be expanded to allow more than half the all employees can work comfortably, we continually carry out employees employed in Japan to experience an overseas human rights enlightenment activities, to make the Harassment assignment before their length of service reaches ten years. Consultation Counter more dependable and reassuring. Labor-Management Communication Developing Human Resources across the The management and the labor union at EBARA hold joint laborEBARA Group management consultation meetings periodically or as needed Human resource development programs, which had been based on a union shop system in an effort to maintain and pursued separately by the Group’s individual companies in the improve their relations of trust, while moderating tensions. past, have now been consolidated across the EBARA Group. Talks with the labor union are held on a District or Company A total of 903 employees from the EBARA Group have now basis as well. Each member company of the EBARA Group is attended the EBARA Group Training Program, which was committed to having talks with its employees, whether or not a launched in April 2011. This is an Off-JT ＊1 program designed to labor union has been formed, in order to develop better working enhance the abilities of young and mid-career employees, conditions and a better labor environment. Once a year, the among others, as businesspersons. The program was planned management of each member company of the EBARA Group and reviewed by the EBARA Group Human Resource and representatives of its employees get together in a laborDevelopment Committee, which is composed of members management conference to share information across the Group. chosen from EBARA and the Group’s nine member companies. In FY2011, large-volume users of electrical power were urged by Each training course in the program is designed to enable the Japanese government to take actions to work around trainees to take what they learn today and put it to profitable anticipated summertime power shortages caused by the nuclear use in their routine work in the future. In addition, the survey power plant accident caused by the Great East Japan that had previously been conducted immediately after Earthquake. While responding to these requests through completion of each training course has been shifted to one measures, such as rotation of plant operations and the month later; to allow us to verify how trainees have utilized the introduction of a daylight saving time plan and night shifts, knowledge they learned from their training in their routine labor and management discussed and took measures to work. accommodate those employees who needed to care for their EBARA has also changed to a system whereby a single children or others who required nursing care. department is entrusted with the responsibility of planning the recruitment and development of human resources, so that the path of growth for each individual employee to grow as a VOICE businessperson, from recruitment and initiation through Aiming to Become a assignment and OJT ＊2, can be conceived and planned in a fully Company That’s Worth integrated sequence. We hope that the program of human Working for resource development activities across the EBARA Group will Kiko Uchiyama Sociality continue to evolve to an even more refined level. Chairman EBARA Joint Labor Union A Personnel System Supporting Global EBARA’s line of business is that of a manufacturer of Business Deployment industrial machinery, and its job is to manufacture. The As overseas businesses of the EBARA Group grow more expertise and skills that support this company come from important each year, the percentage of overseas sales and the commitment of its employees, and the power to bring percentage of overseas employees are both approaching 50%. this commitment to fruition is the result of good, transparent labor-management relations. As the company To make effective use of human resources based in Japan and prepares to celebrate the hundredth anniversary of its overseas in this business environment, in April 2011 we founding, we find ourselves immersed in a globally established a new department to take charge of overseas competitive business environment. To rise above the personnel affairs. A globally uniform personnel system was waves of this competition, each of our members needs to implemented as a framework for acquiring and retaining be aware of their role as a stakeholder and embrace the top-level human resources. The system is scheduled to be concept of a high-quality labor movement. Within the deployed sequentially among the Group’s member companies framework of a long tradition of labor-management starting in FY2013. relations, where views are exchanged in a straightforward In addition, we have launched a program to encourage hands-on manner, we will continue in our efforts to make EBARA a overseas experience for employees who were recruited in Japan company worth working for, while sharing in the social and who have ten years or less of service. Under this program, responsibilities borne by the company. nine employees were assigned to overseas posts during FY2011. ＊1【Off-JT】Abbreviation for Off-the-Job Training. Training employees in sessions held outside the company. ＊2【OJT】Abbreviation for On-the-Job Training. Training employees via daily routines in their respective workplaces. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 37 Approaches to the Work Environment Work-Life Balance ＊1 ■ Status of Programs Related to Work-Life Balance at Key Group Companies Effective from September 2010, every Wednesday has been Company Former Former name EBR ET EYH EHB ERS EETC EEP EFT EA designated as a “New No-Overtime Day.” As supporters of the Total number of employees 2,713 985 426 152 763 369 1,904 218 135 “Kaeru! (Going Home!) Japan” Project, which aims at reforming Paid holiday acquisition rate (%) 72.7 53.8 66 57 44 72 60.5 75 52.7 working habits to realize the “Work-Life Balance” initiative Number of child-care leaves taken 29 13 6 0 7 3 4 1 5 advocated by the Cabinet Office, we put up posters and also Number of family-care leaves taken 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 broadcast a message and play music at closing time every Average length of service in years 18.4 12.1 14.4 13.5 14.0 14.6 11.1 11.7 17.0 Wednesday, to alert employees that it’s time to leave the office. EBR: EBARA Corporation Former ET: Ebara Techno-serve Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) We have also inaugurated a “Spousal Maternity and Childcare Former EYH: Ebara Yoshikura Hydro-Tech Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) Leave” program, to encourage male employees to play an active EHB: Ebara Hamada Blower Co., Ltd. ERS: Ebara Refrigeration Equipment & Systems Co., Ltd. role in childcare, increasing the number of days for each leave EETC: Ebara Elliott and extending the time period. The daylight saving time plan EEP: Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. EFT: Ebara Field Tech. Corporation implemented at the Haneda office to alleviate anticipated EA: Ebara Agency Co., Ltd. summertime power shortages shifts regular working hours from 8:45-17:15 to 8:00-16:30, with provisions for staggered arrival times between 7 and 8 AM. Consequently, ending time may Measures Taken for Diversity range from 15:30 to 16:30. Thinking about how to spend the Recruitment of Foreign National Employees hours after work can give employees a new perspective on As we seek human resources that will enable us to respond to traditional work habit concepts. A variety of measures will be the challenges of a globalized business, EBARA is concentrating put into action to help employees achieve a better work-life on recruiting foreign national employees. While EBARA had balance. hired foreign students attending Japanese universities as new recruits in the past, it has now begun recruiting foreign students registered with non-Japanese universities under terms that are equal to those applicable to Japanese nationals. In April 2012, three newly graduated Chinese engineers and four Chinese and Korean students joined EBARA. We would like these foreignnational employees to not only serve as key personnel in our globalized business, but also to stimulate the globalization of their respective workplaces in Japan. While many of them are expected to work at overseas sites in the near future, we will continue the further globalization of our domestic sites, in order to reduce their psychological distance from overseas sites. To VOICE this end, we would like to start by accepting foreign national employees, who have a different way of thinking, into each workplace. Devising measures to support these foreign-national Awareness-raising with the Sociality Daylight Saving Time Plan employees is now an evolving task. Yoichi Kato ■ Diversity Data for Principal Group Companies System Development Department, Information & Communication System Division Company Former Former EBARA Corporation name EBR ET EYH EHB ERS EETC EEP EFT EA Total number of employees 2,713 985 426 152 763 369 1,904 218 135 Number of female employees 487 297 63 19 151 40 122 26 66 When the daylight saving time plan was introduced to Number of female managers 32 4 2 1 5 6 3 0 1 alleviate anticipated power shortages, we were a bit Actual disabled person hiring rate (%) 1.62 1.57 2.12 —＊ 1.23 0.54 1.1 0.92 —＊ nervous about our resolve to get up earlier, but we Number of non-Japanese hired 20 1 0 1 3 7 0 1 0 worked hard each day in consideration of the suffering Number of retired employees hired 180 30 59 10 62 36 38 5 14 that the people in Japan’s disaster-stricken regions were EBR: EBARA Corporation experiencing. Former ET: Ebara Techno-serve Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) Former EYH: Ebara Yoshikura Hydro-Tech Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) As we look back on that time, I think the introduction of EHB: Ebara Hamada Blower Co., Ltd. the daylight saving time plan changed our concept of ERS: Ebara Refrigeration Equipment & Systems Co., Ltd. EETC: Ebara Elliott time management. We have become more aware of the EEP: Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. effective utilization of time when at work, thinking about EFT: Ebara Field Tech. Corporation EA: Ebara Agency Co., Ltd. how to get tasks done quickly and efficiently, and how to * “-” denotes an exemption from the Law on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with work with stakeholders to achieve timely results. In Disabilities addition, as we return home earlier than usual, we can have more meaningful free time, eating dinner and spending time with our families. We would like to carry Industrial Health and Safety on with these ideas and approaches that were triggered We enforce thorough compliance with laws and regulations that by the introduction of the daylight saving time plan. govern industrial health and safety, and with in-house safety and health management rules. In workplaces where chemicals 38 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 are handled, work procedures reflect the hazards and potential participants rose to around 400 in FY2010, and to over 500 in health effects of these substances. In addition, safety education FY2011. Employees who show improvement in their medical data, and training programs are administered to ensure that safety is such as body weight, blood pressure, and blood sugar level, from a principal goal. their periodic health checkups at the completion of the eightAt each member company of the EBARA Group, the industrial month program are awarded prizes in recognition of their efforts. safety and health administrator formulates a management plan Comments, such as “I have trimmed 10 kg or more off my body to create a safe and comfortable workplace environment. weight” and “I have no more abnormal test results,” not only show Industrial safety and health guidelines that have been worked that the employee is happy, the program is leading to a healthier out to reflect risk assessment results are set forth in the workforce, which is an asset for the company. We would like to fully management plan to guide actions taken for the defined goals. support our employees in their efforts to maintain good health The plan calls for full enforcement of Hiyari-Hatto activities *2, while they work. 5S activities *3, hazard prediction activities, pointing and calling practices, and other voluntary safety activities, as well as health and safety education. All the stakeholders work to carry Mental Health Measures out this plan. To assure employee safety, we tell each of our We are taking measures to support both the physical and employees to be aware of the aftermath of possible physical mental health of our employees, and to help them carry out injury while at work, and to ”respect human life because it is their day-to-day work without problems. A specialized mental irreplaceable.” In addition, the industrial health and safety health consultation desk has been opened to provide early administrator and promoters conduct safety patrols every response and treatment, offering clinical examinations by a month, while accompanied by an industrial physician, and mental health physician (psychiatrist) at the EBARA head office. inform each workplace of any problems found by the patrols, to In light of the importance of the words and deeds of supervisors, work out solutions for these problems. 29 sessions of a Mental Health Workshop were held during FY2011 for line managers of the Group’s member firms at ■Occurrence of Occupational Accidents in Key Group Companies domestic branches and offices as a workplace-specific mental Occupational FY EBR Former Former EHB ERS EETC EEP EFT EA health measure, with a total attendance of 902 line managers. accident status ET EYH In addition, a “Mental Health Manual” was formulated in Total number of 2011 2,713 985 426 152 763 369 1,904 218 135 employees October, which presents a clear, organized description of 2009 1.06 0.48 0.76 4.3 0 0 0.75 0 11.82 approaches taken by EBARA to enhance mental health. It also Frequency (%) 2010 0 1.46 0.85 13.8 0 0 1.12 0 3.14 includes relevant rules defined in EBARA’s Rules of Employment 2011 0.38 1.5 0 4.6 0 0 0.79 0 6.52 and elsewhere, such as a back-to-work program, which are Number of 2009 24 1 1 3 0 2 33 ※ 0 4 occurrences of designed to help maintain mental health in the workplace. 2010 10 3 1 3 0 4 25 ※ 0 1 occupational accidents 2011 10 3 0 1 0 8 31 ※ 0 2 VOICE EBR: EBARA Corporation Former ET: Ebara Techno-serve Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) Former EYH: Ebara Yoshikura Hydro-Tech Co., Ltd. (EBARA Corporation since April 2012) EHB: Ebara Hamada Blower Co., Ltd. Sociality ERS: Ebara Refrigeration Equipment & Systems Co., Ltd. Building Mental Health EETC: Ebara Elliott EEP: Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. through Workplace EFT: Ebara Field Tech. Corporation EA: Ebara Agency Co., Ltd. Communication * Including minor accidents that are not serious enough to cause industrial accidents. Masaru Mimura Mental Health Physician Better-Living-for-Employees Program A walking program has been administered to help reduce abnormal Because we spend a great portion of our daily lives in a test results during periodic employee health checkups, and to workplace environment, human relations can be a source prevent and alleviate lifestyle-related diseases. Program participants of mental stress. Realizing the symptoms of mental stress by ourselves is important, of course, but if a line manager are each furnished with a pedometer that lets them check the can readily notice signs of a departure from the optimal, number of steps they have walked in a day and log the number on and can listen to what employees have to say, this can a dedicated website. Participants are often heard asking each other potentially lead to early treatment of mental health issues. “how many steps did you walk yesterday?” or boasting that “I’ve Maintaining smooth day-to-day communication in the beaten you by xx steps.” Participants may join in the program workplace is essential to this end. We must have a individually or in voluntary groups or workplace groups. The proactive stance on mental health measures by program also helps to stimulate communication among employees. partnering with human resource and labor departments, In FY2009, fewer than 200 participated in the program. But as the while exercising discretion in handling personal concept of the program, namely, “simply walk and nothing more,” information. has grown in popularity because of its simplicity, the number of ＊1【Work-Life Balance】Maintaining harmony between one’s job and one’s private life ＊2【Hiyari Hatto activities】“Activities to prevent potentially serious errors from the occurrence of Hiyari (frightened moments) or Hatto (startled moments). ＊3【5S activities】“5S” stands for seiri (sort), seiton (straighten), seiso (sweep), seiketsu (sanitize) and shitsuke (school) in Japanese. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 39 For Communities and Society The EBARA Group is fulfilling its social responsibilities through business, and is proactively committed to social contribution activities as a good citizen in society in the following five areas. Five Areas of Social Contribution Activities The EBARA Group contributes to society in five areas: promotion of technology and the arts, interaction with the community, environmental conservation, sports promotion, and social welfare. The Group is also involved in the spontaneously organized activities of the EBARA Group member companies, and cooperative activities with local governments, academic institutions, NGOs and NPOs. As we carry out these activities, EBARA does not merely provide supplies and funds, but also involves employees and their families for steady continuation. Students participating in the Elliott Company (U.S.) internship program Promotion of Technology and the Arts Handing down of “monozukuri” (craftsmanship) School Education Assistance Display and presentation of antiques Pupils and students from the elementary and junior high schools Interacting with the Environmental in the neighborhood of the each District visit us for community conservation familiarization or for a hands-on job experience, learning the Maintaining a good Handing down a relationship with the productive environment value and significance of manufacturing. Five areas of community to the next generation social contribution Social welfare Sports promotion Humanitarian activities Nurturing a sound mind and support and body Technology Promotion EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund The International Seminars are supported by the EBARA Hatakeyama Memorial Fund, and has become a core technology Junior high-school students try metalworking to gain hands-on job experience promotion activity. In FY2011, it was held in six locations, including the Asian Institute of Technology in Thailand and Further, four junior high-school students were accepted at Hanoi University of Industry in Vietnam, with a total attendance EBARA Shohnan Sports Center Inc. Chigasaki School in FY2011 to Sociality of 348 persons. To answer the local community’s needs, the gain a job experience at a tennis school. They gained insight into seminar focused on such subjects as technological what customers want and how to respond to them accordingly implementations of pumps in irrigation plants and drainage as they performed their duties of cleaning the club, welcoming pumping stations and operation control and maintenance of visitors, assisting in tennis lessons, and writing lesson reports. pumps and chillers. Internship Environmental Conservation Elliott Company (U.S.) accepts 10 to 20 students as interns every Hibiya Park Nature Observation Walk and Painting summer. These students major in a broad range of fields, from Program engineering, through chemistry, safety, accounting, corporate During the 14th EBARA Group Worldwide Kid’s Environmental management and personnel management, to supply chain Art Exhibition last year, the “Nature Observation in Hibiya Park management. The students are encouraged to come up with and Painting Program” was held as a new event. In addition to new concepts of machinery manufacture and practice problememployees’ family members, 19 children were invited from solving activities. They get even paid for their activities carried outside the company to join. At the nature observation walk, out during the internship period. instructors from the Nature Conservation Society of Tokyo EBARA’s Precision Machinery Company accepts technical college explained about the plants, insects and other living organisms students as interns at Ebara Technologies Incorporated (ETI) in inhabiting the Hibiya Park and taught the children on how to the U.S., in cooperation with the Institute of National Colleges of identify the specifies of cicadas from their cast-off skins. Technology, Japan. In FY2011, three Japanese students were Following the nature observation walk, the party moved on to dispatched to ETI to learn fabrication technologies for the Ginza Art Hall ＊1 to draw pictures of the animals and plants semiconductor manufacturing equipment. Starting FY2012, impressive to them. The way the children drew lively pictures EBARA expects to accept Korean and Japanese students for across the drawing paper was evident of their impressions they summer-time on-the-job training in Japan. felt about the nature. 40 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 VOICE Wanted to be of Any Help to Disaster-Stricken Areas Shoji Aoki EBARA Corp. (temporary transferred to ECE Co., Ltd.) What has prompted me to work as an aid volunteer for the earthquake-stricken areas was my very desire to be of any help to the local people that I had witnessed their distress for myself. So far, I have taken part in volunteer Nature Observation in Hibiya Park activities a total of four times over a total period of 13 days, including weekends. Support from Ota Ward, Tokyo to Higashi Matsushima City, which started right after the Social Welfare (Disaster Relief Support) occurrence of the quake, still continues, forging ties of mutual trust with the local people. Locals would Supporting the Areas Stricken by the Great East recognize the “bondage” bib we wore at work and call us, Japan Earthquake sometimes with words of gratitude. As volunteers are still Immediately after the occurrence of the Great East Japan needed over there, I would like to continue taking part in Earthquake, the EBARA Group set up the “Ebara Group volunteer activities. Earthquake Victims Fund” and carried on fund-raising activities until the end of March, 2012. A total sum of 203,387,225 yen was raised from 18 Japanese group companies, four overseas group companies, and officers and employees (Ebara Alumni Association, Ebara Corp. Workers’ Union, and Donation boxes in Recovery Aid for Thai Flooding workplaces) and was remitted to the Prefectural governments Ebara (Thailand) Ltd. donated 135 drain and other pumps of the Miyagi, Iwate, and Fukushima respectively, and Ibaraki manufactured by Ebara Machinery (China) Co., Ltd. to the Prefectural Communities of Chest. Bangkok Metropolitan In addition, monetary donations were sent by 12 overseas group Administration as companies to the sufferers through their respective national recovery did for the support organs. flooding. EBARA also remitted a sum of one Volunteer Activities million yen to the A total of 27 employees from the EBARA Group took part in the Asian Institute of Sociality volunteer activities administered by Ota Ward, Tokyo in Higashi Technology to help Matsushima City, Miyagi, removing debris, cleaning up the restore its research tsunami-shattered houses and parks, scraping sludge off the facilities and building rainwater gutters, getting rid of weeds, preparing luncheon that had been Ceremony of Pump Presentation to the parties and so on. damaged immensely Bangkok Governor (right) by the flooding. (Nakano from Ebara (Thailand) Limited, left) EBARA Green Fund Supporting the EarthquakeStricken Areas The EBARA Green Fund, which is supporting greening activities in Cooperation in Receiving Evacuees from Typhoon No. 12 and outside of the company, backed up “Green Fund” Because the level of water in Tonda River flowing through administered by the National Land Afforestation Promotion Shirahama Town, Wakayama Prefecture topped an evacuation Organization, a public-interest corporation, in order to dedicate decision limit, the Shirahama Town Clean Center, which is to recover from the Great East Japan Earthquake, and also the operated and managed by Ebara Environmental Plant Co., Ltd. work of the Association for Nature Restoration and Conservation, under contract, served as a shelter for about 300 local residents. an accredited NPO, which works to set up green curtains to We extended full-scale support in the work of receiving the shelter elementary schools and temporary dwellings from evacuees. summer heat. Other Continuing Activities Other continuing activities can be found at the EBARA Website (http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/community/). ＊1【Ginza Art Hal】An art gallery supporting the EBARA Group Worldwide Kid’s Environmental Art Exhibition. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 41 Environmental Initiatives We have established “EBARA Group Environmental Vision” and environmental objectives to achieve in FY2020 and various efforts have been directed at putting into the concept of “Environmental Conservation and Us”, as set forth in the EBARA Group’s Code of Conduct. EBARA Group Environmental Vision 1. The EBARA Group is striving to create a society in which nature and technology are in harmony. 2. The EBARA Group endeavors to conserve the global environment through its technology, product and service supplying. EBARA Group environmental objectives (FY2020) Achievements in FY2011 1. Environmental Conservation Activities in Our Daily Business ① Keep voluntary standard values for environmental laws and regulations such as water Activities for pollution prevention have been carried out, pollution prevention, air pollution prevention and the like. and all voluntary standard values have been achieved. ② Continuously reduce the amount of waste output produced from each office and business Target achieved with a material recycling rate of 98.6%. ＊1 site. Target achieved with a final landfill rate of 1.2%. ＊1 Maintain a waste material recycling rate of 95% or higher. We have begun application of the Certification System for Maintain a final waste landfill rate of less than 3%. Prime Waste Disposal Contractors. Completely comply with the legal terms stipulated in the Construction Waste Disposal Consignment Contract. Utilize recognition system about reliable industrial waste disposers. ③ Continuously reduce CO2 emissions Attained 1.9% reduction compared to compared to last year by rotational operation in the Fujisawa business facility during the summer and measures by other offices and business sites. (page 44,45) ④ Reduce water usage by 30% from the FY2000 level. Target achieved with a reduction of 22.3% from the FY2000 level. ＊1 ⑤ Continuously reduce emissions of PRTR Law controlled substances. Target achieved with a reduction of 41.7% from the Reduce VOC emissions by 30% from the FY2000 level. FY2000 level. ＊1 ⑥ Identify and minimize environmental risk involved in R&D planning and in the planning, Conducted second-party audits and environmental installation and operation of facilities at all offices and business sites. inspections at business sites. (Page 44) 2. Contribution to Environment Conservation in Business Activities ⑦ Set and implement policies and goals for achieving the industry’s leading environmental The company’s internal standards have been formulated performance per each product. and are being enforced. ⑧ Build and run a framework for managing information about the chemical substances found in We have begun to acquire information from JAMP (Joint procured components and communicating information about the chemical substances Article Management Promotion-consortium). found in finished products for customers. ⑨ Reduce the environmental load through a products lifecycle by continuous reanalysis of The technology stipulation UB1101 was formulated on the technological standards of paints, ingredient materials, etc. from a LCA standpoint. basis of design guidelines for the environment, and are Establish and implement standards for topics of environmental concern in the CSR being enforced. procurement. ⑩ Enhance the availability of products designed for use in the global warming prevention field. We have begun the provision of the 6 products listed on (a) Dry vacuum pumps for solar cell manufacturing the left that were held as objectives. (b) Desalination pumps and equipment (c) Nuclear power plant pumps (d) Energy-saving standard pumps driven by high-efficiency motors (e) High-efficiency chillers (f) Biomass utilization operations 3. Efforts for Environmental Management ⑪ Run the environmental management system across the EBARA Group and continuously apply All offices and business sites have sustained certification revisions to standardize the system rules in operation. of the ISO 14001. Link environmental management systems to the other management systems such as systems Major business sites have begun deliberation of the Environment conservation of energy management, occupational safety and health, and quality management. cooperation schemes listed on the left. ⑫ Thoroughly manage environmental risk by continuous implementation of second-party A total of 15 organizations conducted second-party audits audits throughout major business sites of the EBARA Group in Japan and overseas. and have evaluated respective environmental risks. ⑬ Establish an enhanced sense of ecology among all employees in the EBARA Group through Lectured the Company Standardized Environmental promoting education concerning biodiversity, and environmental contribution activities. Training (STEP10) and conducted by e-learning. ⑭ Continuously disclose environmental information associated with business activity by the CSR Published the EBARA Group CSR Report 2011. Report, especially the enhancement of environmental assessment information on products. Initiated systematical reviews, considering changes to Continuously increase sales of environmental label certified products. product specifications and manufacturing processes. ⑮ Make contributions to society, such as environmental technology seminars, by utilizing Conducted technological seminars ＊2 in Southeast Asia technical knowledge developed through the EBARA Group’s business activity and and tree-planting campaigns sponsored by EBARA environmental activities. Hatakeyama Memorial Fund. ＊1 Environmental Data：http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/env/data/group_data.html ＊2 Seminar Results：http://www.ebara.co.jp/en/csr/community/arts-technology/contribution/seminarlist.html 42 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 Major Environmental Performance Data ■ Change in CO2 emissions (Electric power and fuel-derived) ■ Change in material recycling rate and the final landfill disposal rate [In 1,000t] EBARA Group consolidated companies ［%］ Material recycling rate Final landfill and final disposal rate 60 100 49.9 98.6 50 90 95.3 95.0 95.8 96.7 45.0 46.6 41.3 41.5 40.7 Target: more than 95% 80 40 30 20 Target: Less than 3% 10 3.4 3.6 20 3.5 2.6 1.2 0 10 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] ◆ Material Recycle Rate: [Material recycling amount / (Material recycling amount + 0 Final landfill disposal amount)] x 100% 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] ◆ Final landfill disposal rate (Final landfill disposal amount / waste amount) x 100% ◆ Since we set our target back in FY2000, we have been using an emission coefficient of ◆ Final landfill disposal amount: Includes the amount of untreated waste directly 0.357 kg/kWh, in compliance with the enforcement order regarding the Law Concerning landfilled and the amount of residue landfilled without being reused after the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming, which came into effect in 2000. intermediate treatment. ■ Change in emissions of substances controlled by the PRTR Law ■ Change in emissions of VOC out of substances controlled by the PRTR Law ［t］ EBARA Group consolidated companies ［t］ EBARA Group consolidated companies 100 92.9 100 86.2 Target: 64.4 Target: 56.3 80.5 80.5 81.7 80 80 76.5 72.6 68.1 60.7 60 53.4 60 45.7 46.9 40 40 20 20 0 0 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 [Fiscal Year] ◆ PRTR Law: Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law ◆ Discharged Amount：The amount discharged into the environment such as into the air, water, and the soil. ◆ VOC: Volatile Organic Compounds The CO2 emissions in FY2010 exceeded the target (less than About the Update to the Environmental Data Management 40500t of CO2) by 1000t. The emission trade credits for the System exceeded amount were donated to the roadside greenery The EBARA Group collects various types environmental consolidation project “My Tree” established by the Tokyo performance data from each office, business site, branch firms Metropolitan Government. EBARA has decided to sponsor the and affiliate companies, and has established the Environmental increase of roadside greenery and CO2 fixation. The donations Data Management System, an IT infrastructure to utilize the were applied to planting 33 tall trees such as oriental planetrees data acquired. In FY2011, this system was renovated into a around the Heiwajima Station, Loop Route no.7 and Roppongi, cloud-based system on the internet from the original in-house Loop Route no.3. server structure. Through this innovation, many improvements and characteristics (listed below) over environmental management have been attained. ① The record adapted to the characteristics of energy and waste Environment conservation data can be utilized flexibly, making data analysis easier. ② The streamlining for business operation associated with gathering information has been implemented. ③ It has become easier to extract data coupled by adapted to Roadside greenery various conditions of separate regions and business domains, planted with the donations from EBARA and conduct comparative analysis. EBARA works to connect the utilization of the Environmental Data Management System to further reduction of energy usage and emission of chemical substances. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 43 Environmental Initiatives Visualizing Environmental Risks and space based on these survey findings, as well as educating Responses to Environmental Accidents employees about the importance of conserving biodiversity. Visualizing Environment Risks with an Environmental Risk Map While the EBARA Group’s record of environmental activity had Scheme for Environmental Risk previously been reported at end-of-term meetings of the Management general environmental committee, beginning in FY2011 we Environmental Audits of Construction Work have adopted a new method to intelligently share information The construction, modification, or removal of production with top management about the EBARA Group’s efforts to facilities, employee-welfare facilities, and the like can result in reduce environmental risks. With this new method, a twovarious environmental effects, such as generating solid and dimensional risk map is plotted, providing a ready visual liquid waste, noise, and dust. At EBARA, we do a triple check indicator of whether or not environmental risks are decreasing. – first at the facility planning stage, then again at the installation In this risk map, the X-axis (control and maintenance level) and and commissioning stages. We check with regard to Y-axis (operating status) are rated based on the results of environmental assessments and legal compliance with corporate audits for FY2010 and FY2011, and their total scores environmental control legislation and the Industrial Safety and are plotted. Health Law. Construction work is not started until all relevant reviews are complete and have been cleared. In FY2011, 441 ■ Risk Map (image) environmental reviews were conducted to avoid risk to the environment. Y-axis Application for construction ↑ Low 1 Audit of construction work by the company District A environmental management department ↓ 2 Audit of construction work by the district/office Operating status environmental management department 3 Audit of construction work by the Corporate District B Environmental Management Department Construction started after passing all audit of construction work procedures High Environmental Audits of the Management System X-axis In addition to internal environmental audits and examination by High ← Control and maintenance level → Low an external certification body, the EBARA Group has had secondparty audits performed on its individual offices and districts by Biodiversity Survey of the Green Space at the the Corporate Environmental Management Department. Fujisawa District The second-party audits for FY2011 was conducted on ten The living organisms that inhabit the green space at the Fujisawa member firms of the EBARA Group, to verify the implementation facility were surveyed, with the goal of exploring biodiversityof measures designed to prevent environmental pollution, conscious methods of green space management, pursuant to the compliance with environmental legislation, and the use of EBARA Group Biodiversity Guidelines formulated in FY2010. Green environmental management activities to drive corporate space, normally not open to employees, is located on both sides of management. A prioritized check on compliance with the Wastes the approach to the front entrance of the Fujisawa District. Disposal and Public Cleansing Act that had started earlier was Vegetation and ecological surveys of this green space were carried on into FY2011, directing remedial actions to correct conducted in the summer, autumn and winter of 2011. noncompliant conditions as they were found. In the vegetation survey, ginkgo trees were found facing the With the Amendment to Water Quality Pollution Control Act approach to the front entrance, with cherry trees, commonly known taking effect in June 2012 and with the scheduled integration of in Japan as “someiyoshino,” visible from the public road, and around 1,400 employees from group firms affiliated with EBARA Japanese stone oak trees (Lithocarpus edulis) and plum trees in the into the EBARA Environmental Management System as of April 1, Environment conservation middle of the green space. These are part of a total of 258 plant 2012, the verification process continues, in order to help reduce species in 81 families. environmental risk. In addition, 195 species of insects in 75 families and ten classifications, including dragonflies and butterflies, were confirmed. Within the bird population, 17 species in 13 families and Approaches to Saving Power in the 4 classifications, including titmice and kites, were identified. Also Summer of 2011 confirmed were Accipiter gularis in the Accipitridae family, listed as Because nuclear power plants in Japan were shut down after the a vulnerable species in the Kanagawa Prefecture Red Data Book, Great East Japan Earthquake, EBARA was urged by the Japanese Hirundo rustica in the Hirundinidae family, listed as a diminishing government to save power under the Electricity Business Act. To species, and Gonista bicolor in the Acrididae family, listed as a avoid planned blackouts and emergency blackouts caused by sensitive species. We are exploring ways to use and maintain green unbalanced supply and demand, the EBARA Group set up the 44 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 following voluntary goals to drive its power-saving program at Model LDP. This is attributable to the environmental load from its five Districts in the service areas of Tokyo Electric Power Co., the manufacture of the electronic control portion of the pump. Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. and Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc Yet the Model SSLD, weighing 38.9 kg, is 17% lighter than the and at 108 other locations, including the Haneda head office Model LPD, thus offering benefits of environmental load building, branches, and offices: abatement in the successive stages of manufacturing, shipping, and disposal. If a pump is used for ten years, the environmental ■ EBARA and Group firms’ power-saving goals load in its operating stage would account for a greater proportion of its lifecycle environmental load. Hence, the ◆ Contract demand of 500 kW or more lifecycle CO2 emissions of the Model SSLD can be held down to (Futtsu District, Fujisawa District, Sodegaura District, Ebara Yoshikura 44% of those for the Model LPD. Hydro-Tech Co., Ltd.’s Fujioka Plant, Ebara Material Co., Ltd., and the Haneda head office building) Peak usage to be cut back by 25% and total power usage by 15% ◆ Contract demand of less than 500 kW (Other Districts and offices in the service areas of Tokyo Electric Power Co., Tohoku Electric Power Co. and Kansai Electric Power Co.) Peak usage to be cut back by 20% and total power usage by 15% SSLD pump LPD pump Approaches taken to achieve the goals were as follows: ② Measures implemented for dry vacuum pumps to reduce 1. Districts with contract demand of 500 kW or more environmental load ● Shifting performance testing that consumes a large amount of A case study of environmentally compatible design of dry vacuum power to nighttime and weekend hours pumps rated at a pumping speed of approx. 10,000 L/min. is ● Installing private power generators (backup power supplies) introduced below. Dry vacuum pumps are used extensively in ● Using rotating shifts in two groups (Fujisawa) semiconductor manufacturing and other processes. ● Shifting precision machinery production to the Kumamoto Plant (Fujisawa) ■ Our dry vacuum pumps rated at a pumping speed of approx. ● Shifting electric furnace operation to nighttime and weekend 10,000L/min. power consumption hours (EMA EYH Fujioka Plant) Power @ Rating Speed（60Hz） Reduced Rate 2. Haneda head office building ● Introducing daylight saving time (July 1 through September 30) 100% ［%］ 4.00 100 ● Rotating summer holidays 3.50 90 3. Offices with contract demand of less than 500 kW Power consumption Ratio 80 Power consumption: kW 3.00 ● Monitoring power usage and implementing power 70 2.50 conservation patrols 60 ● Limiting the number of elevators in service 2.00 42% 50 3.90 ● Enforcing on-time arrival and departure of employees 1.50 40 26% 30 ● Conserving power usage for OA equipment 1.00 1.63 17% 20 At all sites with contract demand of 500 kW or more, the in0.50 1.00 10 house peak cutback goal of 25% was virtually attained. 0.65 0.00 0 Offices with contract demand of less than 500 kW generally A70W AA70W ESR80W EV-S100 (1991 and after) (1995 and after) (2003 and after) (2008 and after) achieved a peak cutback goal of 20% and a total power usage reduction goal of 15%, as a whole. The latest Model EVS100 pump, when compared with the Model A70W, which was first put on the market in 1991, requires 37% Environment conservation Case Studies of EBARA Product less installation space and weighs 32% less, and reduces power Implementations of Environmental Actions consumption by up to 17%. With its energy-saving, space① LCA results for high-efficiency motor pumps saving, and lightweight features, this new pump helps to abate An energy-saving pump (Model SSLD) carrying a PM motor environmental load at customer sites. using a permanent magnet in its rotor, on the market since May 2010, was subjected to a lifecycle assessment (LCA) with regard to its lifecycle, from manufacture to disposal. This was compared with the preceding model (Model LPD), to evaluate the Model SSLD’s environmental load abatement. It was found that the Model SSLD has CO2 emissions in its manufacturing stage that are approximately 5% more than EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 45 Third-party Comments Koji Shimada Mr. Koji Shimada majors in environmental systems analyses and environmental policy assessment. He develops research, Professor, Ritsumeikan University College of Economics education and social contribution activities to help resolve environmental and community issues by proving into human and corporate mechanisms of preference and actions. The fifth issue of this organization of the EBARA Group, this management CSR Report evolving integration could have an immense impact on CSR as well. from an environment I hope that the surpassing expertise of the EBARA Group report marks the will help in evolving fields of industry, such as CO2 injection memorable 100th anniversary of Ebara’s founding. A quick into oil and gas fields and shale gas development from now retrospective of the history of the EBARA Group, which on. started out with the delivery of Inokuchi-type pumps in While this is the fourth time that I note my impressions of 1912, indicates that the company has been expanding its the EBARA Group CSR Report, it can be safely said that sphere of business at a steady tempo to address the needs steady progress has been made and come to stay in of the times, embarking on the manufacture of blowers and attaining the prioritized tasks that have been pursued over chillers from 1920 to 1930, refuse incinerators, and the past five years – reinforced corporate governance, compressors and turbines from 1960 to the 1970’s and thorough legal compliance, toughened internal controls semiconductor manufacturing equipment early in the 1990’s. and environmental conservation. For example, in response The report is suggestive of the powerful posture of a to the question asking which should weigh more to you, college-originated venture business to contribute to a legal compliance or corporate profitability, the percentage global community with technical capabilities and empirical of responses answering “legal compliance at any time” has knowledge acquired over its 100 years of existence since it edged up from 20% in 2007 to reach 40% in FY2011 (page succeeded in domestic production in the arena of service 21).Further, from a viewpoint of making environmental water pumps dominated by foreign manufactures at the contributions through better product efficiencies, the fact time of its inauguration. that the power consumption of dry vacuum pumps has Prior to writing this article, I visited Futtsu District and Ebara been gradually declining since their initial marketing (1991) Elliott in April 2012. At Futtsu District, I witnessed a to down 83% with the 2008 models and after (page 45) proactive solution to energy and environmental issues – should be noteworthy. In addition, while Japanese introducing exhaust gases from privately owned micro gas enterprises have been confronted with the evolving turbines directly into a heater chiller for air conditioning the challenges of a business strategy that addresses both CSR plant. I also learned about the Group’s concerted and disaster crisis management after the Great East Japan commitment to restoring the water supply and sewerage Earthquake, the fact that Ebara acted promptly to infrastructures shattered by the earthquake. I realized the implement a business continuity management system significance of social infrastructural facilities functioning to in-house operable in times of earthquakes should be do what is taken for granted when I had a chance to see the commendable (page 19). site where pumps, the critical components of these As the EBARA Group seeks to grow into a true global facilities, were manufactured. Knowing the fact that 60 to business, I believe, that the various approaches to fulfilling 70% of the shipments from Futtsu District were bound for CSR expressed in this report may not be spectacular but can overseas markets, with after-sales services being deployed be a most vital backbone of the effort. I hope that Ebara will in about 50 countries around the world, I have renewed my stay a global enterprise in 2112 that has a profound insight notion of the power of the pump department in the global into and practices CSR to allow our descendants to live on market. this earth with an ease of mind. I also learned about the way Ebara Elliott, which has its management integrated with U.S. Elliott Company since 2011, has developed its business as a global organization in the turbine and compressor field. While U.S. Elliott Company motivates its Japanese counterpart with a business style of keeping up long-term profitability out of its operations, including after-sales care, the Japanese principle of manufacturing that pursues process improvements on a bottom-up basis from the point of manufacture seems to influence U.S. Elliott Company in turn. One thing I found impressive as an instance of ingenuity implemented at the point of manufacture was the way better productivity was being pursued there by introducing motor-driven implementations of test runs and installing more efficient machine tools to cut energy consumption and waste output. If the process of motivating each other while acknowledging each other’s value On a Trip to Ebara Elliott: Prof. Shimada, right, between different cultures should pervade the entire Ebara Elliott Executing Managing Director Takamura, left 46 EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 External Assessment EBARA’s CSR activity has been assessed by outside organizations. EBARA has been added to two world-leading Social Responsibility Indexes (SRIs), the FTSE4 Good Index Series and Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Indexes. Furthermore, EBARA has also been chosen as a Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index share, chosen from among the listed Japanese firms, as of January 4, 2012. EBARA Group’s CSR Challenges resonates by itself with our founding sprits of “enthusiasm and sincerity.” The short phrase of “enthusiasm and sincerity” means more than simply doing what you have been assigned to do, but also tackling your assignment with the zeal of originality and ingenuity of your own and carrying it through with sincerity, or Akira Itoh approaching any person on any issue with zeal and sincerity Managing Executive Officer, would never end up failing to move that person. The evolving Division Manager, Enterprise Risk Management task of CSR is to keep close ties of communication with our EBARA Corporation global network of sites, so this meaning will be shared by all of employees across the global EBARA Group, and at the same time enhance the quality of communication with our stakeholders, Looking Back Upon the First Year of sustaining sociability, business fairness and transparency E-Plan 2013 throughout the EBARA Group organization. The Great East Japan Earthquake had occurred just before the EBARA Group’s new management initiative E-Plan 2013 launched in FY2011. While the EBARA Group worked with all its Reflecting Upon Third-Party Comments concerted effort to rehabilitate the social infrastructures, such This is the fourth time we asked Prof. Shimada (Ritsumeikan as water and sewerage systems and waste disposal plants, and University) to prepare comments for our CSR Report (2012). various industrial facilities damaged by the earthquake, it made Since Prof. Shimada had already visited the Haneda Plant before us realize that we must renew our recognition of the CSR. its relocation in 2009, we were delighted to have him survey the EBARA also realized the need to consolidate its business Futtsu Plant, and receive comments about our achievements in continuity management system (BCMS), so as to prepare for improving productivity and the effectiveness of environmental earthquakes predicted to occur right under the Tokyo conservation measures that we have taken. Efforts chasing after Metropolitan Area and other natural disasters. higher productivity and better environmental conservation In anticipation for the growing number of opportunities to do measures will continue in other sites in the EBARA Group, as business with people from various countries and regions with well as the Futtsu Plant. different cultures or customs, human rights was added for the After taking a tour of the Elliott Group’s Sodegaura Plant first year to the CSR lecture topics for management and pioneering in global management within the EBARA Group, employees to support achieving the goals of E-Plan 2013. Prof. Shimada provided a valuable suggestion, saying that the Additionally, the CSR Procurement Guidelines has been mutual recognition of values between different cultures, i.e., formulated and publicized to encourage our suppliers to drive Japanese by Ebara and American by Elliott Company, and their pursuit of environmental conservation, human rights stimulation to each other can have a great impact on CSR as protection, information security, safety and health, information well. We are committed to developing measures that allow the provision and so they will fulfill their social responsibility in all global sites in the EBARA Group, including those based in China processes of our business. and Southeast Asia, to understand each other’s strengths and share information about exceptional activities. In Japan, our achievements are taking shape in areas of Challenges from FY2012 Afterwards compliance awareness, environmental product compatibility President Yago exclaimed in the last issue of the CSR Report: and so on. We will be working to better manifest ourselves as a “The backbone of the CSR lies in its communication, which true global business as envisioned by Prof. Shimada. EBARA Group CSR Report 2012 47 11-1, Haneda Asahi-cho, Ohta-ku, Tokyo 144-8510, Japan Phone: 81-3-3743-6111（switchboard） Fax: 81-3-5736-3121 E-mail eco@ebara.com U R L http://www.ebara.co.jp/ Please direct inquiries to: CSR, Human Rights and Compliance Department
