Communication on Progress UN Global Compact there are always areas to improve, and we also Statement from the Managing regularly face new challenges that we must Director handle. This shall however not hamper our dedication, nor our struggle for continuous improvement – and to make a difference. Tristein will continue to stay focused on the principles and to further strengthen our commitment to the UN Global Compact. We perceive the principles as fundamental rules that all states, companies and individuals should respect and support. Accordingly we will ensure the integration in all our planning, evaluation and conduct. We also encourage our suppliers, subTristein's vision is to be: contractors and clients to align their business with  Innovative the ten principles of the UN Global Compact.  Solid  Honest At least the two latter cannot be achieved without Yours sincerely, high social and ethical standards. This means that we primarily have an internal driving force that energizes our dedication towards being a responsible contributor in our conduct. We also recognize that to be a future participant within the Torbjørn Rogde oil & gas industry we must provide sustainable Managing Director values for our stakeholders, being employees, Tristein AS owners, suppliers and not the least our clients. Tristein is still a small company, however September 10th; 2013 independent of size we believe in everybody’s responsibility to secure a sustainable world, actively improve worldwide work conditions, fight corruption and promote human rights. As buyers of products and services, we can and shall make a difference by our choices. In 2011 we joined the United Nations Global Compact, after being a supporter of the initiative since it first came to our awareness through business partners. We perceived the ten principles as a perfect match to our values and what we want to be recognized by. However, we also realized that we had a way to go from being a supporter until we had all aspects implemented. Now, two years later we realize that we probably never will get to a point where all that can be done is done, Tristein Communication on Progress Page 1 of 4 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Introduction Although our direct services has a relatively low impact on the external environment we prioritize We have described Tristein’s corporate to select solutions that minimize our influence on responsibility in our HSEQA system, and in our the environment, also to contribute in the annual reports. This document is based on the solutions we provide for our clients to manage documented information and the practical efforts risk, choose sustainable solutions and contribute we make to improve internally and to make a positively to the environment. difference externally. We care about integrity! We care about people! Even though rules and regulations are important, As a company providing services to clients with we believe even stronger in developing every high demands, we require personnel that are individual’s way of thinking. Thereby we can dedicated to deliver high quality, consistent provide transparency, fairness and predictability performance and good social behavior. We strive to our suppliers and business partners without use to develop the personnel working for and with of bribes or other unacceptable gifts. When Tristein according to their wishes and potentials, Tristein is mentioned externally, we want to feel and to foster positive creativity. proud of what we have done. The Tristeiners are the backbone of our business and shall respect others as well as being respected We care about the society! independent of nationality, gender, culture or religion. We care about the environment! As a part of the local and global society we want to play a constructive part for a positive development. Accordingly we adhere to local and international rules and regulations. Tristein Communication on Progress Page 2 of 4 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Human Rights PRINCIPLE 6 Business should uphold the elimination of PRINCIPLE 1 discrimination in respect of employment and Business should support and respect the occupation protection of internationally proclaimed human Tristein acknowledges our employees as our rights. primary resource to deliver high standard PRINCIPLE 2 products; accordingly we depend on good work Business should ensure that they are not relations and employees being willing to and complicit in human rights abuses. respected for expressing unsatisfactory As Tristein has activities worldwide, and as we also conditions, either individually or collectively. This locally interact with multi-national customers and principle also apply to the companies we do suppliers, human rights are and shall be an business with. integrated part of our business conduct. We strongly believe in fair compensation for the work performed. According to the contracts we Our activities issue, all employees have the right to terminate Evaluation of business contracts: We evaluate all their work contracts if they are unsatisfied with our potential contracts and liaisons with business the work conditions or their compensation. partners to ensure that we are not contributing Child labour strongly prevents the possibilities for directly or indirectly to abuses of human rights. If young people to have a healthy development and we on any later stage discover that we unwillingly to obtain an education that subsequently can has entered a contract with a client or subimprove their individual and their society’s future contractor that is not compliant with our development and living standards. principles or the international law, we are Tristein strives for equal rights to employment prepared to cancel the contract and terminate our based on qualifications and not on, gender, race, engagement on these reasons. age or cultural background. Measurements of outcome Our activities There has not been detected, reported or Policy: Tristein has a personnel policy stating the indicated any breaches of human rights in any of respect for the individual’s rights and the right of our operations. mutual respect. The policy includes sections regarding equal rights. Labour Freedom of association: Tristein has ensured that PRINCIPLE 3 our policies and our conduct secure our Business should uphold the freedom of employees the right of being members in any legal association and the effective recognition of the trade organization. We strongly encourage right to collective bargaining. participation in such organizations and regard PRINCIPLE 4 them as valuable contributors to our business Business should uphold the elimination of forced development. If we have activities in countries or compulsory labour. where trade unions are illegitimate we maintain the secrecy of any information coming to our PRINCIPLE 5 knowledge regarding members and leaders of the Business should uphold the effective abolition of organizations. child labour. Tristein Communication on Progress Page 3 of 4 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact Forced labour: Tristein ensures that all personnel impact, we actively contribute to manage the risks employed directly receive a clear and and actively promote solutions, techniques and standardized contract stating their rights, technologies beneficial to the environment. obligations and terms of terminating the contract. Daily business: To reduce emissions we have The contract is normally issued in the language of invested in conference equipment that reduce our the employee or alternatively in English. For subneed to travel. We track the use of this equipment contractors we have established systems to to estimate the reduction of travelling distance validate existence of similar systems. and to motivate all employees to use the Discrimination: Tristein has actively tried to equipment whenever possible. increase the number of women and foreign We actively re-cycle office equipment and cultures in our organization. We will continue to consumables to minimize and ensure proper encourage female participation in a niche strongly handling of waste. dominated by men. We employ based on qualifications and avoid any discrimination. Measurements of outcome Measurements of outcome Video conferences has reduced our travelling however to a less extent than our targets. Further Tristein has welcomed personnel from other initiatives are required in the future. cultures to job interviews. There has not been detected, reported or indicated any breaches of Anti-corruption these principles in any of our operations. PRINCIPLE 10 Environment Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. PRINCIPLE 7 Business should support a precautionary Corruption is in most of the areas where we are approach to environmental challenges. operating regulated by laws, regulations and policies. However we recognize that such means PRINCIPLE 8 make little difference if the actors involved have Business should undertake initiatives to promote the wrong attitudes or the wrong moral. Tristein greater environmental responsibility. cannot and will not accept any corruption. PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the development and Our actions diffusion of environmentally friendly Gifts: Any gift that is intended to influence technologies. business decisions shall not be offered or received. Tristein acknowledges that threat to the This also applies for entertainment beyond normal environment is a threat to humanity. It is the courtesy. If an employee is offered gifts of a value responsibility of all organizations and individuals that can represent a breach to this principle, he or to contribute as much as possible to reduce she shall politely refuse the gift, or when in doubt damages to our surroundings. consult his or her leader for guidance and advice. Our activities Measurements of outcome Serious threats: Our activities represent a limited All employees register minor gifts received. We threat to the environment; however being have not offered any gifts or other compensation involved in operations that may have bigger to our business associates. Tristein Communication on Progress Page 4 of 4
