1 Message from founder and CEO • “Since 2008 it has been my strong ambition to anchor a CSR-strategy in the Ticket-organisation and thereby make every employee and all of our stakeholders aware of our work with CSR. CSR is a part of Ticket to Heaven’s DNA. “ Hans Peter Høeg Larsen, Founder of Ticket to Heaven A/S • ”I plan to continue the work with CSR in the areas People, Planet and Profit and to incorporate our CSR politic into the entire organisation. From store staff to top management. We use CSR strategically, as a way to create value – value for society and value for our organisation.” Claus Juul, CEO • “As founder and CEO of Ticket to Heaven A/S we are pleased to present this Communication on Progress report on our objectives and achieved goals in 2012 within the areas People, Planet and Profit. Enjoy!” 2 Our company What is Ticket to Heaven? The business strategy of Ticket to Heaven is decided by Ticket to Heaven A/S is a family-owned textilecompany (Ltd.) the company management group in corporation with a established in 1995 in Denmark by the CEO Hans Peter Hoeg board constituted by four members. In 2012, Ticket to Larsen. The head office is placed in Hoersholm approximately Heaven had 28 full time employees and part times 35 km north of Copenhagen. employees equal to 10 full times employees. Ticket to Heaven mainly designs children’s clothes that are stylish, practical and durable in great colors and patterns. In addition to that, we produce a minor collection of bags, accessories and women clothes. We produce two collections a year, Spring/Summer and Autumn/Winter 3 Ticket to Heaven’s mission and vision Ticket to Heaven's Mission Ticket to Heaven is a company with happy employees who deliver functional design, world-class service and extraordinary quality. Ticket to Heaven's Vision We aim to be among the most important European brands within functional outerwear and casual wear for children. Ticket to Heaven firmly believes in 4 Strong Values: Quality, Respect, Honesty and Strength. They are the foundation of our philosophy and a big part of every aspect of our business. 4 Ticket to Heaven’s four core values Quality We never compromise on quality. Ticket to Heaven’s products, work, customer service, social environment and actions must at all times be marked by thoughtfulness and willingness to do it right the first time. We want efficiency. All employees are responsible for making business procedures and processes meet our quality standards. Respect Every day and in all situations we show respect for the people we are in contact with: customers, consumers, suppliers and colleagues. We focus on respect for the individual and want to take advantage of individual abilities, qualities and capacities. We solve any situation or conflict by understanding and putting ourselves in the other person's situation. We go for the compromise which creates two winners. Honesty We are always open about the goals and intentions of Ticket to Heaven. Everything we say and do regarding both our products and performance can be taken at face value. We express ourselves clearly and unambiguously. We are attentive to the people we work with. Strength We take responsibility, and we take care of each other. We have the strength to make a difference to others both as people and as a company. We have the strength to make an effort in order to save children in need around the world. 5 Our market Where are Ticket-products sold? The products are sold through retailers and are represented in more than 600 shops in Scandinavia, Europe and Russia, for instance Stockmann, Ellos AB and Limango. Furthermore, Ticket to Heaven products are sold in two company-owned concept stores, one in Copenhagen and another in Sweden, in two outlet stores in Copenhagen and Ringsted. Further our products are sold in retail stores and in our webshop. In 2011, Ticket-products were introduced on a Chinese webshop as well. Ticket to Heaven acknowledge the fact that consumers have a great influence on companies’ decision-making regarding CSR. Further, when cooperating with our business customers we have met demands concerning our CSR strategy. Several of our existing and potential customers expect us to have a CSR strategy anchored into our company. 6 Our production Where are our designs produced? The Ticket-products are produced in Asia. The major part of our product suppliers are Chinese, a few is from India while only one factory is in Sri Lanka. Our two main fabric suppliers are placed in Taiwan and South Korea. We have approximately 20 suppliers, several of whom we have worked with for many years. 7 Our CSR-strategy How do we work with CSR? Ticket to Heaven have been working on CSR since 2008 and in 2011 we brought the area further into focus by preparing a CSR-strategy for 2011 – 2015. We have decided to work on four main areas: • Responsible purchasing • Charity for children • Environmental considerations • Animal Welfare The overall frame for our strategy is the ten principles under United Nations Global Compact. The strategy is composed to contain both activities regarding responsible purchasing and environmental considerations as well as other activities which contribute to charity. Clear objectives have been decided on in each main area – see more information below. 8 The purpose of the CSR-strategy • Add value to the business strategy • Comply with UN Global Compact and the ten principles • Risk management • Meet expected demands from customers and business partners • Increase branding towards customers, current and future employees • Meet the vision on being among the CSR First mover in the industry • Live up to our business values • To strengthen the brand 9 Our CSR-organisation How is CSR organised in Ticket to Heaven? In 2011 a fulltime CSR-coordinator was employed by Ticket to Heaven to assist in creating a CSR Strategy. The purpose of the CSRcoordinator was to give structure and to help formulate the CSRstrategy and CSR politic. Further a CSR assistant was employed in 2012 to assist in finishing the Communicating on Progress report to United Nations Global Compact. CSR-initiatives are integrated in various functions across the organisations, e.g. the sourcing department. The overall responsible body of CSR is Ticket to Heaven CSR Steering Committee. Anchoring The CEO ensures continuity regarding CSR, ongoing CSR activities and on communicating on progress. 10 Our report What is included in the report? This report covers the calendar year 2012. It is our third report to UN Global Compact. In Ticket to Heaven we have committed ourselves to communicate a CSR report annually. The main content of the report is based on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact principles. The structure of the main report is built up upon the Triple Bottom Line-concept: People, Planet and Profit. The report includes both CSR-initiatives related to the head office and stores in Denmark and to our suppliers in Asia. 11 People – our Social Responsibility UN Global Compact’s principles on People Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Rights Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 12 Our employees Ticket to Heaven care for all our employees. We recognise that great differences exist concerning work environments across boarders. We focus on safe and satisfactory conditions and general satisfaction among all our employees. This is done by conducting an annually job satisfaction survey, “morning meetings” and job training. What makes Ticket to Heaven a good place to work? “In my mind, some of the things I appreciate the most when working at Ticket to Heaven is that I always have a say regarding my work and that I work with various tasks, including some outside of my expertise. In that way I never stop to learn or improve. The lines of communications are short and efficient which means that I always get a straight respond to my contributions. There is room for creativity and to try new things. Ticket to Heaven show great respect and trust towards me and my work. The same goes for my colleagues.” Caroline, Social Media Manager at Ticket to Heaven Work satisfaction Work satisfaction among among employees 2010 employees 2012 15 15 10 10 5 5 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 13 Responsible sourcing Business Social Compliance Initiative Improvements and challenges Ticket to Heaven is a member of the Business Social Supplier manual/production manual Compliance Initiative (BSCI), a business driven initiative for Code of conduct companies committed to improving working condition and environment in the supply chain. The BSCI Code of Conduct includes elements such as child labour, environment and anticorruption. Through our membership of BSCI we strive to improve the working conditions in our supply chain, to ensure socially responsible conditions on the factories producing our clothes and yard goods and to consider the environment. Mandatory social requirements of BSCI concerning working time include: • Number of daily working hours • Number and duration of daily breaks • Working days per working weeks • Working hours per working week • Overtime/of own free will • Compliance with national statutory regulations 14 Overall strategic objectives for 2015 • Min. 90% of the products (based on placed orders) has to be sourced from BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. • The remaining 10% of the products need to be sourced from factories with a standard equal to the BSCI Code of Conduct and Ticket to Heaven must ensure that. However, Ticket to Heaven will not require a full BSCIprocess from these minor suppliers. How Ticket to Heaven will ensure adequate standard is described in a set of guidelines for responsible sourcing included in a Production Contract. • Min. 70% of all fabric has to be sourced from BSCIapproved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification. 15 Facts about 2012 Objectives 2012 Results 2012 • Min. 70% of Ticket-products have to be sourced from • Ticket-products were sourced form 22 suppliers BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 • 55 % were BSCI approved suppliers certification. • 65 % of our product volume comes from BSCI • Min. 30% of all fabric has to be sourced from BSCIapproved suppliers. 10 % comes from suppliers approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 who have initiated the BSCI approval and 25 % certification. comes from non-BSCI approved suppliers. • Three suppliers initiated the BSCI-process • Six suppliers have been through an BSCI reaudit • Production and supplier manuals have been signed by 18 suppliers 16 Objectives 2013 • Min. 70% of Ticket-products have to be sourced from BSCI-approved factories or from factories with a SA8000 certification • 10 % of production must follow bluesign standard, which is leading the way to a successful and healthy textile future. Worldwide. Read more http://www.bluesign.com • An increased focus on our suppliers’ energy consumption by initiating cooperation with relevant partners in countries of production e.g. Royal Danish Embassy Beijing. 17 Our charity focusing on children’s rights One of our four main areas is charity for children. Ticket to Heaven produces clothing, which creates joy among children. They keep warm and dry, they can move freely, and play and learn. But we also feel a responsibility to support and please other children in the world, who are not as fortunate as Kids for Kids Foundation ‘our’ Ticket-children. This is the quintessence of our core value In 2005 the Kids for Kids Foundation was ’Strength’, and at the same time it is an activity, which is closely founded by the owner of Ticket to Heaven, tied to our core business. It simply makes sense to us to Hans Peter H. Larsen. The express purpose support children towards achieving a life of playing and was to give aid to children and so far learning. 350.000 Euro has been collected. The money is passed on to projects for children through cooperation with humanitarian organisations. 18 What has happened in 2012? Kids for Kids 2012 Open Air Concert on June 3th. Kids for Kids focuses on health and education among children and the profit from the concerts goes to UNICEF’s work with renovation of schools on Madagaskar. In 2012 Kids for Kids donated DKK 300.000 to UNICEF. Additional donations are given during the year through sale of Ticket to Heaven bicyclehelmets. 19 Other initiatives towards children in 2012 NANU-children and sponsorships For many years, Ticket to Heaven have sent clothes to children in need of warm outerwear. In 2012, Ticket to Heaven have supported children in Greenland through the organisation NANU-children. 10 pallets with clothes and toys have been prepared for shipment to the NANU-children. Furthermore, in 2012 Ticket to Heaven have supported two school children through sponsorships at “Plan Danmark” and “Dansk Børnefond”. Our objectives for 2013 • Continue to support children in in need • Continue our sponsorships 20 Planet – our environmental responsibility UN Global Compact’s principles on Planet Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 21 Commitment Ticket to Heaven will actively contribute to a minimisation of the environmental impact caused by the production of our clothes and in relation to the administration of our business. Areas of focus: • Environmental improvements relating to the operation of our offices and in our concept stores • Systematic work with the restriction of chemicals in accordance with existing EU regulations on chemical legislation REACH. • Oeko-Tex 100 22 Overall objectives 2015 • Min. 50% reduction of CO2-emissions (per turn over) • Environmentally friendly material to be used for caused by the business in Denmark. Baseline is 2011 catalogues and other kinds of published PR green accounting. • Rethink the transportation from Asia to Europa to shorten the transport route. • Min. 30% reduction of use of paper per year. Baseline is 2011. • Introduce ‘slow steaming’ when possible • Min. 90% of all transportation of goods from Asia to Denmark has to be by ship, not by air. Baseline is 2011 • Introduction of environmentally friendly cleaning detergents and office supplies including printing paper when possible 23 Focus areas 2012 • Investigate CO2 reducing actions in countries of production • Introduction of cleaning detergents certified by the Nordic Swan, by EU-Flower or by another environmental certificate • Introduction of as many environmental friendly office suppliers including printing paper as possible • Printing policy • Introduction of environmental friendly material to be used for catalogue 24 Results 2012 To ensure a reduction in the CO2 emission we have taken a row of initiatives in 2012: • One company engine driven car was replaced with an • We are minimising the transport via airplane from Asia to electrical car. The car was leased in the beginning of 2012 Denmark to max 2 % of our total transport • We primarily use ’slow steaming’. Slow steaming is • We have opened our own factory in China in 2012 in containerships, sailing with reduced speed, whereby the CO2 order to be able to control and monitor CO2 emissions emission is approximately 20% less than conventional coming from production. shipping • We have switched to using CO2 neutral paper for our • We introduced environmentally friendly cleaning; in addition catalogues to this we have introduced guide lines for the purchase of environmentally friendly office supplies • We have initiated a printing policy 25 Environmental objectives and results 2012 Objectives • Min 10% reduction of use of paper compared to 2011 • Recycling of paper (separation of waste) • 90% of the transportation between Asia and Denmark to be by ship Results • All paper has been replaced with environmental friendly paper. • Paper consumption has remained the same and thus the 2011 objective has not been fulfilled.* • Paper recycling has been initiated in headquarters. • 98 % of transportation between Asia and Denmark has been by ship. The remaining 2 % covers sales samples transported by airplane. We never transport orders by airplane. * The objective still stands and new initiatives have been implemented in order to reach the objective of reducing paper consumption with 10 % every year. These initiatives include double-side printing. 26 Chemical restriction Oeko-Tex Standard 100 Ticket to Heaven have worked with chemical restriction earlier through the Oeko-Tex Standard 100, but in 2011 we have focused even more on this effort, among other things through a systematic programme for testing of chemicals in the clothing and through precise demands and guidelines for our suppliers. We demand from our suppliers that all yard goods should be produced in line with the Oeko-Tex 100 Standard. How is compliance with the Oeko-Tex standard ensured? Our core suppliers of yard goods know the demands from Oeko-Tex, since they also produce for other European clothing companies, with the same requests for standard. However Ticket to Heaven does not settle for this information alone. Based on risk assessment we have pointed out certain product lines which have been tested in 2011. All test results have been satisfactory. In 2012 we will also conduct a testing programme. If one of our suppliers fails to comply with the demands formulated by Oeko-tex all cooperation is terminated immedialtely. Further the supplier will be blacklisted in cooperation with Danish Ministry of the Environment. 27 Animal Welfare Ticket to Heaven have been working on CSR since 2008, but in 2011 we have brought the area further into focus by preparing a CSR-strategy for 2011 – 2015. One of our four main areas is animal welfare. At Ticket to Heaven we are attentive to animal welfare. We are opposed to the rearing of animals solely for the production of clothes. We have the following policy regarding animal welfare: • We never use fur of any kind in any of our products, since we cannot guarantee that the animals have been raised under responsible conditions. • We only use down and feathers from ducks raised for the food industry. • We do not use down or feathers plucked from live ducks • We do not use wool from sheep exposed to ‘mulesing’, which is the removal of strips of wool-bearing skin from around the breech (buttocks) of a sheep to prevent maggot infestation. We ask our suppliers to sign a warranty on these issues. If one of our suppliers fails to comply with our policy regarding animal welfare, all cooperation is terminated immedialtely. 28 Animal Welfare continued International Down and Feather Lab Our suppliers of down jackets have signed a statement and have received certification which prove that the down is solely a by-product from the food industry, and that it is not plucked from live ducks. We are aware that a signature alone is not proof enough in itself, which is why we have further investigated these conditions. We have been in close dialogue with a leading laboratory on the subject of down, International Down and Feather Lab (IDFL). IDFL has ensured us that feathers from ducks are never plucked from live animals.. It is solely feathers from geese which are plucked from live animals, but primarily when they are moulting. Ticket to Heaven do not use down from geese. 29 Profit – our economic responsibility UN Global Compact’s principle on Profit Anti-corruption Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion 30 Profit – our economic responsibility Anti-corruption and bribery It is our ambition to work against corruption and bribery in our countries of production. We are aware that corruption and bribery are areas of major concern and are a common phenomenon in several of our production countries, especially China. We have opened our own factory in China in 2012 in order to be able to control and exclude bribery among our suppliers. Sustainable economy It is our ambition to continue to have a sustainable economy. The situation of finance and banking has generally been very difficult. As a result of descending orders and the general economic development we have been forced to make some costs reductions. Regrettably these reductions include redundancies among our staff. We have made several actions for those among our staff to whom the redundancies relate. This is done in order to make the situation more bearable for them and to improve their chances to find new jobs. These actions include coaching and recommendations. 31 Profit – our economic responsibility Overall objectives 2015 • A 20 % growth of total turnover Our objectives for 2012 • We plan to open our own factory in China in order to be able to control and exclude bribery among our suppliers. • Uphold a sustainable economy Results 2012 • We have successfully opened our own factory in China • A sustainable economy is still key to the on going of our organisation. A new CEO has been associated with our company. His job is to make it possible to reach the 2015 objective in cooperation with the rest of the organisation. 32 Thank you for reading • Our next Communicating on Progress report will be available Spring 2014. 33
