Securing Your World G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Inside this report G4S is the world’s leading Overview 1 Performance highlights international security 2 4 Chief Executive’s interview G4S around the world solutions group. 6 Who we are and what we do 8 9 How we do it Where we do it G4S plays an important role in 10 Our business characteristics society. We make a difference by 12 Interview with Mark Elliott – Our CSR strategy 14 In focus: The importance of human rights helping people to operate in a safe Safeguarding our integrity 19 Key achievements in 2012 and secure environment where 19 Priorities for 2013 they can thrive and prosper and 20 Material issues and actions we believe this role can only grow Securing our people 25 Key achievements in 2012 in importance. 25 Priorities for 2013 26 Material issues and actions G4S is the largest employer on Securing our environment 32 Key achievements in 2012 the London Stock Exchange, 32 32 Priorities for 2013 Material issues and actions with operations in more than Securing our communities 125 countries and over 620,000 35 35 Key achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 employees. 35 Material issues and actions Supporting data In this report we feature the 38 39 Safeguarding our integrity Securing our employees important work carried out 40 Securing our environment by our employees across our 41 Securing our communities 44 Voluntary standards 125 countries. We are proud Cover image of the role they play in securing G4S 4teen athlete Mariana Pajón, from Colombia, plays table tennis with children at Sabio Caldas School your world. on the outskirts of Bogota. Having won her country’s only gold medal at the London 2012 Olympic Games, Mariana visited the school as part of G4S’s ongoing commitment to helping young people from disadvantaged areas to fulﬁl their potential. Performance highlights Overview Performance highlights CSR performance in 2012 Safeguarding our integrity Group turnover* £bn £7.3bn Strategic development t Increased membership of the CSR Committee 7.3 t Development of a new human rights policy and guidance framework for 6.5 6.6 6.8 +8.1% all G4S businesses and employees, based upon the UN Guiding Principles 5.5 on Business & Human Rights t Active commitment to the Principles of the UN Global Compact and Securing our people 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 alignment of both our CSR and UN Global Compact “Communication on Progress” reporting requirements t Continued participation in the development of the International Code PBITA** £m £516m of Conduct for Private Security Providers 458 483 487 516 Safeguarding our integrity +6.0% 391 t Performed 150 business risk assessments and 146 on-site internal risk control audits Securing our environment t Following implementation of anti-bribery controls, we have completed 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 37 country audits to measure business ethics compliance t Completed implementation of “Safe2Say”, the group’s global 24-hour Adjusted EPS+ pence 21.2p freephone whistle-blowing hotline 20.2 21.6 20.5 21.2 Securing our people 16.7 +3.4% t Reduced work-related fatalities by 22% from 76 to 59 t Made good progress in the implementation of the action plans from Securing our communities Critical Country Reviews of health and safety 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 t Formation of a road safety steering group and development of an action plan to reduce accidents t Representation of women in management increased from 21% to 22.5% Dividend pence per share 8.96p and in front line roles from 10.7% to 12.1% t Development of new induction, training and appraisal tools to improve 8.53 8.96 7.90 +5.0% engagement with employees and provide better feedback to managers 7.18 6.43 Securing our environment Supporting data 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 t The G4S 2012 total carbon footprint in 2012 was 612,000 t/CO2e t Achieved overall reduction in carbon intensity of 4.3% in 2012 t Achieved a 16% reduction in carbon intensity between 2009 and 2012 Operating cash ﬂow*** £492m against a target of 13% 95% of PBITA Securing our communities t Invested over £2 million in charitable community programmes and welfare of employees, facing health or ﬁnancial hardship Organic turnover growth* 6.9% t Through the G4S 4teen programme, G4S successfully helped ﬁve young athletes to achieve their ambition of competing at the (2011: 5.1%) London 2012 Olympic Games * 2011 and 2012 at constant (2012) exchange rates, adjusted for disposals and discontinued businesses and ex Olympics contract. 2008–2010 as reported ** PBITA is deﬁned as proﬁt before interest, taxation, amortisation of acquisition-related intangible assets, acquisition-related costs and exceptional items *** As deﬁned by management + 2011 and 2012 at constant (2012) exchange rates, adjusted for disposals and discontinued businesses and excluding Olympics contract. 2008–2010 as reported. EPS attributable to equity shareholders of G4S plc was 3.4p in 2012 and 12.9p in 2011. For 2012 EPS attributable to equity shareholders includes items of £88m related to the Olympic Games contract, £45m of restructuring costs and a £63m loss related to discontinued items. For a full reconciliation, see page 104 of the G4S Annual Report and Accounts 2012. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 1 Overview Chief Executive’s interview Securing our future Why is CSR important to G4S? As well as having a large number of employees across the world, our business brings us into contact with many other people – whether they are held within a G4S-managed G4S is one of the world’s largest private employers and facility (such as a prison) or whether they are a member the nature of the business we are in and the countries of the public – making sure that the way we interact with and markets in which we operate mean that we form people and take care of those within our responsibility an important part of many societies and impact the in terms of protecting and realising their human rights is lives of millions of people all over the world – it is our very important. We have focused signiﬁcantly on human responsibility to make sure that the impact we have is a rights during 2012 and have developed new policies positive one. and extensive guidelines for our businesses, based on the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights There are many beneﬁts of having an embedded CSR developed by the UN Special Representative, John Ruggie. strategy and operating to high ethical and other standards – it enables us to do better business. It helps to attract See pages 14 to17 for more details and retain staff, it helps to win business in a competitive environment where we need to stand out from others, Of course, whilst these are the most material CSR it helps to attract investment to support the growth issues for the group, our CSR strategy is far more and development of the company and, most of all, it wide-ranging and incorporates a broad range of topics helps to generate pride in the company from everyone including supporting local communities, workforce connected to it. diversity, recycling, carbon reduction and many other issues. We regularly assess the materiality of these issues What are the material CSR issues to ensure that our CSR strategy remains focused on the which are relevant to the group? key priorities for the group. Having such an important role in many societies brings What are the biggest challenges with it some key responsibilities which are at the heart to achieving your CSR objectives? of our CSR strategy. Operating ethically and without tolerating any form of corruption is essential for our One of our biggest challenges is the continual drive to business and differentiates us from less reputable reduce staff injuries and fatalities of those staff who work in companies in a number of markets. difficult environments where they can be subject to attack or through other causes, such as road traffic accidents. Taking care of our staff and ensuring their safety is also We also face challenges in ensuring that everyone within key – we have a responsibility not just to them, but to the group understands what we mean by CSR, why it is their wider families to ensure they can work in a safe and important to the group and their role in ensuring we live secure environment. Sadly, in our business, our employees up to our CSR standards and commitments. can be subject to attack by criminals, but we make sure we do everything we can to keep them safe and to protect See pages 25 to 30 for more details them from harm both within G4S premises and when they are representing the company elsewhere. 2 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 How do you make sure that serious injury or fatality while on duty and, while our aim Overview is to eliminate all fatalities within our business, I am pleased everyone understands the to note that during 2012 our efforts have contributed to a importance of CSR and their role in 22% reduction in work-related fatalities. achieving the company’s goals? Following the enactment of the UK Bribery Act in 2011, our internal audit team completed a full programme of Communicating with and educating managers and front Bribery Act compliance audits across 37 countries. These line staff on CSR is a big challenge in an organisation of visits were made in addition to the standard internal our size and complexity, but our practical and ﬂexible audit programme. approach means that it works well. New employees are Safeguarding our integrity introduced to many aspects of business ethics and CSR In 2009, we set ourselves the challenging objective to during their recruitment, induction and training processes. reduce our carbon intensity by 13% by the end of 2012. Utilising a combination of employee engagement and Where speciﬁc training is required, for example to training, technology replacement programmes and prevent bribery or corruption, we establish tailored renewable energy solutions, we have worked to increase training and assessment programmes to suit all relevant the energy efficiency of our group and I am pleased to levels of the workforce which are delivered in multiple report that we have achieved an overall reduction in languages and through a variety of methods – whether it carbon intensity of 16% over the three year period. is online, by DVD, in the classroom or simply through a Securing our people written workbook. See pages 32 to 33 for more details Our business ethics policy, which summarises many G4S plc became a signatory of the United Nations aspects of the group’s approach to CSR matters, is Global Compact in 2011 and we submitted our ﬁrst reviewed every year to make sure it contains the very ‘Communication on Progress’ early last year. The ten latest and most important issues which are relevant to principles of the Global Compact continue to be reﬂected the group and its operations. Managers are asked to sign in our business ethics policy and I am pleased to reaffirm up to the policy every year to demonstrate their own our commitment to the principles as they help to shape compliance with its content and to conﬁrm the compliance our CSR strategy. of those people within their speciﬁc area of responsibility. Securing our environment See page 44 for more details We have in place strong audit and compliance programmes to test awareness of key policies and their practical use within the business. We also have global and What targets or goals are you local whistle-blowing hotlines where non-compliance can setting on CSR for 2013? be reported and acted on. Our number one goal is to continue to reduce the How would you sum up the group’s number of fatalities and injuries to our staff across the CSR performance in 2012? world and we have a number of programmes in place Securing our communities to achieve this. I am pleased to say that our CSR performance continues Our internal audit team play a vital role with this during to improve signiﬁcantly every year and we have made their visits to our businesses around the world. They can substantial progress in a number of areas. provide assurance that the policies and guidelines are being followed effectively, but they can also advise and One of our most signiﬁcant steps forward this year has facilitate sharing best practice. been in terms of developing and launching a new human rights policy and guidance for managers. We felt that it Having recently launched our human rights policy was important to be clear about our expectations of and guidelines, we need to make sure that everyone Supporting data employees and other stakeholders in relation to human understands their role in living up to the requirements rights issues and to ensure that other group policies and of the policy and ensuring that we have the right procedures were aligned to a clear, G4S-wide, position monitoring and measurement processes in place so that, on human rights matters. if the standards are not being met, we are quickly made aware of it and action can be taken. The good news is that, having assessed our human rights practices, we already had many safeguards in place to Our Climate Action Programme has helped G4S to reduce ensure that we comply with human rights requirements its carbon intensity signiﬁcantly since 2009. We want to and in many ways contribute to a more positive human keep up that progress and so aim to achieve an overall rights environment. Our new policy and guidelines provide reduction of at least 20% by the end of 2015. a more systematic approach to human rights and provide practical guidance to managers to help with decisionOverall, we need to maintain the great momentum making around human rights issues. we have developed on CSR matters and to ensure we continue to build on the good progress we have made A core focus of our CSR strategy during 2012 was to in this area in recent years. continue to reduce the level of work-related fatalities, particularly related to road traffic incidents. We are Nick Buckles implementing a number of strategies to help prevent Chief executive officer G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 3 Overview G4S around the world United Kingdom With operations in 125 countries and The G4S UK ﬂeet utilises satellite over 620,000 employees, the reach tracking to enable real-time monitoring and feedback on driver behaviour, of our CSR activities are truly global. reducing traffic accidents and Here is a snapshot of some of our key increasing fuel efficiency. achievements in 2012. Canada Since 2009, G4S Canada has achieved a 20% reduction in carbon intensity through our Climate Action Programme. Colombia Supported by the G4S 4teen programme, BMX rider Mariana Pajon achieved her ambition of winning gold for her country at the London 2012 Olympics. Africa In Africa our increased focus on Critical Country Reviews of health and safety have helped reduce work related fatalities by 19% between 2011 and 2012. Countries in which G4S operates 4 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Safeguarding our integrity Greece With support from G4S, the Ark of the World project in Athens helps to Number of worldwide operations 125+ provide a safe environment for over 200 children and their families. Number of employees 620,500 Securing our people Thailand Securing our environment The G4S Employee’s Trust granted more than £260,000 to employees who suffered loss during the recent Securing our communities devastating ﬂoods. Africa India Australia Supporting data In the countries where HIV and AIDS In 2012, we completed the Since 2009 we’ve saved over 540,000 are most prevalent, G4S provides implementation of our Indian whistlelitres of drinking water at Port Philip awareness and prevention training blowing hotline, serving over 129,000 Prison as part of the G4S Climate for its employees, as well as voluntary employees across the country. Action Programme and our ongoing testing and counselling. commitment to reducing water usage. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 5 Overview Who we are and what we do Our business Shape of the organisation G4S is the world’s leading international G4S employs over 620,000 people security solutions group, specialising in making it one of the world’s largest outsourcing in countries and secure private employers. sectors where security and safety risks are considered a strategic threat. Employees by geographical segment North America G4S plays an important role in society. 9% 58,600 We make a difference by helping Continental Europe people to operate in safe and secure 12% 76,700 environments where they can thrive and Latin America and Caribbean 12% 74,100 prosper and we believe this role can only Africa grow in importance. 18% 111,400 Middle East G4S is the largest employer on the 7% 44,500 London Stock Exchange, with operations Asia 33% 207,800 in more than 125 countries and over UK and Ireland 620,000 employees. 8% 47,400 Total average number of employees 100% 620,500 Group turnover in 2012 (2011: £6.7bn*) £7.3bn The global employee headcount has reduced from 657,000 to 620,500 as a result of number of divestments made in 2012 such as businesses in Poland and Pakistan and the reclassiﬁcation of seasonal workers in India who Group PBITA in 2012 (2011: £490m*) £516m have not worked for certain periods. Our Asia Middle East region continues to be the largest region with over 252,300 employees whilst the headcount Employees (2011: 657,000) 620,500** in the Americas region has increased to 132,700: 58,600 in North America and 74,100 in Latin America and the Caribbean due mainly to acquisitions in Brazil. Revenues from developing markets (2011: 31%) 33% * At constant exchange rates adjusted for disposals and discontinued G4S employees by role Front line employees businesses and excluding Olympic contract 90% ** Reclassiﬁcation of seasonal workers in India means they are no longer included in the headcount Supervisor/ﬁrst line managers 5.7% Other 3.1% Managers 1.2% 6 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Our structure Safeguarding our integrity G4S is managed through a regional structure led by four regional CEOs and a regional president. The regional CEOs are members of the Group Executive team, along with a number of key functional directors. Securing our people Nick Buckles Group chief executive Securing our environment Trevor Dighton Søren Irene Cowden Debbie Walker Graham Levinsohn Chief ﬁnancial officer Lundsberg-Nielsen Group HR director Group communications Group strategy and Group general counsel director development director Securing our communities Grahame Gibson Richard Morris Dan Ryan Willem van de Ven Regional CEO Regional CEO Regional CEO Regional CEO Americas UK and Ireland Asia Middle East Europe Supporting data G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 7 Overview How we do it Our vision Our values Our vision is to be recognised as the We are proud of our distinctive culture global leader in providing secure and strong values that are cascaded outsourcing solutions, to help customers through the organisation. These values achieve their own strategic goals and to guide how we conduct our business deliver sustainable growth for G4S and and develop positive relationships with long-term value for shareholders. all stakeholders. Customer focus Our business objectives We have close, open relationships with our customers that generate trust and we work in partnership for the mutual beneﬁt of Our strategy for growth consists of our organisations. the following key components. Expertise We develop and demonstrate our expertise through our innovative and leading-edge approach Drive Deliver to creating and delivering the right solution. organic margin growth improvement Performance We challenge ourselves to improve performance year-on-year and to create long-term sustainability. Optimise Build and organisational protect development reputation Best people We always take care to employ the best people, develop their competence, provide opportunities and inspire them to live our values. Integrity We can always be trusted to do the right thing. Teamwork and collaboration We collaborate for the beneﬁt of G4S as a whole. 8 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Where we do it Overview Our key sectors and customers Our geographic reach Safeguarding our integrity Our two key customer groups G4S has a unique global footprint are commercial businesses and with operations in over 125 countries, governments. In the commercial sector including a strong presence in higher we have a broad customer base with growth developing markets. thousands of commercial customers Securing our people ranging from small local companies to Turnover by region 2012* large multinational corporations. The duration of customer contracts vary, from high19% North America3 proﬁle annual contracts for securing sporting or entertainment events to 25-year government contracts for the construction and management of prisons. 48% Europe1 In practice, many of our customer relationships are long-term and result in contracts being renewed Securing our environment regularly, resulting in high customer retention rates that 33% Developing markets2 are above 90% averaged across the group annually. * Excluding Olympic Games contract and adjusted for disposals Turnover by sector 2012* and discontinued businesses % 1 Major corporates and industrials 100% UK, Ireland and Continental Europe 2 Middle East and Gulf States, Latin America and the Caribbean, 28% Africa, South Asia and Asia Paciﬁc 3 USA and Canada Government Securing our communities 23% Financial institutions 19% Retail 9% Private energy and utilities 8% Supporting data Ports and airports 4% Consumers 4% Transport and logistics 3% Leisure and tourism 2% * excluding Olympic Games contract G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 9 Overview Our business characteristics Our key strengths Our key strengths are what differentiate us in the market: Integrated security solutions Strong developing markets presence G4S is able to design and manage security solutions that G4S’s global presence, market share and experience of bring together its capabilities in project management, working in developing markets constitute key strengths. risk consultancy, secure facilities management, physical Relatively high levels of GDP growth in certain security, intelligent systems and high quality securitydeveloping markets, increasing demand for security trained personnel to address the security challenges services and G4S’s ability to export its experience faced by a broad range of customers around the world. from its operations in more developed markets drive positive revenue and margin trends for the group in developing markets. Cash solutions expertise Solutions approach Understanding and managing cash cycles is one of the Each individual area of the business is a driver of value group’s core skills. Central banks, commercial banks for the group. But it is when they come together and retailers outsource their cash management to that they truly make a difference. Exporting G4S’s G4S as the group has the capability and experience government expertise to new countries, leveraging to drive substantial efficiencies in the system and its cash solutions model across developing markets achieve better returns for our customers over and using its global risk management and security the longer term. capabilities to protect some of the world’s best known brands across international markets, drive even greater value for the group. Government partnerships Government outsourcing is a strong, long-term source of growth as public sector spending remains under pressure and governments turn to the private sector to provide a number of outsourced services. Government contracts, which represented approximately 23% of group revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012, tend to be long-term strategic partnerships, with recurring revenues. 10 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Our investment attributes Safeguarding our integrity G4S creates shareholder value as a result of a number of core investment attributes. Growth G4S has delivered strong organic growth since its creation in 2004, performing well above global GDP growth despite recent pressure on t Organic revenue growth the economic environment. We are able to do this as a result of our t Developing markets exposure signiﬁcant and increasing exposure to higher growth developing markets t Major position in UK and leading market positions in key growth markets such as the UK Securing our people Government outsourcing sector, where growth is strong and expected Government outsourcing to continue. Organic growth is supplemented by disciplined re-investment t A GDP + growth business of free cash ﬂow in acquisitions focused on extending our developing t Disciplined M&A markets presence in key growth countries and adding capability to help address the needs of customers in growing sectors. Securing our environment Resilience Our business is well diversiﬁed across more than 125 countries and numerous customer sectors, with no over-reliance on any single area. t Well diversiﬁed business Security is at the core of our service proposition and is one of the areas t Defensive services on which governments and commercial customers focus for cost-savings t Structural growth through the cycle and reductions during economically challenging times, creating opportunities for outsourcing. We have a growing number of long-term contracts coupled t High customer retention and with excellent customer relationships and a customer service culture which visibility of earnings result in strong customer retention rates and good earnings visibility. Securing our communities Strong ﬁnancial disciplines Our track record of delivery has been achieved within a framework of strong ﬁnancial discipline focusing on operational efficiency to drive t Operational efficiency and margin expansion and a continual focus on high levels of cash generation. Supporting data margin expansion We look to achieve an appropriate balance in our capital structure t Free cash ﬂow generation/ between investment in acquisitions and investment returns through a progressive dividend policy. cash conversion t Disciplined and coherent M&A/ capital return policy These attributes, combined with the growing reputation of G4S as the world’s leading security solutions provider, should result in superior returns for our investors over the longer term. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 11 Overview Interview with Mark Elliott Our CSR strategy How is CSR managed within to the chairman role, provides an essential oversight role to review and agree the company’s CSR strategy to the group? ensure it remains an integral part of the group’s overall strategy and that CSR objectives are aligned to the overall Given the nature of our business and the countries in business performance. The CSR Committee also monitors which we operate, CSR matters are at the heart of the compliance with the group’s policies and practices and strategy and are key to the overall success of the business. ensures that CSR-related issues are considered thoroughly Therefore, they are part of the every-day workings of the during business decision-making processes. We regularly group. The delivery of the CSR strategy is fundamentally receive speciﬁc feedback on material CSR matters for the responsibility of the line management, from the CEO consideration and review decisions taken by the Group right through to the country heads and operational and Executive team to make sure they align with our CSR functional managers throughout the group. goals and practices. At a group level, functional or subject matter experts How do you prioritise your take responsibility for co-ordination of speciﬁc areas of the strategy. For example, matters relating to areas CSR activities? such as health & safety, employee engagement, talent management, and diversity are co-ordinated by the Last year, we conducted a CSR materiality exercise to senior Human Resources teams. Issues concerning antiassess the views of senior managers within G4S and corruption, audit and compliance are part of the group’s those of external stakeholders to ensure that we focus overall focus on risk management. on the most important issues for the group. Given the nature of our business, our large workforce and our Managers everywhere are encouraged to get involved geographic diversity, it was no surprise that the exercise in industry associations and trade bodies and speciﬁc highlighted human rights, employee engagement, health individuals take responsibility for leading the way on issues & safety, business ethics and anti-corruption as priorities such as human rights, climate action and community for the group – these are the areas that would have the investment. These roles do not exist just to satisfy a most material effect on the business’s performance or CSR requirement, they are fundamental to ensuring the reputation if they were not managed carefully. quality and reliability of G4S services all over the world, across every service line – contributing to the overall Our CSR strategy includes a much broader range of sustainability and success of the group. topics, but these are the areas where management and the CSR Committee focus the majority of their The CSR Committee, which comprises four other nonefforts. The CSR committee will review these priorities executive G4S plc board directors, Winnie Fok, Clare regularly in the light of changing business circumstances Spottiswoode, Bo Lerenius and Paul Spence, in addition or environments. 12 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Who are the main CSR-related How much oversight does the Safeguarding our integrity stakeholders and how do you CSR Committee and the Board have engage with them? of CSR matters? For us, the most important stakeholder group must We have a very comprehensive oversight of the material be our employees and their representatives – they are CSR matters. For example, last year we introduced the face of the company and are key to the success of an enhanced methodology for assessing signiﬁcant the business. acquisitions and new country entries, taking into account speciﬁc CSR matters and external human rights and antiSecuring our people It is essential that they understand their role in service corruption benchmarks. In 2012, we reviewed proposed delivery, have the appropriate training and resources to do new activities in nine countries across Asia, the Middle their jobs, are rewarded appropriately, feel motivated to East and Africa and were able to ratify recommendations work in sometimes complex or challenging environments made by the Group Executive on supporting country and have the ability to raise issues conﬁdentially if they entries, declining or postponing country entries in have any concerns about their area of the business. countries with major challenges or limiting our activity to speciﬁc types of contracts in support of NGO We use a variety of methods of employee engagement or UN operations in some environments. This has which are delivered locally and in a way which is proven to be a very useful exercise in assessing such appropriate for the local culture and environment. geographic expansion. Securing our environment One of the most important of those methods is an employee survey which takes place every two years, We have also had detailed involvement in the targeting the entire workforce. Historically, the response development of human rights policies and practices and rate to this survey has been excellent, with responses have reviewed materials and discussed implementation from over 245,000 colleagues from across the world challenges for the company within the CSR Committee. and it provides extremely valuable feedback on employee On a regular basis we review reports, materials and views and issues. The next survey is due to take place assessments provided by different contributors to CSR in the ﬁrst half of 2013 and we will report on its ﬁndings matters and help to make sure that the group’s CSR in our next CSR report. activities remain on track. Securing our communities Elsewhere we regularly engage with customers through How do you feel the CSR strategy account management, surveys and operational reviews. We have strong relationships with the investor community is progressing? which includes CSR meetings targeted speciﬁcally at Socially Responsible Investment advisors and fund I am delighted with how the CSR strategy has developed managers which provide essential feedback and help to within the group to become a core part of the business shape our CSR strategy. We also encourage engagement strategy and service delivery. I believe that it differentiates and participation with governments and regulators, G4S from other companies within its key sectors and industry bodies, and relevant experts where we feel brings other beneﬁts such as attracting and retaining staff Supporting data their expertise can help to improve our CSR plans and and winning new business. business strategies. It’s an important part of the culture of the company and For more information on G4S stakeholder I have been proud to be associated with its development engagement and industry participation, through the CSR Committee. please visit www.g4s.com/stakeholders Mark Elliott Non-executive director and chairman of the CSR Committee G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 13 Overview In focus The importance of human rights We recognise that G4S can play a positive and negative role in respecting human rights around the world. Our businesses can contribute positively to the realisation of human rights by the range of services we offer to protect people and enable them to enjoy their rights. We also recognise that we have a duty to ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights through the services we provide, the customers we work with, and the suppliers we use and through the fair and appropriate treatment of our own employees and others who are in our care. 14 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Securing our environment Securing our communities Supporting data G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 15 Overview In focus: The importance of Human Rights continued G4S plays a key role in societies all over the world and The third and most time-consuming phase was to develop has developed a broad culture of high ethical standards and test a human rights policy and guidance for managers and operational practices. Many existing G4S policies to implement across the group. During this process we and procedures already take great care to ensure that sought input and feedback from a number of external we respect human rights. Our employment policies, sources such as Dr Hugo Slim, Senior Research Fellow at professional standards and the due diligence we carry out the Oxford Institute for Ethics, Law and Armed Conﬂict, to assess the suitability of new markets, products, business as well as leading SRI analysts and human rights NGOs to partners, and customers, ensure respect for human rights. supplement our own understanding and ideas. Increasingly, customers and other stakeholders are Policy framework looking to companies such as G4S to demonstrate speciﬁc As a result of our extensive research and analysis, we have actions and practices which are aligned to internationally developed a new human rights policy which is based on recognised human rights standards so they can be judged the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights on a level playing ﬁeld. Our human rights project seeks to (2011) which affirms the four international standards bring G4S existing practices into line with these standards which have achieved broad international consensus as a and introduce new guidelines in areas which are not human rights baseline for all businesses: covered by existing policies and practices. t The Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1947) These standards support one of the group’s core values t The International Covenant on Civil and – integrity: we can always be trusted to do the right thing, but it goes further than just being the right thing to do – Political Rights (1966) having such high standards of human rights differentiates t The International Convention on Economic, Social and us from other companies and helps to create a sustainable, Cultural Rights (1966) long term successful business which in turn improves t The International Labour Organisation Declaration on standards, creates jobs, supports communities and Fundamental Rights at Work (1998) maximises the impact on societies around the world. This G4S “Human Rights Policy” demonstrates our Project overview commitment to respect human rights and embodies our Last year we began a project to evaluate the human rights particular understanding of their signiﬁcance for a global landscape in relation to the G4S businesses and to develop security company of our scale and diversity. It recognises a policy and guidance for managers which set out clearly that we sometimes work in complex environments and the group’s expectations of managers and employees in that the role that security plays in society means that we upholding human rights standards. have to be aware of the potential challenges to human rights issues and to our ability to uphold the standards that The ﬁrst phase of the project was to map the human we have set ourselves. It also sets our expectations for the rights landscape and to deﬁne which areas should be a key conduct of all companies in the group, our employees and focus for the group – this helped us to identify the core those with whom we do business. human rights which are relevant in our line of business. This was a complex task taking into account our presence The G4S “Human Rights Guidance for Managers” aims to in more than 125 countries and the range of complex provide managers with detailed guidance on the group’s services and wide range of stakeholders with which G4S expectations along with practical guidance for ensuring comes into contact. that the area of the business within their responsibility complies with the relevant standards. It references both The second phase was to analyse the group’s operations internal and external sources and provides simple human to determine human rights risks and challenges against rights due diligence checklists for managers to use in a internationally recognised human rights standards in variety of circumstances. We have tried to ensure that a order to identify current good practice and areas for complex subject matter is explained clearly to managers improvement. This enabled us to create a “heatmap” and that they have a practical sense of what is required of of higher risk areas and a series of key issues on which them and those within their area of responsibility. to focus. 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Current status Safeguarding our integrity Following extensive internal and external consultation, In 2012, G4S has continued to work on integrating we completed the new human rights policy and guidance the UN Guidelines on Business and Human Rights for managers and launched them earlier this year as part into its many businesses around the world. Senior of our annual process of renewing and refreshing our management and the board’s CSR Committee have business ethics policy. Managers are asked to sign up to now agreed the company’s ﬁrst human rights policy the business ethics and associated policies each year to and elaborated a simple guidance framework for demonstrate their understanding of their content and managers throughout the G4S group. commitment to complying with the policies across their area of responsibility. The human rights policy was launched recently Securing our people and is publicly available. It puts human rights due The policy is available online and can be accessed via diligence at the centre of the company’s approach to the Social Responsibility section of our website at responsible business. A series of internal guidance www.g4s.com/csr. documents introduce the UN framework, explain how best to carry out human rights due diligence, and sets out an obligatory human rights checklist for Next steps high risk countries. Looking forward, our next challenge is to ensure that the policy and guidance for managers is embedded across I have advised on this work and also consulted the organisation at every level and becomes an everyday NGO experts in the process. The people I have part of doing business. During our project work, we have Securing our environment worked with at G4S have shown real intent to identiﬁed that many G4S processes and practices already produce a meaningful policy that will reduce the focus on key human rights matters, so we are keen not risk of any form of company involvement in human to create additional burdensome reporting and auditing rights violations. The G4S team has also produced of our businesses, but we will make sure that all elements appropriate staff guidance that will encourage: of the policy and guidelines are understood and acted greater awareness of human rights across all G4S upon either through existing means or by introducing new businesses; improve human rights due diligence, methods where gaps have been identiﬁed. and begin the process of speciﬁc reporting on the company’s impact on human rights. During the implementation phase of the project in 2013, Securing our communities there are a number of areas that we will focus on: With a policy and guidance now in place, the priority for 2013 must be to embed the company’s t Introduction of an awareness programme to make sure new approach to human rights. This will require everyone is aware of the key human rights issues and a comprehensive programme of communication their responsibility for upholding the G4S standards and staff training. This needs to be accompanied by t Introduction of a systematic approach to human demanding leadership from company executives and rights analysis and due diligence – this is already in the CSR Committee which has taken responsibility place for monitoring new country entry and major for G4S’ overall accountability on human rights. contract proposals, but could be extended to other Supporting data Shareholders, NGOs and members of the public business practices. For example, building human rights now have a public policy that sets out G4S’ requirements into our supplier code of conduct commitment on human rights. I hope they will use it t Ensuring that existing policies and processes have the constructively to build an increasingly sophisticated relevant human rights elements within them and that dialogue with the company about the many different they are understood by employees roles it plays to protect people and ensure their t Further developing our internal audit process and security around the world. programme to monitor human rights awareness, Dr Hugo Slim understanding and policy compliance Senior research fellow t Ensuring that if any breaches of the policy are identiﬁed Oxford institute of ethics, appropriate action is taken and that we can learn from law and armed conﬂict our growing knowledge of human rights matters t Continue to seek advice from external human rights experts to ensure that the group’s policies and processes reﬂect best practice G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 17 Diego Bogota, Colombia I’ve carried out audits in 30 countries around the world making a positive difference to audit ratings and improving control and compliance with our standards and procedures. We are proud to be safeguarding our integrity. 18 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Safeguarding our Overview integrity G4S plays an important role in society. We make a difference by helping people Safeguarding our integrity to operate in a safe and secure environment where they can thrive and prosper. Our size and scale means we touch the lives of millions of people across the globe and we have a duty and desire to ensure the inﬂuence we have makes a positive impact on the people and communities in which we work. Key achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 Securing our people Risk assessment t 150 business-completed risk assessments t Establish Risk Committee as a full board committee with strengthened mechanisms for reviewing risk t Ensure effective follow up to issues raised in risk assessments t Critically review risk assessment process to ensure it Securing our environment continues to meet our requirements Internal audit t Completed 146 on-site internal risk control audits t Improve overall co-ordination of corporate audit t Conducted external extended assurance work on with local and other auditors across the group ﬁnancial controls in six of our UK businesses t Further enhance reporting of combined audit and Securing our communities t Completed 37 country audits to measure compliance assurance activities to management with G4S business ethics controls t To implement any additional audit requirements in t Carried out six investigations resulting from relation to new human rights policy and guidelines whistle-blowing Whistle-blowing Supporting data t Completed implementation of “Safe2Say” the group’s t Continue to promote whistle-blowing facilities to all global whistle-blowing hotline staff through multiple channels t Implemented local hotline in India serving 129,300 t Introduce grading system for calls received and employees across the country ensure they are investigated appropriately G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 19 Safeguarding our integrity continued Context and trends Monitoring and measurement Integrity is one of the group’s core values – it is an integral Risk Assessment part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation To ensure compliance with our business ethics code on which we carry out our business. In our view, ethical and policies we ask businesses, as part of the G4S risk business is not just a solution to the challenges of legislation assessment process, to assess and report on their business or legal compliance, but a means of doing business which ethics risks and compliance with the ethics policy. This provides customers, employees, partners and communities is a comprehensive process with businesses required to the conﬁdence that they are working with an ethical respond to 94 questions covering risk assessment and organisation which is not prepared to compromise on its adequate procedures compliance. integrity just to achieve its objectives or make money. Each business entity has a quantiﬁed risk score based on To us, ethical conduct is a positive differentiator, particularly a combination of the country Transparency International when operating in less developed countries and when corruption index and the responses to the questionnaire. dealing with issues relating to security. The risk scores assist to focus attention on businesses that potentially pose more concern. In G4S we have a strong and pervasive top down anticorruption culture. Our senior management team are The risk assessment allows management to self-certify totally committed to our business ethics policy and living their compliance with the group’s policies and thereby G4S’s anti-corruption values. We have an anti-corruption provide assurance to all our stakeholders. A key culture supported by a robust compliance regime. requirement for 2012 was for local managers to ensure that the group’s anti-bribery and corruption policies and Our policies and principles controls were fully implemented in their businesses. We have a strong Employee Ethics Code which sets out how employees should behave in order to demonstrate In addition to the speciﬁc business ethics risk assessment our “integrity” value and it is based on four key areas: process, G4S has in place a well-developed general business risk assessment approach. A key feature is the t Being safe and secure requirement for our businesses to routinely assess and report on their risks, including the actions they are taking t Being honest and trustworthy to mitigate these risks to an acceptable level. t Being fair and considerate t Being professional and proud This risk assessment covers a wide range of business risks that are relevant to G4S from various aspects including This is supplemented with a Business Ethics Policy which macroeconomic trends, marketplace, product and key provides more detailed guidance for managers on the focus areas identiﬁed by executive management. standards we expect them to demonstrate personally and which should be reﬂected in all aspects of the business. Risk committees exist at country, regional and group level Each year, managers are required to sign up to playing to review risk assessments and to ensure that appropriate their part in ensuring compliance with the policy within actions have been taken to prevent or mitigate risks faced their area of responsibility. by the businesses. The importance of ethical behaviour is reinforced Internal Audit through employee induction, employment contracts, staff Internal audit is one of the cornerstones of ensuring handbooks, general training and communications practices. high standards of social as well as ﬁnancial and corporate responsibility by monitoring business compliance with our For a more detailed look at our business ethics policy, business ethics policy throughout the group. please visit www.g4s.com/ethics In G4S we have internal audit and assurance functions at region and company level in our major businesses. These functions report directly into regional and company management. 20 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview In excess of 200 employees across the group provide All businesses are required to meet group standards and Safeguarding our integrity independent assurance on cash reconciliations and hence smaller businesses operating in more challenging operational security controls. In addition over 150 environments and with more limited resources can ﬁnd employees carry out internal audits on general business this difficult to achieve. The audits help to identify this controls including key areas such as ﬁnancial controls, situation and make sure that the necessary support is operational and contract compliance, health & safety and provided to ensure these businesses can operate in line quality (ISO) assurance. with the required standards. Financial reviews continue to be completed by our group There is a thorough follow-up process to each audit and regional ﬁnance teams with improved coverage of the where we ensure that items raised during the process are Securing our people smaller entities in the group. These reviews ensure that addressed and resolved in a timely manner. Businesses individual businesses receive a visit during the calendar are required to provide written updates on the year with a thorough examination of the balance sheet to implementation of actions. In serious cases, the business ensure that the group’s accounting policies and standards will be revisited after six months to ensure all audit points are adhered to. These give management assurance that have been addressed. ﬁnancial exposures and risks are properly identiﬁed and recognised. Whistle-blowing To ensure compliance with our business ethics code and As well as internal audit and assurance we also have policies we provide whistle-blowing facilities so that any external audits including: practices which do not comply with these standards can be Securing our environment reported conﬁdentially and investigated thoroughly t External auditors, KPMG, who audit our annual ﬁnancial accounts and provide reports on any control G4S requires all businesses to provide employees weaknesses noted. with a facility to report concerns locally to a senior manager. These might include fraud, theft, harassment, t Government audits where there are outsourced discrimination or non-compliance with regulations, contracts (e.g. justice services businesses) legislation, policies or procedures. At a group level we have a core team of auditors based Employees who have concerns about behaviour which in strategic locations around the world who report is contrary to the group standards are advised to raise Securing our communities directly to the group CFO and Audit Committee. The their concerns, anonymously if they wish, with their local role and scope of the group internal audit team is brieﬂy human resources or ﬁnance director in the ﬁrst instance. described below. Alternatively they can raise concerns through the local business telephone hotline or email address which all The risk-based group audit plan ensures that all our businesses had in place by the end of 2011. businesses, in all the countries in which we operate – including those in small and remote locations – receive at Employees can also report serious concerns at a corporate least one visit during a three-year period. level through the global employee hotline service (Safe2Say). The Safe2Say service is 24-hour conﬁdential hotline with The managers of each business are given assurance on Supporting data toll free calls, dedicated multi-language capability and an their compliance with group standards and any remedial internet-based case tool for the effective investigation and action to be taken is identiﬁed. The group sets and response to employee concerns. continually enhances standards which all business units must achieve. Current standards cover a wide range of All concerns reported via Safe2Say or received through essential business activities including human resources, other means at a corporate level are reviewed directly by health & safety, business ethics, ﬁnance, procurement, IT, the head of internal audit. Where our investigations reveal legal & insurance, customer contracts and operations. evidence of unethical conduct, disciplinary action is taken which may range from a formal reprimand to termination Strict reporting lines ensure that all issues encountered, of employment. whether classiﬁed as control related, ﬁnancial or ethical are brought to the attention of local and regional management. Serious issues are escalated to the group executive management team and the Audit Committee. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 21 Safeguarding our integrity continued Our achievements in 2012 During 2012 the internal audit function carried out six investigations into issues raised through whistleblowing. Other investigations are carried out by regional Risk assessment management with the results shared with the head of During 2012 a risk assessment was completed by over internal audit. 150 business entities. The results showed a high level Types of issues investigated and actions resulting include: of compliance with the group’s ethics policy. Where there were gaps in compliance, management identiﬁed t Staff grievances and concerns including pay and corrective actions which will be followed up to conditions and management behaviour. Investigations ensure completion. are made with regional HR management to ensure valid grievances are addressed and improvements made. Internal audit t Unethical behaviour by management including abuse of In 2012, the Internal Audit team performed 146 on-site position. All issues are investigated and in proven cases internal control audits. action taken against management including disciplinary This is slightly less than 2011, however our external action and dismissal. auditors, KPMG, have conducted extended assurance t Concerns regarding operational procedures. work on ﬁnancial controls in six of our UK businesses on Investigations with regional management to ensure behalf of the group internal audit department. that G4S standards are being followed properly. Examples reported during the year include screening The chart below shows the internal audit activity during of sub-contract staff and training arrangements. the last two years (2011–2012) in terms of assignments completed in different areas: The chart below shows an analysis of the issues raised in relation to business practice standards, corporate Internal audit activity governance and employee relations during internal control audits in 2011 and 2012. 150 146 Analysis of issues raised 663 665 4 6 1 1 Investigations Financial Internal and offsite reviews reviews control audits 2011 2012 77 75 8 11 Employee Corporate Standard of relations governance business practice Included in the 146 on-site internal control audits are 2011 2012 37 country audits of the group’s business ethics controls. These audits resulted in 95% of the businesses audited receiving a positive rating. The two businesses with a In 2012, there was an average of ﬁve issues raised per negative rating had issues relating to the full application audit. This is at a similar level to 2011 which was at a lower of mandated controls and, in common with all other level than in prior years. anti-bribery audits, there was no evidence of any actual cases of bribery or corruption. The numbers of issues raised in the different categories (standards of business practice, corporate governance & Where improvements in compliance have been noted, employee relations) are broadly in line with 2011. these are actively followed up to ensure that they are implemented. Following the implementation of our strengthened anti-bribery and corruption processes in 2011, we have now trained more than 25,000 employees, identiﬁed as having the ability to make a bribe, in anti-corruption identiﬁcation and prevention techniques and integrated the same ethos into our employee induction programme. 22 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Whistle-blowing Our priorities for 2013 Safeguarding our integrity The priority for 2012 was to ensure that the whistleblowing reporting operates fully at both a local and corporate level. The numbers of calls received has Risk Assessment been monitored and the focus has been on ensuring In 2013, there are a number of areas of focus in relation to that all employees are aware of the hotline facilities and risk assessment. information on their appropriate use. Steps have been taken to promote the group Safe2Say hotline as well as Firstly, to ensure that the remaining actions arising from the local hotlines. the risk assessment exercise are fully implemented by the relevant businesses. Securing our people We have also improved the reporting and investigation of serious issues raised by ensuring that these are routinely Secondly, to critically review the risk assessment process provided to the head of internal audit. to ensure that it continues to meet the group’s needs for ongoing assurance on compliance with business ethics The chart below shows an analysis of the whistle-blowing policies and controls. This will take into account changes in concerns raised at group level over the last two years. the business ethics regulatory environment affecting our businesses. Any improvements will be made in time for Analysis of whistle-blowing concerns the 2013 risk assessment update. 35 In 2012, the board carried out an extensive review of the Securing our environment 31 issues related to our delivery of the security workforce for 24 the Olympic Games. As a result of this review, we are in the process of establishing a board level risk committee to better assess certain risks faced by the group (in particular contract risks). This increased focus on risk management will be the responsibility of the newly-created chief operating 10 officer role, for which an appointment is expected in the 6 5 ﬁrst half of 2013. Securing our communities Employee relations Financial, tax Other ethical issues Internal Audit and regulatory In 2013 our internal audit priorities are to: 2011 2012 t Improve the overall coordination of our corporate audit In 2012 there was a 46% decrease in issues raised by function with the internal and compliance auditors in employees through whistle-blowing at a corporate our businesses. This will assist us in ensuring that there level. Over 60% of the calls relate to HR issues with the are no material gaps in our audit coverage of the key remainder relating to ethical or ﬁnancial, tax or regulatory business risks and activities. issues. Over 95% of the issues raised during 2012 have to t Further enhance the reporting of the combined audit Supporting data date been investigated and, where required, action taken. and assurance activities to management. t Ensure that any additional audit requirements The reduction in whistle-blowing at a corporate level reﬂects the full year operation of local business telephone resulting from the group’s new Human Rights hotline/email services which receive and deal with less Policy and Guidelines are built into the overall risk serious employee calls. In many cases the calls are of a assessment programme. routine nature, such as requesting information. This is particularly the case in our Asia Middle East Region where Whistle-blowing our India business, which employs over 120,000 staff, set In terms of whistle-blowing, in 2013 we plan to: up a new state of the art employee welfare hotline call centre in August 2011. This is a highly professional call t Further enhance the promotion of hotline services centre with six full time agents and a quality manager to employees who handle and follow-up concerns with a clear t Introduce a grading system so that it is easier to identify escalation process. the importance of calls received and ensure that they are appropriately investigated and reported. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 23 Jonathan Johannesburg, South Africa Our increased focus on health and safety and the series of comprehensive action plans originating from our Critical Country Reviews, has helped to reduce the number of work-related fatalities across our Africa region by 19%. We are proud to be securing our people. 24 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Securing our Overview people As one of the world’s largest private employers, our approach to people management Safeguarding our integrity has a material impact on our business and is a key focus for our management. Key achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 Health and safety Securing our people t A 22% reduction in work-related fatalities from 76 in t Gathering of lost time incident data to identify and 2011 to 59 respond more proactively to potential health and t Establishment of online forum for health and safety safety risks practitioners to gather knowledge, share information t Further Health and Safety Critical Country Reviews and develop best practices and monitoring of the action plans to ensure t Good progress with the implementation of the continued reduction of work related fatalities and action plans from Critical Country Reviews (CCRs) sharing best practice H&S approaches of health and safety t Implementation of the road safety action plan in priority countries Securing our environment t A reduction in work related fatalities in eight of the 13 countries where CCRs have been conducted t Continued monitoring of health and safety globally t Formation of a road safety steering group and development of an action plan to reduce accidents Talent and succession t An increase in the number of senior management t Further develop succession plans for key Securing our communities vacancies ﬁlled through internal promotion to management roles over 50% t Review of training content and methodology for t A 10% increase in the population included in talent middle managers pools for leadership positions Diversity and inclusion t Improvements in the representation levels of women t Work with speciﬁc businesses to improve Supporting data in management from 21% to 22.5% and in front line representation of women in supervisory positions roles from 10.7% to 12.1% and the talent pipeline t Continued implementation of cultural awareness training Employee engagement t Induction DVD launched for all front line employees t Third global employee engagement survey to focused on ethics and values be completed t More training tools for front-line managers to help t Launch of revised management “on-boarding” tool them engage employees t Continue to develop constructive union relationships t Improvements in employee appraisal tools to provide across our businesses better feedback to managers t Maintenance of an employee stability rate of 72% G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 25 Securing our people continued Context and trends Diversity and inclusion Only with the expertise and commitment of our people We recognise that being a diverse and inclusive employer will we be able to meet our customers’ expectations helps us attract, recruit and retain people who want and deliver on our organisational goals. To secure this to realise their potential and work in an environment commitment we focus on the areas set out in the HR where their contributions are sought and valued. Since standards below which we believe have the greatest we already have a diverse geographic footprint with impact. By doing this we believe we stand the best employees from almost all nationalities, our diversity and chance of attracting, recruiting, engaging and retaining inclusion strategy focuses on harnessing this great diversity the best people. by improving levels of cultural understanding across the organisation. Our HR standards have been in place for a number of years and are recognised as setting the framework for Building a talent pipeline with people from diverse good employment practices across the whole group. backgrounds whose experiences, knowledge and ideas will These standards are aligned to the HR strategy and cover: help us grow the organisation in the future is a long term objective. Key to the achievement of this objective is the t Acquisition of best people diversity of existing employees since, wherever possible, we want to ensure that our next generation of leaders is t Employee engagement developed internally. t Health and safety t Learning and development Employee engagement t Diversity and inclusion Having engaged employees helps us improve service t Performance and remuneration delivery for our customers and in turn increases opportunities for business growth. To increase levels of Our policies and principles employee engagement we continue to align our efforts Health and safety to the PRIDE model. The protection of our people remains our paramount concern. Employees on the front line often face risks to Protect their basic needs their health and wellbeing which we are constantly seeking Respect them as individuals to reduce, remove or regulate. Involve them in the business Develop their skills and potential Setting high standards for health and safety helps us Engage them fully demonstrate our commitment to our employees to safeguard their wellbeing and in turn encourages them Policies and procedures linked to this model are intended to do the same. Although the diversity of our services to set clear parameters for action, ensure that the tools and the geography of our businesses present some and training required to deliver these actions are available particular health and safety challenges, we still require and provide for regular feedback on performance and the same compliance with minimum health and safety development opportunities in the role. standards in all countries as we believe these are the basis for good health and safety practices. The standards Monitoring and measurement include having appropriate policies, resources, accurate Each year all G4S businesses conﬁrm their compliance and timely reporting and follow up of any incidents to with our HR standards and KPIs, which are amended prevent recurrence. in line with any signiﬁcant operational or legal changes. In 2012 the standards were updated to reﬂect the UK Talent management Bribery Act. Ensuring there is widespread understanding We continue to invest in the development of our people and compliance with this legislation so that our business is and in particular the talent pipeline to build their skills, conducted in an open and honest manner is critical, so the knowledge and behaviours and to ensure that we have revised standards link closely to the training of employees succession plans in place, primarily sourced internally. about their responsibilities under the Act. We aim, in time, to have at least 70% of our senior management vacancies ﬁlled internally. In addition to an annual review, each month businesses report on key metrics such as recruitment, turnover rates and health and safety. From this data we are able to monitor how well we are delivering on our promises to attract, recruit and retain the best people. 26 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Metrics on health and safety performance are gathered Our achievements in 2012 Safeguarding our integrity and reviewed at all levels of the organisation via health and safety committees in businesses and countries, regional forums and the group health and safety network. Health and safety compliance against group standards is assessed annually by The most prevalent risks to the health and safety of our each business with follow up during normal group internal employees continue to be from work related attacks and audits. In addition, critical country reviews, carried out by road traffic incidents. Although the total number of work independent health and safety experts from different G4S related fatalities resulting from attacks and road traffic businesses, are completed in countries where health and incidents has reduced from 58 in 2011 to 39 in 2012, our safety concerns are identiﬁed. aim is to eliminate work related fatalities altogether. Securing our people Talent management The charts below show the total number of work related To track how we are building and investing in our fatalities by region for 2011 and 2012 and the breakdown talent pipeline, we review, annually, the pipeline of high of the causes of the fatalities for the same two periods. performers who have the potential to progress to roles of increasing complexity. From this we are able to assess Fatalities by region whether a succession plan is in place for key and critical roles and whether there are any speciﬁc gaps in our succession plans which need to be addressed. Work related fatalities in 2011 and 2012 31 Securing our environment To ensure that we support the development of the pipeline and prepare them for other roles, employees 25 have an annual appraisal with their line manager as a 22 21 minimum requirement and a structured development plan, outlining necessary training and development, is recorded/maintained. 11 10 Diversity and inclusion 4 4 Progress on diversity and inclusion is measured in both 3 33 1 0 the workforce and in the workplace. Different businesses Securing our communities record their own diversity metrics in accordance with Africa Asia North Latin America Europe UK Middle East America and Caribbean and Ireland local legislation. Across G4S the only workforce metric captured consistently on diversity is the number of 2011 2012 women represented at different organisational levels. Reviews of these metrics has led to increased scrutiny and targeted support for businesses. Work-related fatalities by category Use of the diversity and inclusion assessment tool which 76 was developed internally, continues to help businesses Supporting data assess progress and develop action plans to embed good 59 diversity and inclusion practices in the workplace. Employee engagement The employee engagement survey is a vital tool in 28 30 monitoring engagement levels. At the end of 2013 we 20 21 18 18 will have data from three global surveys to compare and contrast. The data provides a rich source of employee feedback on areas for improvement and helps us to focus Attack Non-attack Road traffic Total our engagement strategy where it will have most impact in driving business performance. 2011 2012 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 27 Securing our people continued We believe tackling road traffic fatalities requires not only Diversity and inclusion robust vehicle safety procedures, but also embedding a The on-line cultural awareness training tool is widely culture of road safety awareness, especially in countries available to all employees. As well as the continued where this may not be the norm. With road traffic promotion of this tool, materials on developing cultural accidents continuing to be a signiﬁcant feature of our work understanding have been used in our management and related fatalities, we developed a road safety action plan leadership training in 2012. in 2012, which is based on extensive analysis of the major causes of road safety incidents involving our people. Working with our customers on diversity and inclusion initiatives gives both parties the opportunity to foster The plan will be implemented in 2013, although it has been more inclusive environments and increase understanding. a focus in some regions already. In Africa for example, For example, at GSK headquarters in the UK, G4S a series of road safety training and communications has been supporting Project Search, a 12-month materials were launched to coincide with World Day of programme to provide work experience to people with Remembrance for Road Traffic Victims in November. learning disabilities. An important health and safety initiative is the process of Given the nature of our business and in comparison with the critical country review. This involves internal health other similar employers, we have a good representation and safety experts from our more developed businesses of women in management positions. This increased working with businesses often in different parts of the last year from 1,544 to 1,740 (22.5%) and our aim is world where the safety records need to be improved. to sustain and improve on this. In 2012 we identiﬁed a The aim is to transfer knowledge and expertise through number of large businesses across G4S where, although working with local managers to develop action plans women are represented at senior levels, representation aimed at reducing safety incidents. at supervisory levels could be better and is not sufficient to help us increase the current proportion of women Following the critical country reviews conducted over in management and leadership roles. In 2013 we will be the last two years, a key area of focus in 2012 has been working with those businesses to see whether there are ensuring that the action plans have been implemented and any perceived or real barriers to internal progression and are making a difference. Of the 13 countries where critical doing our best to address them. country reviews were conducted, eight of them have seen a reduction in workplace fatalities contributing to the Proportion of women in the workforce signiﬁcant reduction across the organisation in 2012. 22.5 21.6 21.3 We will continue to benchmark our health and safety records against industry standards where these are available. 12.1 Talent management 10.7 10.4 In 2012, each region introduced a more regular review of the talent pipeline in parallel with reviews of business performance. This was consolidated into an annual review group-wide to continue to evaluate our capability requirements. In total over 500 managers were assessed Front-line Managers in the 2012 talent review. Of these, nearly 100 are considered to have the potential to be promoted to a 2010 2011 2012 much larger and more complex role in time. The one Executive Committee vacancy in 2012 was ﬁlled by an internal promotion from the talent pipeline. Development of our talent pipeline continues with over 30 participants on the Global Leadership Programme in 2012 and leadership programmes running within the regions. 28 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Employee engagement In 2012 we revised our European works council (EWC) Safeguarding our integrity We see the role of our ﬁrst line managers as critical in agreement. The changes reﬂect good practices that had increasing levels of engagement. In 2012 we introduced become established over the last ﬁve years but never new training materials relating to the PRIDE model to formalised. The annual works council meeting is seen as develop their skills. Topics included health and safety, a valuable forum for social dialogue by management and managing employee welfare and stress, understanding representatives and there are high levels of participation unions and building union relationships, managing change, from both sides. coaching skills and building teams. In 2012 the EWC meeting was held in London with 26 Gathering feedback from our employees on the factors employee representatives from across Europe attending, Securing our people impacting their levels of engagement is vital in shaping together with business leaders including the group CEO our plans. Work is ongoing following the global employee and group HR director. engagement survey in 2011 and in 2013 we will conduct our next survey. Separately we will be asking the views of our managers on what it is like to work for G4S, why The EWC meetings allow employee representatives they stay and how we can ensure they continue to do so. to engage with senior management, who otherwise In addition we have revised our 360-degree feedback tool we would never normally get to meet. The meetings which enables employees to provide feedback to their are structured, but conducted in a way that makes managers prior to their development reviews. employee representatives feel comfortable raising issues which they feel are important. We also get Securing our environment The tool is available in six languages and was used by over good insight to the Company’s plans for the future 2,000 managers last year. from the senior managers that attend. The general consensus is that each year the level of engagement The need for improved levels of employee communication increases with wider participation. was one of the themes in the last global employee survey so in 2012 the new intranet site “the hub” was launched to Peter Fox reach a wider audience and provide more opportunity for Chairman of the European works on-line discussions and forums. The global induction DVD, council steering committee which contains key messages on our values and ethics and an overview of the global nature of our operations Securing our communities has also been translated into 19 languages and now forms Discussions at the meeting covered a wide range of issues part of the induction for all front line employees. affecting the interests of employees across G4S operations in Europe. This year everyone acknowledged the impact Freedom of association is an important right for of tough market conditions, but there was an optimistic our employees and one we endorse in our Business outlook at the end of the meeting with discussions about Ethics Policy and enforce in our HR standards. Union plans for growth and how both sides could work together membership has increased slightly to 16% over the last to help develop these. 12 months, with over a third of our employees covered by collective agreements. Our Ethical Employment Partnership (EEP) entered Supporting data into with the GMB and UNI trade union organisations continues to be a constructive partnership that helps in resolving any challenges that arise which may threaten operational stability if allowed to escalate. Global union membership % Union membership % Collective agreements Region 2012 2011 2012 2011 North America 20 19 27 19 Continental Europe 32 23 65 60 Latin America and Caribbean 10 6 27 18 Africa 32 35 50 61 Middle East 0 0 0 0 Asia 3 2 14 10 UK and Ireland 25 23 69 76 Total 16% 14% 35% 31% G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 29 Securing our people continued Our priorities for 2013 In 2013, a priority is to review, recommend and implement training to support middle managers in their skill and knowledge development. The purpose is to ensure Health and safety new managers have all the foundational knowledge In 2013 we plan to extend the scope of our lost time they require to be successful in their role, to prepare incident reporting as a key indicator of health and them for their next move and to stretch them in safety performance. their development. Further critical country reviews are planned for a number Diversity and inclusion of countries where work related fatalities have occurred Based on the analysis completed in 2012 a number of and an independent review is thought likely to bring businesses were identiﬁed where the opportunity for additional expertise to prevent recurrence. developing and progressing the diversity and inclusion strategy is greatest. In 2013 we will focus our efforts on Implementation of the road safety action plan developed these businesses and agreeing the best way to build and as a result of detailed analysis into recent work related sustain a more diverse workforce. road traffic fatalities is a further health and safety priority for 2013. The plan will initially be implemented Helping managers develop a “global mindset” will continue in a handful of pilot countries to enable its effectiveness to be a focus in our training and development activities to be monitored and reﬁnements made before more for 2013. widespread application. Employee engagement Talent management About 245,000 employees responded to the global The priorities for 2013 are to further develop succession engagement survey in 2011. This year we aim to increase plans for key management roles and ensure we have the response rates to ensure that the results are even coverage as well as identify where there may be gaps so more representative of our employees’ views. that actions are taken to ﬁll these through recruitment or accelerated development. To support this, individual After the successful implementation of our induction career plans will be created to assist the smooth transition DVD for front line employees, one of the priorities of successors into more complex roles. for 2013 is our induction processes for new managers. To support this we will be updating our management At senior leadership levels, the development programmes “on-boarding” tool to ensure it is both more engaging and will be evolved to maintain alignment with the strategy more widely accessible. and priorities for G4S and the development needs of successors and high potential managers. 30 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Securing our environment Securing our communities Michelle Victoria, Australia Since 2009, we’ve saved over 540,000 litres of drinking water at Port Philip Prison as part of the G4S Climate Action Programme and our Supporting data ongoing commitment to reducing water usage. We are proud to be securing our environment. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 31 Securing our environment As an organisation that specialises in the management of risk, we recognise that the threat to people and infrastructure from climate change is an important and ongoing concern for our group, our customers and our employees. Key achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 t Achieved a reduction in carbon intensity of 4.3% t Continue to implement energy efficiency strategies during 2012 to reduce carbon intensity by at least 20% between t Achieved an overall reduction in carbon intensity of 2009 and 2014 16% between 2009 and 2012, exceeding our stated t Focus efforts on sharing of best practice and target of 13% reducing the carbon intensity/energy and fuel consumption of our Middle East region t Continue to develop our measurement methodology for waste and water consumption and introduce targets for reduction Context and trends Our polices and principles Alongside the risks faced by people and infrastructure The key principles of our climate action programme are from climate change are the challenges presented by set out in our environmental policy. This policy, together the economic climate. Ever increasing fuel costs and the with our environmental strategy and supported by introduction of new “carbon taxes” continue to keep our green building policy and supplier code of conduct, energy efficiency and environmental impact on the agenda. outline our key commitments to help create a sustainable business to protect and preserve the environment and its We recognise the impact that our business activities can resources for future generations. have on the environment and are committed to managing this impact in a responsible manner. Through our Climate Our climate action & environmental policy is available Action Programme, we are endeavouring to be the leader online at www.g4s.com/cap in our industry in measuring, reporting and reducing the intensity of our environmental impact. We have Measurement and monitoring partnered with our customers, employees and suppliers We have used the WBCSD* and WRI GHG** protocols to invest in energy efficient technologies and reduce waste to undertake the measurement of our Scope 1 and Scope and water consumption. 2 carbon emissions – vehicle ﬂeet, fuel, refrigerants and electricity usage. In addition we have measured the Scope We are very proud of the progress we have made and 3 emissions generated by our employee’s business air the steps we have taken to develop an environmentally travel, together with our consumption of water and waste sustainable company by increasing our energy efficiency by type and treatment. and reducing our environmental impact through new ways of working. The businesses measured in our 2012 carbon footprint represents 94.5% of the group’s operations. This level of measurement also allows us to accurately extrapolate the carbon emissions for 100% of the group. * World Business Council for Sustainable Development ** World Resources Institute Green House Gas 32 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Our performance in 2012 Since 2009 we have introduced a range of fuel efficiency Safeguarding our integrity measures into our fleet management, from real-time monitoring of driver behaviour and eco-driver training to investing in new technologies such as solar cells to The G4S 2012 total carbon footprint extrapolated to power ancillary systems, stop-start systems and vehicle 100% of the business equates to some 612,000 t/CO2e. replacement programmes introducing energy efficient Through operational year-on-year growth, we anticipate alternatives. These measures have helped us to cut the our direct carbon emissions to grow proportionately in total emissions of our vehicle fleet by 4.1% between 2009 line with revenue and have therefore established a G4S and 2012, an average reduction per vehicle of 17% in the average carbon intensity of 74.2 tonnes of CO2e per £1m same period. of revenue at 2012 exchange rates. At the same time our Securing our people carbon intensity for 2011 was 77.5 t/CO2e per £1m. Energy reduction – Reducing the impact of our buildings G4S occupies a wide range of buildings across the A core aim of our climate action strategy has been to globe, covering more than 1.7 million square metres. reduce the group’s carbon intensity by 13% from 2009 to Our facilities include corporate offices, employee 2012. We are pleased to report that this challenging target accommodation, vehicle depots, industrial cash processing has been realised, with our climate action programme centres, prisons and detention centres. achieving a reduction in carbon intensity of 16% since 2009. This translates to a real reduction of 1.5% in overall Around 31% of our carbon emissions are generated by carbon emissions. Set against the growth of our business the energy and fuel consumption from these buildings Securing our environment Securing our communities by 13% during the same period, much of which includes and so we continually carry out a series of replacement carbon emissions from services which our customers have programmes to implement lower energy environmental outsourced to G4S. This is a positive achievement which solutions wherever possible. recognises the efforts made by G4S to introduce energy efficiency measures across the business. As one of the world’s largest employers we realise that our employees are critical to the success of our In certain regions, particularly the Middle East, G4S climate action strategy. Since 2009, “The Big Think” has employs a large number of expatriate employees. Due to helped our employees engage with G4S’s climate action the operational nature of these contracts G4S provides programme and the issues surrounding climate change and 24/7 care including accommodation and transport. energy efficiency, as well as demonstrating some of the We have therefore included the full carbon footprint of steps that they can take both at home as well as at work. their employment and calculated an average measurement of 1,107 kg of CO2e per employee, an 8.6% reduction Waste and water since 2009. Following initial trials in 2011, we have continued to develop our measurement of waste and water KPI chart* 2009 2012 consumption. In 2012, we measured around 70% of CO2e emissions per £1m revenue 88.3t 74.2t G4S facilities and determined that these consumed approximately 2.2 million cubic metres of water and Average CO2e emissions generated 22,900 tonnes of waste. per employee 1,211kg 1,107kg Supporting data Average CO2e emissions per vehicle** 14t 11.6t Our priorities for 2013 Average CO2e emissions per building m2** 97.3 100.2kg Building on the strong achievements of our climate action Reduction in carbon intensity from programme since 2009 and the realisation of our carbon 2009 level 16% intensity reduction target, we have initiated our second three-year environmental strategy. * Based on 94.5% measurement ** Including refrigerant Demonstrating our continued commitment to reducing our environmental impact, our 2013–2015 environmental Energy reduction – A more efficient vehicle fleet strategy includes an increase in the coverage of our In order to provide our customers and their communities carbon emissions measurement, sets targets for with a safe and secure environment, we utilise a fleet of reductions in waste and water consumption, and sets us over 30,000 vehicles, including security patrol vehicles, the target of at least 20% reduction in carbon intensity prisoner escort vehicles and some 11,000 armoured cash between 2009 and 2015. transportation vehicles. It is this fleet that produces some 63% of our carbon emissions and where we have focused our primary efforts to reduce our energy consumption. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 33 Dawid Bloemfontein, South Africa By encouraging colleagues to get involved in community outreach programmes, we have given support to hundreds of underprivileged young children and their families in Pretoria and Bloemfontein. We are proud to be securing our communities. 34 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Securing our Overview communities We seek to make a positive social and economic impact on the communities in which Safeguarding our integrity our employees, customers and suppliers live and work around the world. Key achievements in 2012 Priorities for 2013 t Invested over £2 million in charitable community t Evaluate a new community-based programme for programmes and welfare of employees facing health 2013 to be launched in the second half of the year difficulties or ﬁnancial hardships t Build on our wider community investment to Securing our people Comprised of: demonstrate the impact on the people we strive – Provision of goods, services and ﬁnancial investment to support in community programmes across 60 countries with t Work to increase the level of investment in a combined value of almost £1.4 million communities through donations of goods and services – Increased investment of £641,400 into projects to t Participate in an academic study of the direct and support the long-term welfare and development of indirect social and economic impacts of G4S within employees in developing countries a number of key markets, starting with the UK t Facilitated over 30,000 hours of employee Securing our environment volunteering with charitable concerns and local community good causes t Through the G4S 4teen programme, G4S successfully helped ﬁve young athletes to achieve their ambition of competing at the London 2012 Olympic Games Context and trends Our policies and principles As the world’s largest provider of security solutions, The social and economic impact of G4S reaches well Securing our communities Supporting data G4S has an important and unique role to play in beyond its working environment and touches the lives of creating a prosperous and stable environment in which millions of people around the world. people can live and work. In addition to providing direct employment and training to more than 620,000 G4S community investment programmes are largely people across 125 countries, our business has a range of decentralised to allow our businesses to respond to the signiﬁcant and far-reaching economic impacts. As well issues and needs of their local markets and communities. as directly beneﬁting our many employees and suppliers We do this by partnering with organisations in those through the salaries, beneﬁts and payments we make communities and supporting the health, education and for goods and services, we indirectly support even more welfare of children and young people, G4S can help to companies and their local communities as our suppliers raise aspirations and reduce crime in those communities and employees make purchases and generate further economic activity through their spending. Measurement and monitoring Since 2010, we have carried out the regular measurement Many of our business activities deliver immense beneﬁts of our community investment across each G4S region, to communities across the globe, such as supporting with the results reported to both the CSR Committee humanitarian aid efforts in Africa, clearing landmines and Group Executive team. from former warzones and enabling the rehabilitation of offenders in UK, USA, Australia and South Africa. We recognise that our ability to provide a safe and secure environment around the world depends on the relationships we have with the communities and people with whom we work. At G4S we are therefore committed to be a good corporate citizen. We have a long history of investing in local communities and recognise the importance of this role. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 35 Securing our communities continued Our performance in 2012 Employee welfare As one of the world’s largest private employers, G4S understands the importance of supporting the long-term Building on the partnerships and investment that we welfare and development of the people who make up our have made in previous years, G4S and its employees organisation in regions of the world where large parts of contributed almost £1.4 million to charities and community the community are at risk of poverty. good causes. Of this, £921,700 consisted of ﬁnancial donations from G4S businesses, and goods and services to As well as offering employment opportunities, training the value of £459,500. Another £72,000 was generously and development and support for local suppliers, this can donated by our employees and other third-parties also be through practical or ﬁnancial assistance at times through G4S facilitated programmes in 2012. of hardship and when the need is greatest. In Thailand for example, which has experienced successive and severe In addition we also donated £2.5 million to military ﬂoods, the G4S Employee Trust made grants of over charities in the UK as a gesture of thanks for the support £266,000 to support our employees and their families. of the military in delivering the security of the London In addition, we have continued to implement employee 2012 Olympic Games. welfare programmes, such a scholarship initiatives in Kenya and Guatemala which have helped front-line employees In 2012 we: and their children to achieve their high school diploma, and “Sharing with our People” which has built new homes for employees in Chile, Peru and Romania. t Invested over £2 million in charitable community programmes and welfare of employees facing health In total, G4S invested £641,000 from the Employee Trust difficulties or ﬁnancial hardships in developing countries. and other welfare funds during 2012 into programmes to Comprised of: support the welfare and development of our employees. – Provision of goods, services and ﬁnancial investment to more than 360 community programmes across 60 countries, with a combined value of almost £1,381,000 – Increased investment of £641,000 into projects to support the long-term welfare and development of employees in developing countries t Facilitated over 30,000 hours of employee volunteering with charitable concerns and local community good causes 36 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Safeguarding our integrity Social and economic impact Our priorities for 2013 As one of the world’s largest private employers, G4S Having concluded a number of ﬁve-year community already makes an important contribution to communities programmes across a range of issues in different countries through our payment of tax revenue and the employment in 2012, we are now undertaking a review of our of over 620,000 people in over 125 countries. community investment strategy for 2013 onwards and G4S believes it and its employees have a duty within hope to launch a new programme later this year. the communities it serves to assist the not so fortunate. Securing our people This is embodied in our corporate responsibility In partnership with Nottingham Business School philosophy of “giving back to the community”. and Warwick Economic & Development, we will be participating in an academic study of the direct and Alongside charitable concerns, G4S brings a range of indirect social and economic impacts of G4S within a signiﬁcant and far-reaching economic impacts to the number of key markets. Through this partnership we communities in which we work. We directly beneﬁt seek to build a greater understanding of these social our many employees and suppliers through the salaries, and economic impacts and better demonstrate to our beneﬁts and payments we make for goods and services, stakeholders and other interested parties the beneﬁcial and indirectly support even more companies and local effect of a G4S presence in the wider community. communities as locally procured suppliers and employees Securing our environment make purchases and generate further economic activity through their spending. G4S has a long history of supporting good causes, and in 2007 we unveiled a programme to provide corporate funding to projects around the world for a ﬁve-year period. As well as providing funding for these special projects, identiﬁed and nominated by G4S operating companies, the scheme also required the management Securing our communities Supporting data teams and workforce in each country to give practical, active support. G4S 4teen Award-winning sports programme supporting 14 young athletes from a range of less developed countries. Jifu Action Children’s home in Shanghai, China. Acacia Project Sustainable farming community in a remote area of northern Malawi. Ark of the World Care and support for underprivileged children and their mothers in Athens, Greece. Shiksha School School and school supplies for underprivileged children in Delhi, India. See pages 41 to 44 for more details. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 37 Supporting data In the following pages we present further information and supporting data on our CSR activity during 2012 Safeguarding our integrity Internal audit Whistle-blowing The chart below shows the internal audit activity during The chart below shows an analysis of the whistle-blowing the last ﬁve years (2008–2012) in terms of assignments concerns raised at group level over the last ﬁve years. completed in different areas: Whistle-blowing Internal audit activity 43 150 146 141 35 31 116 102 24 19 15 14 12 50 10 9 36 6 3 6 32 5 5 11 10 4 6 2 1 1 Employee Financial, tax Other relations and regulatory ethical issues Investigations Financial Internal and offsite reviews reviews control audits 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The chart below shows an analysis of the issues raised in relation to business practice standards, corporate governance and employee relations during internal control audits from 2008 to 2012. Issues raised 681 668 663 639 470 77 75 45 52 34 32 23 37 8 11 Employee Corporate Standards of relations governance business practice 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 38 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Securing our employees Safeguarding our integrity Health and safety Employee engagement Work related fatalities by category Union membership 76 % Union Membership % Collective Agreements Region 2012 2011 2012 2011 59 North America 20 19 27 19 Securing our people Continental Europe 32 23 65 60 Latin America and Caribbean 10 6 27 18 30 28 Africa 32 35 50 61 20 21 Middle East 0 0 0 0 18 18 Asia 3 2 14 10 UK and Ireland 25 23 69 76 Attack Non-attack Road Traffic Total Total 16% 14% 35% 31% Securing our environment 2011 2012 Employee turnover 2012 2011 North America 23.7% 28.4% Work related fatalities in 2011 and 2012 Continental Europe 26.9% 25.7% 31 Latin America and Caribbean 33.9% 29.8% 25 Africa 15.7% 11.3% 22 21 Middle East 27.0% 33.4% Asia 37.6%* 25.1% Securing our communities UK and Ireland 11.1% 9.5% 11 Total 28.1%* 22.4% 10 * Turnover ﬁgures for Asia and the total have been impacted by the 4 4 reclassiﬁcation of seasonal workers in India 3 33 1 0 Employee service Africa Asia North Latin America Europe UK Middle East America and Caribbean and Ireland 2012 2011 2011 2012 < 12 months 180,573 206,349 1 – 2 years 108,268 110,279 Supporting data 2 – 5 years 146,226 176,620 5 – 10 years 104,713 102,734 10+ years 62,720 61,518 Diversity and Inclusion Male to female data – proportion of females in the workforce Region 2012 2011 2010 Front-line Managers Front-line Managers Front-line Managers North America 24% 26% 23% 26% 23% 28% Continental Europe 18% 17% 17% 16% 17% 16% Latin America and Caribbean 17% 19% 11% 20% 13% 15% Africa 7% 18% 6% 23% 6% 16% Middle East 4% 10% 4% 7% 3% 4% Asia 7% 18% 8% 19% 7% 16% UK and Ireland 23% 28% 22% 26% 21% 30% Group total 12.1% 22.5% 10.7% 21.3% 10.4% 21.6% G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 39 Supporting data continued Securing our environment Key Performance Indicators t/CO2e per £m revenue 2012 Carbon emissions by scope 2012 Carbon emissions by source 88.3 6% Scope 3 5% Air travel 82.3 77.5 74.2 31% Buildings* 23% Scope 2 71% Scope 1 64% Vehicles* 2009 2010 2011 2012 *inc refrigerant kg/CO2e per employees 2012 Carbon emissions by geographic region 2012 Water consumption** 2.2 millions m3 litres 1,211 15% North America 9% Wastewater 1,114 1,072 1,107 33% Asia Middle East 4% Latin America and Caribbean 35% Non potable 20% UK and Ireland 56% Potable 11% Africa 2009 2010 2011 2012 17% Continental Europe **70% measured waste t/CO2e per vehicle* 2012 Waste* – breakdown by treatment 2012 Waste* – consumption by type 22,900 tonnes of waste 22,900 tonnes of waste 1.2% Incineration – 0.6% Cardboard 1.1% Food and 14.0 no energy recovery 0.1% Composting 12.9 0.9% Paper organic waste 12.6 1.2% Incineration – 18.4% Recycling 11.6 confidential with energy 1.7% Paper recovery 0% Toner 0.9% Plastic 0.4% Other cartridges 0% Anaerobic 0% Glass 16.3% Unknown 0.5% WEE digestion 0.2% Metal 0.3% Wood 62.3% Landfill 0.3% Textile 2009 2010 2011 2012 93.5% Mixed *67% measured waste *67% measured waste kg/CO2e per building m2* Direct & indirect energy consumption Source 2012 2011 2010 2009 97.3 100.2 Buildings Electricity (MWh) 227,000 221,000 213,000 210,000 92.4 91.1 Gas (MWh) 97,000 64,000 67,000 66,000 Oil (litres) 6,150,000 3,790,000 3,970,000 2,990,000 Vehicles Petrol (litres) 54,015,000 56,700,000 53,500,000 58,200,000 Diesel (litres) 81,846,000 82,300,000 86,200,000 87,000,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 Other 16,783,000 1,450,000 570,000 488,000 For a more detailed breakdown of our environmental impact visit www.g4s.com/cap *Including refrigerant. 40 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview Securing our communities Safeguarding our integrity G4S 4teen In 2006, G4S began a search for a group of 14 young and talented athletes from disadvantaged backgrounds who could beneﬁt from being a part of a global team and receiving ﬁnancial, social and logistical support. Securing our people The innovative G4S 4teen programme was launched in 2007 to nurture 14 young athletes in all aspects of their lives – from sport to education – to achieve their ambitions. The programme has been mentored by double Olympic champion Haile Gebrselassie and with his help G4S has supported the athletes, their families and the communities in which they live to help the G4S 4teen athletes reach their G4S 4teen – Chatchai Butdee ultimate goal of representing their countries at the London 2012 Olympic Games. Securing our environment Since fulﬁlling his dreams of representing his country at London 2012 Olympic Games, G4S 4teen athlete Of all the G4S 4teen athletes who qualiﬁed for London Chatchai Butdee from Thailand has been spending time 2012, and of all their inspiring stories behind their ﬁght for helping young children from his home country to achieve selection and G4S’s support over the last ﬁve years, the their goals. biggest success of the G4S 4teen came in the form of Colombian BMX rider Mariana Pajón Londoño. Mariana led In December 2012, inspired by past projects that he has the BMX Olympic competition from the start and won her attended with G4S, Chatchai Butdee and G4S donated country’s only Olympic gold medal of the 2012 Games and sporting equipment to the village school, where Chatchai its second ever Olympic gold medal. attended as a child. Securing our communities Congratulations Mariana! “Being a part of the G4S 4teen programme has made me want to help more children,” he said. “I have visited G4S 4teen athlete/Country Sport schools with G4S, who donated sporting equipment to Obinna Metu, Nigeria 100m, 200m children who need it and it made me think that I could do Fanuel Kenosi, Botswana 100m, 200m the same thing. G4S also brought me to Ethiopia to spend a week with our programme mentor Haile Gebrselassie. Zodwa Maphanga, South Africa Table tennis It was amazing to see how special he is to the people of Middle his country, and to see how much he helps them. I want to Pauline Korikiwang, Kenya distance runner help my country like Haile does.” Supporting data Juan Maegli, Guatemala Sailing Mariana Pajón Londoño, Colombia BMX Margus Hunt, Estonia Discus Mangal Ho, India Archery Snigdha Manda, India Shooting Chein An Chen, Chinese Taipei Table tennis Sharmin Akhta, Bangladesh Shooting Sebastian Jahnsen, Peru Swimming Charly Suarez, Philippines Boxing Chatchai Butdee, Thailand Boxing G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 41 Supporting data Securing our communities continued S G4S 4teen – Mariana Pajón Londoño G4S Shiksha School, Delhi Colombian G4S 4teen BMX rider and London 2012 Shruti is a smartly dressed six-year-old girl, for whom Olympic Champion, Mariana Pajón, has become a school is an exciting prospect. Her favourite subjects are celebrity throughout South America and much of the maths and English and her ambition is to be a police officer world since winning gold in the 2012 Olympic Games. when she grows up. Together with her parents and her sister, Shruti lives in a tiny home just 10ft square with a Having been shown the importance of giving back to the small kitchen attached in the district of Sangam Vihar, one community since joining the G4S 4teen in 2007, Mariana of India’s largest slums. The family of four has to survive has used her new found status to further inspire women on the meagre earnings of Shruti’s father, which are not and young people throughout Colombia. Since returning usually more than 180 rupees a day (around £2.00). As a to her home country as Colombia’s only London 2012 result, they cannot afford to give her and her sister more gold medallist in August 2012, Mariana has visited a than one meal a day and would certainly never be able to number of schools in Bogota, Medellín and Cartagena to send her to a school like Shiksha. launch community partnerships for G4S. On behalf of G4S she also visited a women’s shelter that helps women Thanks to funding from G4S, Shruti and many children and their children escape from abusive relationships and like her are able to attend the Shiksha School free of domestic violence. charge. As well offering a good standard of education, G4S Shiksha provides its young pupils with their uniforms “I am so proud to say that I am Colombian and I love my and study materials, as well as a nutritious meal each day country. It is really important to me that I help Colombia specially designed for their needs. In partnership with overcome some of its problems. As a country, Colombia the charity HOPE Worldwide, G4S opened the Shiksha has a very dark past and now that I am an Olympic School in 2010. Since then, G4S and HOPE have been able champion, I am so proud and happy that I have given to provide schooling for over 90 children between the everyone a reason to smile. With the help of G4S I think ages of six and eight, which has helped them to start to that I am making a difference.” build a better life and look forward to the opportunities that education can bring. 42 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 Overview S Safeguarding our integrity Securing our people Ark of the World, Athens Mangaung Community Outreach, Bloemfontein Securing our environment Dismayed by witnessing the effects of poverty and racism, such as young children abandoned and joining Many of the prisoners at G4S’s Mangaung Correctional gangs or turning to crime at an early age, Father Antonios Centre in South Africa have a personal connection to the Papanikolau, a young priest in the run down district of nearby township communities. The outreach programmes Kolonos, Athens established “Kivotos tou Kosomou” or of Dr Dawid Kuyler and his colleagues are therefore a key “Ark of the World” 14 years ago. Keeping children and element in helping to build a positive relationship with the their mothers together, when families became homeless prison’s population. or had no income, was his priority. Since 2006, G4S has delivered an innovative project to The Ark currently takes care of around 200 children, recondition and donate old and dilapidated school desks Securing our communities from infancy up to 18 years of age, a quarter of whom are to pupils at schools in the local community. Through from outside of Greece. They experience a harmonious this programme, inmates at Mangaung utilise their multi-religious and multi-cultural community that aims woodwork skills to recondition old school desks in the to protect them from hunger, exploitation and illiteracy. prison workshop, and have donated more than 1,200 The Ark depends in large measures on assistance from desks to local schools across the city of Bloemfontein and volunteers, including G4S helpers. It also provides a safe surrounding areas. haven for mothers needing protection from abusive partners, and G4S has assisted that aspect of the work by This investment in education continues in other installing security systems at the Ark’s two shelters and community programmes, such as the Ikhwezi Winter monitoring their alarms. School Project which offers maths and science classes to Supporting data 620 teenagers every Saturday throughout the school year “I would like to extend my own personal thanks to G4S as well as the holidays. G4S funding covers the salaries for their kindness and continued support and the love it of the 20 teachers for the holiday programme as well has shown to our organisation and our children. G4S has as materials, transport and sponsorship of employees’ made sure that our children will live and sleep in safety children. G4S also provides three volunteer vocational and for that I am forever grateful.” trainers to deliver craft skills such as leather work, box making and paper craft to a further 225 students. Through its life-saving Winter Warmer Project, G4S has supported community centres in the local townships of Bloemfontein since 2008. During the coldest months of the year, this project aims to feed and supply warm clothing to the young children and their mothers attending centres such as the Tshepo Day Care Centre. As well as critical ﬁnancial support from both G4S and its employees, the project receives food and clothing supplies produced by the inmates at the prison. G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 43 Supporting data Securing our communities continued Voluntary standards S About this report This report presents the CSR activity of G4S plc and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures for the year ended December 2012 and follows our 2011 CSR Report published in April 2012. No signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods have been made, including the boundaries and measurement methods applied, unless stated. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) We have self-declared our full report as meeting the requirements of a GRI G3 report Application Level C. Our GRI Index is available to view online at www.g4s.com/gri Haiti Twinning Programme UN Global Compact G4S plc became a signatory to the UN Global Compact G4S has a long relationship with the church of St Joseph’s in February 2011. The world’s foremost CSR initiative, the Parish and the work in its twinning programme Global Compact sets out ten universal principles to which in Pignon, a community in northern Haiti which business must adhere across the areas of anti-corruption, has a poor infrastructure and a lack of jobs or labour relations, human rights and the environment. self-employment opportunities. G4S is proud to reaffirm its commitment to these To help address these problems, G4S’s ﬁnancial support principles, which continue to be reﬂected in our family of St Joseph’s twinning programme has helped to develop of CSR policies and our core Integrity value. In 2012, facilities to sustain the community, including a health we were pleased to publish our ﬁrst “Communication clinic and energy providing solar panels for schools and On Progress” (COP), submitting it and our CSR report churches as well as assisting the ﬁnance of a microcredit for appraisal by the “Peer Review Panel” of the Global programme which distributes loans to thousands of Compact’s UK Network. G4S is active within the Haitian people to develop their own businesses. UK Network and in 2012 has participated in its COP Working Group and become a member of the governing Advisory Group. We have now aligned our COP reporting timetable with that of our CSR Report. Therefore, it is within this Report that we now describe the actions we have undertaken to improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations during 2012. Donations 2012 CSR report pages Corporate Statement of continued support Corporate donations of money £921,700 by CEO 3 Corporate donations of goods and services £459,500 The UN Global Employee Compact Principles 1, 2-3, 12-13, 14-17, Employee and third-party donations Human rights 19, 23 facilitated by G4S £72,000 1, 2-3, 4-5, 6, 12-13, Employee welfare and development £641,000 Labour 25-30, 36, 39 1, 3, 4-5, 12-13, In addition G4S also donated £2.5 million to military Environment 32-33, 40 charities in the UK as a gesture of thanks for the support of the military in delivering the security of the London 1, 3, 5, 12-13, 2012 Olympic Games. Anti-corruption 19-23, 38 44 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 G4S plc The Manor Manor Royal Crawley West Sussex RH10 9UN Telephone: +44 (0)1293 554 400 Email: investor@g4s.com Registered in England No: 4992207 For further information visit our website: www.g4s.com This report is printed on Cocoon silk 100 which is FSC® certiﬁed and contains 100% recycled waste. Vegetable-based inks were used throughout and 99% of the dry waste and 95% of the cleaning solvents associated with this production were recycled. The printer is a CarbonNeutral® company, has ISO14001 and is registered to EMAS, the Eco Management and Audit Scheme. Design and production: Radley Yeldar | www.ry.com
